theda the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any Elise
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex da machardie report with sam
cedar it's Thursday September 12 2009
teen I'm Michael Brooks on a Michael
Thursday this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program Daniel
bessner
historian from the University of
Washington on the fog of intervention
Samantha power and her dangerous
reckless interventionist foreign policy
if it's not Bernie she is angling pretty
hard to be Secretary of State if there's
another Democratic administration we'll
get into the details and the flaws and
the power worldview the Supreme Court
says that trumps administration can
begin denying basic rights to migrants
denying basic asylum to migrants while a
legal fight continues in another edition
of judicial nominees have consequences
Israel Benjamin Netanyahu says vote for
me or the Arabs will annihilate you even
as mass suppression continues in Kashmir
and in West Papua in Indonesia the maker
of oxycotin reportedly pays billions of
dollars to settle an opioid lawsuit
[Applause]
Israeli elections as I said are underway
will Netanyahu return to power or will
Jeffrey Epstein associate a hoot Barak
lead a centrist coalition meet Charlie
Kupperman he's Trump's new acting
national security adviser and of course
he vide a group that promoted
anti-muslim conspiracy theories
remember the despicable disgusting Trump
administration decision to deny people
fleeing from the Bahamas getting on
boats to the United States while a 12
year old bohemian girl separated from
her parents ends up in a Miami home for
migrant kids ice is building a
state-of-the-art warfare training
facility that will include
hyper-realistic simulations of homes in
Chicago in Arizona the reason why we
know this is because someone from the
ice accidentally released it proving
once again that ice really is the effing
 fascist organization new
revelations in lava jato not only the
judge Sergio Moro clown fascist Boston
arroz justice minister who corruptly put
president de Silva in jail and made him
a political prisoner he didn't only
illegally leak conversations he edited
them to make Lula look bad North
Carolina Republicans vote to override a
budget veto and a half-empty assembly
during a 9/11 remembrance hmm maybe not
a moment for nation-state rituals guys
Education Department threatens to
suspend employees who provide the post
with budget data and girls appeared to
be 11 and 12 seen with Jeffrey Epstein
getting off his plane in 2018
authorities say all that and much much
more on today's majority report but
first let's just start oh of course also
September 11th was yesterday that it's
also the anniversary of the cia-backed
1973 coup which deposed Salvador Allende
and brought Augusto Pinochet to power
and Raziel
in the loss of I mean tens of thousands
of people in Chile but also if you look
at the Condor years which was the
coordinated efforts of Latin American
fascist governments Argentina Chile and
so on with the strong backing of the CIA
and Henry Kissinger you're talking about
a global mass killing spree no late say
the 70s through the early 80s and then
of course go into the 80s where the
Reagan administration's dirty wars and
supportive genocide in places like
Guatemala we'll get to maybe some of
that in the fun half it's gonna be a
very short show today because we have to
be here tonight at around I think our
coverage is probably starting around
7:45 or so hello hello and we're good
morning Patriots could not get over the
fact the deadening rebels Dennis Prager
is saying that - Dave Rubens face that
the whole thing that that drop comes
from is Dennis Prager basically looking
at Dave Rubin and saying oh thank you
you stupid idiot for being a gay guy
that repeats all of our far-right
talking points and by the way we're not
homophobic hello hello Janice Prager did
accomplish one thing in his life and
that was that video that was very funny
but I yeah we're doing live coverage of
the debate tonight's we're working at
double we're working to double so we'll
probably be out of here at about 1:45
today but we will get to some stuff and
the fun half but we want to start with a
little bit of fun here's Donald Trump
this is of course a country where most
people all Republicans most Democrats
say that we could certainly not get rid
of you know pollutants in the atmosphere
we can't give everybody single-payer
health care we can't get rid of all so
of guns and all sorts of predator
companies but we can do this the vapes
are coming for you and they're also
coming for somebody's kid it's maybe an
interesting tip of it unclear who's yeah
I don't know what kid we're talking
about here but it's a concern about
children
the companies that were making products
[Music]
well they become very rich companies
very fast and the whole thing with
vaping is is a very profitable and I
want companies look you know that I
fight for companies very hard if I fight
that's why I'm fighting with China
that's why I'm fighting with other
countries if you look at European Union
and if you look at Japan and if you look
at so many others including South Korea
and many others were constantly dealing
with them to make it good for our
companies because I view it as jobs I
view it as income for our country and
jobs
vaping has become a very big business as
I understand it like a giant business at
a very short period of time but we can't
allow people to get sick and we can't
have our youth be so affected and I'm
hearing it and that's how the first lady
got involved she's got a son together
that is a beautiful young man and she
feels very very strongly about it she's
seen it maybe we'll take that again yeah
let's take that again she has a kid and
she's Justin Trudeau impregnated her at
the NAFTA renegotiations and she's very
concerned I'm hearing it and that's how
the first lady got involved and she's
got a son together that is a beautiful
young man and she feels that very
strongly about Jesus seen it really
funny if they're talking about Don
junior would be really funny and you
could just picture all of the traumatic
memories going through Donald Trump's
like and then I begged her to have an
abortion months before the baby was born
and then I took her out to dinner at Sur
and I begged again and then I even let
her try mama Foucault where they don't
even have steak and I begged her again
still wouldn't abort this the son she's
got a son together that is a beautiful
young man and she feels very very
strongly about it she's seen it we're
both reading it a lot of people are
reading it was a thing so we're looking
at it very closely and you know if
nothing else this is a conference it's
going to let people know about it
because people are going to watch what
we're saying right and parents are going
to be a lot tougher with respect to
their children a lot of people think
vaping is wonderful it's great it's
really not wonderful that's that's one
thing I think we can say definitely
commissioner it's not a wonderful thing
it's got big problems we have to find
out the extent of the problem it's so
new it's so no but we're gonna find out
and I hope that parents that you know
they have children and the children are
a certain age I hope they're going to be
able to make wise decisions maybe based
on what we're saying today you know it
is true they haven't really been
researched and I think these companies
make a lot of claims that are definitely
not validated but uh yeah that's one of
those ones where it's like he's not
exactly wrong I mean you know if we if
we want it to be like some twerps at the
Washington Post in fact check it I mean
Melania does have a kid learning
together yeah that all with me I
wouldn't say that vaping is wonderful or
a tremendous thing to do and it hasn't
been researched as if the entire
Socialist Left were not already united
against Trump now he's coming for our
nicotine no not gonna fly she's got a
kid kids a little weird that sure what
wonderful it's not wonderful a lot of
people say it's wonderful Governor
Chris's voice shut up about it
Govind or crispim keep his goddamn mouth
shut and the age of in Inked in this
golden age of television and podcasts we
all know the value of the truly
compelling narrative q hunt a killer the
murder mystery box that immerses you in
an ongoing experience with every
delivery or episode you'll dive deeper
into what it's like to be a detective
sifting through piles of documents
evidence and Case Files until you crack
the case and instead of staring at a
screen you can build an investigation
board with friends or an online
community helping each other through
every challenge plus part of the
proceeds for every box goes to the
cold-case foundation to help fund cold
case investigations now as everybody
knows Sam has commandeered the
hunter-killer box so he can play it with
his kids he raves about it he talks
about how its unparalleled family time
how it's a really fun thing to do and
it's a break from the screens while
keeping everybody excited and engaged
right now just for our listeners you can
go to Hunter Killer comm slash majority
for 20% off of your first box they only
accept 200 members per day so hurry up
to take advantage of this offer
that's hunter-killer comm slash majority
for 20% off of your first box Hunter
Killer comm slash majority we'll be
right back with Daniel bessner
you
the majority report Michael Brooks here
joining us now is Daniel bessner he's
the pile professor of American foreign
policy at the scoop Jackson school at
the University of Washington I could
never get over the irony of that
appointment although it is well deserved
of course and he's the author of this
new piece in The New Republic the fog of
intervention which focuses on the highly
troubling record and intellectual
framework of Samantha power who Daniel
wood would you say with the exception of
Sanders who's sort of the only one
attempting to cultivate a bit of a new
foreign policy a significant new foreign
policy framework that this is somebody
that could actually be that will
certainly be lobbying to be Secretary of
State and a Joe Biden administration as
an example oh absolutely I would say
there's a very good shot she would be
Secretary of State
yeah and the Biden administration or
perhaps even a warrant administration
and it's not Secretary of State than
definitely one of the most important
under secretaries of state or at the
Department of Defense - and
undersecretary at the Department of
Defense Agency as well so who is
Samantha power and what is her
trajectory sure so just very brief
Samantha power is someone who integrated
some higher than the United States with
her mother who was a doctor when she was
about nine in the late 1970s she went to
Yale as an undergraduate after
graduating from Yale she became a war
reporter in the Bosnia conflict in the
mid 1990s unless that conflict I believe
in 95 could start opposition not a
position but to become a student at
Harvard Law School at Harvard really
dedicated herself to examining the
question of wanted if the United States
should intervene abroad militarily to
end human rights abuses essentially came
up with the conclusion that military
intervention should always be on the
table this was over the course of the
late 1990s and then she began writing
the book that eventually became 2002's a
problem from Hell America and the age of
genocide in which she argued that the
United States over the course of the
20th century failed a number of foreign
people's abroad the Armenians the
Cambodians the Kurds and the
Wanda's in particular but other groups
as well of course it's used during the
Holocaust you know the United States
eventually you know liberated some camps
in western Germany but she wrote this
book of problems until it won the 2002
Pulitzer Ward Pulitzer Prize for general
nonfiction I was using the cuddle for
the debate to invade Iraq even though
power of herself was against the
invasion she eventually meets up with
Barack Obama around 2005 takes a leave
from Harvard to work for him for a year
and after Obama wins the Democratic
presidential primary campaign she
becomes one of his foreign policy
advisors when he went to the presidency
she becomes he appoints her to a
position as to positions of the National
Security Council basically head of human
rights and then in his second term
Obama's second term 12 to 16 she
replaces Susan Rice as the US ambassador
to the United Nations and just to
conclude she was very much in favor of
the events intervening in Libya and
after that she was in favor of the
United States doing more to intervene in
Syria particularly she said she just
said to them and PR in fact and she says
essentially in her book that Obama
students have gone to Congress for
approval and should have just intervened
he essentially unilaterally in Syria and
now she just published a memoir called
the education event an idealist and that
is what my review was on so what is the
significance of Bosnia and all of this
let's go back to the 1990s and juxtapose
it between we have a post cult you know
reposed the Soviet Union is collapsed
there's the need inside you know the the
military-industrial complex and the
intellectual complex of defense
intellectuals which your historian of to
basically justify still having a global
US military presence still you know
eating up a huge amount of the
discretionary budget with military
spending and and not really sort of
reforming the intelligence apparatus
then there's this sort of triumphalism
obviously and then there's an
understanding that from Bosnia that
seems to have kind of filtered and
really culminated in Iraq although it is
interesting that she opposed the
invasion I mean obviously that's to her
credit but it
it it's in her book and I think it's in
a lot of people's perceptions of Bosnia
that I mean one that yes that early on
there was a non intervention so there
was mass slaughter and genocide but then
that also the later Clinton the NATO
bombing of Serbia was basically you know
easy right with there was no real cost
to it it achieved a political objective
and so on
not much on civilian casualties in
Serbia not much on sort of
problematizing what NATO's role was it
relative to how it related to Russia and
a post Cold War environment what were
the what was actually happening in
Bosnia and how did the presuppositions
and conclusions coming out of Bosnia
filter into her work and then the sort
of catastrophes that would come after
especially even during Bush but also in
this so-called you know liberal Hawk or
liberal interventionist tradition that
she exemplifies sure I think continually
understand it you need to go back a
little bit a little bit earlier so let's
just say this is actually what I broke
my first book on titled of democracy in
exile if you go back to the forties the
people who create things like the
National Security Council and the
Department of Defense in the CIA their
major argument was essentially that once
the Soviet Union is defeated you could
basically get rid of all of these
institutions an American life could
return some normalcy because there
wasn't an existential threat now of
course when the Soviet Union collapses
over the course of 1989 to 1991 that
isn't actually what happens for a
variety of institutional reasons and
intellectual reasons mainly that people
begin to believe that the United States
has the right and duty to govern the
world and this of course is a deep
strand of American history going back to
the 1630 speech a city on a hill but
really beginning in during World War one
with both Sonia nism the idea that the
United States will only be safe in the
world if every of every place in the
world is a democracy so you get this
idea after the collapse of the Soviet
Union that the United States military is
essentially able to act as a
non-political force in the world during
the Cold War and wasn't really possible
for Samantha power in the 19:6
1970s to argue that the US military was
in a political force because it was
clearly fighting anti-communism right
but with the the rise of the post cold
war rhetoric of the end of history the
idea that all political development had
come to an end you get this argument
that the military could be in a
political force and they could actually
act not on behalf of the United States
but on behalf of humanity and so these
are the arguments that are beginning to
percolate in the early to mid 1990s now
what happens in the mid 1990s are two
terrible humanitarian disasters one you
have Rwanda in 94 the genocide that the
United States doesn't intervene to stop
and then you have basically the seeds of
Sarajevo and in the mid-1990s during the
Bosnian Civil War as Yugoslavia has
broken down so Samantha power is
basically in the former Yugoslavia in
the early and mid really more in the mid
1990s and she witnesses what happens
when there's essentially a humanitarian
crisis in the United States and doesn't
intervene to stop it so this becomes a
really crucial moment in her life
because for her the failure of the
United States to stop defeat sorry folks
call Daniel right back you know just
give me touch you just a little bit
[Music]
you know yeah we can hear you now it
just dropped alright let's just come
right back do you remember where you
were okay so absolutely so basically or
yeah okay go ahead sorry go ahead no no
worries
so basically power is in Bosnia in the
mid-1990s and she basically her personal
experience leads her to conclude that
the United States really needs to
intervene in the world otherwise
humanitarian disasters are going to
repeat and not only that the United
States has the right and duty because at
the end of the Cold War it can act as an
apolitical force and so what eventually
happened is Clinton does end the siege
of Sarajevo in the summer of 1995 I
believe I believe it was July or August
I don't exactly have the date and this
sets the stage going for a bunch of
liberal humanitarian interventionist
arguments that become very powerful over
the course of the mid to late 1990s of
course Clinton intervenes in Kosovo with
airstrikes and in the lead-up to the
invasion of Iraq not the major reason
but one of the reasons that people were
arguing in favor of intervening was that
Saddam Saddam Hussein's gassing of the
Kurds in the 80s the chemical attacks
against the Kurds provided a casus belli
a legitimate reason to go to war in
order to protect humanitarian
intervention in order to decide
basically defend human rights it's
through humanitarian intervention and
this becomes powers essentially major
arguments and a problem from hell and
the book particularly when it won the
Pulitzer in the you know the six months
after 9/11 we just had the anniversary
so in the six months after 9/11 she
becomes a very influential figure in
Human Rights discourse throughout the
United States but also throughout the
world as well so how does the tension
work I remember reading that book in
college and uh you know there there's no
room in that book certainly for any
economic questions for any you know
broader kind of equity and social rights
questions there's not much focus on the
u.s. role as an example and say the
other 9/11 and supporting a coup that
removes i dint IND on behalf of you know
US business interests essentially in
their in their region
so that isn't in the book but attention
that is in the book is that on one hand
as you're saying it's this sort of blind
faith in American power to write a
particular type of wrong in the world
you know not the wrong of sweatshops or
Mal distribution but the specific I mean
obviously very serious atrocities of
genocide and mass killing but at the
same time she also has to you know
document as an example the fact that the
Clinton administration did sit on its
hands during Rwanda and now they sit on
it's their hands they actually had to
actively try to downplay what was
happening in Rwanda because they fearing
basically because of what had happened
in Somalia they thought they saw it as
essentially a PR problem not a human
problem obviously she has with knowledge
Kissinger you know in his you know and
leading to an ironic and funny photo
will get you later but how did she
square that I didn't really get how she
did in the book but how did that sort of
split come of as a historian of US
foreign policy you have to see all of
the areas where the United States is
either you know fought to block UN
conventions on genocide which she
focuses on that book or sat on its hands
or maybe even she kind of acknowledges
to some extent even supported genocide
old regimes versus the United States can
become you know the bombardier wing of
Amnesty International exactly I mean the
biggest critiques of the book from
historians is that there's no mention of
Vietnam and there's no mention of the
United States as participation in the
Indonesian genocide let alone mentions
of things like the overthrowing of
Mossadegh in Iran or the overthrowing of
our pens in Guatemala in the 50s and I
end a you know none of that is mentioned
at all in the book so there's some
obvious blind spots so that what what
what I try to do is the historian is
trying to hit his store size why power
was able to allow herself these blind
spots and to me it's really this end of
history moment plus I added with this
sort of Holocaust memory that becomes
really popular in the 80s and the 90s
there's a crucial moment in powers
memoir which I haven't really seen
talked about in many
the reviews I talked about a little of
mine but basically as a college student
she visits Dachau which is one of the
first concentration camp it's outside
Munich and the American forces liberated
Dachau and she says look this really
began demonstrating to her like the
importance of American military power in
the world and if the United States
didn't intervene in World War two then
all the Jews of Europe would have died
of course there's no mention of the fact
that for example or was the Red Army
that liberated Auschwitz right so all
told I think powers history like I think
many histories of liberal
interventionist by this I mean the
history that they choose to remember are
incredibly selective and this is to me
the the major problem with their thought
is that they want the good of American
military intervention and I think I'll
go on record as saying that if you could
stop genocide you know theoretically
that would be a good thing but the
problem is in actual history that it
never just results in a quick stop of a
genocide it always destabilizes these
societies and beyond that there's the
pernicious effects of having this
enormous military beyond you know the
fact that the United States is literally
able to destroy many areas of the world
in ten minutes and someone like Donald
Trump could do that there's the fact
that we spend so much of our money on
weapons instead of welfare there's the
fact that we have a domestic political
culture that is organized around
military ideas and military metaphors so
the problem that people like power are
never able to confront is that it is not
historically possible in actual history
to get the quote-unquote good of
military intervention without the bad
and I think this you see this primarily
in the fact that they always pose
military intervention as a philosophical
problem right do you save dying babies
the answer of course is yes but the
problem is when you're talking about
foreign policy decision making when
you're talking about what has actually
happened in 70 years of the United
States running the world it's never just
about saving innocent babies it winds up
that military intervention kills more
babies in the medium and long run than
perhaps not doing anything at all but
the problem is that after the end of the
Cold War and I'll finish off now is at
the end of the Cold War people really
believed that the United States had won
history and was
able to do whatever it wanted in the
world and you see this with Madeleine
Albright calling the nation the
indispensable nation etc etc right and
even in the Albright case though what's
extraordinary I mean those of us who
kind of came up on the you know the left
will remember that even as that
discourse is happening and Madeleine
Albright is confronted on a you know
mainstream American news program I don't
recall exactly which one and basically
saying look the sanctions regime that
you're overseeing in Iraq is is his
people are dying as a result of lack of
resources and she said she didn't say
you know it was a sort of typical
evasion which was the sort of pin all
that on Saddam Hussein obviously part of
it was the Hussein regime but the
reality was there was very aggressive
sanctions that were blocking medicines
and other vital you know economic
activity in Iraq she said it's a price
worth paying and nobody seemed to kind
of say wait a second how do those two
things fit here or who or who allowed
Madeleine Albright or any US policy
maker to be the moral orbit of the world
right right it's a prerogative and a
privilege of Empire because another
reason that people like Samantha power
and and Madeleine Albright want to
intervene abroad is because the other
countries are going to intervene back so
all of this is premise on a prerogative
of unquestioned American Empire and they
basically what happened in the 90s is
that they equated the Empire with
literally the moral good and I'm using
philosophical terms because that is what
they literally thought that the United
States and morality were literally
identical and you see very quickly with
the problem that this that this could
lead to right and and so then let's
contrast and maybe even as a point of
reference the trajectories of Peter
Beinart who used to edit the you know
very hard neocon neoliberal line in the
in the New Republic where he you know
quite happily promoted the invasion of
Iraq and you know various aggressive
policies from Israel the United States
and then as a journalist and as an
analyst has sort of significantly
modified his foreign policy view because
of
realities on the ground and then
Samantha power who actually ends up in
power in a position to quote do
something in her words and basically
helps oversee some of the largest
foreign policy disasters that the Obama
administration was involved in and also
in the same context of an administration
which is you know radically amping up a
global drone regime what does that tell
you you know that even that contrast
between maybe an outside or an insider
but also the fact that apparently
there's been no lessons here there's
been no evolution of thinking right and
that's why my first dinger and the
review is for a book titled the
education of an idealist power has
appears to not have learned very much
and I think you see it in the fact that
for example throughout the book power
doesn't mention Israeli occupation of
the of the West Bank or the Israeli seas
of saga Gaza sorry on the saga of Gaza
on Gaza once she doesn't mention right
she doesn't mention Saudi Arabia or the
various human rights abuses it regularly
commits once she doesn't mention drone
strikes once whereas by now for example
and to his great credit has actually
spent the time to learn from history and
I think has immersed himself more
seriously in American history and
perhaps more importantly has done things
like gone to the West Bank and actually
see what Israeli occupation is like on
the ground and has admirably admirably
changed his mind as a result of that and
this is I so the question is what's the
difference and I think a big difference
between them is the fact that power I
couldn't really get it was cut from my
review but she really believes in
meritocracy and there's a lot of talk
and it hasn't really been getting much
discussion in the reviews because
everyone's focusing on the humanitarian
stuff but basically there's a lot of
lean in feminism but throughout the
education of an idealist she there's one
chapter titled lean on where she talked
about how she needs to lean on like Kat
Sunstein her husband
the famous mugger and chief and and
things like that and with sushi yeah so
she really accepts the premises of
neoliberal capitalist
Empire and globalization on
fundamentally and I think to reject
those premises would be to reject the
project of which she dedicated her life
and I I mean I'm a historian I don't
like to get psychological but I just
imagined that would be difficult for
most people to do but it's especially
difficult for power because you know
it's not yeah in some real sense she has
blood on her hands by basically
promoting Libyan intervention and by
basically saying that Obama should have
ignored Congress and intervened more
heavily in Syria so I think someone
liked our as unable to basically turn
against the premises by which she's
lived her life and a way that by NART
who's not a policy maker is much more
able to do and put the question to me
that that's interesting is to see what
the Democratic foreign policy
establishment is going to take from this
going forward and if power is going to
be someone who's a viable candidate for
a senior level position in a warrant
administration or maybe even in a
Sanders administration because you and I
have talked about who's going to stack
these agencies so it'll be interesting
to see going forward what the Democratic
foreign policy establishment does with
Samantha power in her career let's spell
out Libya and Syria a little bit more I
want to quote specifically though from
your piece powers reckless recollection
of the Syria debate highlights her Mara
Craddock skepticism of democratic
politics she writes that she quote
regretted that our administration had
ascertained had not ascertained whether
or not we had the votes before the
president announced he was going to
Congress had he known he would fail she
did not believe he would have chosen the
path he did right so the question there
or the issue that's really important
there is that essentially power is
saying that she doesn't think there
should be real public debates about
American foreign policy choices and this
has been a theme of the American foreign
policy establishment since it was
created in its modern instantiation
after World War two and as we've talked
about before on the Michael Brooke show
great show everyone should listen is
that the institutions of American
foreign policy like the NSC like the DoD
like the CIA were specifically created
of one of the many reasons they were
created but an important reason was to
ensure that ordinary American weren't
actually able to influence American farm
policy and basically the policies of the
Empire and so though no one would say
today Samantha power I'm sure would
never say that she's anti-democratic I'm
sure she's a member of the hashtag of
resistance for that matter you can see
through through quotes like that that
she very much as skeptical of ordinary
Americans ability to make decisions
about what the United States should do
in the world now of course the bitter
irony is that people like power are
sending other people's children off to
war to get traumatized to get injured
and and in some instances to even get
killed well of course she and her family
and her friends and her social group
suffer absolutely no consequence someone
or someone who's concerned they lean on
each other so for someone who's
concerned about morality it's a pretty
glaring lacunae in my opinion absolutely
and and and in addition to that you also
say meanwhile I'm quoting you again
meanwhile power completely ignores the
human rights violations that took place
in her own country under Obama's watch
like many liberal internationalist she's
far more vexed about suffering abroad
nowhere does she dress police violence
against African Americans mass
surveillance refugee detention or mass
incarceration nor does she give much
attention much thoughts of the colonial
violence that defines American history
and in the Inigo you say in the
education rajala she recalls inviting a
Serbian official to meet with her in the
so-called Indian room where she elects
heard him on the importance of
apprehending war criminal Ratko Milotic
somehow power overlooks the irony of
championing justice in a room named for
repeatedly breaking treaties that the US
government made with the native
population against which it committed
genocide
I just wanted to quote that in full
because I think that really and will as
you respond to that we now have the
photo of powers and Kissinger who I mean
if we can acknowledge that in reality
you know unwittingly
but in reality she certainly has blood
on her hands from the you know Libya as
an example
Henry Kissinger I think is quite
comfortable would be blood
on his entire body soaking himself from
his entire career yeah I mean he's
someone who's truly bathed in blood
and I think the reason that I
highlighted that is not to do a gotcha
on power right but it's just to say if
you're writing a 500 plus page memo or
it might even be 600 pages I don't know
it seems like you would you would at
least want to address the fact that like
you said before drone strikes increased
under Obama or the fact of you know a
warrantless surveillance or targeted
assassinations or mass incarceration of
an enormous number of the American poor
and african-americans in particular and
it just seems like such a glaring
instance and this is what's important
about that is that the world that she
claims that she wants to build which is
a world of human rights which we all I
think should want the build will never
be built if you don't take account of
your own hypocrisy in your own blind
spots and particularly the thing that
was just so glaring to me is because
she's a foreign policy person that's how
do you not mention Saudi Arabia and
Israel you know how do you not mention
Obama in 2015 ramping up the Saudi
warned Yemen you know I mean this is
such a glaring glaring gap it really
does undermine the entire project
because then you start asking yourself
whether she's a morally or
intellectually serious person you know
and I think this this is why I think the
New Yorker review god got at it well
it's like I think this is an audition
for Secretary of State and this is why
the New York Times gave Tom Freeman the
review of this book as opposed to
someone who was going to evaluate it
more seriously and I think it shows a
problem with the whole establishment do
you think let's there's a really
disturbing incident that I think took
place in 2015 I want to say maybe even
2016 towards the end of the Obama
administration yeah I think April 16
2016 April 2016 Samantha power and this
is just this just really depressing
horrible incident which obviously I mean
I you know I've seen footage actually I
forget that I don't recall the name but
there's a documentary sort of tracking
power you know she obviously wasn't
happy about this event so that's not the
point
but this event in Cameroon which is such
a kind of perfect micro case study of
this imperialist interventionalist kind
of moral self-importance and it's actual
consequences on the grounds can you can
you tell us what happened sure so
basically everyone who remembers Boko
Haram it had moved out of Nigeria and in
several countries like Cameroon so it so
power was going to one of them one of
the big things that she highlights in
her book is that she would go around the
world and really try to you know meet
with people on the ground and see what
they're experiencing so in one of these
instances she goes with her you know her
12 car convoy or whatever it is to
Cameroon to visit a refugee camp of
people who had fled Boko Haram and and
on the way to to the camp her convoy not
the car she was in but one of the cars
one of the armored cars basically
crushed the head of the young boy I
believe he was seven named Toussaint and
basically he killed him and and there
was like a horrible outcry obviously
because this boy wouldn't have perished
if power hadn't been there and she I
guess to her credit if that's what you
want to say she admits this she admits
as much in the book but the thing is and
that's what's particularly disturbing to
me is that she doesn't take the
opportunity to reflect on what is almost
too perfect metaphor for what
humanitarian intervention vines are
doing which is good intentions wind up
having innocent people die and this
isn't just sometimes or even one in two
instances or one in three instances it's
basically 10 out of 10 times
humanitarian intervention over time
results in more destabilization more
arming of local groups more violence
more death more destruction more rape
and in the medium and long terms and
it's never something that she discusses
which is a shame because this incident I
think should have really forced a
reconsideration of everything that she
thought she was doing with us and
military power in the world yeah
absolutely I mean no there's nothing
she's such a depressing such a perfect
encapsulation of all of the dynamics
here and all of the arrogance
and all of the incredible human cost
even for you know the people that
certainly the powers of the world would
obviously and I will say their immense
arrogance think they are acting on
behalf final question we've talked about
this before because you're very your
your work is a great synthesis of
reworking the intellectual models that
people use when they think about foreign
policy and then actually meeting with
and dismantling the actual bureaucracy
that has concentrated so much foreign
policy making the executive branch and
you know the sort of day-to-day running
of let's say the military-industrial
complex in the past couple of months
Sanders certainly you know he's called
for freeing Lula which i think is
usually innately important but it's also
a stand-in for a willingness to buck
u.s. foreign policy in a pretty
significant way on behalf of a you know
an independent and thoughtful
center-left leader who defied US
interests abroad he's talked about
cutting military spending he has a green
new deal which seems to provide a model
of cooperating with places like China
and Russia in a way that actually deals
with solving the most serious collective
problem we face do you think Sanders is
putting actual points on the board here
in terms of rethinking some of these
things and putting new ideas forward I
really do and I think that has a lot to
do with Matt to us I think actually
Dustin's quoted an Atlantic article
today where he basically said the one
thing that we know for sure is we want
to ramp down and eventually get out of
the Middle East we know that for sure
and we want to cut down military
spending and we want to work with Russia
and China on climate but the most
important thing that he said to me was
that basically everything else is on the
table and I think that's what's most
important and I want to emphasize I and
no one really writing right now has all
the answers but now is the time for
intellectual discussion debate and
Furman's because we really haven't had
one in the last 30 years and to some
degree we really haven't had one in the
last 70 years rethinking America's
global role and whether quote unquote
American leadership ie American Empire
something that's actually good for most
Americans or let alone most people in
the world
I think Bernie has been putting up I
think significant points with everything
you just said but but really importantly
has shown that he's open to listening to
new voices and also just rethinking some
of the intellectual premises that he
that he spent his life growing up with
it
Daniel Besner as always much appreciated
the piece is the fog of intervention
it's in the New Republic Daniel bessner
thank you so much thank you Michael take
it easy Vance - take care man all right
folks definitely read that best inner
peace it's it's important and that
there's some HBO documentary where
they're just flying around with Pat with
power it's pretty dull frankly and then
out of nowhere there's this event
there's this killing of this kid in
Cameroon and you know I mean look power
obviously is affected by it she's not
happy about it but it's such a it the
arrogance of the whole policy set and
even being there to begin with in some
respects and then the fact that you know
of course there wasn't like hey maybe we
should be slow and this armored convoy
were blaring through this area in in a
place where there aren't many cars and
kids are out playing the the incredible
arrogance and human cost of that really
distills so much and i want to tell you
about hunt to killer hunter killer is
the murderer box that immerses you in an
ongoing experience with an everyday
delivery or episode you will dive deeper
into what it's like to be a detective
shifting through piles of documents
evidence and Case Files until you crack
the case right now just for listeners
just for our listeners you can go to
Hunter Killer comm slash majority for
20% off of your first box
they only accept 200 members a day so
hurry up take advantage of this offer
that's hunter-killer comm / majority for
20% off of your first box Hunter Killer
comm / majority on Tuesdays Michael
Brooks show we talked with kianga him
out of Taylor about from black lives
matter to Black Liberation
reform versus revolution why that's a
very unhelpful dichotomy and how that
relates to really understanding the
unparalleled significance and the
importance of the Bernie Sanders
campaign
Bosh Carson Cara Napoleon the legend and
I we talked about Christopher Hitchens
we talked about the Comoros Islands and
French imperialism commentary on West
Papua and reflected on the broad front
coalition elections in or Aguayo us a
ton more some of which you can get a
flavor of by watching our clips on the
Michael Brooks show on YouTube check it
out but of course the best thing to do
is to go to patreon.com/scishow also get
this Sunday with Bill Fletcher jr. and
illicit history of a Robert Mugabe and
modern Zimbabwe patreon.com slash T mb/s
Michael Brooks show on YouTube Jamie
what's going on this week on the anti
Fattah we have on our friends Sophie st.
Thomas who is a sex and weed journalist
to talk about my trip to LA hurricane
sex pickup artist magic octopus weed
relationship bordick ism and alexander
colon ties seminal essay make way for
wicked eros we also have a bonus with
more sophie st. Thomas coming out on
Friday and next week I'm very very
excited to announce that we have on
Aaron Bustani from Annavaram media to
talk about his awesome new book fully
automated luxury communism
speaking of Eros did you guys talk about
Dennis Prager zon visual stimulation
yesterday we did not seems like an
oversight on our part really Jesus
Christ hello for a literary hangover
added part two of james fenimore
cooper's the pioneers which is the first
in his series on neti bumpo and sort of
I don't know maybe one of the earliest
he was the first guy who really made a
living writing fiction in America and
that was basically not the first Brooke
book he like got successful on but the
first giant series and he did many
sequels on it in true American fashion
and so check that out folks
awesome all right everybody it's gonna
be
short front half so we'll see we'll see
what we get to but we will see you there
of course become the majority report and
tonight at about 7:40 we will start
streaming the
baits Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube they're
buggy I am NOT your employer I'm sorry
[Music]
we're just going to get rid of you all
right yes
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the scroll fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no wait what you make under a
million dollars come here not they
accuse me you you alright take
quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some ability Ria's out there
dick whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber silastic I'm feeling
more chill already Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses hey Sam hey this guy's
got
a little bit it's a free speech issue if
you don't like me thank you for calling
into the majority report them we'll be
with you shortly
welcome back to fun half all right let's
take a call out of the gate you are
calling from a 700 area code who are you
where you're calling from
hello 7200 Sam from Denver Sam from
Denver how you doing what's on your
minds hour all right let's see yesterday
yeah you guys got into a little bit of
an idea of a theory of change and I just
wanted to maybe share my harebrained
idea with you guys all right Mac can I
have my board please you believe that
all right now you're ready go ahead
what's your what's your okay that's your
theory okay they say they say this is
this is a definitely harebrained
something I have a experience in is to
make it making your own new religious
movement okay I'm gonna give you a
pretty tight leash on this one not all
of us are trying to start cults in this
room go ahead that's true yes yeah yeah
that's true but um basically we're we're
I'm good where I'm going with this is uh
over the pad over the past probably ten
years or so basically me and people got
together you know over the internet and
stuff and we basics created a base of
like solidarity and mutual aid for each
other awesome and basically they and
basically the idea behind it is because
I've because I know there's this uh the
you know the sort of traditional
institutions have you know gone to the
wayside
because I love you know current
religious traditions have a have a lot
of ideological swagat can you yeah can
you just maybe so what exactly do you
guys do yeah I get to the tax part yeah
yeah get to the tax part I mean that's
where you know like as a person that
we're not libertarians Phillip Rotarians
but it's me but it's it's basically uh
you also there's a couple of a couple
things well one thing that we found
I found that was that we've been able to
do is we've been able to sort of pick
people up in their sort of libertarian
fascist pipeline and sort of turn them
around just to something you know a
little maybe a fantasy that's a little
bit better okay all right I'm still I
guess I'm just not really sure what's
the rule about does this call does you
guys do you have like a source that you
could point people to cuz we could check
it out that way um well yeah if you want
to look at the specific group that I
have we have a bunch of free literature
on D K mu org d k mu org thank you
thanks for the call man you gotta have
literature you gotta have that you gotta
have I don't see what the point of
setting up a religion is it's not tax
break yeah I literally want to set up my
own like my life is religion bro
I mean Scientology killed it like
Scientology you you you combined realest
how much this country favor is real
estate you know company holding
companies and religions and you just
marry those two things yeah they've had
a pretty good run I think they might be
coming to the end right now though
they'll live on through they're gonna be
fine you're calling from a 203 area code
who are you where you calling from I
don't know about this decaying basically
it is you what's your name where you
calling from Rudy
Connecticut hey Rudy what's on your
minds yeah I just I wanted to send you
guys some materials about utilities and
sort of comments on your guests from Vox
last week didn't seem to really know
what he was talking about so
I said you smell yeah you could
definitely make it and tell us I mean
you know yeah you could tell us real
quick or also send stuff and I kind of
can't because I kind of can't
I don't ok I'm not totally sure the
purpose of the call all right all right
so do you have our email address yes it
just can you just look out for the email
all right man thank you
just some email and daily coz people
whine sometimes I make it Yubikey he's
mean to college here's the truth
more time and then it's like I'm like
you know what let me try to absorb that
criticism and then I get the the calls
today where it's just like if it's
emails from like the Koch brothers I'm
down but look I I believe I think that
guests and you know look there's
different viewpoints on the show you
would not be hard to convince I'd lean
towards can't air enough on the climate
yeah I think I would say retain tariffs
I I'd also say there is a zero percent
chance that email cuts any kind of line
it will be got to when it gets to right
here's what I'll say there's one you
know there is a way to skip the line and
you should be able to figure it out but
I won't spell it out for you because I
don't want everybody to do it but if you
give it a little bit of thought of how
you might be able to get Sam's attention
quickly I think you could probably tease
it out just put a libertarian debate
here's what I thought you're gonna say I
thought you can say never mind oh my god
it's from printing today in Nigeria yes
I will invest our You Tube proceedings
in unlocking a pardon would be awesome
Sam really was just super susceptible to
email scams and we're always just like
no Sam this doesn't sound right no no no
it should be he's a member of the royal
family you wouldn't understand
I need to send him $2,000 and he's gonna
debate us on the
if you are willing to send my cousin
$3,000 he is a big libertarian leader in
Nigeria you'll get it right he will do a
45-minute debate with you it before I
only a two thousand dollar charge which
you will get repeated so it only is $50
no it was like wait he wants a parcel
envelope delivered to me unfortunately I
think Sam is way too sneaky for that yes
I do think no actually Sam's waited with
those two scams Oh God he would huge
that's what I'm so high that's like
that's actually one of the other great
joy in Sam's life
it's like terrorizing petty scam artists
if there was a libertarian scam artist
that would be like the Sam like orgy of
life if that actually existed him he
would die happy ever since the video
that we did about the where Sam called
the you know the social security scam or
whatever I've recorded so fun we've
recorded like eight different attempts
at trying to recapture that way I mean
just have been able to do it I've never
met somebody in my life who is more like
for everybody else it's like oh my god
how did this phone get you know Sam
better challenge Chuck Schumer cuz Chuck
Schumer is trying to make sure that
those phone calls don't happen yeah
that's a shot it's a direct line at the
majority report content pipeline I've
never seen anybody more anybody more
excited to get a call offer for a fake
Caribbean cruise than Sam in my life
well it's Emily delay prep and so he can
if he gets an email from a family member
who's like here's a number that a scam
artist died all right so Joe bide him
still leads in the polls though there's
a new poll where Joe Bernie Sanders has
finally overtaken him in New Hampshire
but about time if you're a New Hampshire
person and you're listening to this and
you're not actively working to get
Bernie Sanders elected you need to stop
listening to turn this off and get going
for Bernie
but the sander the Biden campaign has
also been saying basically the
that Iowa is not make-or-break I believe
is the kind of indications that are
coming out which is a very bad sign if
they're doing that this far out from the
caucuses it's so far loses Iowa New
Hampshire this is really an entirely
different dynamic I mean look South
Carolina is a very strong state for Joe
Biden and I wouldn't count him out and
in fact I still just because I want to
be cautious about this because I really
do think people were kind of naive about
his appeal coming out of the gate and
underestimated it if he has a decent
debate performance tonight
there's the narrative for the next
several weeks because he's been getting
beaten up on for a long time he hasn't
looked good if he can pull it together
like your analysis should not be
predicated on the fact that he's
definitely gonna collapse unfortunately
that's not true as much as we all very
much want it to be true that being said
I mean you talk about like the
establishment is held together by glue
and gum the fact that Joe Biden who
really clearly might not be physically
mentally up for doing this in addition
to having a decade's long terrible
record in all of the key issues as well
as things like the bankruptcy bill they
are still talking electability as just
on a performance level that becomes
increasingly questionable here's a
Richard Haass he's the head of the
Council on Foreign Relations
and they're talking with the Morning Joe
team about the electability argument and
to either Elizabeth Warren or Bernie
Sanders the other possibility is Joe
Biden does really well and for Democrats
that is the best bet because it's gonna
be pretty hard for an Elizabeth Warren
or Carla Harris to establish that
comfort level with perhaps the people
who voted for Trump who need a place to
go who won't do it again they'll vote
for Biden I'm
not sure that vote for anyone else in
the Democratic field well you know so
the hope for the Democrats the best hope
is that Biden gets it gets really strong
what Donald Trump's team thinks is even
if they don't vote for Biden right yeah
they will stay home thinking well Biden
isn't a quote Socialist Biden is not
gonna take away my family's health and
rice Biden is not going to make us
comfort like find a new competition for
our children Biden is not going to
dethrone a wise illegal immigration all
of these exhibiting so they go I'm not
gonna vote for the guy but I can't vote
for Donald Trump either the guys just
acted too crazy I'm gonna stay at home
and would be one of those is the ballot
area right whereas with Elizabeth Warren
they believe whether it's with those
with Warren or Bernie Sanders they will
actually motivate people who were
skeptical on Trump yeah to go out and
vote and I think a lot of Democrats
certainly behind the scenes agree with
that analysis coming up a lot so I have
no doubt that Democrats behind the
scenes believe that analysis Democrats
who thought that you could shutter think
for another thing for progress blog and
basically replace it with scabs and
nobody would notice there's a lot of
people who would talk to Joe Scarborough
and backgrounds who are identified with
the Democratic Party who are more out of
touch with reality than Donald Trump and
I just want to say I mean this
projection and I look there is no
question that there might be some people
who get freaked out by the socialism
word there's a ton of areas that
Elizabeth Warren is vulnerable on
including ones that she should be
vulnerable on and ones that are frankly
just massage me but this is like the
quintessential clip of the projection of
the proof of the media class with normal
voters the people who flipped from Trump
from Obama to Trump that are not either
just become right-wing reactionary
crackpots and are now Republicans or
people who are totally disaffected which
might be a thing I the key distribution
of a couple hundred thousand people
maybe even less in Wisconsin
Pennsylvania and Michigan voted for
Trump and the pill and the polling bears
this out if you get into the details of
the polling because of promises on
economic questions and if you look at
what the center is in the country even
what the center is in the United Kingdom
for God's sake it is to the right on
social issues to the left on economic
issues period these people's assertions
are their own psychological needs and
projections this is what they will do
but unfortunate but but fortunately for
us Bernie Sanders doesn't need to win
Westchester he doesn't need to win the
MSNBC greenroom he needs to win Michigan
and Pennsylvania and Wisconsin which he
is better positioned to do than any
other candidate besides possibly Joe
Biden and joe biden can be picked apart
for voting for every single trade
agreement that has decimated these
states for voting for and pushing
through the bankruptcy bill that has
gutted millions of americans lives and
for various other key corporate assaults
on the very people that these delusional
moronic crazy ghouls claim to be
speaking for yeah we can Joe here's a
hot take has no more informational value
than diamond silk far less entertainment
fellow absolutely I just want to add you
know we all we've been going back and
forth a lot about whether people all
voted for Trump out of racism or
economic anxiety right and I think you
know probably on balance it's more
racism but the people who did vote for
Trump out of economic anxiety are all in
those swing states and I would hope if
someone can speak to their class
interests in the way that Bernie does
and show how much Trump's promises are
garbage that they can they could come
along and it doesn't mean changing on
any of these social issues it doesn't
mean that the Democrats are going to get
more racist it it means that we're going
to speak to their economic interests and
say we don't want any of that other
nonsense
none of them are talking about
compromising in fact of course Bernie's
put forward strong issue okay on things
like civil rights but the other really
important thing to mention because they
only go with what will depress turnout
if you look at the maps of these
counties that went Obama to Trump in
terms of donor base it's Bernie small
dollar donations from counties that went
from Obama the Trump Bernie dominates in
terms of donations and also I also want
to mention that there is the x-factor
that Biden does not have which is all of
the people who don't normally vote all
of the people who did not turn out last
time around who could maybe be persuaded
to turn out this time around if somebody
speaks to their economic interests and
those people are by and large poor
they're by and large less white than the
people who currently vote so hopefully
Bernie has a case to be made there
absolutely um there's a water crisis
happening in Newark we discussed this
recently on TBS and there's an
incredible contrast between the specific
wealth concentration of though of course
it's totally not distributed fairly at
all but there is an enormous wealth in
New York City and an enormous poverty in
Newark which is just you know miles away
we're gonna be seeing this nationally
the infrastructure upgrades of the New
Deal that delivered a lot of water to
people and was an incredible achievement
they're coming to a head 60 70 years is
about the lifespan of these things of
these pipe systems and of course because
of austerity and neoliberalism there
hasn't been public investment into
upgrading and keeping them safe and
updated and this is you know this is a
serious national crisis I mean this is
lead in water this damages people's
brains for life one of the most
depressing and cynical takes that I saw
I forget who but somebody said on
Twitter maybe we'll take another like
violence outbreak like the 80s to get
serious about this one of the most
compelling arguments about
certain spikes and violent crime could
be coordinated with correlated with lead
pollution this is from Democracy Now
this is Eric Olson from the Natural
Resources Defense Council really
explaining the scope of the crisis in
Newark which we all need to be paying
attention to we all need to be talking
about Cory Booker is pretty much
irrelevant in the presidential race but
I do want to say tonight he's gonna be
posturing and preening a lot and talking
about justice and this and that when he
was mayor of Newark he was able to get
hundreds and millions of dollars
leveraged from Facebook hedge funds and
all of these other enormous sites of
resources essentially to terrorize
teachers unions and do a Betsy DeVos
public education agenda I've not I
didn't hear him a single time when he
was mayor of Newark say we need to get
serious about the water crisis in this
city basically what we have is a public
health crisis in Newark unfortunately
the lead levels in the drinking water in
Newark are some of the highest in the
country that have been recorded in
recent years for any city so basically
what's happening is bottled water is
being distributed to some citizens in
Newark because the filters didn't look
like they were working there's more
tests going on to figure out why that's
the case but we've got a lot of people
across the city especially children were
really put at risk the best estimates
from 2017 are that at least 700 kids in
Newark have elevated blood lead levels
we don't know how much of that is from
the drinking water but the bottom line
is that we've got real health risks in
Newark and we need to fix the problem
and the city has been pretty slow to
getting around to taking action on it
there's no problem with holding the city
leadership accountable the mayor should
be held accountable I've heard some
criticisms of the mayor but the notion
that you're framing what is first a
federal problem and then even inside New
Jersey
these cities that have been started in
debt of investment in in in in in you
know chris Christie's reign was a
atrocity in terms of redistribution to
wealthy people and austerity so I don't
like the frame at the end of it but he's
framing that correctly in terms of the
scope
here's another crisis
college students might want to actually
get paid for their work no not this one
actually I don't care about that one
college students might actually want to
get paid for generating obscene levels
of wealth for the college industry and I
do say industry because college
professional sports is an industry we
talked about this just the other day
jemelle Hill said that black athletes
should be going to historically black
colleges if they're not going to be paid
and she made a broader economic argument
about that which of course the right had
a meltdown and misinterpretation of and
that's an invitation for black athletes
at universities that aren't taking this
issue issues any issues on race
seriously to withhold their labor
perhaps absolutely um but the reality
and and you know just even think more
broadly okay there's the number one
problem that people generating enormous
wealth as laborers are not getting
compensated that's an 8 li wrong period
case closed if you don't get that you're
delusional
and then think about as an example you
know a college football player who's not
gonna make it into the NFL they're doing
the sport that can have a lifelong
physical and cognitive consequences on
their bodies to make money for a league
that they will not have a broader
compensated future end which is the
argument kind of like the internship
argument which by the way unpaid
internship should also obviously be
immediately made illegal that's you know
and that's not gonna happen for a lot of
them but if we did pay these laborers
for their labor there is one very big
idiot that would have his experience
significantly altered and that very big
idiot is Brian Kilmeade
think about this would you watch a game
just with these same athletes if they
weren't representing your school so Ohio
State you might love that team oh
they're playing for our state what if
they were just playing for Ohio and
they're just representing them then
they're then they look as the second
tier under the NFL the thing that makes
college sports attractive is they
represent something
school and tradition if you're gonna pay
them just understand your there are no
longer students right and the whole ad
the whole theory of playing college
sports or is over our loyalties are to
endorsements rather than the school yeah
but would they be playing for Ohio State
or the Ohio State
well the Dean was not be triple like
they'd be the second best football
league in the country which would not
have the attraction of the networks or
the endorsements
well let's or sment let's get rid of the
endorsements in the network's let's take
that risk Brian let's take that risk for
paying a laborers giving free labor away
to industries that are making raking in
millions of dollars let's take that risk
wouldn't they have more loyalty to the
schools if the schools are actually
paying them these talk about the fans
he's talking about the fans have ran he
doesn't care about the kids that we've
established yes he definitely doesn't
care I need to call back into the system
well they take one or two more calls if
we can but I got the idea that the
second you started paying kids like
everyone's just gonna stop watching
College well you know when I found out I
mean people ask me why I'm sober you
know mean to Brian Kilmeade and it was
like when I found out that he got paid
that he wasn't just having like a
friendly breakfast conversation with his
friends were they worried about the
Republic but he's getting paid to do
that he's getting paid to be on Fox and
Friends I don't get paid to hang out
with my friends I was a little disturbed
by that yep you're getting paid to do
this were your friends Michael well
that's true but we should have kept that
quietly also Brendan's not my friend
yeah well you were doing that we're
comrades not friends
we're definitely not that I think the
rubbers gonna hit the road with paying
college athletes
once they break down which sports make
money under title nine and which ones
don't and how they're gonna distribute
money to athletes well then and that's
when they're gonna divide them and break
the whole movement right I hope that
doesn't happen but then a canary well
could be redistribution like anything
else like you know obviously certain you
know basketball football brings in money
whatever ends up happening subsidize the
other one yeah whatever ends up
happening the moat like the the the
stability will not like I don't think it
will end up being a like how unequal it
is now yeah exactly that needs to be
maintained throughout this whole process
Jay cool hey Michael
I love T MBS and I know your love for
Canadian politics Jesus Christ well can
we look forward to live debate coverage
of the Canadian debates I can promise
you absolutely not it's definitely not
gonna happen
next week at 6 o'clock on the TMB as'
youtube channel i will be doing a live
stream with a very smart canadian
youtuber about Canadian elections and
building some type of hemispheric left
so there will be some more Canada coming
but debate coverage come on I barely
want to do these debates get it yeah be
real alright let's let's run through
some more sound in Israel there are
elections taking place now there's this
is clip number six there are no you know
look there's no real alternatives in
Israel it's just a question of to what
degree of subjugation of basic
Palestinian rights we're talking about
now that being said there are parties in
the center and this I like it you could
maybe in some ways domestically center
left that at the very least would like
to keep some sort of formalities of
democracy inside
67 borders right so there's the
occupation of the West Bank there's a
siege and functional occupation over
Gaza and then inside Israel itself
although of course there's not full
equity for Arab citizens there is there
is some more kind of sense that you're
dealing with something analogous to a
flawed democracy maybe but that argument
is rested on institutional independence
which still exists to some extent in the
judiciary but a lot of the scandals
affecting Netanyahu because obviously I
mean you know apartheid is not a voting
issue unfortunately right now for most
voters in Israel but the fact that he
might literally be undermining the
independence of media of judicial
institutions these are big things and
mines for some Israeli voters now he's
going full to the hilt he said that if
he doesn't get reelected the Arabs will
quote annihilate Jewish Israelis this is
um you know an election was very little
hope and mostly bad outcomes because
that's the political situation and I
wanted to play this clip from an and
Netanyahu just gets increasingly overt I
mean he's always been an apartheid
leader under Obama in the beginning he
paid paid lip service to a two-state now
he's talking about a formal an excise a
annexing of the West Bank which let's be
really clear it should have been already
obvious to anybody with any kind of
basic cognitive functioning what Israel
is and what's happening the Middle East
but this is it I mean this is this is
like the last of even joke plausible
deniability and this is Noura Erakat
who's a palestinian attorney and
advocate explaining it on Democracy Now
with Amy Goodman I think it's important
to point out as you have that one third
of the West Bank is the Jordan Valley
it's the site of the richest sources of
water some of the richest sources of
water and the West Bank including the
Jordan River Basin and the Dead Sea as
well as numerous Springs the World Bank
has said that if Palestinians actually
have access to these lands it could be
their Palestinian breadbasket increasing
their aggregate
ultra yield by 1.6 million dollars
annually we are talking about a rich
area where Palestinian farmers where
Palestinians cannot access for leisure
for livelihood for home and this is
what's at stake the other thing to point
out is that there's already de facto
annexation a lot of attention is being
placed on Netanyahu as he makes more
bold and racist claims to his
constituent base ahead of elections but
it's important to know that this is not
about Netanyahu this isn't even about
the Israeli right this is Israeli policy
in the aftermath of the 1967 war Israel
declared 60% of the Jordan Valley as a
closed military zone an off basis they
built three outposts military outposts
in 1968 and under a Labour government
built those into civilian settlements in
the early 1970s it was a labor Israeli
labor minister you got alone who
declared that the Jordan Valley would be
part of Israel's defensible borders it
was Israel dove its econo beam in 1995
who said that this would be part of
Israel's or final borders and it was
under the Oslo peace process that 90% of
the Jordan Valley came under full
Israeli civil and military control what
Netanyahu is doing now is basically
taking this awful policy this steady
policy of settler colonial removal of
Palestinian and encroachment of
Palestinian lands to its logical end
which is to say well now it's just ours
well that's it that's undebatable be in
reality about that place I mean you can
defend it but if you're gonna defend it
you have to appeal to emotional
nationalist arguments that's reality
that that is as close as two plus two
equals four in politics as there could
be another one that is not debatable and
this will lead to clip number seven is
what's happening in Kashmir now yes
is there a longer history to what's
happening in Kashmir without a doubt
there's a longer history of Israel
Palestine and in fact in Israel
Palestine of course there have been
terrorist acts
that have murdered innocent Israelis
without a doubt but we need a political
understanding that understands the
structure behind what's happening an in
Kashmir you have a disputed territory
there was a balanced reached in the
founding of the independent state of
India by Nehru giving it a significant
autonomy in the 1980s there was a push
for a referendum and there has never
been one it was before the BJP Hindu
far-right Nationalist government of
narendra modi tore the indian
constitution and deployed even more
troops to Kashmir Kashmir was already by
many estimates the most militarized
place on the planet more troop presence
to civilian presence now and that has
all of long-run documentation of Indian
rights abuses in Kashmir now yes do
Pakistanis government support terrorist
groups definitely is there a small
Pakistani territory of Kashmir as well
absolutely does this have big regional
stakes for the most likely place in the
world for an actual armed nuclear
conflict definitely but what cannot be
debated denied or obfuscated is that
what the Indian government is doing in
Kashmir now a complete information
blackout children as young boys as young
as 12 years old are being detained
separated from their families local
government administrators who were
moderates have been detained their
families are being separated there's
reports of tortures sexual abuse
physical abuse families being removed
from their homes because this is
actually also a great money-making
opportunity Kashmir has enormous travel
opportunities as well this is a way of
also cleaning out the population and
redesigning the ethnic makeup just like
you see in West Papua and Indonesia and
like you see in Tibet for that matter so
this is something that requires a clear
policy analysis a sense of history and
some basic moral clarity Bernie Sanders
of course provided that a couple of
weeks ago the other candidates not as
Cornel West would say a mumble in
word which does not surprise me this is
an area where this is a real place of
challenge and just as you know Joe Biden
is totally conventional on foreign
policy and awful and just as Elizabeth
Warren has never been willing to buck
the foreign policy consensus that's not
a surprise let alone of course the other
candidates but this is Tulsi Gabbard who
again I'm told is the peace candidate
hemming and hawing about this and look
isolationism is great it's better than
interventionism but I do want some form
of global solidarity
I understand Modi is popular many
authoritarian leaders are popular that
means not a goddamn thing the reality is
this tearing of the Indian Constitution
and deployment of troops is a threat for
a global war and it's a systemic rights
violation of Kashmir ease nothing should
obscure that but this clip does what is
your personal idea as to how we deal
with such a complex situation instead of
painting it as a black and white issue
yeah well first of all recognizing that
it is complex it is it is not as
clear-cut as this one side versus this
one side I think it's important as
Outsiders looking in to understand the
complex history of Kashmir and what has
happened to people there in the past and
how many families were driven from their
homes there and fled and have not been
able to return home
how the previous government had policies
in place that made homosexuality illegal
that suppress the voices of women that
made its I met a woman a couple of days
ago who said that she as a Kashmiri
woman had no rights to own property
there in her homeland so these these
changes are things that are happening in
a sovereign country they are very
difficult their concerns that that
should be addressed about human rights
violations and civil rights violations
but overall I think this is a situation
again in a sovereign country that must
be worked out by all sides who have a
stake in their own future their men
many said just as an example this is a
piece in The Guardian my son is one of
cashmeres disappeared when will India
tell the truth about their fate up to
ten thousand people have been victims of
forced and forced disappearances
including my son that's his piece that
came out just today in The Guardian look
this is very analogous to Israel we can
talk all day about the rights violations
yes Hamas does not have a good record on
the rights of the LGBT community or
women for that matter irrelevant it's
not relevant from the perspective of
speaking out on and articulating what we
value everywhere internationally but
then you have to speak out against the
siege on Gaza you have to speak out
against the siege on Kashmir and then of
course you also talk about rights
violations everywhere by every people
but the idea that you are going to
lecture a place and wait for complete
policy perfection before you oppose
colonialism is demented I think the
other point that's more to the point
with her worldview is this notion of
sovereignty and I think again that's the
thing that when you look at her frame
when she does something that's a hundred
percent right like opposing US
intervention and u.s. regime change
efforts in Venezuela which he's a
hundred percent right about she talks
about you know respecting another
country's government basically but
there's also a reason that she does not
speak about the bolsa narrow government
in Brazil or call for Lula to be freed
because she doesn't have a sort of cross
boundaries solidarity perspective she
has an a non intervention on
interventionist sovereignty perspective
which I have respect for in some ways
it's a valid viewpoint but it's not a
progressive one and it's not one that
has a framework for dealing with how we
talk about what's happening in Kashmir
at all what's this meant yeah so this is
I think something she posted on because
of 9/11 is this new yes well that's why
I kind of wanted to hold off on it okay
I think this is yeah I mean I yeah I
mean obviously the point is is that her
her rhetoric when it specifically comes
to the war on terrorism so-called war on
terrorism is
actly different so you know we're not
gonna be finding a systemic critique i'm
iran's or anything like that
whenever she said this it says we all
want peace but unfortunately it is not
possible for us to unilaterally enter
this war either we defeat them including
their ideology or they will defeat us i
mean and that goes back to her you know
her beginning sort of rise in national
profile during the obama administration
which was complaining that obama did not
use the phrase muslim or islamic
terrorism and voting against the
settlement of Syrian refugees in order
to be a refugee in the United States you
would have already gone through at least
a year most likely two years of the most
hardcore international vetting
imaginable in a conflict that we have
helps accelerate and perpetuate on
frankly all sides of it it's it I don't
know how you reconcile that vote the
humanitarian impulse you can't you can't
no and on a related note you know
obviously al Qaeda and Hamas are hugely
problematic we're not on their team but
I was definitely knocking underscore
that yes certainly but I was talking
with some of my friends yesterday about
this like like the think about the
impact that 9/11 had on our culture in
the US and then think about all of the
horrible things that the US has done to
other countries that 9/11 pales in
comparison do and then think about how
it must have been pacted people over
there well the idea that other countries
wouldn't have the same impulses towards
extreme nationalists and fanatic
religious movements in play absolutely
we take one atrocity they take
atrocities on a daily basis from us in
Pakistan or Yemen as an example its
demented to insane arrogant ridiculous
stupid to not think that that wouldn't
feed their politics of course that's a
really important point I agree a hundred
percent you're calling from a 602 area
code who are you were you calling from
yes this is you Michael come on in
Vietnam hey Armand what's going on
what's on your mind yeah I want to talk
about two things real quick and I have a
story for a while about the
denuclearization of North Korea
is it far off to think that if China
really wanted North Korea to be
denuclearize or they you know they could
make it happen in a matter of weeks or
maybe months I think that is actually
pretty far off yes I don't I don't think
I think China does have suction
obviously with North Korea but I don't
think that they have that capacity or
frankly they might have already done it
they might have already leaned in on
them more my my reading and I need to
read more and learn more about that is
that China does not have its snap
fingers ability that some people seem to
think they have over North Korea okay
cuz my understanding was you know trying
to you know have a pretty large
agricultural support for the colony they
definitely they definitely support them
without a doubt of course okay and then
mostly what I want to talk about is I'm
half Turkish so I have some interest in
hearing your thoughts about as their the
one is losing more and more elections do
you think he's gonna do something
radical I mean our car D is starting to
fall apart
you know party leaders are starting to
shift over and start a party under a new
name where do you see Turkey going in
the next year and do you think I don't
want it's going to us until you you know
you know sort of getting or using more
and more authoritarian power to keep his
place yes the short answer is yes and I
think the question is is how likely to
go well how big can the coalition that
takes him on be I mean one of the
problems in tensions is like a major
part of confronting air21 was the HDP
you know you had this really impressive
Kurdish political party that expanded
even beyond advocating for Kurdish civil
rights which is really important there
but actually really made themselves a
modern social democratic party and they
challenged you know the economic
policies the environmental policies of
the air21 government then era Dhawan
made their leaders political prisoners
and made up fake terrorism charges about
them and amongst you know the jpay and
other opposition forces there's still a
lot of that
you know really old-school nationalists
sort of politics so I think the question
is how tight can the coalition be
against the air21 in terms of broadening
out people's conception of Turkishness
and who you know gets to be in or out of
the circle but I will be doing more
coverage on it I appreciate the call man
thank you
all right um let's do one more piece of
sound what do we have that's kind of it
there isn't that much more uh sure
all right let's do Warren uh Warren and
Barney okay so as Elizabeth Warren has a
wealth tax Bernie Sanders has a bigger
wealth tax Elizabeth Warren wants to
fair the game up a bit she still says
she's a capitalist to her bones which
might be reassuring to a certain segment
of voters but any scenario we'll even
the most modest improvement of the lot
of working people is going to make
Stuart Varney throw up his green juice
smoothie Elizabeth Warren has been
gaining ground in many polls she is now
right behind Joe Biden and the gap is
narrowing
she bashes the rich and she bashes
capitalism too far left activists that's
good she doesn't bash cash she does not
mess capital she identifies as a
capitalist even though as far as I know
she doesn't she's not technically a
capitalist she wants to make capitalism
better yeah she's a capitalist reformer
they love her wealth tax
they love the revolution she demands for
corporate America so let's look at those
policies what impact would they really
have okay her wealth tax would have cut
the net worth of the 15 richest
Americans in half Jeff Bezos and Bill
Gates would have had hundreds of
billions of dollars confiscated now some
people think that's just fine they don't
need all that here's a nice tank
should be more should be far more gonna
be infinitely more but I will clap for a
base it so okay yeah frankly they should
both be proposing caps on how much worth
it right there should be a limit as to
how much one person can suck out to
begin with but okay they don't need all
that money it's not fair
santé Warren is playing to the jealousy
factor or present in politics and always
ugly truth is accumulated private
capital is the engine of growth and
innovation for the future confiscated
and we all suffer then more importantly
there is her accountable capitalism act
and this is a real threat to everybody's
money would force all big companies to
take a lot of their profit away from
shareholders and it would be given to
the workforce the community customers
the local and global environment and
community and societal factors whatever
that is forced to dance to a socialism
drumbeat forget about investing in
stocks for your retirement the profits
that support stock prices would have
been diverted 73 percent of the value of
all stocks today is held by people over
fifty five stocks are your retirement
vehicle Warren would ruin your
retirement the bottom line is this
socialists don't redistribute wealth
they destroy it
mm-hmm Wow I mean it's just incredible
like how crackpot like these guys are so
insane that somebody's saying like she's
not even talking about like this is not
New Deal's
ambition she's literally saying like I
mean basically Warren is proposing a
policy set that if American politics
wasn't so utterly corrupted and hollowed
out in the last couple of decades this
is what you would have done the whole
time you would have said we're gonna
trade we're gonna you know we're gonna
kind of transition the economy it's not
gonna be good for a lot of the sectors
of the workforce but what we're gonna do
is we're gonna in court
parade some of the Germans so
stakeholder models we're gonna have
regulation that's fit to purpose that
parallels the modern economy like I'm in
no way diminishing what she's putting on
the table the saying like like what
Bernie's offering really is a
fundamental disjunction in terms of
distribution power and democracy that's
why I support him Warren's politics are
like if we weren't so insanely cravenly
corrupt we would have been doing all of
these things every step of the way it
would it just be would have got and then
smart people like Elizabeth Warren could
have gone to a Clinton administration
and been like well you know what you
probably shouldn't do this with
derivatives and you still need
bankruptcy protections and Bill Clinton
would be like all right that sounds
about right we need to be fit to purpose
instead of like well I hear that but I
also hear this amazing party
that Robert Rubens hosting if we can
only say that people can account future
pretend profits as current profits yeah
well they're gonna say this stuff no
matter what the policies are as long as
this person is to the left of center
they said the exact same stuff about
Obama
they said it about Obama it's not even
sue is not the left of center so doing
that fact I don't think that we should
be afraid of socialistic policies on the
left because they're going to call them
that no matter what they are you know
even noted right wing cyborg Pete Buddha
judge has made the same point if we're
at the point where they have to justify
or argue for shareholders getting
profits over workers I think we're at a
pretty good point
I think we're doing pretty well with
it's just like money back for the
community what about people who
shareholders I mean he tries to paint
shareholders as workers and you know
they they play to their audience they
scare old people lose their retirements
going to be ruined when in fact the
thing that's actually going to ruin your
retirement is if they privatize Social
Security if we don't get single-payer
health care if you don't have long-term
care that's what's gonna ruin your
retirement well it's 100 percent right
but it's also interesting that like this
is the other big advantage of ambitious
universal programs and at least some
structural programs because
it's easier to lie and fearmonger like
there's gonna be some people in the
audience they'll believe any lie that
you tell about Venezuela or what other
whatever group they're demonizing and
lying about but that's a little bit
higher likelihood of like well I agree
with you about all that but I'm on
Social Security and actually maybe this
Wall Street has not been so great for my
personal retirement like when you're
starting to BS about people's actual
like stuff they might have actual
interaction with all these fantasies
about you're talking about a different
ballgame and I think a harder lie to
pull off all right final call the day
apologies obviously dozens we couldn't
get to I'm just picking randomly they're
calling from a seven seven five area
code who are you where you calling from
oh excuse me seven 700 was that yeah my
bad seven seven oh okay hey hey hey man
hey Jamie hey Michael this is David in
Atlanta
hey David what's going on just calling
because it's actually kind of fortuitous
that you all played the tulsi clip but
I'm making a confession y'all we're
talking about cultural you two I may be
converted Tulsi toady very wise I know
what that word means when I use it what
happened how did you get deprogrammed
yes and in large part thanks to y'all to
all his and especially you Michael had
been pretty consistently critical of her
from the left and it's also been
unnerving to me that almost all the
criticism of her is from the left there
there's a lot of total trash
disingenuous criticism of her from the
Democratic Center and they're in zero
position to criticize her on human
rights stuff they support you know
Israel no matter what they support Saudi
Arabia which she has a better position
on than they do but yes if you have a
left internationalist perspective you
know if somebody said hey Tulsi
gabbard's kind of interesting in
heterodox and she's got some good ideas
she's got some bad ideas she's got some
really bad associations she's got she's
put some interesting things forward
she's kind of cool she's kind of
interesting whatever I wouldn't have any
problem with it I just have a problem I
mean one I have a problem with anybody
eating from Bernie's vote that's number
one and number two yeah I just I have a
real problem at a time when there is an
opportunity like Daniel best nurse
saying yeah actually create potentially
a framework for some type of actual post
Empire foreign policy to just sort of
repackage isolationism I'm not with it
and I wonder I wonder if it's asking too
much to expect at this point I'm like
baseline okay obviously yeah you want to
get out of Afghanistan in Iraq obviously
we need to stop doing regime change but
I I want to hear a candidate say
anti-imperialism post-colonialism
and you know again it may be just
because of how much the defense
contractors and the foreign policy
establishment has its crits and on the
Democratic Party almost even sometimes
more so than the Republican I don't know
if it's asking too much I also kind of
came to the conclusion that I love Glenn
Greenwald too but him showing up on
Tucker Carlson and her I get it if you
want to criticize the DNC do it with
other leftist don't buddy buddy up with
Republicans and neoconservative and
reactions like Lang Greenwald can do
whatever he wants he's he's like I mean
I find frankly people in the relative
safety
you know criticizing him when he is like
in an extremely serious situation I just
can't get with so NIV and even the way
he's used that platform he used being on
Fox to humiliate bolson ro and he even
got Tucker Carlson to ricourt Tucker
Carlson recorded a message calling for
the protection of Glenn Greenwald and
the intercept staff which is like the
way the Brazilian right holds Fox News
that would be sort of like you know sam
harris saying that uh you know telling
his people to stop bothering me on
twitter or something so i do want to
make that distinction but I will say
that yes I think the way I just it's
very clear to me and I know people are
so touchy about it and they'll even say
she's not an isolationist cuz she said
this she said that blah blah blah blah
blah but the reality is is that the
core component of the argument is not a
solidarity one and look I don't know if
a presidential candidate is gonna use
colonialism and imperialism but again as
I say look look at the Lula case he's in
jail yeah in no small part the DOJ
backed that investigation to the hilt
and I have zero doubt that the fact that
he would not allow those saltwater salt
layer oil reserves to be accessible to
us and foreign investment that he was
gonna guard a a state industry which
they've used for enormous social
investment in Petrobras that ran afoul
of the US government as well as any
number of other things he was doing with
the BRIC economies and other really
important sort of moves for global
autonomy so when Bernie says free Lula
it's not just the right thing to do it's
a functional step in the direction of
anti-imperialism nante colonialism so
don't worry so much about the rhetoric
of what you'll get from a candidate
worry about those tangibles and he's
starting to put points on the board I
really appreciate the call man thank you
so much let's do two three im's and then
we will leave because we're coming back
here is everybody gonna be here yep
debate nine its debate night oh boy get
pizza it's debate night I think it
should be very interesting because what
Warren is gonna do is I like when Sam
gets all excited for his little pre
pre-gaming what he thinks gonna happen
yeah uh-huh
the primaries are so far out still they
really are that we should have a British
election cycle this thing should be over
in six yeah no we should not be allowed
to even talk about them at this point
they're probably in debates were so much
more follow the debates were awesome
literally an aircraft carrier and then
because Obama's we yeah like this week
what about you what about you you feel
don't you week dumb we're just crowd
goes wild
yeah
it's just a bunch of twerps like Bernie
saying what we've heard him say yeah
needs to be said right and then
everybody else just think well well
actually um well let's not talk about my
Joe Biden you were bad and then Joe
Biden's like hey wait a second you put
like hundreds of thousands people in
jail what the is your problem
actually that's a look out for is Joe
Biden doing the woke up Oh drop yes
Warren cuz he's gonna mention her work
with corporations and bankruptcies which
is very exciting
hey maybe I was wrong about credit cards
what about asbestos I start bleeding NBC
tomorrow like hey be cool but you're
really distinguished herself exactly Amy
clover Charles who's gonna be the oh
yeah the best part will be Amy Klobuchar
it's like I'm from Minnesota and when
I'm not spitting in my staff's face
saying if you ever get out stuff after
your family I am planning moderate
common-sense solutions that move forward
that episode visibly you know if there's
a breakout from tonight it was when Amy
Klobuchar said she supported TPP because
she's Pro worker
I thought that was fascinating you don't
hear that kind of heterodox thinking
anymore oh alright yes
Columbus Mike what platform is the show
gonna be streaming tonight during the
debate we're gonna be on twitch right
for updates let's see
secret identity politics I'm reading
some of this dkm you literature I have
my doubts but it's gonna but it's going
to get boring liberal Christians to
think seriously about what Isis doing
get them to understand why women get
abortions which as far as I'm concerned
is the real battle having said that I
know how the bridges and gaps either so
good luck to those weirdos okay um I
have no idea what that means that's the
cult from earlier okay let's let's see
the work more than ideas let's see
let's see all right the final I am of
the day wears hello producer Lauren
another reason to not vote for
billionaire Tom Styer he resigned from
the board of the Center for American
Progress then tried to recruit former
Think Progress writers to work for his
campaign according to Hill then another
liberal news site' site shut down after
his journalist tried to unionize it's n
NY FW so flash the fash I don't know
what I know that I thought that one was
something to do with the Ricketts family
though Ricketts was DNA info Gothamist
all right folks we'll see you tonight at
the twitch channel to cover the
democratic debate
[Music]
but I know
[Music]
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I just
where the choice is made
so the option when you tell get paid
for the rub
I love sweet ride
[Music]
the teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
