[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
with Sam's cedar the destiny of America
is
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any of Asia they
are unanimous hate for me and we must
guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday February 5th 2019
again my name is Sam Sita this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA ladies and gentlemen
this is a majority report special news
thing segment thing that we're doing
live coverage of the 2019 delayed State
of the Union address and you know sorry
sorry we're doing so many different ways
joining us in studio of course Matt lek
Janie Peck Brendon Finn Michael Brooks
and also joining us today very exciting
Katherine Krieger the managing editor of
splinter news is here with us
[Applause]
I think we may have mentioned earlier
today too that Alex Breen would be with
us and I forgot to I thought that I had
asked him and I I did for the original
one and then when I got canceled I
forgot to follow are you testing to see
if he watches the show and I was testing
to see if he watches the show and
apparently not or he just really didn't
want to do this and pretends he's not
watching the show so they didn't have to
do this but he may actually make it in a
little bit later Oh see and touch yeah
we're in touch and highly unlikely but
so Catherine let's let's start with you
what are you anticipating tonight this
never happened
here I just bend that yeah yeah we yeah
good yeah that's good I don't know why
we did that upside down but go ahead uh
so yeah I'm happy to be here but I'm
unhappy that this event is happening
we've heard that there won't be a
national emergency so I assume it will
just be boring top to bottom all right
well here's the here's the thing that we
need to figure out beforehand only for
the sake of drinking now Brendon has one
has a has one prediction which i think
is actually a great prediction Brendon
do you want to pop up and say what your
prediction is because because you know
we're all thinking this is gonna be
incredibly boring because it's scripted
thing and Brendon comes in and drops
this bomb I hope he goes off-script I
know you didn't say I hope I said you
said he's going to would I think he will
we all hope there's a report from the
New York Times which I imagine I only
read the headline but his Haberman I
guess and that he was upset that he
wasn't digging in hard enough against
Democrats his feet maggot I'm gonna go
off script there absolutely will be a
point where every political journalist
is tweeting he's off the right now he's
not yet his eyes are moving too fast
so I can't wait for it I know my
prediction yes what is it
uh he's not gonna pull his dick out on
stage and all the pundits are gonna be
like today is the date that Donald Trump
became president here's my prediction
it's cue day and he's going to arrest
everyone you're talking on gentlemen
they got the cops no wait let me just
address those predictions burgers here's
a problem with your prediction we don't
know he's behind a he's behind a woody a
podium lectern he could he could be he
could as soon as he get up there he
could I mean that implies he would do it
so that we could see it you know okay am
i behind a podium does it really count
yeah I don't he doesn't seem like a
covert public master just a mess with
Mike Pence like hey Mike it's out you
can't see it you can hey Mike you like
what you see you like it I just like
yeah here is though I would say this
that I do think the to the extent that
there's any value in this and I'm
actually excited to hear Stacey Abrams
speak afterwards because I think we're
gonna get a sense of just sort of like
how how prominent she's going to be in
the future of the Democratic Party but
what is interesting about this speech is
that it gives us insight into what they
think they want to do for the next two
years right like it's quite possible
they'll go off the rails by you know
Thursday of this week but in terms of
today they think that what they present
today is going to be what they think the
narrative will be or they hope to make
the narrative over the next two years so
I think we're gonna hear a lot about
abortion a particularly late term
abortion as they call it which is really
just abortion and to the extent that it
happens after 20 weeks I mean we can go
through all the facts about this we're
talking about less than 1% of abortions
and the vast majority of those are
people who
wanted to carry their pregnancy to term
but but couldn't for for health reasons
and but I think that's going to be a big
part of it it's going to be interesting
to see if we hear about the ms-13
killing you're definitely going well the
the the only the only the only thing
that that that makes me believe that may
not be the case is that there was not a
white person you know who was killed
that from what I can tell of the news
reports at this point we were talking
about American citizens in some ways it
cuts against the the narrative and I
also think that you know we are now far
enough away from 9/11 that that the
Republican Party doesn't give a
about New York and so he's got to
mention is even if it'll be mentioned
yeah of course was a pretty white girl
that would be the whole thing I just
want to let everybody know and as I'm
drinking liquid IV tonight Oh
as part of my regimen Oh shouts majority
report sponsors you either you have to
you have to decide what you can do with
the microphone but the other part that I
think is gonna be and I want to just
give people a heads up for this right
off the bat we're gonna laugh when he
introduces the kid named Trump and talks
about how badly he feels that he's
getting picked on and I want to make
this clear like I am extremely sensitive
to this issue I have kids myself they
have been through the tight this type of
bullying it's horrible but I just want
to prepare everyone right up front
there's no way that we're gonna be able
to keep a straight face when literally
the the probably the first president in
the history of the country you I don't
care if you can see you perceive all of
them as being war criminals in the past
definitionally and it's psychotic it
doesn't matter I don't think we have
ever had a time in the history of our
country and I remember when Nixon I was
my son's age when Nixon was running for
prize
I was six I can't I can assure you this
kid has big ears here grow up in Asia
and he's getting picked on a lot there
was no way
ten minutes of segments on it that kids
understood that their president was mean
in the way that kids understand it today
right and so you know to the extent it's
just one kid named Trump is getting
picked on
there are literally I think thousands
upon thousands of kids who are maybe
they're Latino maybe they're from just a
you know maybe their their parents are
immigrants or maybe they're just you
know anything but lily-white they're
getting picked on in a way that they
hadn't been picked on you know that the
kids who were their age six years ago
they had not gotten picked on and so I
just want to prepare people for that we
just saw the Supreme Court yeah so just
to reiterate we're gonna be laughing at
the part where the kid who is bully I'm
bullying certain people there's Brett
Kavanaugh smiling as if he is just
assaulted someone had a beer in a way
yes remember when folks are BG not here
tonight I believe but doesn't she always
not come well she didn't come last time
right Alito not here so you know there's
that there's gorsek just a murder a
little bit of sound so that we can hear
no not really terribly exciting sound
I'm gonna turn on the IMS I'm not going
to guarantee I'm gonna read many of them
but if you were so inclined of course
you pick up the app at majority app calm
and you can I am the show with your
thoughts
there's gorsek these two guys those
rictus grin thank you it turns out Rick
Perry is the designated survivor yeah
and this one we this is when we
discovered that Rick Perry is actually
like a secret genius and he's been
putting my plans I think the smart money
is on we don't find that out that's
probably the smart dumb money don't take
your bet on that I think you have to
literally be hooked up to a machine what
will you do black Perry became president
would you be more deserved than if Trump
was president uh you know I I don't know
I wouldn't mm-hmm
cuz I don't think Rick Perry has like I
don't think Rick Perry is like not as
mean-spirited no but I'm saying Rick
Perry is no Mike Pence in a quick Perry
she's not an ideologue no he would be
better in cowboy boots look at this Joe
Manchin I think that's Joe Manchin I
guess now the white that Democratic
Congress women are wearing is a is a tip
of the hat to the Suffragette movement
remember Kevin Cramer the then
congressman of North Dakota but now
senator famously went on local news and
said they had a mental illness for
wearing that last oh is that right
yeah maybe his last year the year before
I have to say that like did you hear
Cramer if following
the Cavanaugh stuff talking about heidi
heitkamp on local news did you ever see
catch that clip oh god what do you say
it was like I've lived so many lives
he's such a disaster that I just
specifically remember saying cuz Matt's
from North Dakota right if if this guy
wins North Dakota we might as well just
basically you know somehow sever off
from the rest of the country yeah just
get rid of it oh here it is here it is
this is him on a wait a second
it sounds like they're being quiet how
the chatter begins Christo told me about
that Rick Perry bronze plan really grad
a glad Patrick made it to the studio
tonight why do you keep calling him
Brendan test that's my thought Nick from
Manitoba exam will opposite well really
the acting cabinet right I mean how many
of the members of the cabinet now are
actually Senate confirmed right yeah no
it's it's like a surprisingly small
number Pompeyo is minuchin although
there are cramming as many judges as
they possibly can through that's working
yep
oh yeah Manucci got a haircut he's got
that new haircut look you know you get
the haircut before the special occasion
and it's really short do you think
Wilbur Ross knows where he is
no absolutely that huh say again
yeah Wilbur Ross is awake
and then I don't even recognize half the
people in there there's Ben Carson
there's Elaine Chao and there's AG so
there is the Christian Nielsen the
horrible face of the Gestapo
unbelievable horrible person there's
Matt Whittaker the acting DOJ there's a
hot mic I've been cursed no I was
playing a drop I know I know that Rick
Perry is the the designated survivor but
you can't help but think like what is
the net what would be the net something
just isn't that passe like a shamrock
but a chandelier falling a chandelier
falling I'm thinking much grander than
that parodied not actionable right
exactly
we should say that anything that we say
tonight is of course parody that is one
of the features of this show satire
Haspel girlboss right there Nick from
Manitoba hey Sam what's the matter with
you
do you don't support pod save America's
mission statement on healthcare you
don't think they're muddled mess of
caveats on top of caveats risks the
imagination you must be one of those
progressive that wants to divide the
country yes well that's you get sounds
like he's got you pegged he's got you
pegged
gasps socialist Oh Georgia socialist
okay Abrams for Senate 2020 Mt nausea
central here we come
a Wild Bill love you guys the quantum
Sara my laughed my ass off attorney
Andrew sneaking this one in from the
earlier show Topher Spiro caps health
policy expert is calmly pushing caps
Medicare extra as a more feasibly
possible policy designed to Medicare for
all however when he's not doing that he
spent the last week blocking any and
every medicare-for-all advocate
including Abdul el Syed who may be the
nicest guy in the planet I've interview
he is incredibly nice and calling Wender
Wendell Potter a troll topher Spyro
Jesus he is a troll betrayed his
industry it's true and he's always
talking about his a mystery does it
doesn't do it's highly troll behavior
when you're plateaued known as the
original irony bro yeah Josh from
Houston I feel like the aides
announcement is going to have a
homophobic subtext like you gay people
done messed up and got diseased and we
have a fix for you the Alpha cough is a
reference to reportedly Donald Trump is
going to make an announcement that there
is going to be a plan to eradicate AIDS
by 2030 I think it is right right Wow
try telling that to Mike Pence who
oversaw an AIDS outbreak in Indiana
well apple cider vinegar you gotta
immune system you gotta set the table to
eat too then clear the table I mean they
could just kill all the people with AIDS
that would get rid of aids right now
people should know that the Congress
folks all the Congress people have the
ability to invite one person I think it
is yep and there are several several
Congress people have brought transgender
people who are in the military there are
[Music]
all right now we get the lovefest AOC
brought the woman who cornered Jeff
Flake zero he's got his eye I've snorted
so much adderall
I can't even believe it I didn't start
anything with the life Mike again
[Applause]
no tension I want to say
I'm in looking like a dang cheeto no
yeah he looks like he actually didn't
get a fresh spray tan you know no it's
gonna like a snack everybody knows this
is all you know
dusty people's like these pictures they
want these pictures from back home this
is a function of the of the Republican
you know Republican Party is Trump Trump
is the Republican Party when it's
convenient right oh is that Louie
Gohmert oh wow hot Mike in his brain the
Alpha cut says hey I'm our crew thanks
for making this nonsense tolerable I'm
drinking every time Trump says the word
big I should say you know people have
asked me what kind of a drinking game
that we're doing my drinking game is
just keep drinking and then if I if I
drink enough so that I don't break out
break down in tears or if I do drink
enough so that I do break down in tears
I win so either way you're gonna be
crying that's right oh and win so I
should also say to listener and who has
supplied us both with beer tonight and I
am drinking from the bottle of
Glenfiddich that she sent I guess a
couple months ago you're already on the
one foot if you really are gonna know no
hard before soft in the loft soft before
HOD and the odd that's never I've never
heard that exact one before well
everyone knows that everyone else
the hard liquor and then I go to a beer
that's a chaser
here you go is my speech he go what does
he want a mutter under his breath that
man Sakura says oh he doesn't have the
balls you honestly he doesn't have the
guts to do that I'm actually a constant
he doesn't have the guts to do that
he's only gonna sit in his office and
 he's not gonna say anything it's
already kicking in when you create if
the lady Democrats had actually just
given up and join the cigarette smoking
cult from the leftovers yeah that would
have been really cool I never I never
watched it is that a good show it's good
good but depressing yeah you'll feel
like you're losing your mind every time
you have to watch Bob's Burgers
afterwards but it's good got our first
Bernie sighting of the night didn't see
his his $10,000 winter coat 50,000 with
demersal that must be in the cloakroom
which house should I go home I got a
time this look at looks excited John
tester is John tester seems super
excited now I guess like I'm sorry on
some level it's sort of ridiculous to
look and see how excited they are
because it's all just for show on some
level but wait when you're sucking on
Marco Rubio a good couple weeks and
saying about the coup in Venezuela oh
yeah yeah and also tomorrow mr. vice
president
crazy Harvey could wiped out
how is she gonna stand
she was to give on that
tip it out stand during Obama's or
something am i miss remember it's
possible and my fellow Americans we meet
tonight at a moment of unlimited
potential as we begin a new Congress
I stand here ready to work with you as a
fixer-upper to achieve historic
breakthroughs for all Americans millions
of our fellow citizens are watching us
now gathered in this great chamber
hoping that we will govern not as two
parties but as one nation
they're all gonna be old I got him out
and stand up I did it I did it
Elizabeth Warren say you're not tricking
me yes
the agenda I will lay out this evening
is not a Republican agenda or a Democrat
agenda
it's the agenda of the American people
many of us agents and the core promises
and demand fair trade for American
workers to rebuild and revitalize our
nation's infrastructure to reduce
healthcare where those to become perfect
Liars where those guys who come out your
boat your boring guys remember
infrastructure week that was and secure
bond it's coming back and to pursue a
foreign policy that puts America's
interest first there is a Logan you've
told the pause line there the current
job no gather to seize it
smoke em if you gottem ladies
[Music]
let's humorous punch abroad yeah why are
they so uptight victory is not winning
for L party B salary is winning it up
our country would spring
pence pence can see the thing that says
stop for a pause and he still hesitated
how long how long until he goes
off-script not super far guys
anniversaries that show us the majesty
of America's mission and the power of
American pride in June we mark 75 years
since the start of what General Dwight
the Eisenhower called the Great Crusade
the Allied liberation of Europe in World
War two has there ever like have you
ever seen this many people watching a
speech where this speaker had so little
connection with the wages and say like
this is June 6 1944 the fact is 15,000
young American men soprano and
sweatshops from this tribe and 60,000
more stormed in you think about it is
kind of like Isis across the Mexican
border here with us tonight are three of
those incredible heroes private first
class Joseph Reilly
Steff solving Locker and Sergeant Herman
site check then up there's a check
get up state champion that's got a cut
both ways for those guys I live this
long I finally got this State of the
Union address and it's I think he's just
psyched to be going so every Nazi you
kill you get to go to one fascist State
of the Union address
I hope these guys stay up in filibus
gentlemen we salute you please stand
till the end thank you
in 2019 sounds like you believe that
right generate recently you flew a
quarter of a million miles through space
to plant the American flag on the face
of the Moon those flag a half a century
later we are djoko's by one of the
Apollo 11 astronauts Apollo 11 no he
said the Apollo 11 unit for the first
time is the astronaut
[Applause]
not standing for
I was all gem people people said the
Super Bowl was boring
give me a break Thank You buzz I like
totally freedom I like is he going to
talk about space force a thing about
slip into that that's real and
definitely happening
uh-oh
we were a small town in the 20th century
America saved freedom transform science
redefined the middle class and when you
get down to it there's nothing anywhere
in the world that can compete with
America I assume everyone wins all the
Republicans wins when he said science up
where's he going with this I also had
sex with Robin Givens
Oh Sam racist building Mike Tyson Lamia
had sexy stuff and bravely interview
with the next chapter of this great
American adventure and we must create a
new standard of living for the 21st
century
get off scrubs we're gonna make quality
of life for all of our citizens Trump is
being in reach we can make our community
safer our families at the shopper and
how our culture richer our faith deeper
a new kitchen taxes generated a bigger
whatever before we can be even wider
than we were in the past
once that's
movies with the Boy Scouts in West
Virginia I was having an orgy in it yeah
but now that's change today through the
sharper image
in your own home anytime and you avoid
Ian Vasquez Lydia Vasquez little Perry
together we can break decades of
political stalemate we can bridge old
division and already done it heal old
wounds
build new coalition and only two weeks
live or new solutions and unlock the
extraordinary promise of America's
future the decision is ours to make we
must choose between greatness or
gridlock results or resistance vision or
vengeance incredible progress or
pointless destruction tonight I ask you
not a hint Meyer wait what are you doing
incidentally Maxine Waters know
despite that we can work you know I'll
say something now it's early in the
speech but I think we do have to give it
up to the fact that not only is this
boring it's also devoid of substance oh
absolutely because that's not easy to do
we've had plenty of like like here's a
lady of policy prescriptions that are
incredibly boring but very substantive
this is neither and that's how about our
vets we feel like now I'd like to
introduce that some cowboys and some
firemen and now I'd like to go into
become a part of the establishment all
right it's all part of million new jobs
all that sometimes we're just getting
started
 yeah
that gonna do just fell apart so
just do it fastest price index exit
drops and growing for blue collar
workers so to avoid the fact check my
wages are rising they're growing faster
than anyone else thought possibly the
faction nearly 5 million Americans have
been lifted off food stamps lifted or
dropped they made a difference robbed
yeah Jonathan you gotta lift someone
before you drop them that's just physics
the US economy is growing almost twice
as fast today as when I took office and
we are t-minus 30 seconds before he
talks about anywhere in the world which
are his to not even big hurry taking
notes has reached the lowest rate really
for a century
Thursday
stay thirsty for Policy african-american
Hispanic American those good aging
employment have all reached their ever
recorded
[Applause]
Oh which brings me to ms-13 the shot a
guy in Queens and why won't the many
times rate for Americans with
disabilities has also reached an
all-time that knows awesome and the
hometown guide group in Jamaica pants
you know this is the shot that Fox right
will take where all of those Democratic
women will not apply the lowest jobs and
still be below the poverty line this is
really just b-roll tax cut you know a
lot of working families and doubled the
child tax credit for rich families
doesn't kick in until you made by 150
girls
[Music]
plus we virtually else raid add more
deaths are just hell yeah there's like
not all heroes wear capes some do for
face farms family finds never found a
single family farm that was implicated
when the estate tax at that time
combined between two people never not
one maybe it was five million even at
that time they did the life-saving cures
access we passed very urgently right to
try the right to try that racing
pharmaceutical regulations dramatically
I'm sure in a year or so when I'm in
Vegas talking to tort lawyers will be
having a lot of conversations about that
very Hunger Games
yep that's a traffic
we've improved access and incidentally
also slashed all kinds of regulation
back to our country in large numbers or
not thanks to our historic reductions in
taxes and regulations we were a
superpower we are now a hyper power you
have unleashed a revolution in American
energy the United States is now the
number one producer of oil and natural
gas in America in the world we are going
to burn this planet we're going to light
it on fire and we're all gonna be burnt
to a crisp
did you and it's gonna because of a
matter I'm not going to die match did
you see ben shapiro being like it's not
a climate change isn't a big deal
because it's not gonna happen for like
50 years
today actually does happen and your
house goes underwater thank you to salad
well his head is always underwater cuz
he's five feet
the most concerned about rising waters
is the most powerful on earth by far
hell yeah hell yeah oh this is the SEC
straight into my bloodstream over the
Republican debates wage clap is it unti
no they're not allowed the military
never collapse nor do the Supreme Court
justice right America weird
every same economy how did America win
for you today our gross the state of our
union is strong
[Applause]
assign a threat level of success of
America right now
would give it a strong
[Applause]
like this is a college basketball game
football game honestly I was in
Cambridge Mass our country I played Paul
Ryan sucks anyway we're chanting us a
part of the comedy group and a couple
other guys almost New York number expect
25 years ago and literally though almost
the entire show was us pretending we
were audience members chanting USA
I enjoyed chanting USA that's what
people did not think it was funny it
sounds funny actually
I like hell oh it's funny with your show
I liked Matt I gotta say USA the TMB is
my foolish Wars when I came in talking
about the wish I could say performing
nationalism is pretty fun it's great
ridiculous partisan investigations by
Master February a man looking like a fan
[Applause]
and legislation there cannot be war and
investigation at home to defeat our
Trump just won't all if the glove
doesn't fit you must equation start with
finally honestly honestly admire it go
straight forward it stuck in the Senate
in some cases years and years waiting
not right it certainly never have
totally not right that white people have
to investigate made the beginning not
right you got to pull that line about
the investigation these nominations
which is unfair to the nominees and very
unfair to our country super now is the
time for bipartisan action did someone
leave it or no we have already proven
that that's possible
in the last Congress both parties came
together to pass unprecedented
legislation to confront the opioid
crisis a sweeping new farm bill historic
VA reform of that farm bill and after
four decades of rejection we passed VA
accountability so that we can kindly
terminate those who literally like ours
I could just make it another there's
also like these are my four legislative
victories so I better name them all off
when you say another hour
I'm just like living it's not die exact
okay how many ever great city before
those fish fillets I'm a pescetarian
yeah I'm doing the bastard diet they
said it couldn't be done
no need strictly dried out food look one
around Trump said they're the day and
he's tightening up the football players
and it's like I understand sometimes if
you're testing for legitimate things
like justice but I just took care of it
we sign you gotta be story you gotta be
impressed
just the president just use the State of
the Union address to basically say stop
investigating me for all the crimes to
life in prison
I hope that's that's as a first time
biggest problem that's not a district of
the woman that he pardoned because you
know all props to Kim Kardashian
I'm 100% Pro this everybody's heard it
out about this this was good for Kim and
I pass all props on that prison
population and far beyond Alice's story
underscores will certainly not
disparities and unfairness that can
exist on you as a fan in criminal
sentencing but and Anita Slee all
primary this she Hodel she felt like the
only way you could actually served
almost anything with that 22 years
pathological celebrity of Seneca supers
it was she speaks the same language and
she helped she saved a woman's life
that's awesome I'd communal props the
calluses sense when I saw oh my god
 charity looking to drop a threat
the prison and kissing oh if you know
this is something right
alice is with us another tonight did you
see my dad got you on all know
hug me then you'll go back to where you
were my dad went to prison because I'm
trying to get a hook humiliate his
system and then that fat Christmas
ruined our pencil
that woman behind her is completely
Islamist oh yeah for reminding us
totally well the person in front of her
is our own destiny thank you very much
Alice thank you very much
inspired by stories like alice's
ministration closely with members of
both parties to sign the first step
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
change is a community the first step Act
gives nonviolent offenders the chance to
reenter society as productive
law-abiding citizen I've spent a lot of
time thinking about this what do I know
about it all I know is what's on the
Internet
Matthew Charles from Tennessee in 1996
at the age of 30
Matthew was sentenced to 35 years for
selling drugs and related offenses over
the next two decades
I committed not renting to him or anyone
else who was black that's what I did and
mentor to add to this family was
effective lost their savings from a
chump now Matthew it was a very first
person to be released from prison under
the first step
like it's so clear he doesn't really
know the names of any of this can we
call it something else just like first
act not the first step back two words
not sure where to hit the imprecision we
call it the MBA
Thank You Matthew well he's actually
gonna get like a whole boatload of
credit that's his first them
ad lib welcome Republicans and Democrats
must join forces again to confront an
urgent national crisis we're dark this
is the dark portion of the speeds pass a
bill that will fund our government
protect our homeland Nancy Pelosi she's
a very dangerous southern border now
it's the time for Congress to show the
world that America is committed to
ending Oh 800% situation drug dealers
don't give in human traffickers right
now sure business
[Applause]
who do you think is tasked with
explaining to trumpet they're not actual
coyotes involved in I don't think
anybody is I think they want him to
think that there are severe I already
heard about that I know I get it I got
it now you know I really you got to give
calmly Harris is very effective at that
we have just heard their margins there
is organized columns in order to blow
see just basically give the that
people start doing them about the
caravan to our country it's about two or
on there another 3752 our southern
border onslaught and in conclude this is
a moral issue the lawless state of our
southern border Oh Mike is a threat to
the safety sake Mexico is a lot of
wealth in the country rather all America
the hood have a moral duty to create an
immigration system that protects the
lives and jobs of our citizens this
includes our obligation to the millions
of immigrants living here today who
followed the rules is absolutely going
to be respecting our laws legal limits
are you saying enrich our national dough
and strengthen our society and it's
going to be that's why we are taking out
on the TSB we're kicking out anybody we
could kick ass I fired all the little
ones keepers please explain yes faith
for people because I think they don't
know about where is that one a gram
where we allow refugees in if their
country has suffered some type of major
natural disaster or civil war or
something like that and they're refugees
they come here maybe after five or ten
years maybe their homes are rebuilt
maybe the places they can go back to her
safe but they have established lives
here so to kick them out at that point
after they maybe have had children here
or maybe they have had other relatives
have immigrated here because they were
here is just obscene and completely
without purpose and correlates with the
specific racism he's expressed towards
Haitians and America's political plan
might actually then stack illegal
immigration wealthy politicians and
donor trust fund baby push for open
borders talking about living their lives
be hardest takes me back to the
discourse on - yeah there's
meanwhile working-class Americans are
left to pay the price for mass illegal
immigration reduce jobs lower wages
overburdened schools hospitals that are
so crowded you can't get in I would
recommend an increased crime read an ad
is social hall safety net and
immigration criminalization of migration
is what drives down wages for working
class people I have nothing to plug on
this product it's like you go to the
most menial labor organization or really
important union by yo immigration and
I'm saying him and so really be clearly
not a radical one like if there was a
potential third way position to stake
out on it they may be probably the ones
to take it I not only don't they take it
they said we're talking about sex
traffic it's a delegation for
Brazil to free Lula we may work at the
border they're very clear about this
just a FASTA and to sell them into
prostitution at outs and modern-day
slave action this is just lease he's
claiming that the cocaine and fentanyl
that these drugs are coming here we go
now operates in at least 20,000 American
state savages and they almost all come
through our southern border oh my god
just yesterday an ms-13 gang members you
I'm a 13 darkest the California a fatal
shooting on a subway platform in New
York City he's not going to do this one
we are removing these gang members and
it was another Hispanic guys pneumatic
but it was in queen so honest ms-13 was
started in LA and there's a reason why
they didn't know many harp on that
because it doesn't have any sale use the
idea of like a dagger on a New York
subway patches for 90% of the people who
are watching this particularly Trump
supporters just like doesn't that happen
shocked that I know Charles Bronson's
sure again we were talking about this
before we got on the air but like a
white girl be killed in Iowa that is
something you can you learn to hear
direct quote frankerz no wait give me
something I could give me a white girl
killed in Aruba or something under
survived by four children 11
grandchildren and 20 great-grandchildren
that's also here tonight our Gerald and
Sharon's granddaughter Heather and
great-granddaughter really such that
their tragedy as being weapon Deborah
they're used as proper matters
disgustingly raised an agenda few can
understand your pain thank you and thank
you for being here thank you very much
great whites interest
[Applause]
Tiffany welcome to the resistance well
she clearly hates her dad she would go
lib just to spite her dad she's dating a
lid yet oh my friends on the cob
recently and I will fight for the memory
of Gerald and share that it should never
happen again I am willing to bet that
tomorrow he will not remember Gerald
insurance and should be lost
is that a the way that Susan arrests of
criminal aliens including those when do
we get to when do we get to the 45
minutes listing of other crimes that and
every document a ticket ice Special
Agent Elvin Hernandez Hispanic border
piano guy that's them I love I love I
love Republicans
face like their stereotype of identity
politics they actually do and they
always do it like Hispanic ice agent
what right exactly
they didn't you don't have a responsive
he and his family legally immigrated to
the United States from the Dominican
Republic everything they think
investigations into the scourge of
international center to scourge Elvin
says that if I can make sure these all
right I don't think he has an hour he's
really done my job this is so bad
incredible colleague he really does
cover more alive in anti-immigrant the
first part was very dull but he now
seems like he's hit his stride when he's
talking without one how horrible it's
ready to his people the part that he
gets ahead he wants to be adored and he
knows the gun is this that works
they're gonna eat up this part they're
gonna eat up enough time so I almost
believe it
oh look at that cave I'm sorry what if
she'll let me down soon enough and I
pledge to you tonight that I will never
abolish our heroes from ice thank you
[Applause]
people are saying is liquidate all ISIL
Thursday abolish all heroes get rid of
the bats - yeah that's our no literally
employee you remember what Castro after
but you may have drug detection at our
ports closing loopholes that enable
child smuggling and plans for a new
physical barrier or wall to secure the
vast area be able to deliver got to be
able to do like the proper Wolfram has
never got built I will get it built and
mexica never mind
one of the worst
I've ever seen
laughs gotta be publicist trying to hide
something he's always trying to hide
this is a smart strategic see-through
steel barrier not just a simple concrete
wall it will be deployed in the areas
identified by the border agents as
having the greatest need and these
agents will tell you where walls go up
illegal crossings go way way down
there's already wall I want the wall to
count your steps San Diego
used to have the most illegal border
crossings in our country oh my god so I
just tweeted out I will get it built and
mix it was put in place and Larry Murphy
three seconds before me in fact it
doesn't even say there's a difference it
says 16 seconds for me 16 seconds where
does uh does muscle-memory Mexico is
going to pay for it not kick in
dangerous cities now immediately upon
its gray to fill on nomar's was a
powerful barrier really Papa Bowie
muhammad's the king of all prophets
cities in our country Matt you know
massive bleep how far is el paso from
the border I think it's like it's a
really long way like 120 miles away it's
not a border town
I think I'll buy so isn't good
I know that but didn't say last thing
I'll say San Antonio how far let's work
together compromise and reach a deal
last time he said you know the problems
of your continues at a rapid pace
men women you know uh fifteen is not
showing up you just do it
then been shipped been secured a fall
short of recognizing
[Applause]
Oh
I was trying to debate her group city
population at least till you know I
walked across the border and I'm not
sure how much more it could be
militarized I have gone to the West Bank
thank you very much folks he's up he's
on script right now that was that lip
can just gonna be proud that we have
I'll say the West more women to be more
milk in the workforce than ever before
yes we have forced so many to family
income earners buy for their family
we've got so many people that's feminism
don't sit yet you know like this
and exactly one he's gonna just say
right after cons pass he's finally gonna
do it we should say the hard-working
women the right to vote we also have
more women serving in Congress mrs.
Winterbourne Wyatt
just a dress or something all these
applause
[Applause]
right you worked so hard to get here who
here has a second home in the DC area
[Applause]
live somewhere else
part-time anybody oh is so dumb
don't do it naked why are the Democrats
joining Lucy's doing it ironically
because she's cool
do we have any bleach cuz that's what
I'm gonna be drinking out which came out
over the motto Lagos summit with very
high hopes and congratulations that's
great
now shut the up shut the
listen up we're launching the first ever
government-wide initiative focused on
empower and you've been bitching about
Russia so much I mean New Kingdom
tonight do we like that
[Applause]
development in four women and one
priority is parama reversing decades of
calamitous trade policies so bad so bad
we are now making it hate to see the
negotiators at stealing intellectual
property the theft of American jobs and
wealth has come to an end we just ended
everything bad
Wittgenstein
this is all coated recently imposed
tariffs on two hundred and fifty billion
dollars of Chinese goods and now our
treasury is receiving billions and
billions of dollars but I don't blame
China for taking advantage China I blame
our leaders stupid and Representatives
do differences little better if you have
news for you great respect for President
Xi and we are now working on a new trade
deal with China but it must include real
structural change too and fair trade
practices in ease reduce our chronic
trade deficit has many people and
protect American jobs but it must have a
sweatshop tonight dot in which is
nothing these have to be this thing
where they thought about it
can you give me a hipster it's a blunder
was we please catastrophe owners now do
I want to hear some Sam Harris I haven't
met the men and women of Michigan Ohio
Pennsylvania
Indiana's corrected you Hampshire and
many other states for his dreams were
shattered by the signing of NAFTA for
years politicians promised them they
would renegotiate for a better deal but
no words the house material us/mexico
candidates for American workers like
they haven't had delivered to for a long
time I hope you can pass the USMC a into
law so that we can bring back our
manufacturing jobs and even greater
numbers expand American agriculture he's
not nearly as intellectual property
looking about this time she pours more
cars let me just
afta I'd also remind made in the USA
immigrants the QPD trade to deal with
ms-13
that's gender the board it is knavish
let me just say immigrants come over
borders like VCRs and just imagine for a
moment a girl taped up with blue tape
okay we can charge them the exact same
tariff on the exact same product that
they sell to us this is so deep
this is captain
it's a deep state both parties oh I have
a prediction able to you Sean Hannity is
gonna say great home run it's like both
boring and some nonviolent and the bad
guys gonna win take it easy
don't stop me take it easy everybody
just back the trouble with journal less
like cast is they that's right yeah
that's why she murdered
[Applause]
that could have been my parallel
universe me hello miss from 9018 drug
prices experienced their single largest
declines in 46 years
[Applause]
[Music]
but we must do more lead uh I'm gonna go
acceptable save and I'm gonna watch some
old Stern Trump interviews to remind
myself of what's actually funny watch
with this guy this is wrong this is
unfair it's like being really like being
gay in the 1950s on the problem of
global freeloading and deliveries for
global transparency for emergence
demotius fine I read this piece about it
right here
was actually devastating about it was
the point of the pieces like he's very
 and there was like actually like
this is becoming a problem in Silicon
Valley because people like him are
getting fires which actually there's a
serious labor question way down and it's
like a lawyer was essentially saying
that if he could flip it and not be in
this whole like ante sjw nonsense
he might have a case a believer like
you're not yeah you're basically not
treating me the way I should be treated
for like having the human a certain lack
of understanding on social and it's just
like he wasn't having any interesting I
was simply trying to you know would be
sending the altar in that way
[Applause]
no one would know where we are in this
speech in recent years we have made
remarkable reach yes are we in the fight
against HIV and AIDS Oh a one-digit
easily talked about the monkey thing
Within Reach
it's working my budget to make the
needed commitment to eliminate the HIV
epidemic aid oh my god Sam the United
States right out within the ten years we
have made incredible
[Applause]
where HIV is a real tongue twister HIV
[Applause]
[Laughter]
it can work on anything that I can get
behind
I still really do like the untreated
syphilis brain it's just how debate how
did they get there are they talking
speeds going up the trials of cancer
folks joining Melania in the gallery
this evening is a very brave
ten-year-old girl maternal very evenly
maternal smiled every birthday la Nina
Conti
a speech
no good really bad for you cancer
[Applause]
hi grace every birthday poor girl when
she said she was for lies what's going
on she did not know that one day she
might be a patient herself that's what
happened last year grace was diagnosed
with brain cancer she's like 10 years
old immediately she began radiation
treatment at the same time she rallied
her community and raised more than
$40,000 for the fight against cancer
because that's what cancer treatment
costs you have to rely on charities
because we don't have the universal
coverage that's free at the point of
access this it's good we have this
peacefield charity system she proved if
you want to be healthy gotta be
entrepreneurial bad yeah exactly
she held thousands of lemonade stands I
just want to give everybody their pretty
good left yeah leaving the party isn't
that right grace with tears in their
eyes as she hung up a poster that read
manga day of chemo week every day she's
like Trump saved
chopped para saber
yeah I just I just need to say again
 this that means using all these
poor people
yes disgusting sucks really suck and any
parent for anywhere inspiration to
everyone over the age of 18 Jakob Trump
my budget is Congress for 500 I don't
think we I don't think we've met yeah we
haven't had the kid Jacobs rights of a
shout out to be bad they're saying that
Jacob has a small penis which totally
matches now what are those pushing cory
booker's of the gender year deboss
loving it to include in my budget a plan
for nationwide paid family leave so that
every new parent has the songs the
proven record
[Music]
[Applause]
gender woman
he also could be apparently less than
six months ago is from hiv/aids research
then the chilling displays our nation
saw in recent days Jeff Merkley just
tweeted that out lawmakers between New
York hard let me just say hard to take
the president seriously about
eradicating the transmission of HIV when
less than six months ago ranked funding
from HIV AIDS research to fund his child
prisons you came to defend the dignity
of every person I am asking Congress to
pass legislation Trump definitely
believes that lato indefensible like
doesn't give a about abortion
if all of us feel like we're trapped in
a barn fire
why not just cover me in a bucket of
blood let us work together to build a
culture that cherishes innocent life or
the folks that have died after making
your child prisons doctor believe it God
can use this man
I'm not like a crazy bro who wants to be
like drops out of fairs and stuff like
that but D reality play is really
something to bold children born and
unborn are back in listen to you holy oh
my god find a benzo well on Howard Stern
Show and I'm sorry close up to be like a
J here in LA and your girlfriend was in
New York and you was a kind of like
where she was over the lazy years we
have to be like just drop your
transaction the greatest neoliberal in
the world is responsible for getting us
Medicare for all
I don't care yeah that's why they don't
care delivered chipping away at roe v--
wade well they won't happen they'll
probably be over with that project
within a year they don't care they love
bears yeah and it's with that in mind
that members of NATO's komal eros
charter but now we have cured
whoever can deliver medical last couple
of years more than 100 problems in
defense record of success from our NATO
allies Nieto they said it could really
go
I think this is an intellectual
curiosity expedition
[Applause]
this is like a sonic military buildup
the United States is developing a
state-of-the-art missile defense system
I thought we were we will never
apologize for advancing America's
interests defensive Crouch decades ago
the United States entered into a treaty
with Russia in which we agreed to limit
and reduce our lesser new arms plates a
villain in the speech well we followed
the agreement and the rules to the
letter Russia repeatedly there's a huge
violated abortions yes very much going
on for many years next to being super
headers withdrawing he really is a
warthog so tough on dudes toughest
toughest on Putin perhaps pink
that's a huge asset for emissary
we really have no choice
perhaps we can negotiate a different
agreement adding they honestly I feel
like if you had a program like one of
those which case text-to-speech programs
it would deliver this speech with more
sort of intonation yeah
connection to the words honestly the
only time he got in anyway animated
where there was any type of flow to what
he was saying so he was sorry about the
blood of Americans spilled by him yes
yeah no absolutely right it's just
remind everybody it wasn't just about
electoral college i with a different
strategy it was particularly striking on
the abortion that portion because that's
such an emotional issue for people and
he just just you know just tossed yeah
exactly i don't yank like it just dry as
trade policy I don't know anyone can buy
anything he says well abortion is just
gross girl stuff yeah yeah he doesn't
like starve SNL there Kim Jong is a good
one we love him Kim and I will meet
again on February 27th and 28th and
Vietnam okay
[Applause]
like if you need to do that two weeks
ago the United I sing and I selling
water here why these wet supremest he
doesn't decide we make a choice well for
me as a standing failure you guys tell a
joke everyone smile
right that might all see me oh yes to
meet with him do some short films and
now it's pitching and I can't where is
this a crew so I'm talking about this is
the coolest because the section section
of the speech yeah I went from being the
wealthiest we're doing coop talk
we are alarmed by the new calls to adopt
socialism in our country socialism in
our in our time
America was founded on liberty and
independence and not government coercion
domination and control we are born free
and we will stay free with Venezuela
hashtag don't like it won't know
that that's right Bernie's making the
light pink
[Applause]
we'll see about that tonight
we renew our resolve did that America
will never be a sensation
I definitely very basically Venezuelan
government
they're not talking about Venezuela
they're scared you scared you scared is
in the Middle East
once I pretended the Maduro story real
is once not discredited theories that
have failed for decades to yield
progress for this reason my
administration give told recognize the
true capital Israel and proudly opened
the American Embassy in Jersey no ties
off wasn't that more than a year ago
[Applause]
it's funny how he ties all three of
those issues together yeah the girls
could learn something from him our brave
troops have now been fighting in the
Middle East for almost 19 years in
Afghanistan and Iraq nearly 7,000
American heroes this is the part where
in their live broken clock more than
52,000 who's not doing anything I've
been badly wounded nobody is saying look
these are endless wars that seven lies
in dollars ton of money on day long
on Israel as a candidate for president I
loudly pledged a new approach cuz I talk
loud Great nations do not fight endless
wars
then America's not a great
[Music]
when I took office Isis controlled more
than 20,000 square miles in Iraq and
Syria just two years ago today we have
liberated virtually all of the territory
from the grip of these bloodthirsty
monsters that was the Kurds there was
merrily libertarian socialism work with
our allies to destroy the remnants of
Isis it is time to give our brave
warriors in Syria
a warm welcome home I have also
accelerated our negotiations to reach if
possible a political settlement in
Afghanistan the opposing side is also
very happy to be negotiating you're
talking about how problems have fought a
lot of speech thanks to their bravery
buckle and are now able coaters lots
yeah a posse I told you could be an
analytical solution God through this
long Jesus and bloody conference he's
gonna end in the next time
[Applause]
well it's scripted for much longer
honestly all
and it'll become an undecided voter if
he just seriously and it Stacey Abrams
could just come out and go Bernice a
billionaires including I'm one of those
are just millions upon millions of
counter know those everyone's doing
counter-terror they discovered the real
reason I oppose do not know I want I
want single-payer president but we do
know that after two decades of war the
hour has come to at least try for peace
and the other side would like to do the
same thing it's time all right that's
good get out of Afghanistan all right
you know what good yeah got a strong
note why don't you wrap it up and don't
 thank Pelosi clapped at the
socialism it was decorum actually
secretly have an ms-13 lover want
socialism and last month American forces
killed one of the leaders of that attack
the era of the pajama boy is open wow
that makes me feel really old but you
every boy I feel like feels like it was
a million where's about to be joined
tonight by Tom Weber Lane Craig
quibbling was one of the 17 sailors I'm
running on fumes
we tragically lost it's like it really
is amazing there when you get to that
point it's like the guys the guy is a
fascist like don't be a pennant these
presider is disgusting white
supremacists everywhere and you just get
their parent but he's also coming for me
which is good
that is that is the competitive
advantage you get when you're when you
chop up adderall
right sponsor of terror so why didn't
you wait I think we're gonna need to do
that if we're gonna do this that drug
that was nowhere around dictators I
never even heard of that drug until I
was well into my problem next year I am
open to doing that I don't know I'm
telling you hey you know I may have a
short period of time where I need a
prescription and next year we'll try it
just as an experiment to see if the
speech goes quick I'm free thanks for
asking every day no never take
stimulants and go to the airport yeah
you should do something fun dude all
right so what is gonna make the speech
seem like it's quicker I'm just gonna
cyanide I'm just gonna lose my again can
i bike wait I think it's got news for
you it ain't work I want I want to know
is not working yes okay wait a second
just months ago 11 Jewish Americans were
viciously murdered in an anti-semitic
attack on the Tree of Life cynical just
want you to come to the synagogue water
officer Timothy Madsen raced into the
gunfire I'm going to pray the only non
Jew involved Wow the Jews scrambled for
their shekels what brave good rescue
this 12th surgery and he's going in
for many more but he made the trip to be
here with us tonight
officer Matson please all right rocks
yes he also bragged about pulling out of
the Iran deal and we're all talking
about it all with you
well thank I'd rather talk about adding
up
that was fun later on the only time he's
ever program was a rope Reagan who
started this whole thing where it's like
I want to point out somebody in the
audience I think Reagan I think I'm not
sure about that but I feel like Reagan
was the first one to say we have a hero
in our our audience right and it's just
yeah the huge I think he might have been
his name is general his name's James
here today he's been working to protect
that country from a horrible
organization called the African I want
to thank someone I want to thank this
man bringing all of these diamonds arms
and to our friends 81st birthday they
should are they gonna sing happy
birthday
if 81 gas
that Pittsburgh synagogue children
Nazi chancy would have been a baby but
literally 1 or 2 years old
connealy to cook a
yeah they did it you say it's boring and
you complain but you Miller
writing this season is really gotten
sloppy
I don't like this I I hope I hope
there's a lawsuit for the unlicensed
singing of that on national TV it's
public domain name is it
that must have happened in the past year
or two last couple years we shot it sir
they wouldn't do that for me Judith Mike
sermon when he and his family were put
on a train and told they were going to
another camp suddenly the train
screeched to a very strong halter than
anybody else
a soldier appear take the Holocaust
Jesus guy for the absolute leaders
father cried out with joy it's the
Americans it's the Americans and you
might be neck and neck with Justin
Bieber I like Jessica as well just me
if Anne Frank were alive today I think
she'd be a maggot I brought no and Frank
realization well that is the hottest
take I've heard all day I'd love to
discuss that that was a beeper ad Frank
is in the Attic being like you know what
they do good point thank you a second
Holocaust survivor
no Anne Frank's here tonight DOX Joshua
cow is a prisoner at Dachau Jewish
friends now he remembers why my friend
milled a hole in the wall no diamonds a
big cattle car and as American soldiers
rolled in with tank offense
Simon wits immediately calls the
American soldiers were proof that God
exists and they came down from the sky
they gave me the narrator I began to see
your enormous interest in honoring the
dream soldiers and this is deaf will
force them on d-day in the second one of
them was Herman as I check to just make
sure there is no - Herman store house' a
year after he stormed the beaches of
Normandy Matt Simon was one of the
American soul end he was a healthy day
at the big liberated Dachau
and what it is all a part yeah did the
head fake thought I was going to talk
about the six year old named Trump and
just went
[Applause]
kid this is gonna make what doesn't kill
you I'm not even gonna acknowledge you
it's the best of both worlds because the
kids will bully him even more because he
was there managed by me owned almost 75
years no he's gonna get to the kid
Herman is Joshua of course he goes on
your best song I'm gonna do it to the
best State of the Union address I can do
the rangas harmony Joshua your presence
this evening is very much appreciated
thank you very much
[Music]
hey you guys remember
this is the primary what's she up to
I would be disappointed if he doesn't do
lock her up
dodging prosecutors he's talking about
Roger stone maybe the dark skies over
the English Channel in the early hours I
may need a night you have to start to
wonder if the strategy is for just you
I'm going to go so long because no one's
gonna watch the robotic fragile and of
course I I think that is a total valid
in the history of war I'm exactly the
type that's like loves drama move that
he would not know suicide may be the
only option was this nation of that and
generations yet unborn no one's even
gonna be awake to lunch day see if they
do it they didn't spoken they did it for
us
this is a announces that he's reinstate
on his drafts except for Border Patrol
Howard triumphs a national recovery
service our giant leaders and discovery
our unrivaled progress towards equality
and justice all of it is past belongs to
the blood and tears and courage and
vision the blood of the Americans who
came before think of this capital think
of this very chamber where lawmakers
before you voted to end slavery you know
absolutely nothing to feed fascism it's
almost impressive
it's like I do faint out and I'm like on
the other side of those votes feels hard
tonight lot of people particularly black
be rubbing every Steve Pia Mia Harris
together we represent the golden beaches
let us an extraordinary nation in all of
history
I ask the men and women of this guy kind
of feel like I'm having a stroke but
ethically in a good way our most
exciting journeys go away I'd like a
vicar ger our biggest victories are
still to come isn't like Oh Gavin we
must choose whether you're defined by
our differences whether we dare to
transcend them we must choose whether
this is God if I'm right he's gotta be
powering up for the end or whether
there's gotta be more I'm starting to
think the litmus test for any Democratic
race is to eliminate this do another one
of these boring assemblies again for the
taller saw mountain creators ever had
set our sights you forever that's
my common Court I say it's you
forever
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
no matter the challenges to come
breaches through we must go forward
together we must keep America and maybe
we need a solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
that one nation under God must be thank
you tonight and the promise believe I
got through all these
[Applause]
I take pleasure in writing I used to
like music
[Applause]
this is exactly the type of shirt that
maybe
and made some peons
[Music]
[Applause]
Holocaust survivors like how can you
come at me I acknowledge Holocaust
survivors well totally accepted the
Holocaust happen and you know what I got
no credit no credit you know what's
gonna happen - is it like before the
really like the crystallises are gonna
go this is an amazing speech I don't
know why he's not getting more quiet for
Democrats this is the speech when he
finally became president but the total
absence Elizabeth say but the like ones
who have to like pretend and they're not
complete airheads their columns I
predict they're gonna be like this
speech was incredible where was this man
in the last two years and if he may have
lost his opportunity to lead but we saw
what could have been I swear to god
David Axelrod yeah and the funniest part
about that is he had his dick out the
whole time the whole time I was talking
about the Holocaust I was rubbing one
out for Mike and no one even knew but
Mike saw it and I told him he was gonna
get AIDS from seeing it yeah joke's on
y'all you gotta give me credit for
acknowledging the Holocaust happened
though I mean come on I mean I don't
want to get into specific numbers that's
something that's personal girl something
happened he's been talking to Jared
about it a lot he's like Orion and then
there was a big big tough guy who came
in while they were getting shot an
incredible unsung success there was
nothing about Rogers stones so cuck what
about walking up all the Democratic
pedophile protectors yeah I feel if you
are Paul manna for right now food is
falling off from gout apparently yeah
exactly
you did appreciate the what was that
what was the rhyme that he did about I
have that will play that in the first
bit of the candor investigate if you
will have Joan it's
ya can't investigate if you don't
executive time if there's going to be
peace and legislation there cannot be
war and investigation a a dude
that is a quotable trumpism that does
sound like something you'd say you're
like girlfriend if she was like asking
to see your texts you wouldn't ever
girlfriend yeah you would because it
would be the best we were a piece of
legislation but yeah piece of
legislation there's two things we always
talk about policy first piece and
legislation play that in the opening bit
for tomorrow show oh yeah okay laid out
the choices very clearly we can either
have Trump or socialism that was a good
part yeah I buy it don't you listen my
barber again folks think I know exactly
where I fall on that one it's a good
sign that they have to explicitly say
that which you know I think we're the
Overton Window is actually edging I get
it in my head I mean the fact that he
even feels the need to talk about it
socialism
I was edging you don't remind me wasn't
that great uh uh I forget it was some
right-wing idiot they tried to get
Bernie at a book signing and they were
like the sign said please say capitalism
is best and he's like I'm not gonna die
and they were like would you sign this
uh manual by like Adam Smith or
something like that and he just looks he
just looks oh he's like no I will not
[Laughter]
you'll see in Bernie's stoicism when the
socialism stories everybody else look
goofy is Trump was talking
nonsense all of the idiots felt like
they needed to clap and AOC and Bernie
representing this perfect generational
contrast but you know both from New York
which is kind of funny just sat there
like you people are idiots it's
happening did you see there was a video
today from it was from some Daily Caller
and confronting Bernie about you know
what do you have to say about the
Fairfax allegations out of Virginia and
Bernie's like pantomiming he's got his
phone up did you see this no oh and he's
like he's like oh I'm on the phone I'm
on the phone EGH it's really up in arms
about like basically get out of my grill
I'm on the phone and he takes his phone
away and it's just like on the contact
screen so so obviously so he was just
pretending to be a Bernie was to dodge
expect more transparency from burning
you know what you know Daily Caller guys
really honest about that I wouldn't give
them the time of day for anything I like
I have to say this is this speaking of
up responding the socialism's like Matt
dusts who's Bernie's foreign policy
adviser who's a really like I know him a
little bit he's a very good guy he's
definitely legitimately left but you
know a foreign policy adviser who like
went through the Washington DC think
tank system just for context a blob so
he quote tweets will lead Shahid saying
Trump America will never be a socialist
country and then the split photos of
Bernie and AOC we were talking about and
dusk quote tweets that and writes the
socialism just got 10 feet higher you
know what Kanye says your haters are
your biggest fans
haters equal motivators that's right
yeah there's no such thing as bad
publicity
yeah today was a social someone you want
to talk about winners no we all know the
haters are few of them prosper socialism
and communism darkhorse waiting in the
wings
we'll see O'Reilly tweeting tonight
actually that's good now what what no
I'm actually excited to hear a fever
it's supposed to be I thought it was
supposed to be directly after it should
be on any second it's gonna be on any
second we got to keep okay here's here's
Bill O'Reilly good speech the president
helped his reelection chances tough to
hate Trump media spend too negative
right Oh nobody wrote tough for a hate
Trump okay we're making that out no this
is literally speech shut up helped is
realizable literate runoff for hates
Trump media to spin negative went out on
a limb acknowledge the existence of the
Holocaust pretty good stuff he said the
media the media still criticize this was
like this socialism really one Bernie
Sanders sunburned and not happy about
attacks on socialism like I would quote
media is giving Trump virtually no
credit for acknowledging Holocaust I'm
gonna do O'Reilly slowly dying and you
do we know do are we on the we got to
make sure cuz she's she's good she's got
to be on now no is that right that's
weird I thought it was get it goin Stacy
Stacy come on how long do you make a
white man wait is it a tech problem cuz
she should be on right now they just
retweeted some fans not up the speech I
mean I I gotta be honest I paid
attention to about 65% of it it was
pretty good yes T five percent that's
impressive and I think honestly the only
time he was animated when he was talking
about the anti-immigrant stuff blood and
soil I gotta be I the I think it's what
we anticipated for the most part you
know I don't think that they're gonna
spend the next two years running on the
existence of the Holocaust although that
there was why was love
would love that I mean literally there
was probably ten minutes last time you
heard Pocahontas say the Holocaust what
do you keep talking about d-day - it was
really some you know just scraping the
barrel of American exceptionalism he did
a minute or two on the the idea that it
is an anniversary for women getting the
vote and then when they came come here
bone-tired my parents found a way to
show us all who we could be my librarian
mother taught us to love learning my
father a shipyard worker put in overtime
in extra shifts and they made sure TSA
out front the election lasers almost
became United Methodist ministers voters
freshen about a bill these were our
Family Values faith service education
and responsibility Wow so it's we only
have evolved just like she sometimes my
dad has an animation about long
stretches during the 30 mile trip home
from the shipyards
one rainy night my mom got worried we
piled in the car and went out looking
for him and we eventually found my dad
making his way along the road soaked and
shivering in his shirtsleeves when he
got in the car my mom asked if he'd left
his coat at work he explained that he'd
given it to a homeless man he'd met on
the highway when we asked why he'd given
away his only jacket my dad turned to us
and said I knew when I left that man
he'd still be alone but I could give
them my coat because I knew you were
coming for me our power and strength as
Americans lives in our hard work and our
belief in more my family understood
firsthand that while success is not
guaranteed we live in a nation where
opportunity is possible but we do not
succeed alone in these United States
when times are tough we can persevere
because our friends and neighbors will
come for us our first responders will
come for us it is this mantra this
uncommon
grace of community that has driven me to
become an attorney a small business
owner a writer and most recently the
Democratic nominee for governor of
Georgia and rightful governor my reason
for running was simple I love our
country and its promise of opportunity
for all and I stand here tonight because
I hold fast to my father's credo
together we are coming for America for a
better America just a few weeks ago I
joined volunteers to distribute meals to
furloughed federal workers they waited
in line for a box of food and the sliver
of hope since they hadn't received
paychecks in weeks making livelihoods of
our federal workers upon four political
games is a disgrace the shutdown was a
stunt engineered by the President of the
United States one that defied every
tenet of fairness and abandoned not just
our people but our values for seven
years I led the Democratic Party in the
Georgia House of Representatives I
didn't always agree with the Republican
speaker or governor but I understood
that our constituents didn't care about
our political parties they cared about
their lives so when we had to negotiate
criminal justice reform or
transportation or foster care
improvements the leaders of our state
didn't shut down we came together and we
kept our word it should be no different
in our nation's capital we may come from
different sides of the political aisle
but our joint commitment to the ideals
of this nation cannot be negotiable our
most urgent work is to realize Americans
dreams of today and tomorrow to carve a
path to independence and prosperity that
can last a lifetime children deserve an
excellent education from cradle to
career we owe them Safe Schools and the
highest standards regardless of zip code
yet this White House responds timidly
while first graders practice active
shooter drills and the price of higher
education
ever steeper from now on our leaders
must be willing to tackle gun safety
measures and face the crippling effect
of educational loans to support
educators and invest what is necessary
to unleash the power of America's
greatest minds in Georgia and around the
country people are striving for a middle
class where a salary truly equals
economic security but instead family's
hopes are being crushed by Republican
leadership that ignores real life or
just doesn't understand it under the
current administration far too many
hardworking Americans are falling behind
living paycheck to paycheck most without
labor unions to protect them from even
worse harm the Republican tax bill
rigged the system against working people
rather than bringing back jobs plants
are closing layoffs are looming and
wages struggle to keep pace with the
actual cost of living we owe more to the
millions of everyday folks who keep our
economy running like truck drivers
forced to buy their own rigs farmers
caught in a trade war small business
owners in search of capital and domestic
workers serving without labor
protections women and men who could
thrive if only they had the support and
freedom to do so we know bipartisanship
could craft a 21st century immigration
plan but this administration chooses to
cage children and tear families apart
compassionate treatment at the border is
not the same as open borders President
Reagan understood this President Obama
understood this Americans understand
this and Democrats stand ready to
effectively secure our ports and borders
but we must all embrace that from
agriculture to healthcare to
entrepreneurship America is made strong
by the presence of immigrants not walls
and rather than suing to dismantle the
Affordable Care Act as Republican
attorneys general have our leaders must
protect the progress we made
expanding health and lowering a
[Music]
medicare-for-all she said lowering cost
however the cost
I found myself this is a consensus
Democratic response because while you
can defer it's really good and I also
have to say underlines why it's useful
Bernie doesn't want affirmation because
there's American blood pressure pills
forced to choose between buying medicine
or paying rent maternal mortality rates
show that mothers especially black
mothers risk death to give birth and in
14 states including my home state where
a majority wanted our leaders refused to
expand Medicaid which could save rural
hospitals save economies and save lives
we can do so much more take action on
climate change defend individual
liberties with fair-minded judges
provide you know none of these ambitions
as possible without the right universal
just voter suppression is keep in mind
the vast majority people watching stay
on the rolls are probably faces and that
awful balance we can no longer ignore
these threats to democracy
well I acknowledge the results of the
2018 election here in Georgia I did not
and we cannot accept efforts to
undermine our right to vote I like how
she says that's why I started a
nonpartisan organization called fair
fight to advocate for voting rights this
is the next battle for our democracy
when we're all eligible citizens can
have their say about the vision we want
for our country we must reject the
cynicism that says allowing every
eligible vote to be cast and counted is
a power grab Americans understand that
these are the values our brave men and
women in uniform and our veterans risk
their lives to defend the foundation of
our moral leadership around the globe is
free and fair elections where voters
pick their leaders not where politicians
pick their voters in this time of
division and crisis we must come
together and stand for and with one
another
America has stumbled time and again on
its quest towards justice and equality
but with each generation we have
revisited our fundamental truths and
where we falter we make amends
we fought Jim Crow with the Civil Rights
Act and the Voting Rights Act yet who we
continue to confront racism from our
past and in our present which is why we
must hold everyone from the highest
offices to our own families accountable
for racist words and deeds and call
racism what it is wrong America achieves
a measure of reproductive justice in roe
v-- wade but we must never forget it is
immoral to allow politicians to harm
women and families to advance a
political agenda we affirmed marriage
equality and yet the LGBTQ community
remains under attack so even as I am
very disappointed by the president's
approach to our problems I still don't
want him to fail but we need him to tell
that yes be conciliatory and to respect
his Dubey for him to fail and to fail
all we've been found in the reference I
want from it was a basic instinct of the
American experiment to do right by our
people and with a renewed commitment to
social and economic justice we will
create a stronger America together
because America wins by fighting for our
shared values against all enemies
foreign and domestic that is who we are
and when we do so never wavering the
state of our union will always be strong
thank you and may God bless the United
States of America should have been in
the garage like
well if that isn't the the most vast
contrast I don't I don't know it was
good that they did it in front of a
bunch of people too I think like the the
worst is just sort of that sort of
disembodied like when they were all I
totally forgot about the garage thing it
was like totally just bloodless and the
other thing I like remembered was was a
little Marco with good speech and I
think you know the thing I would
remembers this what he said
no no I'm talking about weights Marco's
species do I loved it I loved his speech
I thought it was great how he did it all
with dry mouth I thought that was one of
the best parts that's brave no I though
that I the abrams thing was for the most
part rather I mean it wasn't you know I
wouldn't call bold it was a good speech
that was delivered competently and
frankly like that's the best case
scenario you know when you hear the
Democrats yeah yeah well yeah of course
when you hear that 56% of the Democrats
which is the majority of people who are
gonna vote you know at least towards the
direction where we want the country to
go where they say they don't care about
policy they just want somebody who can
be Trump and maybe that's overstating it
but but but nevertheless that's where
they landed on that question the idea of
delivering a competent speech that is
somewhat optimistic but points out the
sort of the the problems with the Trump
administration that's good and I really
like the Voting Rights stuff I thought
that was really strong and really
important and I like that she's
maintained her stance relative to her
election being stolen from her well
that's the point is that she's able to
she's able to deliver a speech that can
appeal beyond the her wheelhouse but not
have to sell out any there's nothing in
that speech where you're like
selling something and it felt optimistic
I don't think there was any point in
Trump's speech other than remember the
astronauts which felt aspirational right
his thing has always been the immigrants
are taking our jobs they're killing us
you know even when he was saying like
we're gonna wipe out AIDS in ten years
there was no sense it wasn't there was
it was so so like I'm far from a
dyed-in-the-wool you know damn but that
made me feel something at least you know
after an hour and a half of well it was
I mean I literally like actual human
responds to like a fascist mess anyway
there is a but also I don't think like
and she ran for governor in Georgia
absolutely run again like she did run as
like a legitimate and I think you know
it's not our politics at all but she was
like an actual center-left candidate
which do exist right like there's us and
like the left then there's these like
Cuomo Biden types we've been fighting
forever but then there's people like
stacy ames like i wish she would endorse
medicare for all of course but she
didn't run on medicare for all she
actually run on a really aggressive
health care expansion
she also did run on expanding union
power in the south and in georgia
specifically where it's like totally
under siege
so that theme that she hit was
democratic consensus stuff like i said
before and it was you know just actually
in fact very reflective of her she's a
bridge synthesis figure between
different parts of the party and that's
what they needed to come out with
tonight in my view uh i mean i don't
necessarily disagree with everything you
guys just said but i think all of this
stuff is necessary but insufficient and
that is a running theme with the
democratic party and I'm not just
blaming it on Stacey Abrams like anyone
who would have given that speech would
have given necessary but insufficient
like we I thought the two choices were
socialism and barbarism and now there's
this third thing I don't know a third
way if you will and if we're gonna need
a lot more than that well the problem is
if the choice is just between socialism
and barbarism I'm not quite convinced
that barbarism doesn't win I mean the
that Barbara's will you
yeah it depends on what and the only way
to fight it is socialism well but I like
I say I'm not sure where those lines are
drawn but I think the reality is you
have to look at the landscape and just
see how far people are willing to go I
don't think that people engage that that
deeply frankly in ideology and so we put
a label on it and it means different
things to different people but and there
may in fact I think probably be more
support for policies that we perceive as
socialistic than the idea of socialism
sure same thing harder okay but I'm
talking about how you make the sale I'm
talking about politics and and and for
in it within the context of you know I
don't know if you can go up there after
that speech when you're talking you know
a lot of people who are looking at that
probably a disproportionate our our
people who really have no intention of
voting for anybody but Donald Trump or
maybe I'm not sure what you're talking
about
like when you say people will go for
socialistic policies but not the idea of
socialism get specific and that's the
strength I'm speculating that they might
they may not and there are midterms this
people voted for socialistic policies
even more than they voted for Democrats
I I don't know if that's like in a
conservative state like Idaho people
voted for the Medicaid expansion who
were not Democrats and did not
identifies them Medicaid expansion was
the ACA I mean you know it just depends
on how you want I mean it was literally
like Obama and so I mean I'm restive
policies more broadly okay I mean like I
said well she is progressive policies
more broadly so what we're trying to do
I see I do ultimately agree with
socialism of barbarism but far
that process is redefining what the
center is and and migrating it in the
right direction and that was a great
example of actually how that's happened
Sam I was thinking about your point that
she's going into this knowing that she's
speaking mostly to trump voters right
she has two audiences right like like
locally in Georgia because that's where
all the press is gonna be paying
attention fact she's doing it and then
basically Trump right so even
though I totally agree with Jamie that
this is hardly sufficient and doesn't go
nearly far enough I do think it achieves
something important which is speaking in
a way that Trump did speaking to average
Americans know things are not good right
like which which Hillary Clinton's whole
thing was America is already great right
anyone anyone who looks around you knows
no it's not and I think she addressed
that in a really deft way while still
striking an optimist and whatever so we
got in a rhetorical way I think it was a
huge success
obviously policy wise I don't think it
went nearly far enough to the left but I
think you know she did she had a hard
task and I think she managed to speak to
people who might have been open to her
elese acknowledging their reality the
day that she if she gets elected to a
statewide office in Georgia whether it's
Senate or governorship like things move
to the left like just because the coal
african-american right it wasn't labor
organizers I mean this is a not only
with Georgia moved to the left the whole
sugg nature of the southern Democratic
Party and therefore American politics
which of course surely juster who'd be
empowered through the people who were to
get her elected and also furthermore it
reminded me of something that I think
actually definitely a socialist we need
to take note that that bhaskar pointed
out Friday which is he was like we need
to both speak to people's real material
needs and also advocate the actual
radical solutions that need to take
place and
also respect the fact that there is a
desire for a return to quote/unquote
normalcy and obviously people like us
are like normalcy we get it we know
that it's ridiculous it's in North how
it is my pet all of that but and I'm not
being said there's still tens of
millions of people that in there are the
only additions in life that's what they
want but she threaded a beautiful needle
my choice I think I think there is a
choice it's that do you hang it on
rhetoric like there's nothing she said
that sets that goes backwards no right
now there may be a lot of insults US
president for the most part there was no
where where she was getting super
aggressive and going forward but there
was nothing said that said his backwards
the part that sets us going forward is
not rhetorical in that instance it's
that she probably picked up some votes
but she came closer to whatever it is
maybe it's winning the Senate in 2020 in
Georgia and that is going to pay
dividends in terms of the actual policy
versus any value she would get in
pushing the rhetoric in that instance
and that's that's all my point is like
this is we you know this entire evening
is completely performative and the very
light on substance is very light on
substance by design in in many respects
even those speeches historically that
have been chock-full of substance really
it is just to project this idea this
broad notion of like that was
substantial right as opposed to the
actual substance it's really just a
branding exercise I see what you guys
are saying and I think it works for one
of two groups right because everybody in
this country is pretty much on the side
of the culture wars that they're going
to be on Democrats identifies Democrats
Republicans identify as Republicans most
people are not going to change the only
place where I see any wiggle room is the
small slice
of working-class swing voters most but
not all of whom are white who might be
more sympathetic to the kinds of
rhetoric that you guys are talking about
I think they would also go for something
like Medicare for all that's actually
going to improve their lives and then
there's all the people who don't vote
because either their experience llevarse
oppression they work all the time or
they've just heard all of this stuff
before and it's never done any for
anything for them and they don't believe
that it's gonna do anything for that in
the future I think this is an essential
argument right so like I would I guess I
would say Stacy is moving people in the
right direction and hopefully then we
hit them with things that look more like
actual socialism I think she moves you
know there as opposed to you know being
more accelaration ish which you know hit
me on the right day and I'm right there
too but this is also another argument
like I'm I am totally agree that there's
some of those voters particularly if
you're gonna just make it super narrow
in electoral politics and like places
like Wisconsin that are definitely like
blue-collar voters that need to be
brought back and incidentally we all
agree that the we only know what the
policy needs to be but that being said I
mean if we look at the poll like I just
remember I forget who did this but there
was a poll a year ago and it's like it's
hard for us sometimes because liberals
are annoying and we like to dunk on them
and there are near enemy at times and
blah blah blah blah blah but it was like
it was just a clear linear line it was
like who's more likely to be flipped to
hard left
positions and the most likely group to
be flipped was liberals it's not really
that surprising like for all of their
shortcomings they're the closest on the
radar to us and we're already in an
electoral coalition with them so
ultimately like you need to get those
voters back for sure and it isn't just
you know it's just all working-class
voters across the board but on the other
hand as far as a pool of people that you
could I think you can migrate to
leftward positions it is actually a
chunk of like wine moms who Stacey
Abrams speaks to they do like IOC less
worried about the
my mom's and more about you know like
white working-class people for me if
you're talking about Wisconsin for
instance it's all we're talking almost
20% of the african-american vote
declined in 2016 now which is all
working-class I mean I talked with mola
Malaika jabal II was on but there's not
a point
definitionally they're not white well no
but no and this is no and I that's why I
don't like this conversation because she
did she eliminated that she's like look
junk all that because the
people the neoliberals are gonna say
that this is not about unions not about
inequality and that's right and I know
you're not saying that but that's
totally wrong and then on the other hand
to frame it as we need to get white
people back in Wisconsin she's like
that we could have gotten a neighborhood
in Milwaukee of labor organizers and we
win yeah they didn't vote for the same
reasons that we identified a new voter
suppression in addition to voters she
actually what's interesting about that
she actually be emphasized
he actually claims it's mostly policy
but I just I want to get away I will
never you I don't want to racialize the
working class at all well you don't
really but I didn't say no I'm not the
one working black back in what's calm
I'm not saying that I'm agreeing with
you but okay that's fine but that just
came up three minutes ago yeah and I
could say you don't need a single white
voter in Wisconsin or change their ass
2016 you need to get the same coalition
of African Americans who voted in 2012
or in 2008 and that same percentage of
the electorate and you're done
you're talking about 10,000 pinch she
does a great so yeah and everybody'd the
color it's called the color of income
inequality in current affairs by Malaika
Jabalia and she breaks us down really
well and she even has this one really
intense compelling quote of somebody's
like look it was of course we needed to
elect Obama its historical its necessary
and now eight years in my economics are
just as bad right and I migrated from
the South where I know Bill Clinton's a
union buster you got to do better than
this right right and so we're all
together enough this is one of the
things that I'm talking about by the way
I talked about how crisis of capitalism
or this particular phase that we're in
called neoliberalism leads to right-wing
populism people voting like white people
voting for Trump out of economic anxiety
that is the thing that I'm talking about
the least when I say that voter
suppression it's not just a legal thing
it's an economic thing because when
people see politicians saying the same
stuff over and over again and they don't
do anything for them that's also form of
voter suppression its economic voter
suppression and that affects people
across the board but mostly the working
class which is disproportionately
non-white yes Bernie coming on are we
gonna catch a few minutes Bernie or are
we going to go to sweet beautiful sleep
I want to see a few minutes of what he
has to say if everybody's into it yeah
let's let's check it out I mean I I will
say I do think I you know I think it's
pretty obviously I'm highly Pro Abrams
but I do think that a great center-left
speech also you know it's appropriate
that there's a socialist speech as well
I think you know I think was a great
presentation great speech and there's
other things to put on the table that he
will I think someone took I tweeted out
credit where credit's due
Trump did a knowledge the Holocaust
happened someone was like well that was
the least he could do it he got it got
him because I'm doing a copy right so my
very very effective response at the
president Trump say to the Union now we
I think all know why she would have been
a wonderful governor of Georgia I know
that this will probably not shock you
but I hate to say this but not
everything Donald Trump said tonight was
true or accurate tonight when we talk
about the economy
tonight in on numerous occasions since
he has taken office President Trump has
told the American people that the US
economy is the hottest economy anywhere
in the world it is really booming
well that may be true for the members of
it mera Lago Country Club where the
price of admission has doubled to two
hundred thousand dollars for those folks
who go to trucks Club you guys have a
members right the economy is really
booming in fact for many of president
Trump's billionaire friends the truth is
that the economy is not out so great
over the last year for example real
inflation accounted for wages low class
but the average and American work up is
up by all of 1.2 percent just nine
dollars and 11 cents a week in fact real
wages for that same work that average
American worker are lower today than
they were in 1973 let me repeat that
the average American worker after
adjusting for inflation is earning less
today than he or she did 46 years ago
despite huge increases in productivity
yep
sadly one does that better millions of
American workers because just to pay the
bills
in America today and somehow or other
President Trump didn't mention this in
his speech we have more wealth and
income inequality than almost any major
country on earth Bernie and it is more
unfair more unequal now than in any
other time since the Gilded Age of the
nineteen twenties yes the economy is
great for the three wealthiest people in
America I'm a single own more wealth
than the bottom half about on three
rates a hundred and sixty million
Americans
yes if your enemy is great called for
the top 1%
46 of all new income in our economy yes
the economy is great looks like the top
25 hedge fund managers on Wall Street
who made nearly twice as much income
last year as all hundred and forty
thousand in the garden teachers in our
country 25 hedge fund managers yep
good luck the economy is great for the
five richest people in America who have
seen their wealth go up by over one
hundred billion dollars since Trump was
elected and for corporations that have
announced over 1 trillion dollars in
stock buybacks in 2018 alone yes the
economy may be great for those folks but
it is absolutely not booming for the
nearly 80% of American workers who live
paycheck to paycheck desperately hoping
that their child doesn't get sick
praying that their car doesn't break
down or that they don't lose their job
the spice was the residential it says
you've grown this is not any hot action
way when 43% experiences cancel
commenting that this is the whole line
policies decades and a cellphone
without going into debt that is not a
hot economy for ordinary Americans the
economy is not booming when half of
Americans 55 years of age and older have
no idea how they will live out the last
years of their lives with dignity
because they have no retirement savings
and that includes unbelievably 20
percent of seniors trying to survive on
incomes of less than $14,000 a year I
just don't know how
taxicab certainly not a senior citizen
survives on $14,000 a year right this is
not the strongest economy we've ever had
according to trump yeah he did hundreds
of thousands of young visited are unable
to go to college weird because they
can't afford this
yes millions more are struggling without
raises over when over thirty four
million Americans have no health
insurance when one out of five of our
people cannot afford the medicine this
stuff thrive to them actually slide
there dot like the and when over 40 mils
no many sorts like silicates is likely
you know living almost everybody coming
from these middle bits is not an economy
and we all play a little when we have is
like when he ties a child would I know
this is talking about from how and when
life person seen I in the United States
really yes totally dismiss them three
hours oh yeah that's just Bernie talking
about people's real life also like to
play it's like I don't think he's ever
heroes as noble I think we should talk
about how they stole the election from
Stacey Abrams extremely shady and white
supremacist playing basically that but I
actually listen to it somehow didn't
talk about that tonight President Trump
talked about what a great job he has
done on traits but what he forgot to
tell you is that the annual trade
deficit has gone up by over one hundred
billion dollars since he became
president and our trade deficit with
China in Mexico has gone up by tens of
billions of dollars meanwhile since
Trump was elected corporations have
shipped
ship
a hundred and eighty five thousand
American jobs overseas President Trump
also talked tonight about the need to
rebuild our country's crumbling
infrastructure our roads and our bridges
and our water systems and our wastewater
plants ne is absolutely right it is an
absolute disgrace that in the wealthiest
nation on earth we have an
infrastructure that is crumbling but the
proposal that he is bringing forth is
dead wrong it is an absurd proposal
Trump would encourage states to sell our
nation's highways our bridges and other
vital infrastructure to Wall Street to
wealthy campaign contributors even to
foreign governments the reality is that
trumps plan to privatize our nation's
infrastructure is an old idea that has
never worked and in fact never will work
President Trump said tonight quote we
are born free and we will stay free end
of quote well I say the presidential
people are not truly free when they
can't afford to go to the doctor when
they are sick these people are not truly
free shouts when they cannot afford to
buy the prescription drugs they
desperately need right people are not
truly free when they are unable to
retire with dignity
in your face people are not truly free
when they are exhausted because they are
working longer and longer hours for
lower wages people are not truly free
when they cannot afford a decent place
in which to live people certainly are
not free when they cannot afford to feed
them as dr. Martin Luther King jr. said
in 1968 and I quote this country has
socialism for the rich and rugged in the
big
ilysm for the poor Thanks whoa dad ask
where dr. King said then was true and it
is true today and it remains absolutely
we need more rugged individualism
everywhere night Donald Trump look at
how it relaxes who knows sites proposed
has seen five aids either plead guilty
or be convicted of criminal charges
claim the strength of the economy was
dependent on him being free from
necessary oversight and stuff and
investigations into wrongdoing by both
his campaign and his administration the
exact opposite is true
America's strength is based on the rule
of law and the fact that no one not even
the President of the United States is
above it tonight in terms of crime Trump
talked about a terrible terrible and
heinous murder in Reno Nevada
committed by an undocumented immigrant
who happens to be Latino in fact as I
think many of you will recall over the
last several years
Trump has talked time and time again
about crimes committed by undocumented
Latino immigrants his demonization of
Latinos is nothing less than racist it
is wrong and it also happens to be
factually inaccurate undocumented Latino
immigrants commit fewer crimes in the
United States than the general public
but I want you to think about something
for a moment isn't it strange that when
we talk about terrible crimes committed
in the United States or in the state of
Nevada Donald Trump forgot to mention
that in 2017 a white man named Stefan
Stephen Patek killed da
people and wounded 851 in the deadliest
shooting in modern American history that
also happened in Nevada now how come
Trump didn't mention that if he is
concerned about crime how come
Trump didn't talk about one of the worst
mass murders in American history so
Brisas needless to say he also didn't
mention the need for common-sense gun
safety legislation which would lower the
terrible rate of mass shootings in our
country oh he's definitely ready for us
tonight Donald Trump repeated some of
the most extreme antic woman attacks
coming from the far right at a time when
we see an unprecedent that he's warden
Aidid attack against a woman's right to
truce it is incredibly important that we
fight to make sure that every woman in
this country has the right to control
her own body is choking up get it right
yeah I don't Trump correctly talk you
Mack about the need to address those on
opioid crisis well president Trump you
don't help people suffering from opioid
addiction by writing a budget which
calls for a trillion dollar cut to
Medicaid that would be a devastation a
devastating moment in the fight against
opioid addiction now as important as it
is to respond to what President Trump
said tonight it is even more important
to discuss some of what Trump refused to
talk about which happens to include some
of the most important issues facing our
country and the entire world now how can
a President of the United States give a
State of the Union speech and not
mention not one word
about climate change when the leading
scientists of the world tell us that
climate change is real that climate
change is caused by human activity and
that climate change is already causing
devastating harm in the United States
and in much of the world further the
scientists tell us that we have a very
short 12 years not a lot of time in
order to transform our energy system
away from fossil fuels and into energy
efficiency and sustainable energy if we
are going to have a planet that is
healthy and habitable for our children
and our grandchildren
somehow or another Donald Trump just
forgot to talk about that Trump also
forgot to discuss the international
embarrassment of the United States being
the only major country on earth not to
guarantee health care to all people as a
right now how can he ignore the fact
that we spend far more per capita on
health care than any other country on
Earth while at the same time tens of
millions of our fellow Americans are
uninsured or underinsured somehow or
another Trump forgot to get to that
issue
how can President Trump not discuss the
a terrible attacks that we are seeing to
undermine the fundamentals of American
democracy which includes the disastrous
citizens united Supreme Court decision
that allows billionaires even to buy
elections Trump talked a lot about
freedom tonight
but somehow another he didn't talk about
governor's efforts all across this
country governors who are trying to
suppress the boat and make it harder for
poor people or people of color to vote
you can't talk about freedom in America
and ignore the massive amounts of voter
suppression taking place denying people
the right to participate in our
democracy Donald Trump talked about the
economy but he forgot to mention without
the Holocaust that state after state is
doing the right thing and is raising the
minimum wage to a living wage $15 an
hour but I didn't hear President Trump
say that he would work with me and with
other advocates of a living wage who
raised the minimum wage at the federal
level to 15 bucks an hour somehow didn't
get into that like how he could
president Trump not mentioned the word
on how he failed Social Security
Medicare or Medicaid good morning in his
State of the Union speech when he
promised over and over again during his
campaign remember that then he would not
cut these programs could it be because
his budget proposed massive cuts to
Medicare and Medicaid and Social
Security in direct violation translate
how could Trump not talk about the
reality in our election how can the
president say nothing about Yemen
Islam's of Russia where the humanitarian
crisis in where the worst humanitarian
crisis in the world is currently taking
place brought on by a sorted led war
that the United States is supporting and
just yesterday a CNN report detailed how
our Saudi and Emirati allies have been
giving us made weapons to Al
qaeda-linked fighters you know he's a
good'n
I've also fallen into the hands of
Iranian backronym booty karate pretty
well this war is a disaster and the
resolution I sponsored last summer for
holding on the president I mean that
terrible world total and why both the
House and Senate reintroduced
legislation this is an enormous ly
important work on foreign policy issue
it speaks to our relationship with a
despotic regime in Saudi Arabia somehow
Trump forgot to mention that President
Trump has stated tonight and over and
over and over and over again they're
building a wall on the Mexican border is
a national emergency
in fact he shut down the government and
caused enormous pain and uncertainty for
some 800,000 federal employees who are
forced to go to work but were not paid
all because of his insistence on that
wall no president Trump building a wall
is not an emergency
in terms of immigration in this country
what we need to do is not to waste
billions of dollars on a wall but to
finally address the need the
comprehensive immigration reform
including a path to citizenship for
millions of undocumented people it is
inhumane and not what Americans America
stands for that tiny children at the
border have been torn or torn apart from
their parents it is disgraceful that 1.8
million young people raised in the
United States and who know no other
country but the United States have lost
their legal protection under the daca
program because of Trump's actions it is
heartbreaking that almost 11 million
undocumented people living in this
country the overwhelming majority of
whom are hardworking and law-abiding
worry every day about being deported and
operated from their loved ones what a
president of the United States is
supposed to do and I think in a certain
sense almost all presidents in recent
history have understood that is that
when you're president you bring our
people together whether they are black
or white or Latino whether they're Asian
American Native American whether they're
men or women whether they're gay or
straight was my Obama in process what is
my Obama I do it a Obama
impression I didn't give you health care
that is not littering in fact he is
trying to divide us up he is
trying to have one group turn against
another group and that is certainly not
what this country is supposed to be
about except Trump tonight and I believe
that we should quote govern not as two
parties but as one nation
I agree but Trump's agendas of providing
tax rates while throwing millions of
Americans all the help to get a mug is
the exact opposite of what the emergency
if Trump truly wants to govern in a
bipartisan manner I figure out the most
let's take a look a speaker at what the
overwhelming majority of the American
people want in other words I know this
is a vehicle but I say to the President
of the United States why don't you do
what the American people want check you
to do rather than what wealthy campaign
contributors let me give you some words
I have people or just something fun 70%
of Americans support a tax according to
[Music]
Republicans supports a medicare-for-all
they understand that the current health
system is not working if you want to
join every other country on earth and
making allocations rights would have
warranted it this time another compound
that's
72% 51% one who ain't gotta keep talking
about purity before me bull water they
crossed over the elderly people like
what is it Wisconsin and do that by
raising taxes on millionaires and
billionaires according to Gallup has
kind of think 100 trillion dollars on an
infrastructure plan the great up to
fifty million good-paying don't forget
to lower prescription drug prices ninety
two percent also found that 72% of
Americans including three-quarters of
Republicans are remind you want the
freedom to buy low-cost prescription
drugs is from Canada I'm talking about
the million Gallup tells us what sixty
four percent of American civilians
including fifty one percent of
Republicans believe marijuana should be
legal and that tells me that we should
end a disastrous war on drugs
Quinnipiac tells us that Americans
support by over ninety four percent
those requiring background checks for
all gun purchases CBS has found that
eighty seven percent of Americans
including seventy nine percent of
Republicans want to allow immigrants who
are brought to the United States as
children to stay in our country and
according to a July 2018 survey
paid for by the Koch brothers sixty-six
percent of Americans believe quote
government paid college tuition is an
effective solution to social barriers
sixty-five percent of Americans believe
that a fifteen dollar minimum wage is an
effective solution to low wages
sixty-nine percent of Americans would
that we need more regulation of Wall
Street and sixty nine percent of
americans also believe we should be
increasing government assistance but
child care bring us home my fellow
mayors
if the overwhelming majority motion one
of the pass these enormous enormous
legalization
why can't Congress pass them he's gonna
get sheets why is it Congress and the
White House doing what the American
people want them to do and the answer
frankly is not complicated the answer
has everything to do with the power of
the moneyed interests Wall Street drug
companies huge health insurance
companies the fossil fuel industry
multinational corporations in the
billionaire class all of these groups
are spending hundreds and hundreds of
millions of dollars to get Congress to
do their bidding but while they may have
the money and God Only Knows they have
an endless supply of money we have
something that is more powerful on our
side and that is that we have the people
they have the money we have the people
if we are serious about transforming our
country if we are serious about
rebuilding the shrinking middle class if
we are serious about reinvigorating our
democracy and increasing voter turnout
and bringing young people into the
political process let us bring our
people together to take on and defeat a
ruling class whose greed is destroying
our nation the billionaire class must
learn that they cannot have it all our
government belongs to each and every one
of us not just the few together let us
fight for economic social racial and
environmental justice let us end
unbridled greed please announce let us
create the kind of but not right now do
you know if he can become thank you oh
yeah have a great night
good job dad a little more concise next
time but no he's just showing you a
healthy is he wants to show that he can
dance a 77 years old is like I've got
energy
right that's what he's doing all right
well you cat socialism or barbarism
that's how it's gonna be
you can vote for a third thing but
you're still gonna get barbarism in the
end if you don't support socialism there
you go folks take it or leave it
it's a beautiful note yeah okay and on
that note we're gonna end our coverage
for tonight we will be back tomorrow not
live but with a new content Katherine
Krieger thank you so much for joining us
such a pleasure people should check out
splinter news where you managed to edit
I do both of those things yeah a little
bit
are you the manager managing editor yep
are you still being sued by that Trump
eight or is that over I sure AM yeah
well I shall not discuss that no no I
would imagine that let's discuss that on
the mic but that is on an ongoing legal
matter well I mean you tuned into the
splinter news you never know when that's
gonna crop up right I mean that's it let
me just say here's no pen no chin that's
my only comment no chin all right folks
we will see you tomorrow ish sort of oh
wait a second oh let's play this in lay
this out I was thinking of playing it
yeah okay or what yeah let's play this
out this is from us very sick this is
this is the zero sum rave state of the
union remix wife Leila wife Leila which
was produced 14 minutes ago so at about
11:00 of all 11:20 let's hear it
[Music]
my stroke is concluded
[Music]
it's for a minute so you might want to
sign off and then we can listen to the
rest all right folks
it's growing out meal at all we'll see
you you need some glow sticks tomorrow
guys thank you
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
