folks larry cudlow who recently had a
heart attack apparently yeah really has
been heart attack
cry rhetoric Kudlow was an economic
advisor to Ronald Reagan so therefore of
course he is excellent at assessing
reports by thousands of climate
scientists that have been synthesized
into what they're really trying to get
at here is addressing the the IPCC
latest report which is rather dire well
look we're always studying these things
I mean you had I guess Bill Nordhaus
from Yale got a Nobel Prize on his own
economic work with respect to climate
change I respect that he's a really
brilliant guy the issue here though is
magnitudes and timing personally I think
the UN study is over it would way way
too difficult I won't say it's a scare
tactic but I think they overestimate
these models have not been very
successful in the last twenty years and
we have to be cognizant of the work that
needs to be done yeah to the extent that
these models have not been successful
they have underestimated the rate of
acceleration of the warming of let's say
the oceans and they have not they have
underestimated the feedback loop effect
but that's the way scientific
uncertainty works you could go either
way and we Bend if there's an economic
interest for it to air on one side
that's the side like the Republicans are
gonna err on fractions there you go
there's a lot of studies stay right days
and they're reading things eyes yeah
sometimes following a heart attack it's
really hard to keep your eyes open or
like focused straight ahead of you hey
guys can I have so my heart attack
medication that I put it I doze before I
go
no no I don't think you I don't think
he's doing any I don't think anything
but what do you think
I think his what're you meditation is
actually in liquid form to be honest
with you my heart attack goes away were
tricky at it
