[Music]
you know who is all in favor of more
intervention and this is gonna come as a
huge shock but the daughter of Dick
Cheney who was not only a champion of
the idea that the president is a monarch
in this country but that he should use
his his military might freely and
liberally in the in the broadest sense
of the word here is Liz Cheney
anticipating right now she's a
representative anticipating maybe bump
it up to Senate with the resignation of
what's-his-face I can't remember now
yeah
who is it well here is a Liz Cheney talk
about Iran announcing this week that
they're sending 1,500 more US military
to the region is that the right move or
could that increase the the possibility
of miscalculation it is the right move
and when you look at what we've seen in
terms of the threat level what we've
seen in terms of what the Iranians have
now are now doing and I want to be
careful not to talk about classified
material cause a nation we just say this
that little trick there first of all she
is genetically coded to go and lie to
the American public about the threat
coming from outside of this country
genetically coded and this like I want
to be careful I get news via Liz
Cheney's not a she's not she doesn't
have access to special documents that
show a special you know growing threat
from Iran that is such horse crap now
I'll tell you how I know this well
actually I've got to be careful about
secret sources we've seen in terms of
the threat level what we've seen in
terms of what the Iranians have now are
now doing and I want to be careful not
to talk about classified material and
information but there's no question but
that this threat as chairman Thornberry
said is not business as usual and it's
very important for the Iranians to
understand that we'll do what's
necessary to deter them
attacking us for our interests and that
will do us necessary to make sure they
understand we aren't going to simply sit
back and allow them to take action that
will put our people in harm's way so I
think the president's doing exactly the
right thing and I support the actions
Budaj is calling what he witnessed in
Washington this week beeping my back and
tell me it's raining don't piss down my
back and tell me it's raining yeah well
that's what Liz Cheney is doing he's
basically saying it's pouring rain
outside and guess what I'm doing right
now I am urinating on all of you the
this is what they're trying to set up
there are secret plans that the Iran the
Iranians have that we now know about to
harm American interests and if they go
through with this this is this is like
literally and in what's amazing about
this is at least in her father's era you
would take time and you would build a
lie you wouldn't just go out there and
make up something and then just expect
everybody by you would take the time
involved and you would invest the effort
in lying to the American public so that
you could get everybody on board and
these guys these days that's the problem
with this new generation they just think
they can just throw out any dumb lie and
everybody's gonna buy it now they also
may not need the American they also may
have come to the conclusion like it
doesn't even matter if we have the
American public with us we can do this
because remember Liz Cheney John Bolton
Mike Pompeo this whole next crop of
neoconservatives they don't necessarily
care about if they get their war with
Iran they know there's the the these
guys are still part of that that of the
same crew who said like you guys are
part of the reality-based community what
we do is you see reality and then you
react to it what we do is we we
fashion reality we're gonna go make the
facts on the ground we're gonna put our
ships in such a way and our assets in
such a way that the chances of Iran
bumping into them is increased right
like I want to I leave something in the
dark and in the hallway outside of
Saul's door I know like there's a chance
he's gonna hit it maybe I want him to as
he walks out cuz I want to hear what
he's doing if he's getting out of bed
and that's what they're engaging in and
they're looking for Iran to mess up and
start something and then I don't know
give the green light to Israel and say
go ahead bomb them we'll be right here
yeah with the way Martha Raddatz says is
this the right move or does it increase
the chances of miscalculation it's like
it's the right move because it increases
the chances yeah the answer to that
question by Liz Janie is yes yes it's
the right move because it increases the
chance of miscalculation it's so nuts
that they would let her talk about this
on TV like what do most people think of
when they hear the last name Cheney like
probably being lied to about WMDs and
you know getting into an endless
horrible war in Iraq like if they think
they can fool people twice in the exact
same way I mean they could be right
we'll see honey bad you don't care
they really don't
