[Music]
Brazil Sergio Moro the corrupt judge in
lava jato case who helped engineer the
politically motivated imprisonment of
lula da silva very important to keep
reminding everybody
Lula led in all the polls Lula would
have beat Paulson ro so could you
imagine a year in if you had a president
Lula da Silva and Brazil
instead of gerbil scenario with regards
to the environmental crisis in the
Amazon with regards to Venezuela with
regards to pensions labor and then much
more broadly having a powerful
unparalleled political communicator
fighting against resurgent right-wing
authoritarianism so this broader
slow-motion coup that began with the
illegitimate impeachment of Dilma that
be that was fulfilled in this grotesque
farce where you put this hugely
successful iconic president in jail on
charges that there's no evidence for
other than plea-bargained testimony that
we've seen as part of these lava jato
leaks that the literal one person who
gave the plea-bargain testimony changed
his desta mone after getting a plea deal
so the the whole process is utterly
corrupt it's exactly what brazil wires
always said it's what I've said and it's
certainly what Lula the Workers Party
and his attorneys have said and what's
important here though with Sergio more I
mean one it's still important the the
Glenn Greenwald is getting death threats
regularly Sergio Moro is in charge of
the equivalent of the Brazilian FBI and
they are targeting Glenn Greenwald in
the intercept right now so we need to
you know again put all aside
and have a hundred percent solidarity
with Glenn Greenwald in the intercept
this is not a time for you know pedantry
and silliness have disagreements and
debates but this is somebody who now for
the second time in their career frankly
is broken
a hugely important story arguably the
most globally significant story at the
moment right now
who him his husband and his children are
under threat then there's also the fact
that this whole lava jato thing was
covered in a completely supportive and
credulous way by the New York Times by
The Washington Post by the Guardian by
Jimmy Dore by all of these people
because it fit this simplistic nonsense
anti-corruption narrative which has been
used by far-right forces from Donald
Trump to Narenda Modi and to jr. Bolton
ro so Sergio Moro has taken a temporary
leave and he's actually coming back to
United States for the second time this
month which I find very strange and I
would definitely say that if you look at
the broader Brazilian story that even
though the Workers Party government
under Lula and Dilma even though they
did so much and primarily focus their
aims and goals that they achieved like
Lula's goal of eliminating hunger that
even though but in many ways they
followed a moderate course I think
there's no doubt that the fact that they
had publicly run state oil company which
they used to reinvest in social programs
and they wouldn't allow to be privatized
is a major reason that even as
conciliatory as they were they still got
on the bad side of the United States's
reassertion of its interest of its
corporate interest in Latin America and
that's the broader reversal of the pink
tide that we see across the region but
this myth of Sergio Moro was an
essential part of the u.s. policy
against the Workers Party the
reassertion of oligarchy in Brazil the
dissent of Brazil and to outright
neo-fascism under bolson ro and all of
the media that slimed and smeared Lula
and the Workers Party and discounted all
of the underprivileged people to Brazil
because they wanted to get back into a
sort of unmitigated corporate agenda
there the false reputation of lava jatha
was a key part of it and at this
incredibly powerful hearing that
happened several days ago a glob
La barb Braga who was a member of the
pass all the peoples a social socialism
and liberty party he explained to Sergio
Moro exactly who he was and this almost
led I think actually to a fistfight but
this is powerful from Brazil Brazil era
for search engine de alcal√°
whose wish to see problem yes I wish
that's incredible that clip has gone
around Brazil should go viral everywhere
again all solidarity with Glenn
Greenwald in the intercept in Brazil
there under serious threat right now he
can watch Glenn Greenwald's conversation
on Democracy Now and also just add you
know again he said he took his reward
Sergio Moro was appointed justice
minister under Paulson ro after
politically imprisoning the guy who
would have beat bolson ro and whose
mandate was to do very similar things to
all sources of resistance inside
Brazilian society
