[Music]
Sam cedar on the majority report joining
us again and welcome back to the show he
writes for climate politics and for Vox
which is of course basically where we
are this week Dave Robertson welcome to
the program hey there
alright let's I want to start with this
you know as we review this because this
is it's been a relatively slow news week
except for a massive disaster
essentially to hit the Bahamas one where
when you listen to what people are
saying there they you know the Bahamas
had very good building codes they were
built to withstand hurricanes and they
basically just said like this is
something that we couldn't have imagined
you know and it's it's this seems to me
to be the first hurricane that has been
more or less at least in the circles
that one could imagine unequivocally
reported as a function of climate change
is that your observation as well well
that's not you know it depends on the
media you're looking at I wouldn't call
that universal yet but I would say that
yeah it's been a rapid sort of a rapid
pace shift in in media coverage of these
things and and yeah I'd say the durian
is is one of the first that's you know
there's more like this is what climate
change looks like
unless you know let's have a 800 word
thumbsucker on whether we're allowed to
say this is this is about climate change
or not you know what I mean like right
more confidence and why I mean what if
part of that too is a function of like
that because it was the Bahamas right as
opposed to say like I don't know you
know Alabama yeah I mean I wonder if
it's because that there is like you know
well there's a lot of money that is
involved
the Bahamas is a lot of like I feel like
you know East Coast media people all
went to the Bahamas at one point in
their lives you know what I mean it just
seems like you know I would watch TV and
people saying like I know this island or
something to that effect but the tenor
of it really really struck me this week
yeah and I think we're seeing this not
just with this hurricane but in general
we're seeing more and more of these sort
of disasters and you know he waves and
fluttering strike places that are
relatively wealthy so that when the type
of people who watch you know cable news
see it they're like oh those look like
me those are people who look like me and
it you know and I don't have to tell you
any problem in our society once it
reaches you know wealthy upper
middle-class white people and they
realize that they can't stop it and that
they're helpless before it then I think
you're going to see politics start to
shift pretty rapidly in the wake of them
so you back I think it was in July had
written a piece about anticipating the
climate town halls that it were going to
happen and he had a bunch of questions
and I want to I want to talk to you
about that and maybe use that as a guide
as to assess you know what we heard I
guess two days ago now but you you
basically broke it down to two premises
which I thought were really interesting
I mean particularly ii mean the first
one is you know the candidates we should
be talking about like you know what can
they actually do as president given the
fact that republicans will still exist
soon but let's talk about the second one
first because you right the second
premise to some of your questions was
that climate science is peripheral not
central to climate politics what do you
mean by that
yeah what i mean by that is is sort of
climate change kind of was discovered or
grew out of science it came directly out
of the science community and it was
always scientists who were way earlier
than than other people in you know
raising these warnings and communicating
about it so the whole the whole issue
has just been shaped from the very
beginning by the kind of instincts and
preferences in rhetorical styles and
sort of assumptions about cognition and
rationality that that that are common
among the scientific community and and
you know god bless
climate scientists truly but but in my
experience at least people in the hard
sciences are not necessarily the most
adept at communication and what they
want to believe what they think and
believe way down deep in their hearts
beneath beneath reason is that people
come to their views by gathering
evidence and assessing it and drawing
conclusions and they just have this face
that that if you can convince people of
the scientific truth of this thing that
the rest will follow that they will sort
of update their political assumptions
and update their political preferences
accordingly based on this new
information and of course like anyone
who's studied political communication or
social sciences or or spoken with a lot
of human beings no that's not really how
people operate that's not how people
come to their views is definitely not
how people come to their their views and
politics so my whole point is just what
people are concerned about average
people out in the country about climate
changes how's it going to affect me and
how are the solutions going to affect me
like am I gonna have to pay more money
am I going to face a heat wave and who's
who who's for this and who's against it
what does it mean like what does it mean
culturally about our way of life and
about America like how do i process how
do I fit this into my worldview and it's
just not add that's just not a
scientific process and I'm building you
know they're not starting in physics and
building up that's just that's just not
how people think so the whole discussion
has just been kind of stuck mired in
science which just puts a lot of people
off
for years and years and years and I
think it's just time for Democrats to
start talking about the the social
aspects of this and the you know the
policy and the kind of economic ripple
effect and sort of transformation of the
country like these are not abstract
scientific things are very much tangible
on the ground shifts in the way we live
and that's what people need to hear
about and be comforted about and and be
given a way to think about and like
science just doesn't really help with
that and so in other words it's like the
the the scientific issues are you know
the sort of the the O's and ones under
the matrix but how it implicates how it
affects us as human beings is a very
different way and at one point you said
basically the questions should focus on
how to shift the balance of power
because its power not science that's
primarily at its power at issue and
especially I mean one of the ways this
scientism kind of reflects is is this
obsession among climate people to this
day with deniers you know you hear about
this all the time like how do we how do
we convince the deniers how do we
persuade the deniers and my whole point
is just that none of those people none
zero percent of those people came to
that conclusion by assessing the
scientific results right that's what
their tribe believes so that's what they
believe and then they go out and find
arguments to justify that so it's not
the arguments are sort of beside the
point
shift the balance of power the balance
of interests make it in Republican
interests to act on this and then we're
both looking leaders will change and
you'll see Republican media start to
change and then you'll see the
Republican base as they tend to like a
school of fish just switch you know
switch direction and accept the science
and take some other stance like they
don't you know it didn't come out of a
science so they're not gonna have any
trouble changing their views about the
science the science basically peripheral
as I'd like it like I said we just need
to figure out how to make the idea of
climate change like the idea of the
deficit for Republicans
watch
the the problems melt away all right
well so let's let's go through some of
these questions that you wanted to
present and give me a sense of like who
you thought well why we start with this
because I read your piece about who the
winners and losers were in the in this
the this this forum give me your sense
give me your overall sense and then
we'll go through some of the more
specific questions
sure sure well I mean obviously as we've
discovered this morning it's not going
to be a ratings extravaganza to have
seven hours of of of sort of calm and
relatively detailed policy discussion
but but I I went into this you know Sam
I'm a little cynical and I'm especially
believe it or not a little cynical about
cable news so I just expected the worst
I expected non-stop kind of shallow
gimmicky gotcha questions what kind the
cable moderators tend to ask and then I
expected just a sort of fusillade of
cliches from the candidates about you
know the existential problem and
Congress must act in just that for seven
hours I fully expected to be bored to
tears but I was I gotta say like I gotta
give CNN credit for this that's why we
put CNN on our list of winners like
there were some goofy moderator
questions here and there but by and
large they maintained an incredible
level of seriousness and substance for
seven hours which is MIT was small no
small thing like the audience questions
were just amazing like III absolutely
could not have done better was like time
and again I was just set back by the how
sort of articulate and well phrased the
questions from the audience were and and
phrased in such a way and this is
something that cable moderators cute
seem to ever do but phrase in such a way
as to be substantive enough that they
couldn't be dodged you know what I mean
like specific like what is your policy
about this particularly just really good
tough questions it was sort of an
interesting con
trash like you know Wolf Blitzer would
ask some goofball wolf blitzer question
and then he would cut to the audience
was it really would be leader hyper
articulate amazing question Blitzer at
one point asked I think was pressing
Pete boo to judge well everyone have to
have electric cars it was Andrew Yang
and yang of course had the normal
response which is what do you mean have
to they're awesome what this there's so
much better but most books is like have
to do we have to like like this in wolf
blitzer's t-brain is a tough question
like respond to this Republican framing
right respond to this GOP frame and
that's what Keeble moderators think is
is a tough question in the contrast with
the audience that was asking like
legitimately substantively tough
questions was so glaring at one point it
almost seemed to me like CNN was like
making fun of itself almost like
clowning so like with a wink almost can
you cut back and forth between Wolf
Blitzer in the audience and you start to
think like why is wolf there like these
people are so much better at this job
than he is like get him off the stage
alright well so seen it but overall it
was great my point is overall it was a
thousand times better than I expected
alright well so let's let's start with
your first the first question that you
had you know talked about in terms of in
this one I mean this is a pretty this is
a pretty broad I always say it's a
question that basically addresses sort
of a very fundamental point that has
nothing to do per se with the policies
but rather how they're going to get done
your first question back that you had
sort of talked about back in July was
its conventional wisdom says that only a
president has only 102 days or so in
which to pass a few cue priorities
before backlash in the next round of
elections take over and O it Democrats
decide to put health care first and
climate never got done where does
climate change following your list of
priorities when you step into office
give me your sense of how who and if you
want to just focus on some of the top
tier candidates
that's fine in terms of like whose
response was the most convincing to you
or resonated or problematic well you
know there's only there's only so much
you can really tell from what they say
and respond tiny questions like that
like it's a good question but there's no
way to force them to get fit as is so of
course of course all of them said the
right thing which is this is an
existential problem it's a top priority
I'm going to focus on it the minute I
walk into office the two people whose
answer sort of well this there were
three answers that jumped out at me one
is Booker uh Booker was the last
candidate to go and he went he was up an
hour seven so I was like at that point
fried and expecting very little but
Booker put in one of the strongest
performances I've seen from him in the
campaign yet like by the time he was
done I was just thinking like where the
hell is this guy damn like this is you
know why don't you see this guy before
anyway he was he was fantastic but what
he said was and I think this is the
correct answers it's not just that I'm
gonna put climbing on a list of
priorities it's that everything I do in
office is going to be done through this
lens right so like climate is going to
be part of foreign policy it's going to
be part of economic policy you know as
part of it's part of all policy it's not
one item among many it's a it's a it's
an overriding concern and I thought that
got at the substance better than anybody
else I think that's sort of like the
correct answer not it's not an item on a
list it's a background condition for all
other things so that was good Warren I
think I believed her because she sort of
was I guess brave enough to say no it
will not be my number one focus my
number one focus and she said there's a
million times on the trail can very
consistently my number one focus is
corruption right the minute I get in we
need to address you know voting rights
and money and politics and and you know
all these sort of these things are stand
in the way of getting
else done right so and so she feel like
that will be a climate policy it will be
in all kinds of policy policy it will
enable any other policy to happen but
but you know I thought saying that to
this crowd was I thought at least
somewhat brave and then the other one
which was interesting to me was someone
directly asked speaking of power you
know on how to use power someone
directly asked Bernie whether he would
support getting rid of the filibuster
which is of course a huge question that
looms around this and any other you know
in healthcare and anything else like if
it takes 60 votes to pass not going to
pass and if Mitch McConnell has the
power to block it I'm gonna block it we
all know this by now I hope everyone
does lists by now so it's really hard to
see how any of this happens without the
filibuster and Bernie gamed is sort of I
mean for the most part Bernie was really
good in this forum he was also as good
as I've ever seen him but in this answer
it was just kind of some sort of mumbly
half-hearted defense of the filibuster
he said he doesn't want the Senate to
become the house but then he claimed he
would pass his entire climate package
through Budget Reconciliation and I
don't know like how nerdy you've gotten
on that subject but it's just I mean I
think people know here that a bunch of
reconciliation is sort of like an
omnibus thing where you can pass
legislation it's a it's an exception to
the rules of the House and the Senate
where you can pass legislation that
directly impacts the amount of money the
budget the money that either comes in or
goes out and certainly some of I would
imagine some or maybe a large world
right it's a pretty small sliver it's a
pretty small sliver like these climate
plans these standards are putting
forward including Bernie are sweeping
and they have lots of regulatory pieces
that would not traditionally fit in
budget reconciliation rules so Bernie's
theory of the case is you know the
vice-president oversees the Senate he's
just going to have his vice president
say huh screw that we can pass anything
to reconciliation which would be just
just a growth
what a section of Senate procedures is a
really flagrant violation of Senate
procedure with no real justification and
my whole point is just that if you're
willing to do that like that seems like
 on a scale even beyond just
getting rid of the filibuster so why
don't you just get rid of the filibuster
so I either either Bernie has a weird
and sort of self contradictory theory of
change or what I suspect is just that he
doesn't want to say what he really
thinks about the filibuster until and
unless he wins yeah I I that that that
has been a vexing question for me for a
long time and I I tend to lean towards
the the second the the second theory
that he's thinking well if you know
probably best to wait to that bridge
till we come to it because you know one
time you know you don't know first of
all you don't know if the Democrats are
going to take the Senate and probably
and also I've heard not to not to get
too far off onto it I've heard some
people on the hill that there are a few
democratic constituencies most notably I
think Planned Parenthood needs sort of
abortion movement that basically
believes without the filibuster abortion
is doomed in the u.s. over some time
period and so they're very much against
that whole notion so I think you're here
you're hearing more and more talk about
a single exception to the filibuster
like you said I think Bennet I think
floated this I've seen a couple people
float it's sort of like you know I think
the filibuster is important but for some
issues you know when it comes to climate
change you know we'll have the will have
the Senate duo sort of one-time
exception I think that's trying to kind
of address Iceland Parenthood you try to
find a find a way through this dilemma
okay and so your first two questions
dealt with actually the second one dealt
with the filibuster that you this is
obviously from back in July and that is
a big issue so let's
then Harris weirdly Harris just adjust
as a sidenote here Harris of all people
just sort of blurred it out opposition
to the filibuster kind of in the middle
of her pie manson as far as I know she
has not been out front about that she
had kind of one of the strongest anti
filibuster statements of the whole
evening I found that kind of odd
interesting well I mean this is you know
that there's two parts of this right and
that is like what are your plans and how
ambitious they are and I want to get to
that in a moment but your first three
questions deal with basically the or
four three questions deal with this sort
of notion of like okay let's take just a
baseline assumption of what your plans
are how you gonna actually implement
these the third question you had after
after that filibuster question was
assuming there's no way for you to pass
this legislation with or without the
filibuster because Republicans control
one of the houses of Congress
what executive actions are you prepared
to take to reduce carbon emissions did
you have a sense that I mean I we played
a clip Abidin and and I I must admit I
didn't see much Abidin stuff at all when
we played a couple of clips of Biden
where it just was not good well it just
struck me as a guy who's like his you
know his policy people said hey Joe
let's sit down and crunch this stuff and
he just says like I got this I've been
talking about this stuff for thirty
years we need better refrigerators you
know and and it sort of Celt like felt
like he went out there and did this but
was there any other of the candidates
who basically said here's what you know
here's what my legislative agenda would
be here is my backup executive order
agenda or here's what we've determined
by the executive oil it was anybody that
granular yeah yeah I mean almost all of
them have that stuff in their plans
right almost all of them have have you
know extensive sort of list of executive
actions they're going to take in their
climate plans it's a
little bit tricking the politics of a
little bit tricky because if you start
talking about the things these are you
know what you can do with the executive
branch is fairly incremental and sort of
like you know it's what Obama was doing
basically it's a return to what Obama
was in which was sort of like not
nothing but fiddling on the margins
relative to what's needed so when
candidates are talking about it it
sounds I think to primary voters into
climate activists like they're being
weenies like they're talking about
incrementalism they're talking about
centrism they're talking about going
back to Obama so they you know people I
don't think boaters really like to hear
about it very much but but but I think
all the candidates are extremely
cognizant of the fact that it's a very
likely outcome right that they're that
that's all they're able to do so like
Klobuchar as has a you know went through
a chapter in verse of what she would do
she has a good section on that and
Inslee had a great you know had tons of
stuff on that in his plan and you know
he's he's open sourced his plan and all
the other candidates now are rating from
it so I think they're going to get some
of that stuff from the too so so I would
say that all the candidates are
extremely aware that that they may be
restricted to the to those measures and
they have a menu of such measures
they're willing to take when they when
they take office but I don't think any
of them really want to put that at the
center of their of their messaging right
you know this is the this is the season
of grand promises no you are right that
there are some communities more
vulnerable to climate change than others
and some that depend on fossil fuel
industries more than others you write
some communities have been left behind
in previous national economic
transitions including the New Deal we've
talked about that on this program
multiple times a lot of jobs that black
people had and that women had were
basically left out of the Social
Security system as part of a compromise
with bunch of bigots
and who controlled a lot of power at
that time and so you know when we hear
about home health care or we hear about
home you know our home workers domestic
workers or you know agricultural workers
they were not involved in the Social
Security program your question is what
will you ensure that vulnerable
communities are protected during the
transition to clean energy
who do you from your sense who were the
most sensitive to that question uh well
you know it's interesting this is I feel
like one area where there's a real clear
real clear sense that the party has been
effectively pushed to the left by
activists like on this issue in
particular is the evidence is is glaring
and this is one of this is one of those
areas so this this sort of question of
you know on the one side how do you deal
with communities that are vulnerable to
the effects of climate change in the
effects of pollution which tend to be
you know communities of color and so and
low-income communities and then also how
do you deal with these communities that
are going to be disrupted by the
transition to clean energy right so
communities that are tied to the fossil
fuel economy and there are many in the
US and so these sort of 20 shoes are
have have are known under the rubric of
just transition and this is used to be
kind of an obscure you know like fifth
item on the list thing that not many
national politicians talked about it was
just sort of like the environmental
justice community beating the drum but
now it has really moved to the center of
the discussion like like left activists
have very effectively pushed this for
the center of discussion such that every
single plan put out by candidate has is
has to have a big explicit section on
this so all of them are aware of it and
all of them had really good answers all
of them were eager to answer it right
because of course this is a this is the
question that comes up all the time like
are we going to get hurt like are our
communities going to get hurt so they
want to put these fears to rest a couple
of candidates have sort of made it they
are their signature in their climate
plans like Castro has has a just
transition really high up on his list
Booker has really put this at the fore
you know at the forefront but but all of
them have just transitioned you know
elements and all of them are talking
about you know worker retraining and and
and ensuring the pensions and health
care of retired fossil fuel workers and
like Bernie Sanders had a great I
thought it was his best moment at the at
the forum is someone asked him
specifically like what about fossil fuel
workers and he and he you know got as
sort of like as emotional as I've ever
seen
