majority rum or good
Fiza the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any of these
apps they are unanimous in that hate for
me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
it is Tuesday September 10th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar thus the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on the program
today Peter Edelman formerly worked for
Senator Robert F Kennedy was in the
Clinton administration where he resigned
in protest but Bill Clinton's signing of
the AFDC welfare reform legislation
author of not a crime to be poor the
criminalization of poverty in America
also on the program today breaking news
yeah what the heck
[Music]
the mustache has left the building the
mustache has left the buildings
disgusting disgusting Jah walrus John
Bolton fired from the White House
literally well I shouldn't say that it's
a causal but it's certainly if you're
looking for a sign that we will not have
a war with Iran any time soon John
Bolton leaving the White House is about
as good as it gets
also on the program today
the CIA extracted a Russian spy a top
Russian spy for fear that Donald Trump
would reveal that spies presence losses
bonding so much and a new stablemates he
was bragging I was bragging one thing
led to another a big bellwether election
in North Carolina's ninth congressional
district today compliments of a massive
Republican vote fraud scandal meanwhile
think progress implodes union steps in
Democrats that look to jam Senate
Republicans with a vote on Trump's
stealing funds for his border wall and
50 US states open an anti and trust
investigation of Google meanwhile Wilbur
Ross Commerce Secretary threatened to
fire top employees at NOAA if they
reported the weather accurately Trump's
approval slips as people get gloomy
about the economy and the Koch brothers
data machine help the most bigoted
Republican candidates in the country
attack immigrants lastly Andrew Cuomo
under fire for his failed corporate
giveaways in New York State all in the
wake of that Amazon deal still paying
benefits
for the state as they now have the guts
to reevaluate these corporate giveaways
in New York State that even if they
panned out the way that there's they
always are sold to us as panning out
we'd be questionable but the fact is
they never do they never do and so
that's finally we're seeing some
scrutiny welcome ladies and gentlemen a
full complement of folks here today want
to make sure Jamie has two things to
plug that I want to make sure that we do
at the top of the show while people here
at Jamie go yeah so let me put myself on
camera deride you the fun one first sure
my show the anti Fattah is doing a live
show with pod AM America at Littlefield
in Brooklyn on October 12th and tickets
are now up for sale so October 12th go
check it out you can buy those tickets
we have a link at the majority dot F M
site I will put one there and second
thing the second thing is if anyone's in
the New York area close the camp's NYC
is doing a big nonviolent direct action
this coming weekend and they need way
more people so if you're in the area and
you want to help out go to close the
camp's NYC comm let me double check well
we'll put that on there yeah I'll put a
link there too and if you are not in NYC
you can go to close the camps dot us to
find out about anti-ice pro immigrant
justice actions in your area now
speaking of the anti-immigrant policies
of this White House I mean that seems to
be the one thing well there are two
things to be fair that Donald Trump has
remained steadfast and consistent about
throughout his administration is the
only two things that they've been able
to achieve one is massive tax cuts many
of which actually just benefits
specifically Donald Trump but also
largely corporations the second thing is
to
US policy stated policy to intimidate to
harass to marginalize to deport to
criminalize immigrants refugees people
who are here because of civil wars
people who because who are here because
of violence because of natural disasters
people who are here simply because they
want to make better lives for themselves
and their children
I've got a story in the from the New
York Times of of children who have
diseases who are being kicked out of the
country
they've been here on deferred action
because of illness Jonathan Sanchez
looking to be deported to Honduras if he
is he will die rights Jorge Ramos in the
New York Times opinion 16 year old
suffers from cystic fibrosis the same
illness that killed his older sister
though the government official who sent
Jonathan's parents a letter telling that
they should leave the United States
within a month didn't seem to care what
will happen if your setback to Honduras
I asked him during an interview well
basically I will die told me he was
talking from near Boston Children's
Hospital where he receives a treatment
that's helping him deal with a lethal
cough among other things cystic fibrosis
causes a buildup of mucus in the lungs
that cannot be removed if I miss
treatment for one day I start coughing a
lot I get tired I find it hard to
breathe I have stomach aches and I can't
digest food this is going on around the
country and not only with people who are
here the 16 year old apparently does not
have a documents does not have
citizenship here there's a
thousand people in this country who
benefit from life-saving program this
year which is that deferred to forward
reinforcement because of illness they're
all gonna get booted meanwhile yesterday
we reported on what was happening
coming from a ship from the Bahamas a an
investigative reporter from from Florida
was on that boat and do we have a
footage what's the name of the report
Ryan Anthony Brian Anton and he had
footage that we played for you yesterday
where he interviewed a couple of people
who were getting kicked off this boat
the last minute they're on the boat
they're being told that all of a sudden
for the first time ever they need a visa
to go to the United States that the
normal documentation wasn't gonna work
here's dad with his daughter being
thrown off the boat these are people who
have nowhere obviously where to go
they're evacuating the bomb
so you have to take your baby off yes
okay and so that was one of 119 people
who were had to leave the boat I want
you to take a look at the folks that are
coming off a lot of them holding kids a
lot of them are kids walking off men
women just people who are escaping
because of the the massive destruction
that took place in the Bahamas
supposedly the CPB officials claimed
that when they were interviewed in
Florida that oh no no this was a
function of the the cruise line of the
boat operators they they just didn't
want to do what they needed to do or
whatever it was however here is Donald
Trump explaining no we had to kick all
those children and parents and people
off that boat to save America so we're
talking to a lot of different people on
that you know we're recovering from the
hurricane also Florida did get hit not
as hard as we anticipated and you look
at Georgia you look at South Carolina
North Carolina I'm going to North
Carolina right now North Carolina to
have a rally for Dan bishop but before I
go to the rally we're going to be
stopping at one of the sites that got
hit very hard by the hurricane
so we're also recovering from a
hurricane but we have to be very careful
everybody needs totally proper
documentation because the look the
Bahamas had some tremendous problems
with people going to the Bahamas that
weren't supposed to be there I don't
want to allow people that weren't
supposed to be in the Bahamas to come in
to the United States including some very
bad people and some very bad gang
members and some very very bad drug
dealers so we are going to be very very
stronger that let me let me just explain
possible I mean let me explain something
to all these people had passports all
these people had passports and had been
certified by the police
that is what is typically needed to get
into the United States so he's lying
he's lying about that large sections
Believe It or Not of the Bahamas were
not hit and what we're doing is bringing
the people to those sections of the
Bahamas that have not been hit we've
done a lot of the USA aid we've done a
lot of work with our Coast Guard with
our FEMA people who have been phenomenal
so in other words we can't let these
people in because they're criminals but
but actually what we're really doing is
just taking them to other places in the
Bahamas which is okay now clearly I am
sure there are other places in the
Bahamas that weren't hit nearly as much
maybe maybe more or less you know
nothing more than a tropical storm but
the people are on this boat obviously
are coming because they have family in
the United States and we just have an
administration that hates immigrants
particularly when they are not of the
same complexion as Don Trump I mean it's
just it's irrefutable and the idea that
in this type of like it's just amazing
to me there isn't more outcry about this
it's disgusting
it really is disgusting yeah there were
about 300 people there at the last close
the camp's action that I went to in New
York and there should be thousands of
people at this point in time at this
point in the in the journey shall we say
I think people have just become I don't
know exhausted or I have no idea what it
is but it's you know in part frankly in
part this I think largely this is a
function of the demobilization that
Nancy Pelosi Chuck Schumer have overseen
by tamping down the investigations and
just the assault on the the Trump
administration
I mean look here's the bottom line about
this about
impeachment this is sort of a side note
the founders of this country the people
who wrote the Constitution they
contemplated Donald Trump not him
exactly but they contemplated a person
like Donald Trump being president that
there could be someone of this ilk who
is problematic who is enriching
themselves who is flaunting the
Constitution and different statutory
requirements etc etc what they did not
contemplate was Nancy Pelosi was an
opposition party that just says no
biggie
people have the chance to vote him out
we don't need to do anything because
people will vote him out they did not
contemplate that they gave the apparatus
for an opposition party or theoretically
I guess the same party to deal with a
Donald Trump they did not anticipate
that they would not use it and so when
we think about what has gone wrong in
the United States just in this very and
limited we're talking about a very
limited issue set here because obviously
a lot of other problems that Donald
Trump is symptomatic of but when we talk
about why Donald Trump is in office with
no threat and I know they're doing stuff
now the Judiciary Committee but but but
Nancy Pelosi successful you know mission
accomplished but that just purposely
denying refugees from a natural disaster
the ability to come to this country 125
people that should be like the latest
thing that is added into the inquiry an
inquiry that should have been already on
in operation for six months and
when we look back on this era when
historians look back and say what went
wrong in terms of the way that the
country could deal with Donald Trump
it's gonna be Nancy Pelosi that is the
that is the apparition here though the
it's gonna be Nancy Pelosi was the sort
of flaw in the system that was not
contemplated that you would have an
opposition party that would just say
he'll impeach himself I mean it's
ridiculous oh yeah I'm mad about it it's
it's it's just it's unbelievable because
he has complete impunity at this point
and it's gonna be a lot worse if he wins
the re-election yeah no crap Shh but
meanwhile on a different note I could
use a little hydration probably and
staying properly hydrated is one of the
most important factors during the summer
but frankly at all times
liquid IV is the fastest most efficient
way to stay hydrated we fight over these
things in the office I get to bring in
more I wait we have some left I don't
think we do I think people need to you
know obviously when you're after your
exercise but when you travel when you
drink too much when you're getting a
cold when you feel like you're getting a
cold be great if we all have the ability
to drink you know sixteen bottles of
water a day but if you can't liquid IV
provides the same hydration as drinking
about two to three bottles of water it's
the fastest-growing wellness brand in
the country as far as I know plus it
contains five essential vitamins
including more vitamin C than an orange
and as much potassium as a banana
healthy alternative to traditional
sugary sports drinks no artificial
flavors no artificial lauper sir and
preserve
or any preservatives and it's perfect
for fueling tough workouts preventing
muscle fatigue promoting healthy
post-workout recovery like I say also
for the type of you know for me a little
more drinking situation becomes we mode
find them everywhere the hydration
multipliers even sold at all cost goes
nationwide oh nice
six your Samms carried out of the bar
sir we're gonna get you a cab and and
then honestly like the first thing I did
remember to drink liquid I be when I get
home
look I love liquid IV I know you're
gonna to right now our listeners get 25%
off at liquid IV calm when you use the
code majority a checkout that's 25
percent off of anything you order a
liquid IVs website go to liquid IV
dot-com enter my promo code majority get
your savings start getting better
hydration liquid IV dot-com promo code
majority don't wait start properly
hydrating today we of course put a link
in the podcast description to that and
there's still a little bit of Sun
summers running out you don't want to be
stuck I know it's a drag you don't wanna
be stuck in the office when you don't
have to be people what what software
what software should I get to make my my
company more efficient I get a stay in
the office and check it out well I mean
actually for me it's next it's sort of
fun but find the right software at
kaptara dot-com slash majority it is a
free and I think the biggest online
resource to find the best software
solution for your business they have
over nine hundred and fifty thousand
nearly a million reviews of specific
software products from real software
users they have seven hundred specific
categories of software more than that
everything for project management -
email marketing the yoga studio
management no matter what kind of
software your business needs kaptara
makes it easy to discover the right
solution fast super easy
super straightforward I'm just in the
eyes and I'm looking at different things
like iPad POS software what does that
possibly mean I think it means
point-of-sale and I'm thinking like I
could use that maybe we sell t-shirts if
we ever do a live show again issue
tracking software I don't know I don't
know this is the issues like political
issues I have no idea um a bunch of
software they're on jail management
software janitorial software job shop
software K through 12 software kennel
software landscape software landing page
software lead capture software every
single business you can find it's crazy
live chat software actually you know
what I'm gonna save that cuz we need to
put something on the back of end of our
blog mail room management software it
goes on and on folks you get the idea
and there's reviews within these
categories there's multiple pieces of
software that get reviewed you figure
out which one is the best solution for
you boom you're done
visit kaptara comm slash majority for
free go there today find the tools to
make an informed decision for your
business kaptara comm slash majority
kaptara that capt e RR a.com slash
majority alright gonna take a quick
break when we come back we'll be talking
to Peter Edelman not a crime to be poor
the criminalization of poverty in
America
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program the carmack
Waterhouse professor of law and public
policy at Georgetown University Law
Center author of not a crime to be poor
the criminalization of poverty in
America Peter Edelman welcome to the
program thank you I'm so glad to be with
you so your book starts more or less
with a with a history of poverty and you
have certainly had real involvement in
in the sort of ongoing I guess fight on
property war on poverty but give us a
little bit of history you know perhaps
let's start around the New Deal I guess
in this country where we really maybe
for the first time had an active federal
government attempting to alleviate
poverty in this country and walk us
through when through those years where
the fight turned to be sort of got
turned on its head a little bit I think
you're starting exactly the right place
of course we didn't have the capacity as
a country or at least we thought so to
to do what we began to do with the New
Deal in the Great Depression so the
first thing that one thinks of when
we're when we're thinking about poverty
and low income is the social security in
1935 and we also got minimum wage for
the first time so there was there was
the the commitment in terms of the
national government to make things
better in terms of income that that was
never tried before and so that's the
beginning and then we go through World
War two
and not so much more because we were
struggling with other enormous ly
important things and so the next big
change in the development for low-income
people is with President Kennedy of
President Johnson and and the war on
poverty and and also the consequences of
civil rights because the civil rights
movement and the in the great statutes
that were passed in 64 65 68 made of a
tremendous if you look at the the
poverty for African American Americans
it was 55 percent poverty in 1959 and by
1973 it had gone down to 31 percent so
that's partly because of laws that
affect all races but also because of
what civil rights did do and so there
were both because of the economy which
was strong through that period and
through the the civil rights and various
programs as well by 1973 we were down as
a country to 11.1% that's the lowest
that we ever got and just to give you
the the look ahead yesterday we found
out that the 2018 numbers got us down to
eleven point eight percent so we're
getting back down there was eleven point
three at the end of President Clinton
those were the low-low times in the
amount of poverty and what's happened
over that period of time from 1973 to
now and having those numbers be
basically the same as they are and have
not gotten better is because
we've had a turned into a having we're a
low-wage country I think anybody
listening knows that and and so the mat
the the good jobs and manufacturing jobs
went away and we were pushing against
that for for really the half of the
people in this country have not had a
raise the basically about the same the
numbers may look a little bit but that's
because it's been some inflation and so
that's what the struggle has been here
now for really half of a century and
it's important to understand that
underneath that we have done a lot you
know you here or over into again people
who were against the public programs
that we have they say oh well those
things didn't work because gee whiz the
poverty didn't go go down the fact is
that if we didn't have social security
and and food stamps snap as it's now
called and the Earned Income Tax Credit
and vouchers and whole number of things
the forty million or so that we have nom
now a little bit under forty million
people it would be more like eighty five
to ninety percent of the of the million
that number of people about 90 million
people instead of a 40 million 40
million people we use so really prefer
it's so important for people to
understand that so we would have more
than double and in poverty right now
we're not for things like Social
Security and like you say food stamps
and the Earned Income Tax Credit and we
should also say and when you know we
talk about Social Security in the New
Deal there were obviously a lot of
people who are left out particularly
African American
and and women to some extent based upon
the jobs that were available for Social
Security at the time that is you know in
some respects we still live with some of
that legacy but and some of it was fixed
you know during the the area you talk
about in the mid 60s
just before we we talked about that that
change too in the 90s when when when
poverty becomes criminalized in some
fashion but just more broadly on the
question of poverty like what what
hampered the the the progress as we went
into the 70s like what was it just
simply a function of the will to to
diminish poverty began to wane and from
a political standpoint we could maintain
where we had gotten in terms of progress
but we couldn't go further what what
happened to that so going back to the
70s but you're quite right to sort of
put a marker on the 90s and one aspect
of what Clinton did but you had both the
fact that we had lost all those good
jobs and and we became this low wage
country as I as I mentioned before and
then as we go through that period of
time up until now we had president
President Reagan who was very negative
when it came to do anything about people
at the very lowest end and so and I have
to say I believe that the the Democrats
I'm a Democrat didn't do enough to
understand what was going on with all of
these low paid in jobs and not doing
enough about it so that that problem of
the fact that people sort of were left
behind if you will nobody really doing I
think that connect
to the to the politics of 2016 of people
particularly in the Rust Belt and we saw
the results in the presidential results
in a large way that's people who were
disgusted with with both parties so it's
very important politically well that
takes us up then into the 90s and there
are two major problems here one I
already talked about a number of times
which is which is the lowest job the
other is the people at the very bottom
because we now have people of in the way
we measure these things 18 million
people out of those 40 million I was
talking about our people whose income is
below half the poverty line this is
referred to as extreme poverty right I
mean actually poverty that absolutely
absolutely and so these are people if
you're if you've got three people in
your house instead of the the poverty
line which is about $20,000 it's about
10,000 and we have 18 million people who
were in that position it's just terrible
and we've done very very little about it
but in the major major part of that
unfortunately took place when the so
called welfare reform of 1996 took place
and just at what's happened as a result
of the cash assistance has just been
smashed I can give you detail I mean
basically you have less than 3 million
people in the country you get cash
assistance and so you have 7 million
people in this country whose only income
is from food stamps nap that's a
terrible thing and those are our two
major things now as we look forward yeah
the lousy jobs and what's happening at
the very bottom I want to actually tease
some of that out because I don't think
that folks are there there's so much we
are constantly bombarded with this
notion that we are handing out so much
money blowing so much money on just
giving people cash who don't deserve it
etc etc I want to I want to just stay on
this for a bit and and remind folks that
you were an official in the Clinton
administration when this this major
welfare reform as it's called was
enacted and signed by Bill Clinton you
resigned in protest and maybe let's
let's start with those figures that you
were talking about in terms of who to
receive cash and what not but why what
what was it that you saw about this
program that you knew that was was so
problematic well what happened
and I did quite of course is that we
well the previous welfare wasn't
anything to you know to write home about
it needed people were not getting enough
help to get out of receiving being on
welfare and and this is aid for
dependent families and children is that
what it was yeah yeah yeah but I brought
in a lot of us felt we need to be worked
harder to help people get jobs and be
more stable anyway it went the other way
in the heart of what you asked after
1996 it's what's called a Block Grant
and what that means is that nobody has a
right to anything it's entirely up of
the J of the states and they literally
under federal law didn't have to help
anybody and it turns out now that
there's a lot of states that
fundamentally don't help anybody except
for food stamps which is a federal
program so we're now down to the point
where it when when in 1996 68 percent of
children's Livan living in families
low-income families were getting cash
assistance a lot of states that was only
a little bit but they were getting a 68
percent now it's 23 percent of children
living a
in low-income families that's what's
happened to it I said before that's why
14 million million people in 1993
getting cash assistance which by the way
was too many to get below 3 million now
because the states have absolutely they
can do whatever they want with the money
so how many so so when you say that only
23% of children living in poverty are
getting cash assistance how many states
are we looking at that don't provide any
cash assistance and when we say states
don't provide any cash assistance that
means that the federal government is not
providing cash assistance because that
money goes through these states but for
snap and my understanding is that for
snap the highest amount that I think an
individual can get on snap is somewhere
around like what is it 200 bucks a month
in terms of food you know food allowance
essentially it's let's stop on that for
a second the way I do what is the same
thing that you're saying but for a
family of three it's about six thousand
dollars a year and again that's the
poverty line is twenty thousand for
family of three and that should be
higher than it is so yes I mean if you
don't get anything if you don't get any
cash assistance and the only thing
you're getting food stamps it's going to
be six thousand dollars a year and you
can get it down two months and so on but
6,000 per year for a tent for a family
of three that's that's what we have for
about seven million people in our
country it's astonishing a number of
things now you asked whether anybody any
state is out of business completely well
not quite but you have a number of
states Texas Minnesota Mississippi sorry
not Minnesota and and Wyoming and North
Carolina and others where they are
reaching five percent or less of the of
the low-income kids of the family living
and so it's almost in effect zero Wow
it's it's amazing it's shocking and so
what do they do with
that money I mean they got on these
block grants from the US Gulf in the
federal government and they're not
passing on the cash directly what are
they doing with that money they use it
for various other things that a number
of them using it for other kinds of
things like paying for their their child
welfare you know when you're talking
about a kid in foster care
Texas for example is a place that that
about half of their money that they
should be spending from some other place
are taking the TANF money as we call it
now and it does not go to the families
themselves some of them have some
programs that do one thing or another
but but the actual cash assistance is
down to those numbers that I mentioned
and and they actually use some things
that don't have anything to do with with
low-income people at all
so how rigorous is the federal oversight
I mean so this is also I mean a lesson
for people as to why when we hear block
grants about any federal program people
get very concerned because then it
really is essentially not that program
it's just a pool of money how what how
is that are there any parameters as to
how that money must be used or is it
just so the parameters are so wide and
ambiguous that essentially a a decent I
don't know comptroller in a state can
figure out how to shift that money
around essentially that that's right and
and of course you hear people on the
Republican side saying that TANF is an
enormous success and we ought to do the
same thing for snap and and indeed we've
got about one vote to having an help go
to Medicaid which would be shocking and
and would be disastrous in many many
states so the fact that people go around
and
and they don't understand what you and I
are talking about and and believe
without understanding these facts that
we're talking about say say that TANF is
a tremendous success but in fact it's a
horrible failure so we really need to
understand that and yes they're number
one there's very little the block grant
you nailed it
very little saying in the statute of
what you can spend it on and secondly
that there's very little looking over
the shoulder of anybody so to the extent
that states are actually not obeying the
laws and nobody does anything about it
okay so we have that takes place in in
the 90s and there's simultaneously there
is essentially we have a growing
anti-tax movement that really starts
before then you know under Reagan and
this creates a sort of a second order
problem in that the the the the anti-tax
revolt is not just on the federal level
it's on the state level and it begins to
drain the coffers of states and
municipalities which then creates a
whole nother set of a of problems
for people living in poverty absolutely
and very sadly and in for a long time we
were not really aware that this has
happened
we woke up as a country when we had the
the tragedy in in in Missouri and the
the you know with Michael Brown was
killed by the police officer there and
it turns out that there
the Department of Justice went in and
and found out this weird thing where
people were the people who live there
and maybe some people who went from
other places were arrested and because
they didn't have enough taxes to run the
place in Ferguson became the place that
we we found out that was not just in
Ferguson where people were thrown in
jail because they couldn't pay putting a
traffic tickets and other things and it
turns out that it exists it exists all
over the country and places all over the
country some of it is individual things
where somebody doesn't have a permit to
mow their own lawn or something like
that but the big thing that's happened
as a national thing is taking away
people's
[Music]
driver's license of license for for
driving suspending those driver's
license
licenses and it's just shocking
we know that well over 40 states are
doing that we're talking between that
and other kinds of things like I
mentioned the best week I don't know
that these numbers I think that what I'm
about to tell you it's bigger than that
but about 10 million people all about
fifty billion dollars it's absolutely
shocking and what it means in people's
lives particularly with regard taking
away driver's licenses is people have to
use their cars so this is great from
from the point of view of getting
revenue which remember is what you
started the conversation with quite
correctly so we took the go to work or
take child school or go to the grocery
store whatever it is and you drive with
that license and you get nailed again
and so these amounts and it isn't just
the the
the finds themselves which are way
jacked up I mean anybody listening to
this in the in their own state knows
that what used to be $50 is now $500 in
the state every state
there's fees as well that have no
connection to to anything except money
you know the courthouse library things
like that and then it's more than that
because if you could get put on
probation you have to pay for that and
44 states it's unbelievable and and so
you have all of these things you're in
jail or you're in prison turns out in
state after state you have to pay for
the room and board in those places and
this is all I mean people it's just it's
literally crazy and the country is kind
of making up but don't you think people
are kind of beginning to know that this
is going on yeah I think so I mean I
think we've we've done a couple of
interviews over the past year or two
particularly have been mostly in the
wake of Ferguson where this dynamic
where the where where police departments
end up becoming revenue machines for
these cities these counties the states
but here is a question I have for you in
this and there and there's there's
plenty of examples I mean I think people
understand the dynamic that and perhaps
this is maybe I'm answering my own
question here where if I find someone
five hundred dollars for or I find
someone fifty dollars for rolling
through a stop sign I think people are
aware that in an emergency half the
country couldn't even come up with $400
within a couple weeks or with it with a
week to pay off something so $50 for
people who are living in poverty becomes
that much more difficult that if it's
not paid within 30 days then it goes up
exponentially and pretty soon we're
talking about bills of a hundred two
hundred three hundred four hundred five
hundred dollars I mean in some ways it's
sort of like payday loan scam right
where it's like we're gonna loan you
this money that's going to put you in
arrears you're not going to be able to
pay it back because we have such a high
interest rate and then you're going to
owe us more money
then I basically have some type of you
know some version of an annuity where
you have to just keep paying is that why
I mean do you think is it that people
living in poverty are targeted because
there is an understanding that there's
more money to be made there because they
can't pay off that first fine and that
it just creates a rolling cascading a
sense of debt or you know notion of debt
or is it that people living in poverty
simply don't have the political strength
to sort of say hey wait a second this is
out of control yeah III think sort of
that last I mean if some of it is just
not thinking be kind and we got to say
that there is a racial aspect to this
you know when when you talk about the
rolling stop sign I write about that in
the book it's an it's an African
American labor neighborhood and and we
know that and we there was a new thing
just came out yesterday a new study that
people who were named nailed in those
kinds of things are disproportionately
people of color so it isn't only a sort
of clean if that's the right word that
we're getting this money I mean the fact
is that they are collecting money from
people who can pay and if they were
being sort of a slightly thoughtful
about it they would stop there they
would have ways to to have if you don't
have a paper of ability to pay will have
community service and so on and so on
although the better thing would be to
just get rid of this these whole
incredibly high things and what we
should be doing is what's called taxes
which we stopped doing so much in state
state after state so what you're talking
about it becomes
people are swept in probably in an extra
amount for low-income people but in any
case the whole system is just absolutely
terrible and we should be cleaning
cleaning the whole thing and in some
states they're beginning to do that
we've had States just in the last year
where they've stopped the given back the
driver's licenses and in the state of
Mississippi for example they gave back
because lawyers were after them
a hundred thousand driver's licenses
were given back and and in in California
they've lowered though the way they're
doing that as well in a number of other
states so people are beginning to wake
up to it we're seeing a greater push to
I think from some reformer prosecutors
and in states to diminish cash bail as
well I mean we had a horrible Khalif
Browder in this yeah people I don't know
if they remember this story but a I
think he was 16 years old I I can't
remember how old he was at the time
maybe not 16 but he's at Rikers and in
New York and and he doesn't get me at
bail and and he ultimately gets out but
by that time he's very very mentally ill
and he kills himself and to be clear he
was in he was in jail for three years
because he was unable to have three
years and this is for Proposal
never came to trial and simply on the
accusation that he had stole a backpack
with you know a camera a $700 cameo but
yeah the whole thing is absolutely awful
but you know bail around the country we
didn't talk that much yet so if we can
get that in please you have there are
700,000 people who are in jail around
the
tree every day and 450,000 of those
people are not guilty of anything
because they're they're only in jails
because they couldn't pay the money on
the bail and and that's just you know
that's the setup and we're finally both
by legislation and by litigation
stopping that in a number of states New
York State just has a new statute that's
terrific New Jersey's doing a very good
job in etc and it's just it's just
absolutely horrible the idea that
450,000 right now is you and I are
talking are in a jail and the only
reason they're there is I can't pay for
the the the bail and then what happens
is that the person says I gotta get out
of here I didn't do anything but they go
to the judge and they say I'm guilty I
plead and then they get out and then
they owe a lot of money and then the
same thing that we just talked about
happens that they can't pay on the
payment came plans so the money bail
it's a bigger problem than the fines and
fees but the fines and fees and the bail
together it's absolutely horrible
alright lastly I just want to because
you you provide some some answers in
some solutions at the at the end of the
book and matreya Lee it wouldn't be that
hard to more or less eliminate poverty
in this country would it we could we
could it has to be if we're going to do
it the right way and we've got to have
better education for people who owe
income people which tends to be people
of color who were parts of the city
where the schools aren't so good that
the job situation is not equal and so we
have to fix that but insofar at the very
bottom
where we need to have some cash
assistance to go with the food stamps if
we had the politics that part of it we
have the money to do that and and at
least we would have a floor that we
don't have what does it take what would
it take I mean you know how much how
much money are we talking about oh gosh
just for the bottom I think you could do
it for no maybe if you doubled look at
it this way we're paying about right now
about 40 billion dollars for food snaps
first snap so double that and what you'd
get is at least four that people could
live so that part just to be clear just
to put that in context for people we
just passed or a year or two ago we
passed an increase in military spending
already obviously we have spend a huge
amount of money on the military seventy
billion dollars a year so for half that
amount about if we added that to our
anti-poverty measures we would at the
very least create a you know a a floor I
mean it's this is and I don't know how
much ink was spilled on the seventy
billion dollar increase that we did for
a ten years horizon at least on the
military budget not many people even
talked about it just got this huge yeah
just right indeed well it's it's an
important story we need to be aware of
it I mean there are there are many
different ways to sort of that we can
reform society some of that may be
coming out in this election we'll see
but the if we wanted to end poverty in
this country it's certainly certainly
could of course it's become the the and
I imagine on some level this is why that
criminalization of poverty was was
allowed to sort of linger for so long
because particularly when we talk about
the 90s you know the 80s the 90s and the
aughts
and even into this decade the the theme
of people of poverty being a function of
sort of a immorality or a lack of
morality or righteousness it seems to
have permeated the culture and hopefully
we're sort of you know leaving that era
maybe I hope so hope we're gonna see
some results in 2020 that gets more
interest you certainly see not that is
perfect anywhere but in places
California is doing much better and
let's say than Mississippi and you know
what we need to do is a more even all
across the country so that the red
states at least there'll be is some
support from Washington that helps
people in their own state is so not
responsive not a crime to be poor the
criminalization of poverty in America
Peter Edelman thank you so much for your
time today we'll put a link to your book
at majority dot F M thank you very much
all right folks gonna take a quick break
here head into the fun half of the
program just a couple of programming
notes Thursday night we're going to be
doing live coverage of the democratic
debate that will be from 8:00 to 11:00
p.m. if I am not mistaken we'll probably
start about 7:45
we will be drinking and we will you know
as we always do endeavor to you know not
talk over the important parts of the
debate and we should tell you that we're
probably gonna be streaming on Twitch
and so we will put we'll put a link to
we should start to do that for the next
couple of days we'll put a link to
within the podcast description or
YouTube to our twitch channel so you can
just check that out we're gonna live
there and you can head over there and if
you're an Amazon Prime member and I
haven't quite figured this out yet but
my understanding is that you can
dedicate a free that is embedded in your
Prime you don't have to pay anything
else you get you get like a chip and
each month you can you can designate
that to us on our twitch channel
we'll get that set up you know before
Thursday night but we will be doing the
live debate they're always fun always
the highlight of people's debate night
is watching us talk about it in real
time
just a reminder it is your support that
makes this show possible you can become
a member at join the majority report com
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off when you become a
member you get the show commercial free
so and also don't forget to check out
the a.m. quickie it's in your feed in
the majority report audio feed soon
we're gonna be moving it into its own
feed and we'll ask you all to subscribe
to push it up the charts as it were
mm-hmm and just to remind you you don't
want to get stuck in the office looking
for the right piece of software you can
do this quick
ladies and gentlemen go to kaptara
kaptara dot-com slash majority has over
nine hundred and fifty thousand reviews
of software in seven over seven hundred
specific categories you'll have
everything you need to make an informed
decision about software you need for
your business also a great way just to
browse through and see maybe you want to
change job can't believe what's
available for people out there visit
kaptara dot-com slash majority for free
today it's all for free
to find the tools to make an informed
decision for your business kaptara
dot-com / majority kaptara that's EAP
ter are a.com slash majority today is
Tuesday that means that people gonna
come and mess up the studio again
tonight
or all of you clean up after yourselves
Michael Jamie Matt when you come in here
for your gaming sessions but what's
gonna happen here what's gonna have a
house date night serious what game
whatever that's what I meant by gaming
what the greatest game of all what are
you going greatest game the greatest
game
what night well first of all what you
should immediately do is go on the
majority dot F M homepage buy your
tickets to the November 23rd
Philadelphia TMDs live show that's the
week before Thanksgiving so don't worry
there's no I know some people not
Thanksgiving is the week before with
special guests ultra artesia ball drop
I'm a big 'ln and crystal ball they are
going fast
tonight kianga Amata Taylor joins us we
are talking about revolution reform how
it fits with the Sanders campaign then
the rapper Napoleon the legend joins us
and talks about African liberation
struggles and how it relates to his
music going back to the 70s Bosh Carson
car is also here we're talking about the
wave of xenophobic attacks happening in
South Africa how we can chart the
failure of the neoliberal ANC in a
global pattern of far-right politics and
what to do about it a whole bunch more
patreon.com slash t MBS michael brooks
show on youtube jamie this week on the
anti farah we have on my good friend
Sophie st. Thomas she's a journalist she
mainly reports on sex and weed which is
a pretty cool beat to have if I do say
so myself
I got her take on the famed Alexandra :
ty sa make way for wing at eros we
talked about my trip to LA at Tijuana
and Joshua Tree and my appearance on his
sign pikers twitch stream that was
pretty fun yeah check it out also next
week I'm gonna tease this cuz I'm very
excited about it we have on Aaron
Bustani to talk about his book fully
automated luxury communism and that is
coming up next week oh and I forgot to
mention the name of our live show is
goth socialist variety hour with the
anti Fattah and PHA damn America so
where black folks Matt yeah literary
hangover we did the pioneers by James
Fenimore Cooper the first of the leather
stocking tales where we talk about natty
bum pose relationship to the emerging
bourgeois state and the first part is up
on YouTube now so check that up
all right folks six or six to five seven
thirty nine twenty would see you in the
fun half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
the boss I am NOT your employer you know
I'm tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you nervous yeah
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you're idiots we're just
going to get rid of you alright
you wanna smoke this joint yes five
times eight four seven I know six five
oh one four five seven six five don't
you see
a treat you left when Limbaugh
everybody's taking their dumb juice come
on Sammy
dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
seat I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars come here not
they accuse me you all right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some ability Ria's out there
take whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber laughing I'm feeling
more chill already Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you
guys ready to go flirt with such America
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
we are back ladies and gentlemen the
number six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty we will get to
the calls in just a moment
Donald Trump down in a rally supporting
Dan bishop in North Carolina's ninth
district if you're in North Carolina and
you ninth district go and vote ladies
and gentlemen there's going to be a low
turnout special election despite the
fact that the president comes into town
because it activates the Republican
voters and so Democrats have to be
activated equally by his existence there
of course he came in too cried the voter
fraud by Democrats in a district that is
literally holding its election because
of such rampant voter fraud perpetrated
by the Republican candidate that and
this is this is clip number one or is
this number two this is number one
here's Donald Trump this is the
Republican playbook I told you there's
two things that the Republicans done
they have cut taxes for wealthy
millionaires and billionaires
corporations so regulations can tuck on
there too and and they have they have
rolled back a lot of regulations that
protect people that is true
and and they also are at every moment
they can demonizing immigrants refugees
people brown black anybody boy fact
sanctuary cities but clearly support
sanctuary city policies that force
prisons and jails to release criminal
aliens directly into your neighborhoods
get out go ahead go into the
neighborhood
going what's your neighborhood where do
you live Rutherford County okay so how
do you feel about having them release
hardened horrible criminals into
Rutherford County I don't think so
but your whole state it's honestly can I
be honest it's crazy what's happening
this whole thing with sanctuary cities
and you go to California which is so
many sanctuary cities they don't know
what's happening out there you have
people that want to get rid of those
sanctuary cities they just aren't able
to do it with the people that get
elected a lot of illegal voting going on
out there by the way a lot of illegal
vote yeah a lot of illegal voting going
on out there now as opposed to here why
we're having this special election this
stuff sells it really doesn't matter
what he says to these people I mean this
is and I said this yesterday but we're
gonna hammer this point whenever there's
an opportunity the Republicans
understand there is a finite number of
people who will ever vote Republican
that means regular Republican voters and
people who if they vote will vote
Republican
and they basically are activated by the
same set of issues it's just how much
doesn't reach them how visceral is it
when it reaches them particularly those
who are less inclined to vote it's more
of a visceral reaction when Trump goes
down there and talks about these same
things it gets their blood boiling they
go out and vote there's a story in the
Reuters about the farmers who are
getting screwed by Trump's tariffs we
reported the other day that Wisconsin
had a record number of delinquent farm
loans delinquent in terms of payments
which means that they're they're behind
it's a it's up nationally but Wisconsin
in particular has been hit hard this
Reuters report instead of directing
their anger at Trump dozens of farmers
interviewed by Reuters blasted the US
Department of Agriculture in other
Washington institutions they believe are
thwarting his true agenda
unsubstantiated conspiracy theories
involving USDA staff
are circulating in farm country and
gaining traction online Trump voter a
Bryan Hepler a soybean and corn farmer
from Calhoun Kentucky said he's open to
considering other Republican candidates
if they emerge he said he believes us
days research methods are flawed
he feels its employees want to unseat
Trump although he offered no evidence to
back up these now it's very possible
because they have assaulted the USDA but
understand what the USDA is doing is a
function of the Trump administration and
the fact they can't sell their stuff is
a function of the tariffs but that's who
we're dealing with though and when it
comes to these Republicans meanwhile the
big story john bolton gone by here is
Fox and Friends try to work this out so
this is number two actually kill me too
the outnumbered one okay this is
outnumbered okay so what happens is why
am i outnumbered I'm there's a lot of
other white people here oh oh I got
confused sorry there this morning it's
announced that John Bolton has been
fired right did he tweet it out did
Trump who did enough that's okay so
Trump tweets it out first
John bolt though clearly not Trump not
well yes somebody with somebody who can
put together a sentence tweeted it out
and in his name and then moments later
Bolton apparently a little bit upset a
little bit upset said that he offered to
resign last night and President Trump
said let's talk about it tomorrow and
apparently after I fired you
was the part that he left out of that
sentence gotcha but here is it was just
like what a Barossa
yeah I don't like to hear that let's
take on this tomorrow let's talk about
it tomorrow I mean look this is what you
do because you don't want it you want to
make sure that they don't steal any
pencils so that's the way that you do
that that's the way the axe drop around
here sharpies that is disgusting mustard
we don't we don't want we don't want
anybody walking away with the microphone
so it's like oh you're not fired
we'll talk about it tomorrow and then
all the locks are changed
I knew I wanted to I just didn't want
him to take home his mustache grooming
kit everybody to keep that here but here
is a Brian killed me trying to explain
this to everyone on outnumbered jumbo
that just texted me
oh just now he's watching okay yeah he
said let's be clear I resigned and I
said do you mind if I say that while you
were talking and he wrote yes
so John Bolton has just told me texted
me to said I resigned okay
so let me just be clear what happened so
Bolden says tweets out in response to
Trump saying this like I said last night
a resigned that he told me you talk
about it tomorrow and then probably
somebody got to Bolton and said like
dude you got to take that back and so he
texts kilmeade and says okay now you can
say that I I was einde
I totally resign I do like the comedic
potential though that Brendan pointed to
though of like I mean of course Bolton
said yes go ahead say it but it is funny
of like do you mind yes well that's the
weird part
no I do mind seriously I do mind
I resigned okay so he answered yes go
ahead
go ahead just answered the president's
tweet by saying why are we doing this
like why are we saying I know why we're
doing it it's a talk show why are they
doing it what why are we seeing this
play one against the other almost in
terms of you know what the narrative is
is it important or is it just that the
president has moved on and he's going to
hire a new national security well yeah
I'll tell you why we do this because
they're completely incompetent I mean
that it's very simple this is the 80th
time this has happened well you know
somewhere around like the 10th of 15th
time it became pretty obvious that's
great why we're just doing with shear
and comma just don't understand this
doing it over Twitter thing it's very
odd that's well is this a new face is so
strange Brian why are they doing this
Brian you're an idiot you believe the
capacity to pretend that there's nothing
happened right where to it's like you
look at your kids homework it's like
three times seven equals 28 and you're
like what does this mean
why are we doing this all right let's go
to the phones
can we just say though I mean very
positive news from the perspective of
warmongering with Iran and maybe even
regime change in Venezuela and just to
underscore two things this all amounts
like Donald Trump has put the whole
globe into a tailspin for something that
amounts right the globe that amounts to
absolutely nothing for the past couple
of years and then that he's still better
than your average Republican who
actually wants war with Iran sometimes
incompetence if used properly
I mean seriously yes if this was Rubio
or Jeb Bush yeah to certain extent I got
to a certain extent it reminds me of the
time at Air America when we were in
bankruptcy and we had no executives like
literally it just ran on inertia and the
absence of people screwing things up was
one of the more successful quarters that
we had had let's go to the phones you're
calling from a 385 area code I think
it's who I mean I think you called
yesterday is this is it the guy who
called yesterday great he's already the
most charming libertarian caller what's
your what's your name where you come
from
yeah so it's Josh I'm from Salt Lake
City Utah I just got to say real quick
Michael he said he was going to have a
migraine but I just he loved
libertarians so much that even
miraculously did get over it before I
called it in so not to get your hands
are any better than most so far all
right so what uh what was the what was
the point you wanted to to make yeah
and so basically use of the word and the
word on the privatized street is that
you you like the minimum wage Sam and
and I've watched your show a little bit
and yeah I think that makes a decent
point my whole thing with the minimum
wage and the
I asked you originally yesterday was why
do you want businesses to subsidize and
individuals bad decisions with a minimum
wage and so that's exactly what it is
like when you have okay let me just see
anyway let me let me just ask you okay
this notion of subsidized I'm not a
hundred percent sure I understand your
use of it that way but let's put that
aside for a moment what bad decision is
it that someone made that they're in a
job that what is the bad decision they
made that Agenor paying it there they
took a job that pays less than minimum
wage oh yeah well so what uh so here's a
I can't remember exactly the name of the
study you're gonna have to forgive me on
that but we can take it take it from my
word but there's a study that basically
says that in order to have success in
America you have to do three things you
have to graduate high school you have to
not have a child out of wedlock and I'm
having a Rick Perry poem and I can't
remember the third one there's another
thing it's like graduate high school
don't have a child out of wedlock and
get a job out yeah so the third one is
just get a job so these are the men
these are no no no my these are the let
me just be clear those are the minimum
things you need to do what in America to
not be in poverty okay so these are
these study shows and it's not
necessarily let me just be clear on what
the study the unnamed study is you're
saying this correlates it's not
necessarily well in that case here I
think we here it's the the Sahil and
Haskins success sequence yeah this is an
AE I paper okay so that you need these
five rules as a minimum right I mean not
everybody who graduates high school or
gets a full-time job
or gets married before having children
and waits at least till it get
to age 21 to get married and wait until
at least age 21 to have children it
turns out there was actually five of
them okay but I guess maybe there's
there's another a IPE paper a different
group that's a graduate high school get
a full-time job get married before
having children and that will those were
those are the success sequences I'm not
quite sure what that means if that
guarantees it a minimum it is he san
sanych you do those three things you're
not going to be in permanent poverty and
so what you want unfortunately is you
want businesses to step in when people
haven't done those three things and you
want them to say alright well you've
made bad choices you haven't you have
kids out of wedlock you didn't graduate
high school but hey we're just gonna pay
you $15 anyway even though the market
doesn't that's not exactly what the
market would value their labor at maybe
you were valued at a waiver at ten or
eleven dollars and actually we can talk
about how there are very low skilled
jobs that pay way more than that even
fifteen dollars an hour that the markets
dictate it but but what you want to
stand is you want businesses and and in
particular who would hurt the most are
the small businesses to subsidize
people's bad choices and bad decisions
and that is something I cannot abide by
that well okay first off let's
distinguish between what if what if they
have you're saying that there's no one
who graduates high school who has a
full-time job and who is maybe it has no
children or hasn't gotten married yet
that they don't so you'd have no problem
if someone made all those decisions
you'd have no problem with them with a
minimum wage in that instance is that
your point um at first I mean you know
everybody has to start somewhere and
then what happens is you gain skill no
but I'm asking you would you have a
problem with the minimum wage if it was
only for people that that that fulfilled
the wilcoxon wings success sequence
no okay so we don't get sued okay okay
wait wait so I'm just trying to get you
a point here it's not just sexual
relationship it's not just
it's not just that you think that these
people aren't morally deserving of $15 a
minimum or any minimum wage it's that
you don't you have a problem with the
government imposing the minimum wage on
a business yeah okay all right so so
let's just say that because I think the
other stuff I mean look the idea that
you don't think that they are morally
worthy I mean I may not subscribe to
your sense of morals and so you know
then it's really just like right you
don't need to strawman to get your point
across come on it's not about more
worthy well that's what I'm putting that
aside I mean that that success sequence
you're saying that why should they be
subsidized from making bad choices
that's just your assessment of bad
choices I mean well do you have a
problem basic Josh you have a problem
with bankruptcy you have a problem with
bankruptcy do you have a problem with
the concept of bankruptcy
yeah do you know what bankruptcy is
bankruptcy is when you have as an
individual or as a business made poor
decisions that have led your business to
go out to to be cash poor you can't pay
your bills so you get protection you
don't know well I don't understand why
because because the lenders don't
because of the private lenders that gave
you the loan for the business shouldn't
have I mean that's what happens
sometimes not just let alone it it's
also vendors therefore it's also vendors
don't get protection from vendors
somebody sells you you never you have a
you know I don't know you have a you
know a TV store business retail and
people sell you the TVs and you don't
pay the bill and then you go into
bankruptcy you get protection from from
the vendors as well okay so it's not
just lenders it's just people who sell
you stuff and you don't you don't have
the money to pay them back and so you
declare bankruptcy it's not just lenders
yeah yeah okay but so why do you think
that that's okay why do you think that
bad decision that a business person
makes and uses bankruptcy is okay
I mean I'm willing to dispense with this
but don't pretend you're not making a
moral decision about these individuals
when you don't apply the same thing to
bankruptcy to discharging debts in
bankruptcy but no I I don't know where
your well you're saying to me that if
someone makes the mistake if someone
makes the mistake by not graduating high
school or not getting a full-time job or
having children before they get married
that mistake makes them unworthy any
type of relief from government and I'm
telling you bankruptcy does the same
thing here's the difference though Sam
so when you're starting a business
there's no ABC staff to have a
successful of course there is of course
there's you don't think I can find a
paper that says here are the five things
that you need to do to be a success in
business you probably could find that
paper but it's not the K it's not
pragmatic it's not let's just move on
because I think yeah okay Josh I think
it's quite clear that that that I was
not strong my straw Manning you on that
but I'm willing to move past that
because it's clear that you have a
different set of standards for people
who would get the minimum wage than
people who do use bankruptcy that's fine
but you have a problem with the
government imposing on businesses what
the minimum wage would be right yeah
yeah I do have a problem with that why
because your again that goes back to the
my question you know you're basically
subsidizing people's bad decisions so
what happens what you need to do would
you have a problem with the government
doing it would you have a government
would you have a problem with the
government doing it if the workers met
your three special requirements from the
American Enterprise Institute yes I
would because okay so you don't have a
problem it's not because they made a bad
decision
you have a problem with government just
in general imposing a minimum wage on
businesses
yeah live a lot of reasons for that it's
not just what we were talking about
heretofore it's also it those minimum
wage laws end up hurting the people
they're intended to help the most well
that's not true you don't have data for
that but why don't we stay with one
point at a time do you think the
government has a right to tell a
business you must have a minimum wage do
I like to get does the government happen
right now no do you think the government
has a right to say to a business you
must have safe working conditions for
workers yes well how do you square those
two things if they're completely
separate issues because the minimum wage
is a consensual agreement between two
parties a business and an independent
contractor or person I guess and they're
saying hey I'm gonna do X amount of work
even if it's under $15 an hour I'm gonna
complete that labor for this price now
when you have safety in the workplace
issues the person might not have known
that that was there was safety issues in
the world what if the person knows that
it's dangerous to work in a in a like on
a construction site yeah anybody can
tell you that it's dangerous to work on
a construction site so if he agrees then
we don't need to have any safety
regulations Zeller you saying you're
making a classic freedom of contract
argument to me and I'm asking why you
decide that one part of the compensation
package is you can enter freely but the
other you can do you think okay time
line should exist do you think Josh do
you think overtime laws should exist no
I don't okay and do you think the child
labor law should exist yes I do
why can't a parent say to their kids
you're going to work because when before
you're a kid before you're an adult you
know your prefrontal cortex is not fully
developed you can't make informed
rational decisions at that point I'm
here kids I'm making the decision for
them well you can't hit they're not your
property you're not your parents can't
make decisions for you as a kid in that
sense because you're not you're your own
human being you can do whatever you want
to do is that right it yeah I know buddy
nobody's arguing that nobody's arguing
that that kids are slaves that I have to
do it I need anything their parents want
no it should be illegal because it like
I said before the age of like 20 years
old let's say I don't I'm not a
scientist well let's say before the
years of 20 your prefrontal cortex is
not developed you can't make informed
decisions so no you shouldn't have you
shouldn't be able to sign contracts in
order to do labor based on based on that
and so but back to the back to the root
of the issue hmm are you not are you not
subsidizing an individual yes you
haven't answered the question
because are you not subsidizing bad
individual choices by saying hey no
matter what you do you're going to get
$15 an hour how about this Sam do you
think that somebody should be able to
live in Malibu and and foot burgers as a
career do I think someone should be able
to live in Malibu I mean I don't know
are there any burger stores and milk do
they need to eat burgers I don't
understand I'll be at the homeowners
association that's your entire point I
think people live in Malibu and not be
able to live in Malibu I grew that also
when you hang seng don't you okay okay
well my point with that was yeah so
there are burger places in Malibu
obviously but the cost of living in
Malibu is pretty dang high or
and she was San Francisco or a lot of
probably where you're at in Brooklyn so
they're gonna pay more money if there's
no minimum if there's a minimum wage
they're going to pay $15 an hour if
there's no minimum wage then there's
going to be a bunch of people that say
hey I can't afford to live in Malibu
flipping burgers I'm going to move to
Texas or something like that
and so since people wouldn't could be
but wouldn't be employed by those burger
joints
they'd have to increase their wages
that's why the market is so fantastic
because when it turns out that people
are going to make good rational choices
for themselves right and so but the
government coming in and saying well
it's going to be the minimum wage is
going to be $15 an hour right even if
even you know in in Malibu
what's going to happen is the business
is gonna you know I gotta be honest with
you I gotta be honest with you Josh I
think it should be higher in Malibu I I
think I think I think I think I I think
it should be higher in Malibu I think 15
as a national wage because that would
put it you know at least somewhere in
line as to where it was relative to
productivity and inflation you know 35
40 years ago and I would say that in
places like Malibu the minimum wage
should be higher and I think we should
allow a place like Malibu to raise I
mean we do see states in fact raise the
minimum wage above the federal standards
I don't know if you have a problem with
that with with state governments doing
it I would imagine you do but in the
subsidizing bad decisions that's just
silliness to me because you can't we you
and I don't know what the situation of
those minimum wage workers are or aren't
and certainly you wouldn't want a law
that just says only people who do the
Wang Wilcox you know success sequence
are eligible for a minimum wage no I
think that the government has a right to
do it in the same way they have a right
to regulate other commerce other aspects
of Commerce and I don't know what it
means to be if I I I don't I don't
really spend too much time thinking
about whether burger
Clippers should be allowed to live in
Malibu or not I'm not sure you know it's
them I just want to know what it is
about the private sector that gives them
more authority than the state which is
at least hypothetically governed by
democracy like why should they get to
the spot that got the loan to start a
business so of course they have more
more authority on what on who they can
hired what wage they like but on who
they can hire because I guess one you
know news flash the government isn't the
one that took the risk the government
how do people get to that restaurant
with the burger-flipping how do they get
to the restaurant with the burger
flipping road really on a road private
road was it a private road excuse me
where where where where did what is the
infrastructure how the infrastructure
get there and that's actually I'm glad
I'm glad you guys are so interested in
my tax plan because what I would do if I
was president in the United States I
would I mean so I'm not the problem with
libertarians all say this is a quick
caveat I know you ever guest on the show
but yeah quit college yeah the problem
with libertarians is that yeah there's
no really one consensus thing about what
a libertarian is so for me personally I
do think that there should be some
income tax what I and an interesting
what I would do if I were President of
the United States I would lower the
income tax but I would hike the death
tax way up because I I just think that
well in this life what we should get and
what we should do as a fruit we should
get the fruits of our labor and so I
don't think that that you know when if
you're even if you're a billionaire 100
generations down the line you should
you're you know your great great great
great great grandkids should be set for
life I don't think that that's fair so I
think that we should increase the debt
tax we should decrease the income tax
and other taxes and then that we could
definitely fund roads and we could fund
the necessary functions of government
because there are there is a proper rule
of government for sure right
sets up businesses to succeed greatest
Thank You fellow the Wilcox Wang success
manual I mean the bottom the point is
the man the point is is that you you the
the government has the authority to do
this because these businesses can't
exist without the government in society
and we as a society make a decision and
it's a political decision do we want
people to be able if they are working
full-time job part-time job obviously
you know to get paid per hour if there's
a minimum wage situation do we want them
to be able to make a basic subsistence
salary on this and the answer is then we
don't need a minimum wage and it's
irrelevant then in practice it would be
completely irrelevant so why would you
call in about something that's not going
to have any implications for anybody
you're misunderstanding me no in some
places you can't know like I said in
Malibu you couldn't live on 725 or
whatever the minimum I don't know what
the minimum wage in California is no
yeah you're right about that
but that's why you move like you can
Luque so for example I was Josh Josh
John you're talking about someone I was
an hour - Josh flirt Josh - why can't
they Josh how much money do you think
your mind this guy this hamburger
flipper
how much money do you think this guy has
in reserve so he moves to Texas is it
know anybody in Texas what happens we he
gets into his car oh wait hold on for
second hold on for a second Josh I want
you to walk through this with me yeah
how much money does that guy on the bank
uh he can definitely say that's I would
$7 in the quarter he's living in Malibu
he's living in Malibu now you know the
statistics that over half of the country
can't raise $400
in an emergency right thank you for
proving my points because they make bad
decisions with their money okay yeah
exactly
all right Josh you for proving my point
Josh what you're talking about is a
fantasy
it is you you sight battle Sapiro you're
basically talking about ben shapiro is
like notion of like if they live on the
coastlines and their place is gonna get
flooded they could just flip their house
I mean you know the different different
dude you're not in reality and it's and
what's you know it's depressing you know
what's depressing though legitimately
you know what's hold up you can go back
and we can do this another ten minutes
but I have to just editorialize I you
are not in reality if somebody's making
750 now no you're literally not if
somebody does not have the capacity to
save because their actual wages do not
cover any of their immediate expect
where all of their immediate expenses
then they cannot save in fact that's
math and what I find really disturbing
is that if you're in a fantasy life why
don't you at least have a constructive
and positive fantasy life for people
actually having a better a better
scenario because you're literally no
dude you gotta explain how you're not in
the fantasy because these are tiresome
for us first is reality come on let me
talk let me talk so basically what you
guys are saying is that they can't my
plan or whatever ever you want to phrase
it now isn't gonna work because they
can't drive to Texas they can't afford
driving to text well they don't have a
car
I don't know if they have money for a
car they don't have money to put down
for an apartment I don't know where you
know what and if you're so nauseous
about let me just say if you are so
anxious about somebody living in Malibu
making a poverty wage you can totally
let that go because nobody's living in
Malibu of the poverty way so dumb
because it's a stupid ridiculous example
like a moral claim I think it's wrong
that people should have to move on a
whim every couple of months just so they
can survive there's no reason we need to
malodorous that way so you use Texas as
an example I'm looking at a map right
now there's nowhere in Texas where you
can afford a one-bedroom apartment on
working forty hours a week at minimum
wage and there's almost nowhere in the
question wait what about now that's not
true that is not true at all
all right well listen I I don't want to
get into the arguments about what the
cost of living is in Malibu versus Texas
and whether whether this fantasy
hamburger you can get you can get into a
car but Josh listen if I went through
Josh and start to pick apart your life
to see what decisions you have made that
are bad and decided that because of that
you should not be worthy of whatever you
get do you have a home do you have a
mortgage interest deduction do you own
your own home not right now I don't
think you should be able to eat
afternoon this car I mean honestly
recently like I I have a feeling that if
I was to come through there I would find
a moral reason to deny you if I wanted
to some basic subsistence boy you don't
have a house and you have time volatile
but yeah okay I think well I think maybe
I've done a bad job like I'm sympathetic
to people like I definitely think that
you shouldn't like obviously we don't
want to be living off of $9 an hour
nobody would argue that but it's your
mom's what I'm saying is you're not
helping people by by having these
minimum wage quote-unquote living wage
situations where they can they can just
get by you want people to thrive not
just survive right now you're making
first of all first of all anybody
anybody who has had any success would
never say that the that I'm in a better
position to have success if I'm making
$9 an hour than I am making $15 an hour
because $15 an hour gives you a
breathing
space to take more risk you know in your
fantasy world where it all it takes is
just some gumption and you can succeed
in order to buy this in order to buy a
copy you more more more opportunity to
take risk everybody knows this
that's why Josh you're you know like an
I don't know I I mean maybe this is a
guess but I imagine that you came from a
decent family that has a decent amount
of money and opportunity I'm sure you've
worked your way up the ladder but it was
always nice to have that that safety net
of your family oh yeah
right there's other people who don't
have theirs right there's other people
don't have that who there are other
people who don't have that even if your
folks have not given you an extra buck
the fact that you had that safety net
meant that you could take more risks
than someone who if they stumbled end up
having no safety net and you need to
start appreciating that Josh because
when you do when you start to reflect on
what your advantages even if they aren't
direct even if they're just in the back
of your mind have to have contributed to
your success you need to contemplate
what if I didn't have that what if my
family did not exist and if I was on the
street
yeah I'm appealing to emotion from
nothing yeah I'm appealing to emotion
because we're human beings
and the fact of the matter is that you
would not make the same set of decisions
if you didn't know that if you faltered
you had a back-up plan
that had nothing to do with you but had
to do with your family also know he's
what he's doing is he's articulating
Rawls which is the most basic moral
liberal there's nothing radical about it
if you spent less time like reading
silly internet threads and read some
intro to moral political philosophy no
I'm serious this is Rawls as thought
experiment that and you should love it
it's a thought experiment how would you
design a society from scratch if you
didn't know where you were in it that's
the opening question that's it Josh
appreciate the call even supported
yourself on
wage job we all know the answer to that
yeah well I know how I think we have
gotten good enough jobs I mean I have
worked minimum-wage jobs before I'm not
gonna lie to you and say you had backing
myself yeah I just like to point out
that the AEI is backed off of the
success sequence non slice you wait a
second let me appeal to American
enterprising Josh we've got some
late-breaking facts we got some latent
facts on your success sequence what
happens so they've backed off the
correlation and causation thing of like
you can just do this as a get out so
here's a choice phrase looked at this
way the elements of the success weakens
are less the cause of a good life than
markers of such life already underway so
structural things like being able to
finish high school
for instance means that you already have
a life that can get you through high
school and there are certain things like
and talk about like moving across the
country financially speaking if you're
like like family becomes much more
important when you're poor also like
just be having to move across the
country get this is why we're saying you
are not in reality pal john rawls
instead of the secret final battle where
josh go final word yeah of course
anytime appreciate the car anytime when
salmon vermin supreme coming election if
there's anything that has to do with the
Libertarian candidate it'll be for me if
your bot had a minimum wage I would
oppose it for you John I do love Fuhrman
supreme though met him a few times he's
pretty cool you're delusional
you are so delusional just why can't
your delusions be pleasant good news
ladies and gentlemen Donald Trump has
promised that he's going to release
extremely complete financial statements
before the next election it's you know
like I have all these stories that come
across that like minuchin today we
talked about tax cuts for 2020 it is
they're just throwing everything at it
three of you ends well we're gonna get
more tax cuts and we're finally gonna
reap repeal Affordable Care Act 2020 if
I get reelected plus my full financial
statements when a plane stops at a
massive International Airport and gets
fuel I don't know in the airport posits
intently he's what he's responding to is
the fact that they've been using all of
his like resorts as basically stopovers
and he made a deal in Scotland
apparently to reroute planes to get the
US you know it's all emolument stuff
it's for security yeah totally for
security my security financial security
good stay I own a lot of different
places soon you'll find that out when I
because I'll be at some point prior to
the election I'm going to be giving out
a financial report of me and it'll be
extremely complete I'm going to give out
I'm gonna give out my financial
condition and you'll be extremely
shocked at the numbers of many many
times what you think I don't need to
have somebody take a room overnight at a
hotel so yeah like it it's like he might
actually be finally making some real
money because my guess would be was that
his his wealth was literally
aspirational in some level like in a
sense in his head and I think now after
a couple years in the presidency he
might I'm feeling real feeling it laura
ingraham getting back into the mix she's
been mad of news for a while and she
sees an opportunity this is uh maybe
she's gonna get her own Kapernick story
she has been watching on
it's from the Patriots and Watson
basically is arguing it's based on this
piece that was written by Jamel Hill
it's time for black athletes to leave
white colleges because we do have a
system where you know and you college
students college athletes don't get paid
pay them they generate so much money for
these institutions that it is stunning
if you look at who the highest state
employee paid state employee in a lot of
states it's a football coach just a
football coach but the players don't get
played dude don't don't get anything
they you know they get like I saw
something that Lowe's was giving out a
lawn mower to a guy to a kid that was
the - yeah oh you're the Carolina
Panthers people yeah they gave out a
lawn mower from Lowe's to a kid who's
trying to raise money for college and
somebody did the math like wow the kid
would need to like mow 3,000 3,500 lawns
to you know pay for state school and you
know the bottom line is is like this is
out and out incredible exploitation and
it's very hard to look at these teams
and say hey this is there's there's a
sort of tinge of racial exploitation
here to maybe we're gonna go to areas
where maybe there's a decent amount of
poverty and this is their one ticket out
this is in one take it out and so the
idea that yeah of course
student athletes should be paid and they
should be unionized just like
professional athletes because they're
professional in every way except the
fact you know get paid they are creating
value without a doubt extraordinary
value and they pay them and then they
can pay their tuition how's that and
they should have a lot more left over
based upon what they generate but here
is the debate like how dare these people
action to this story we covered last
week or former ESPN anchor Jamel Hill
created a kind of stir with a piece in
the Atlantic where she argued that black
athletes should stop attending white
majority colleges
what's your reaction to this well I read
the article and and when I saw the the
rover and I read the article and I agree
with her she had some great points in
that article when you look at the
history of HBCUs and you look at the the
hundreds of thousands of black
professionals that have come from these
schools over the course of the last
several years since they've been created
and you look at what's been lost since
since integration has happened what she
was saying was something that athletics
is a multi-billion dollar business I
went to two historically white
universities Duke University University
of Georgia that have a lot of money
based on athletics what she was saying
that look we're to live in a time where
there's a big racial wealth gap the
average white family has a net income a
net worth that's ten times that of a
black family and so if we're able to
have some of these athletes that create
so much income go to some of these
schools not that white students don't go
and students of other ethnicities don't
go we live in time where everybody can
go wherever they want to but what she
was saying simply we're trying to pump
money and revenue into some of these
communities that there's still this big
disparity this may be a way to do it
obviously that's in a vacuum or other
other factors to figure it into that but
when you read her argument look she she
lays it out very cleanly and it's
actually something that that I agree
with positive things to note right here
one Benjamin Watson by a new favorite
Patriot a B you can look at the look on
Laura Ingram's face going like why the
hell did we book a football player who's
gonna sit here and completely make this
so obvious as to why there should happen
I thought we were getting a football
player here so that I could look like
the smart one yeah some extra context on
that is they thought Ben Watson would be
more of a conservative because he
defended drew breezes relationship with
Focus on the Family
okay so let's hear what that Laura
Ingraham has to say and it's actually
something that did I agree with all
right bench memo I think that Duke would
have not been thrilled about your not
being there but let's still leave it at
that
the college sports would certainly be a
lot different today if that if that's we
went down a color-coded way agreeing out
the submissions that's resegregate in
the country why don't we want that well
no because segregation as you know is is
government man this is a gracious this
is if you read the article and see what
you think I gotta go back yeah there you
go
so I want to make it clear incidentally
the when you're talking about a
university like Duke or Georgia the
hundred guys who may be on a football
team I don't think you're gonna be a
deseg you're gonna be segregating the
schools if those hundred athletes or 50
or whatever our african-american on that
team go to a historically black
university I mean in many respects it
makes a ton of sense I mean one these
these athletes should be paid as
professionals but if they're not at
least put it into a school that is going
to serve you know underserved
communities and provide more scholarship
and scholarship money and become more
competitive I mean the it's yeah it's a
great idea this really illustrates why
despite what Candis Owen says there's
really no home for black people in the
Republican Party right like he's a black
conservative but they just cannot like
there's just too much stuff where
they're just talking completely bill
there's no home that's I mean stunners
no home for Artesia and I were talking
about like for a person of color who
might just be like a normal conservative
you have to be like you know actually
the KKK is either well genuine total
crackpot you can't just be like you know
do you know how many guy Laura Ingraham
was with her producers after that
segment we've heard how mad she can get
with her do you know how mad she is
would you remember that loves oh yeah
we're she free oh yeah
freaked-out it to people how did you not
do a pre-interview with him how did you
not do a pre-interview with him and if
he lied he's never coming back on this
show cuz she had nothing
she had no response zero
I got hoodwinked she's thinking we've
got to find a new black athlete to come
on and criticize this idea
it's segregation all over again though
he just so you know because of the
weeks-long specials she's done on
segregation in education in this country
and how much she's she is really really
fighting against it daughter really
 cares about that Laura Ingraham
is she because she hates it because well
recirculating and she just wants to be
in a rainbow and she hates and she hates
that she hates that tremendously that's
why she wrote about the Obamas so much
let's talk about this Think Progress
thing for a while because this is really
upsetting to me actually in some little
look the Center for American Progress
back in 2004 when this thing was long I
don't know when they were launched it
was in 2003 2002 2001 somewhere around
there you have to understand that there
was very little infrastructure left of
center at all left the center at all
back at that time and but even at that
time people would talk about it some
people there too was like the Clinton
administration in exile and at one point
Center for American Progress real he's
like oh you know so much of this is
happening online we're gonna create
Think Progress very helpful tool for
someone in my business there just wasn't
the resources that we have today and you
had staff who are going out there and
they were digging up stories finding
stories reporting on stories that you
just wouldn't see in the mainstream
press
and some very good people came out of
there Amanda Terkel started her career
there I believe
who else did was come what's it uh
Milhiser David Sirota was a cap I think
you wrote for Think Progress a little
bit to actually and you know it has
become a little bit less relevant as
years have gone by because there's a lot
more competition and to a certain extent
ideologically they ended up not moving
as much with the rest of the I think the
the times on some level in some areas
some areas not but still did some good
reporting they unionized and back when
they unionized in 2018 I think it was
let's look at this even near Tandon oh
oh unions well they unionized at one
point I can't remember what it was but
here's near Tandon back in the day
talking about unions because of course
look EJ Dion's talking about some race
and near tenant makes the point maybe
people are waking up the fact the best
way to raise wages is stronger unions
which is I think a fairly standard
conventional wisdom within the
Democratic Party largely whether they
will actually carry through at times is
another question but that understanding
I think is uh is certainly not
controversial in the Democratic Party
the reality is also equally
uncontroversial there's just very hard
data that shows the existence of union
raises wages across the the whole
industry Dave waggle I had a tweet about
something about support for the Nissan
Union Drive in in Mississippi was this
in I didn't I don't think I don't know
if they unionized at that point but near
a tenant says this Union Drive is
important for people care about wage
growth this is critical so the other day
it was reported that that Think Progress
was closing funding it basically had
dried up again they were not you know
there was a certain amount of redundancy
now because you have a lot of other
outlets that that follow this news
social media whatnot
and then it became clear within a couple
of days they were gonna relaunch Think
Progress and not only that they were
gonna get rid of the archive of all the
work that the people who had done there
did which was evergreen work about
various issues climate change in the law
you know regulatory schemes I mean all
sorts of different stuff that was very
good sort of like down the middle as it
were reporting on this stuff that is the
nuclear option and on top of that yes I
mean it happens all the time with the
supposedly less reputable outfits on top
of that they were they had in like a
five-page memo announced to people who
are subscribing to Think Progress that
if you email us we will we will stop
taking your payments in other words
you've got to opt out now I will tell
you this cuz I'm smart I will tell you
this for a long time I wouldn't even
take year-long memberships to this show
because I was like I don't know if I am
gonna continue to do this you know early
on I wasn't sure if it was gonna make it
for like a first year or two I wasn't
sure like I could close up shop in a
month and if people are just doing
monthly I can end it and just shut it
down and I was like but I wouldn't know
how to refund the year-long memberships
the idea that you would do this is it's
despicable it's despicable
and so the Think Progress Union put out
a statement yesterday on Friday this was
on last Friday they think progress
Center for American Progress laid off
the entire Think Progress newsroom I
think progress Union is devastated but
incredibly grateful for the Solidarity
from our industry colleagues in Think
Progress alums thank you because of the
strength of Union we would ask you er
twelve weeks of severance pay health
insurance through the end of the year 11
unit members who lost their jobs
addition were able to secure half the
year-end revenue bonus promised in our
contract and we remain in talks to
secure the full amount however we're
blindsided by the revelation that cap
continues to operating Think Progress
site with its own labor
gabs and use the Think Progress social
media accounts to promote that work our
editorially independent unionized labor
power to impactful journalism to Think
Progress to take away our independent
voice and use the wide audience built by
Think Progress Union staff for other
purposes is in the front we ask that the
cap management keep think progress alive
as an archive site but not co-op the
site for non editorially independent
analysis and articles additionally we
are gravely concerned about caps
announcement on Monday they will not be
halting recurring donations from Think
Progress members instead they're
requiring those to proactively opt out
CAF has repeatedly said the decision to
shut down Think Progress was a financial
one made in light of larger industry
struggles but Think Progress was not
founded to be profitable we know that
this was never about money this was
always about power and control works
exploring our legal options it's been
reported that they are going to close
down the the donations and that they are
going to archive the site I also think
frankly that even if they continue on
with the Think Progress as an entity
with non-unionized people that they're
gonna run into a National Labor
Relations Board problem that this could
be a violation of National Labor
Relations Act and but more than this
more than everything I've just said and
even more than what it says about the
the values that they operate under
because they clearly do not walk the
walk on the values that they espouse I
mean it's just stunning
but how stupid are these people how
stupid are these people
I mean well are you serious are you
serious that you thought you could get
away with this
like in white universe like with all due
respect to beer attendant are you
serious
what for one second did anybody think
like Oh nobody's gonna notice that we're
basically using scab labor and we've
just basically violated the National
Labor Relations none of the people who
follow what the Center for American
Progress would ever notice this I mean
how the level of incompetence here I'll
tell you something if I was a funder for
the Center for American Progress right
now you know what I would be doing I
will be shopping around for a Center for
another American Progress because this
one may be part of the reason why we're
not having experiencing progress and I
would say if you're if you're a a
monthly donor you would be doing that if
you were like as an example the
government of the United Arab Emirates
or Pfizer or Exxon or any number of
financial services firms you might be
really digging it you'd be golfing yeah
you know I was actually really cool it
is still there Democrats and they just
violated the entire relations board
that's pretty cool by the way Tom
Daschle is on the board of you know I I
don't even remember all waiting there's
people be resigning from this board now
I mean I would be surprised if anyone is
still giving them money because they
think they believe in progressive values
I mean it's it you may be right about
that as well I mean but this is I mean
they're done I mean honestly you stick a
fork in this because no this is just how
bad it how bad at this do you need to be
well what else are they showing for a
return on investment on how like what do
they get 40 million a year I'm sorry I
have no idea but I mean like just come
up with a different name for the
organization to talk it in the corner
we're calling it you know what wait
wait a year where we're reintroducing
Think Progress we hide one reporter with
Union salary and the rest are gonna be
at whatever it is like even the most
cynical person would be like oh yeah no
we're not gonna get away with this I
would be more surprised at this point if
near attendant didn't pull some crazy
crap like this but also I'm sure she's
gonna find a way to twist this around
and say that anyone who's mad about the
Union thing in this gabs
is just attacking a woman of color out
of bad faith that's right
it's Bernie's fault let's face it all
young bros yeah getting everybody all
riled up see all of these toxic Bernie
supporters online and they're harming an
Ag us liberal institution unbelievable
really shocking did all right is why I
don't care that I'm RT sitting there
like there is one candidate who might be
a little bit more sympathetic to your
plight to say one you were bitching
about owning houses you idiots I think
near is just mad none of the writers
came to her defense whenever she gets a
ratioed on Twitter like what good are
you people hey possible it is a very
weird thing for them to have done but I
I mean it is what it is alright lastly
let's go to this this new ad maybe we'll
do the I don't know if I wanted to play
any clips of Tulsi and is there anything
well we'll see so this is an ad Valerie
Plame do people know who Valerie Plame
is she was the CIA agent I mean I
certainly I do who talked about it quite
a bit back in the day she the CIA agent
who was outed by the Bush administration
as a way of punishing her husband who
was a was an envoy a former ambassador
who was sent to I think it was Nigeria
to examine the yellowcake uranium story
that they had sent to sound to
to Saddam Hussein in the run-up to the
Iraq war to prove that there was a
reason for us to go into the Iraq war
when when her husband came back and said
and went public essentially with the the
fact that there was no and this is after
the launch of the war
her husband Joe Wilson who was a former
ambassador I can't remember from where
basically made it public that they were
desperately trying to to make it seem
like Iraq was a genuine threat to us and
after that there was some controversy
with Valerie Plame well let's play this
my assignment was preventing rogue
states and Terris from getting nuclear
weapons you name a hot spot I lived it
then if Chinese chief-of-staff to
prevent against my husband and leaked my
identity his name scooter libby
guess who pardoned him last year I come
from Ukrainian Jewish immigrants dad was
in the Air Force my brother almost died
in Vietnam my service was cut short when
my own government betrayed me we left
Washington to raise our kids in New
Mexico one of the best places on earth
now I'm running for Congress because
we're going backwards on national
security health care and women's right
[Music]
we need to turn our country around and
yes the CIA really does teach us how to
drive like this you've probably heard my
name mr. president I've got a few scores
to settle
[Music]
I don't know I mean that's an incredible
ad I'm with her
III you know like no it's like you're
with her except she's hot I can
understand that you need an ad to just
sort of break through the noise this
doesn't seem to promote many policies
other than it seems like freeway freeway
driving we really need right now is to
beef up the security state beyond what
it already is the one good thing it does
is it ties Trump to the Bush
administration and Republicans in
general but other than that yeah I mean
I like that part of it and she also made
a point of saying that she had Jewish
ancestry because of there was a little
bit of a of a anti-semitic tweet
situation back in the day that she
quickly backed off I think two hours
later or something some some story she
had Jews cause the wars but but you
can't blame her for that
I asked Alan Dershowitz once I said why
did the Jews cause the wars fascinating
guy I mean I think we were seeing you
know we saw there's something Amy
McGrath when she ran for Congress to
write in in Kentucky she was like
there's just like this using of like
this sort of the military the national
security state and sort of like you know
you know it's a way of women to project
that they're like strong and like look
at me but then that also really start I
mean it wasn't that very extensive I
mean Rahm Emmanuel's whole 2006 House
strategy was get vets get cat like that
whole like well people these are people
coming back from the war in Iraq well no
I mean how to be clear my problem is
definitely not with vets but it wasn't
these people have a firsthand
consequence of the wars it was don't
even talk about Iraq literally just show
off some type of pedigree and do ads
where you're in a plane and show that
you're tough well I mean wrong Ron
explicitly said in 2006 I'm sure people
ignored it but his directive was not
even to have a position for or against
just don't discuss I think I think the
was I think there was I mean a lot of
those vets were talking about Iraq at
the time when they come out because a
lot of that that was when you know that
was the supposed anti-war election but
not all from ROM I mean I just reread
his stuff I don't know Grameen he loved
all of it ROM supported it and what his
olive branch was don't talk about it we
go talk about prescription drugs right
2006 is about prescription but there it
is all right all right I'm gonna do a
30-second thing if you've been hanging
on the phone for longer than four
twenty-nine minutes or more I will get
to you if it's been less sorry folks
let's go to the phone's call from a four
seven nine area code who's this where he
come from
hey Sam it's Joe from Arkansas Joe from
Arkansas
what's on your mind Joe straight away
and apologize for the last call because
it was a little made of you know
borderline anti-semitic impersonation of
you that's so fine Matt was right you
know people in Arkansas doing Sam cedar
impersonations probably a good thing
yeah I think it's it's nice
well what else are gamma-gamma back
hurts I'm Sam cedar there there was an
awesome TYT clip about a week ago on my
Congressman Steve Womack in the third
District of Arkansas which is a pretty
wicked place it's the home of Walmart
and Tyson Foods but he was here at a
town hall and he got booed pretty
profoundly for saying that gun violence
was because there was enough God and
then he blamed single mothers after that
which was pretty awesome I was late to
call her from earlier right
did you know point out that that um that
his concept of God was a function of a
single mother
well I don't know about that but I know
folks who about lost my top earlier with
with the whole libertarian collar
because uh I'm not even to get into it I
just I I just want to thank Michael
right off the top for telling him that
he is in a fantasy world because that's
where that dude lives that is in a
fantasy world and not a nice one not a
friendly thing yeah it's not even a good
one and he said if you're you know he
said people make good rational choices
have left of their own but then he
called the majority report to make that
asinine argument
I appreciate the college oh that's good
joke he's coming through that's good all
right we're gonna do about 30 seconds
here comm from a3 600 area code who's
this where you calling from you've got
30 seconds go yeah this is Matt from
Washington go Matt so so I'm calling to
find out like about the trade war Trump
keeps insisting that the Chinese are
stealing our IP now so what dr. Richard
wolf says Richard wolf says the Chinese
view it as the deal since the inception
of all free trade between China and the
US is that the deal has always been
their cheap labor for our IP but I can't
exactly find that on the internet just
myself because I'm not that internet
literate I'm wondering how does that all
work and is dr. Richard wolf right oh
boy I don't know I don't have that at my
finger I don't know I have a feeling my
guess is that was more of a unspoken
understanding that you know people like
Thomas Freeman basically say that yes
that like there was like when it came to
there was there was stealing IP and loot
like you know hey you can bootleg you
can you can sell knockoff DVDs or Nikes
but now this is about the future of IG
or 4G or whatever so that is the Richard
Wolffe point I think it's true and I
think he's right that there is a huge
amount of Us corporate hypocrisy look at
Sam he's finding China on the globe I
appreciate the call it's a nice looking
globe calling from a 307 area code who's
this where you come from from Wyoming
and what's on your minds 30 seconds I'm
calling just I'm trying to get the word
out about the work that's happening out
here in Wyoming the white people
probably wouldn't believe it but you
know the work happening in Wyoming for
immigrants there's a we've been fighting
a campaign for two years to try and stop
a private prison from being built out
here it'll be a 500 bed facility we're
just trying to get the word out that
there's people here fighting in Wyoming
and fighting hard you know what I mean
yeah what is your website that we can go
to or where can we get more information
yeah yeah um why else they know WI oh
they know calm WY on there check out
everything I know yeah yeah calm and
living in a libertarian state I love
those videos of you eatin those dudes up
man oh well thank you I appreciate it
well good luck what would we have it
here you need a County y ou say no we
will put a link to this in our podcasts
description and and check it out keep on
fighting the good fight yeah thanks for
your effort to appreciate it thanks for
calling thank you come from a 607 area
code who's this where he called from you
got 30 seconds claim from a yes yes
caller the libertarian you know it seems
to me that it again the sides are drawn
between those who believe that the poor
are poor because their own fault and
those of others of us who believe the
poor are poor because of systemic
impoverishment and not to trot out my
crackpot ideas but I've been perusing
Pisgah vana nominate a by Trisha wits
and West and they say the central
message of modern socialism at this
stage of Industrial at the stage of
industrial development is that the hard
fact is every year there's going to be
more people and proportionately fewer
jobs right you know this has been legacy
yes
all right gotta go appreciate it that
was 50 I gave you an extra 20 seconds
appreciate the call thank you well you
get oh I think he was gonna say you gave
that idiot 20 minutes Batarian well yeah
we all know that the time from it yeah
we all know how it works around here
come from a 6-1 Oh area code who's this
where he come from six one oh yes told
Elfi of me I would see concerning he
remained okay a few weeks ago it was
missing people after hours at the place
where they were handing over their goods
and valuables like forward to ID etc
well that office quote I'm sorry I'm
sorry I cannot make out what you're
saying God back often and football is
not topics come from a 703 area code
who's this where he come from
703 703 area code con once
703 703 703 good day calling from a 406
area code you got 30 seconds who's this
way come from this and this is Brennan
from Montana Brennan from Montana I just
wanted to ask you well first off that
first caller was a great a I can't
even handle that crap the main thing I
wanted to call for was ask you how do
you organize in a rural area like I live
in Montana where people are just so
inactive and don't give a damn about
things like climate change I tried to
start a sunrise movement chapter here it
went all right for a little while so now
I'm with a few friends doing a called
the Northern Rockies socialists rifle
creation that we just started so oh yeah
hopefully we have better luck with that
any tips you have well I mean I think I
mean frankly you know I think you're on
to something insofar as like wrap it
into something social I mean you know I
would imagine that the other attribute
of living on Montana is that there's not
necessarily a whole lot of stuff going
on maybe I'm wrong but if you can wrap
it in to something social as well then
maybe you're onto something other
national parks undertook over there
because you that might be initiative
your ally around thought oh yeah we
haven't been breaking them enough I
don't think either because they keep
lighting on fire that's why I thought
maybe the climate thing would strike
with some people but well conservation
is always big out there and you start
where people are and then you bring them
to where you want them to go appreciate
Toccara at revel of radio he's got some
good ideas on being a leftist organizer
in a rural red state um also one thing
that he said to us that I thought I
hadn't really thought of before was when
you are a leftist organizer in a place
like that where there's so few of you it
kind of feeds into like a nice kind of
left unity that we don't always have in
places like New York City because you
really have to work together despite
whatever factional differences you may
have you know come from a 6'5 one area
code who's this where he come from hey
Sam this is Isaac from Minnesota
Isaac from Minnesota you are the third
to last caller thirty seconds go oh boy
wonders buzz
all right so this is going to be a bit
of a scattershot call Michael um first
off Lula Libre and do you have a release
date on on the book yet to be able to
get it different this uh no sorry early
after Christmas apologies I'm surely
worth it but speaking thank you contents
of the book I know a lot of people
wanted to talk about the soul together
and Dave Rubin bit but I don't know if
you guys saw but Sam Harris was on David
Pakman you know is this thing that was
just it was a hilarious display of David
repeatedly having to tell Sam no family
mean little lefties are dealing with or
not everybody and sam harris is just a
very petulant person and i think one of
the biggest things I got him is that he
had this idea that he's the only
rational actor and everybody else is a
monolith of idiocy it was a
fascinatingly dumb performance by Sam
and I was just wondering if you guys had
check that out of you're gonna haven't
seen it yet may cover it appreciate the
call
thanks man all right we got two more
calls coming from an a-10 area code
who's this we come from hey Sam this is
Spencer from plant Spencer from Flint
you got 30 seconds go all right I just
want to say I love the majority report I
don't miss a single one
not even a show and I wanted to know
your opinion on gain unionization
specifically with valve and you know
what you kind of remind me of a little
character from a valve software video
game
Sam Sam looks like the half-life man
character I think you're saying no no no
he looks like a character from left 4
dead 2 because you're the biggest
 boomer I've ever met I love you
guys all right I don't know that
reference I don't know any of the
references but it sounded like if I did
it would be funny you just call you a
boomer yeah I appreciate for it come
from a 501 8 area code I'm not I'm
technically a gen Xer more than
technically why Imaginext your def calls
from a 5.8 area code you are the final
caller of the day you got 30 seconds go
five one eight five one eight you are
not the final hello you are not the
final caller of the day seven two seven
call from a seven two seven area code
who's this where you calling from do we
lose the phone's 77
last one come for a three one nine area
code who's this where you come from we
are done with calls ladies and gentlemen
all right we will see you tomorrow in
that
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I just
where the choice is made so the option
when you don't get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
the teacher takes you yeah
