[Music]
speaking of loss of trust and
responsibility this is just unbelievable
story out of Arizona excuse me
out of Phoenix yes the police department
is failing to identify a cop seen in
this video it was a couple drave on Ames
and Aisha Harper she was pregnant
they had their two young children in the
car apparently they were in some store I
don't know what it was like it may be a
toy store or some type of department
store one of the kids apparently took a
Barbie and they got into the car it's
unclear whether the parents were aware
that the kid had taken the Barbie or not
and here's how the cops reacted you will
hear it if you have kids in your car
you're going to want to skip this and
you should know if you're not seeing the
visual that there are multiple cops with
their guns drawn over a Barbie but don't
imagine for a moment that just one of
the little girls in the car took a
Barbie from this store just imagine that
the couple they they shop lifted I don't
know a TV or like an iPod or whatever it
is that you think is of some value that
the cops being told that there was
shoplifters
because I'm just trying to set this up
so that you can give the cops the
greatest benefit of the doubt
shoplifters in that car you will hear
the cops yelling you will hear the man
Draven aims basically be as compliant as
he possibly could and you'll hear the
mother who is holding a one-year-old
child in her arms a pregnant mother
[Music]
their four-year-old daughter walked out
of the dollars yeah yeah
no get out the car record john
cornyn she just cried don't don't point
out my kids
[Music]
[Music]
that last voice was the voice of I think
just bystanders who are videotaping this
can't believe what they're watching
woman holding a one-year-old child and a
cop gets up into her face and starts
yelling at her and this is in Phoenix
they want the the woman to put the
one-year-old child on the on the tar
it's been what you know 95 degrees there
it shows how messed up a world we live
in that my primary feeling right now is
relief that nobody got murdered yeah
yeah they got a cut they got to release
the name of that cop uh yeah at least
apparently and there were two cops there
who seemed to be completely out of
control
yeah the one who came into the woman's
face at the end who had just like you
know yelled at the other guy who was
basically like I'm gonna get shot he was
worried about getting shot he's like I'm
complying I'm complying they will not
release that guy's name
the other cop that cop who they won't
release his name apparently is you know
on some type of suspension or something
like that the other one is out on the
streets yeah everyone who thinks that
the left is hyperventilating about the
threat of fascism fistic elements
already exist in our state and it looks
a lot like this really just just
disgusting you got to wonder at one
point I mean you know what kind of
training is going on that no one is
stopping this cop its partners not
stopping this cop four year old girl
took a a Barbie
