[Music]
right here is apparently there are these
seismic airguns but do these tests for
their their apparently some tests that
they're doing with these seismic guns
off of the coast of South Carolina I'm
not clear why they're doing them but the
administration apparently in the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration allowed for this I bet I
guess these seismic testing it probably
for drilling right and gonna go there
and so the you know all these obviously
all the oil interests want to be able to
to test whether there's oil down there
and so they're going to send these like
these audio horns that ripple through
the water and I guess you know they can
measure with sonar the absorption rate
from underneath and it's probably like
you know knocking on a wall to see if
it's drywall or if it's plaster if it
sounds hollow that type of thing and
apparently oddly enough if you have the
ability to project a sound that can
ripple through water and hit the ground
under you know who knows how what kind
of depths and then reverberate back so
that you can measure whether it is oil
there that the living creatures who
exist within those waters who may be
sensitive to smell just to sound maybe
get around using sonar right well the
sea comrades like whales and dolphins
and whatnot apparently it messes with
them but not if you're in the Trump
administration where you do not
recognize the that marine life should be
in any impediment whatsoever to the
fossil fuel profits South Carolina's
first District which is a coastal area
from Charleston all the way down to
Hilton Head it's fair to say that
seismic air gun blasting is extremely
disruptive and loud
correct I didn't hear the last book it's
fair to say that seismic airgun blasting
is extremely loud and disruptive is that
correct I don't I I don't know exactly
how loud it is I never actually directly
experienced it myself and when you say
disruptive I can't answer that question
unless you elaborate on what you mean by
disruptive to what okay let's say do you
think a the sound of a washing machine
is loud or disruptive not particularly
okay what about say like an air horn
you're getting there okay
mr. chair I'd ask for unanimous consent
to sound an air horn in committee I is
there objection to the gentleman's
demonstration without objection the
gentleman mr. Chairman I would assume
that it will annoy us but it won't kill
us hearing no objection the gentleman
may may demonstrate thank you I'd like
to give anyone an opportunity to leave
if they would find it bothersome again
mr. chairman I suspected that
opportunity also exists for every whale
and other little critter in the ocean
positive okay now listen I just want to
go back here because what the there's
one Republican who showed up at this
committee hearing and he is the co-chair
and he is the one who's saying that like
it's gonna be annoying but it's not
going to kill us right the idea being
it's not going to kill the whales now go
back when he says they sit and watch the
Trump official watch him clap when this
guy says it right there okay right
before that watch this I mean I would
assume that it will annoy us but it
won't kill us hearing no objection the
gentleman may maybe I like giving one if
they would find it bothersome now well
here's the other thing too like the
little critters in the ocean they can
move too if they don't like it they
don't know Sh in they can if they can't
find food somewhere else they can just
call seemless or something like that and
have it delivered to just get on caviar
do you remember that a ridiculous
conspiracy theory that was reported as
like just
news that there was some type of sonic
weapon used in Cuba against US diplomats
turned out to be like mosquitos or
something again mr. chairman I suspected
that opportunity also exists for every
whale and other little critter in the
ocean I don't think there they receive
advanced notice of the seismic testing
in in cetacean language but act you told
us that they get to ten seconds with
interval between every blast I think
there'll be plenty of time to go to the
gentleman thank you ocean all right guys
let's move let's go to a different
section of the ocean was that disruptive
stralla ver so it was irritating but I
don't I didn't find it particularly
disruptive yeah but every say ten
seconds like salesman Garriga and
blasting goes on for four days weeks
months if I were that close to it yeah
probably yeah well if you depended on
sound for hunting your food and for
communication do you think it would be
disruptive at a distance of 20 feet yes
it would be how much louder do you think
seismic air gun blasting sounds than
this air horn you just heard I honestly
don't know
hey you guess ten times at a distance of
how far well say say say you're within a
reasonable distance say with you the
earth in quarter-mile is it ten times
twenty five times
honestly don't know I mean can you take
yes no hundred times you think it's a
thousand times at times louder I doubt
it doubt it well if I were telling you
it's sixteen thousand times louder and
what you just heard here you see how
that would be impactful on marine
species and mammals I do which is why we
put mitigation measures in yeah Wow
you know what told me every ten seconds
here's a little hint Yeah right here's a
little hint if you're ever testifying
and
suggest to you a number like a thousand
times
don't say I probably not that big
because it's probably bigger than that
if they're raising that number should
have said a million well I mean what he
should have started with is like two
times you think it's two times I think
it's ten times but nevertheless I mean
you know this is not in the great scheme
of things it is not the most horrific
thing that the Trump administration is
doing it at the Republican Party
prioritizes or I should say is is is
perpetrating but there is absolutely a
relentless desire to provide profits to
the fossil fuel industry and so there is
nothing that's gonna inhibit that
whatsoever
you know when Posada Streb Ellucian
comes his ass belongs to the sea
comrades yes about that guy I would
actually say before that scenario
exactly if you know I think we could
he's the reason why those Bond villains
came up with that pool of piranhas
that's promised to step into that's what
I'm saying
you know I'm not thinking revolution I'm
thinking Goldfinger
