[Music]
here is let's play this from Stephanie
cutter because this is important to
understand how this is breaking down
you're starting to see and this is the
way they roll out campaigns Donald Trump
was hitting Joe Biden because Barack
Obama hasn't endorsed him yet
and that should not be a surprise to
anybody because it would be highly it
would be very strange for him to endorse
at this at this stage but what we are
seeing is a lot of the people from the
Obama world I think the other day was
David Axelrod now it's Stephanie cutter
and which is not to say that Axelrod is
still welcome in that world in many
respects but maybe he is a little bit
Stephanie cutter but they're all talking
about pooh-poohing Bernie Sanders in
some way they're all running some type
of interference in in the areas in which
they can I will remind you and you know
what we should actually look to try and
find out who that a reporter was do you
remember in the run up to the 2016
primaries some reporter I think I
contacted you and to get to me yeah I
don't run a good name but I did yeah
yeah but we could find it and you know
wait for it but a report from a leaplet
yeah a reporter from Politico wanted to
oh it's interview maybe was in
background or just to get a quote or
something he was doing a an extended
piece on martin O'Malley and the way he
put it to me was martin O'Malley wants
to know what he has to do to edge out
Elizabeth Warren and I was like
Elizabeth Warren what are you talking
about she's not running for president
Bernie Sanders is and he's like habit
he's not worried about Bernie Sanders
he's just like the popularity of it
Elizabeth Warren hats I'm like what are
you serious
Bernie Sanders is going to do very well
in this primary and he's like haha I
mean literally laughing there's a level
of cluelessness in some circles they
just don't get what's happening on the
ground and right now regardless of how
you slice it there is a left lane in
this primary and according to this
Emerson poll 41% of people supporting
the two candidates in the left lane here
is Stephanie cutter at the health equity
summit which is sounds like fun
well it sounds like we're actually gonna
provide equity for everybody but I think
is that a name of an insurance company
or what is maybe it's more like people
have equity by investing in health
insurance company let's hear House
Democrats are having a hearing on
Medicare for all most of the candidates
on the Democratic side all 24 of them I
don't know if anybody has joined the
last 24 hours
have either commented on Medicare for
all or have signed on to it but what
does that really mean that's a really
good question because nobody knows
exactly what Medicare for all means the
only one with a very distinct Medicare
for all plan out there is Bernie Sanders
and he wants to replace the entire
health care system including Medicare
and put a universal plan in place along
the lines of Medicare for everybody
that's not gonna happen first of all I I
don't think Bernie will be President
don't tweet that because there'll be a
lot of hate on my Twitter one of the sad
things about Stephanie cutter is that
she's not aware that video exists and so
health equity incidentally is literally
a company
that helps provide services to
administer health savings accounts which
are not going to be terribly useful in a
an era when you're going to have
single-payer so I mean the the idea that
they're gonna poop who this is
I think healthy like that's exactly what
I want those people at that health
equity for absolutely and I think we
don't have to worry about it's not worth
spending a dime that's not worth
spending a time on and Bernie's the only
one who's gonna do it I'll take that
message as well
if the opponents of Medicare for all
were smart they would launder their
message a little bit more before it got
to the public I also think the other
thing too I mean I just want to you know
say I think that obviously people across
the board can be really ridiculous on
social media and I think the key Bernie
campaign is is definitely trying you
know even if at times I think there is a
extreme double standard too to have
people you know behave in a way that
helps the campaign but you know a little
sympathy to people's anger there I think
that is where the legitimate part of
people's serious frustration comes out
is a highly compensated consultant
basically laughing off their ability to
have health insurance it's pretty
disgusting yeah
well that's a big problem with the Obama
people broadly speaking is that there is
a lot of like we there's a little bit of
lip service but now it's cashing in
