listen we can all sit around here and
joke but there are horrible stories
about what is happening to individuals
in this country to immigrants in this
country no I'm not talking about the New
Yorker story of the five year old girl
from Honduras who was coerced to the
extent that you can coerce a
five-year-old from signing away their
rights to a judicial hearing like I
don't even know if you can call that
coercion it's like taking the rights
away from a baby yeah exactly we will
get to that story it is a shocking story
of the of the the kidnapping in the
kidnapping that we're doing maybe you
know we do it nicely we we get the kid
to sign her name on a piece of paper
with having a five-year-old myself the
idea of this is just repulsive that's
not this five-year-old girl from
Honduras is not the only other immigrant
who is being subjected to horrible
things there's another immigrant to this
country who's also been subjected to
unimaginable hardship and picking on and
of course I'm talking about the first
lady Melania Trump sitting down with the
ABC knows what is it about social media
because I remember you talking about
this during the campaign what happened
to you personally or what did you see
personally that you thought you wanted
to tackle this issue I could say I'm the
most bully person on in the world you
think you're the most bullied person
what one of them if you really see what
people saying about me you're an adult
you say you're strong okay pop is it
possible you could literally say
anything I just would like to add that
right you but then he then the ABC
interviewer questions it out of and and
it's one of those questions where it's
almost like you don't need to be a
reporter with any experience in the
world to do that it's literally like he
couldn't stop himself from asking that
question almost seemed like softball
energy could you clarify like I am
did I misunderstand what you said did
you say that you were the most bullied
person in the world and then she backed
off it I'm up there as one of one of the
most half-10 I mean one of the most
bullied I mean honestly super stunning
now maybe if he'd asked another question
like do you feel bullied from your
husband maybe some of this might come
into a bully someone you ignore other
thing exactly I could say I'm the most
bully person on in the world
you think you're the most bullied person
what one of them if you really see what
people saying about me during adult you
say you're strong
have you thought about what would this
do to a child to my son to other
children
that's why I mean in other words in
other words what if you actually were
bullied like would that be hard for you
or and instead it turns out to be like a
nice softball question for her to
promote this is what I'm doing but folks
look she's going to talk about her be
best to her program I think she came up
with that name or so be best
that's why I you know might be best
initiative is focusing on social media
and online behavior we need to educate
the children of social emotional
behavior so when they deposit I will say
this and I think this is this is this is
I have to credit her with this I have a
five year old son and literally I can
simply say that's mean don't be like
Donald Trump and he understands what
that means I mean to a certain extent
he's been very educated by this to the
extent where you know that you don't
want to be mean because you don't want
to be like Donald Trump so emotional
behavior so when they
grow up and they know how to deal with
with those issues that's very important
also with opioid abuse we have a big
crisis in United States wait what
everyday I am struggling not to take
opioids because of majority reports key
who make fun of me
every day and I want to opiates but I am
strong woman also anybody who wants to
feel sorry for her she was right there
in lockstep about the birther stuff and
she's done a number of other take opioid
yes maybe because if you are not from an
opioid state you would be nicer supposed
to say opioid Christ be best beep if I
be best I mean don't bully and don't
take opioid here are the two steps to
being best number one you don't bleep
someone on snapchat or Instagram and
number two you don't do a Pew it and
then you will be part of best just say
no oh forget it
bullied just forget about it I was
supposed to be a retired safely in May
so it's two years ago I never see this
fat honored man again do you think for
this I'm talking about bullying do you
think there's a chance I will ever even
come back to America before we're out of
the White House could I
is it possible I could just keep going
to different places where else is there
also Africa what else
he makes where else aren't the car so it
blows the fumes in my face I walk around
I'm going to spend the next three months
in Vienna telling everyone to be best
yes yes the best be best but not like
Beyonce best
I'm tired of cultural quality
