[Music]
this is there is a report that from
October of 2014
mind you this is under the Obama
administration to July of 2018 Health
and Human Services Office of refugee
resettlement received 4,500 complaints
and the DOJ 1300 of allegations of
sexual abuse by unaccompanied minors now
understand that the number of
unaccompanied minors went up
dramatically in 2017 2018 because of the
Trump administration basically deeming
any kids that they then separated from
the parents as unaccompanied minors so
there's clearly something fundamentally
wrong with this policy period part of it
is kids are sent here without their
parents because they're trying to escape
a horrific situation in their home
country and parents assume that their
kids are gonna have a better shot at
getting in which obviously you know
they're in a foreign country maybe they
get picked up by relatives we don't know
so this is a highly poor they're placed
180 of those allegations were by staff
or the allegations were against staff
members here is Ted Deutsch this is
number four talking to the health to the
HSS office of refugee resettlement
commander I guess on these reports which
are now just coming out now I guess of
these allegations and
here we go commander white these
documents demonstrate over the past
three years there have been 154 staff on
unaccompanied minor let me repeat that
staff on unaccompanied minor allegations
of sexual assault
this works out on average two one sexual
assault by HHS staff on and I'm gonna
company minor per week these documents
tell us that there was a problem with
adults employees of HHS sexually abusing
children when you carried out the
zero-tolerance policy for you and mr.
Lloyd when you carried out the policy
you knew that putting thousands of kids
you knew that putting thousands of kids
into a situation where they were at risk
of sexual abuse was going to be the
result did you discuss this issue before
going forward did you discuss the threat
of sexual abuse to these kids among each
other were there discussions with staff
representative let me first correct an
error those are not HHS staff in any of
those allegations that statement is
false those are cows no no no no sir
those are not a checking of allegations
commander white yes again once every
claim I time commander white I don't
have a lot of time and you know what
I've seen you know what I've seen in
these reports that were delivered to us
buried in stacks of documents this thick
without any any notation I saw thousands
of cases of sexual abuse if not by HHS
staff then by the people that HHA staff
oversees I'll will make that
clarification
it doesn't make what happen anything
less horrific it was our obligation the
administration's obligation to help keep
these kids safe child's best interest
safety and well-being of alien children
that's what we heard this morning mr.
chairman we failed and this is just the
start of what I believe to be a very
important series of questions that this
administration must answer I yield back
I mean what's what's really devastating
about that is that is is not only that
that's something like this happens is
that despite the knowledge that this was
happening that they basically ramped up
their their housing of children we're
now housing something like fourteen to
fifteen thousand children and Health and
Human Services staff that guy is aware
that there is a significant problem with
sexual assault and their answer is to
just up the number of potential victims
essentially it's really grotesque it's
really just should be criminal
culpability for that if possible that's
that is so obscene
