apparently sub Gorka is still alive and
kicking and I'm always glad to hear that
but he has I suggest found that he's
probably not not going to be going on
his TV as much so probably shaves a
little bit less I certainly know that's
the way I react to it I didn't have my
Harry's raises hmm but of course there's
always Fox and Friends I'll go on that
let me somebody tune up my what is he
wearing what is it what is that what is
the pin he's wearing here why is he
wearing a pin what is the pin what is he
what is he doing that he wears a lapel
pin I believe that would be his fathers
or grandfather's of a tez ear and is
that still the Vitesse ear and I assume
so I'm still proud of being from Nazi
heritage but oh here he goes
his parents suffered under Nazi fascism
he's both wearing the fascistic medal
and complaining about them it's so he
never forgot exactly there is only one
party that has normalized violence in
America in the last two years and it's
not the Republicans let's remember James
Hodgkinson did not wear a manga hat when
he went to that baseball field in
Arlington he was a Bernie Sanders
supporter went there with an automatic
rifle and a pistol with a hit list of
what Republican congressman and he
almost killed one of them Steve Scalise
you look at the violence of anti-fur
they go they go prepared for battle to
those demonstrations the right doesn't
do that I mean what what is that all he
says honestly the right doesn't do that
well let's just look at Gorka himself
then we could go on to pictures of proud
boys the little brown shirts you show up
there of the neo-nazis and marched in
Charlottesville one of whom was just I
think convicted of beating somebody also
I don't know if people remember but a
woman was killed
by a neo-nazi there but here's Gorka
himself talking to a press person back
when he had his trademark Gucci
[Music]
he just shoves them and but but I mean
it's laughable the story they're telling
themselves and Mitch McConnell talking
about how senators were literally
subjects of violence interesting that no
nobody called the cops
it's weird right the depths they'll sink
they'll even disrupt a meal they'll
disrupt uh you well I should call the
cops if you don't report it right at
that moment couldn't possibly happen
isn't if the story were told sub Korca
ladies and gentlemen
