CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people then
conference rooms of any ELISA they are
unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday November 26 2008 een
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
David daen on the progressives quest for
congressional committee power power also
on the program today 13 agencies of the
Trump administration releases a report
saying that climate change is dire and
the administration vows to do nothing
about it
meanwhile the u.s. border patrol tear
gases families to keep us safe standoff
intensifies between Russia and Ukraine
Yemen peace talks set for December
whatevs meanwhile Trump far outpaced
Obama in his two-year a drone a campaign
and tomorrow Mississippi will possibly
elect a unrequited racist to the Senate
simultaneously the Senate will confirm
an unrequited racist to the federal
judiciary data shows meanwhile
right-wing violence rising in the United
States and coincidentally in a bid
rejoined to regain old friends Gavin
McInnes quintet's quits the proud boys
pretends to do it for the proud boys and
what are the proud boys they barely
exist anyways meanwhile how trump
protects iranian enabled terrorism and a
government shutdown looms as Dems look
to protect the Muller investigation
lastly Trump's recession watch GM
announces 15,000 layoffs all this and
more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen yes I hope you had a Happy
Thanksgiving we are all back and rested
well we're not all back but we're almost
where we're almost all back Jamie still
stuck at the border I think I don't know
it's possible she's nowhere near Tijuana
is she not I don't know do I do not know
it's possible but I trust everyone had
good Thanksgiving Matt I heard that you
got into an argument no I was I was more
just holding forth and didn't really
realize it until I was told about it the
next day
that I was a bit loud we talking about
Disney and copyright mmm in front of my
friends parents right
were they in any way associated with
Disney or no they they were sort of just
innocent bystanders but they seemed a
bit who were you talking to about just
everyone in the room
I love Matt's version of a drunken rant
like when he's good like at the holidays
he's sipped a little too much and it's
like a very genteel it's like you know
really gonna do it
the way Disney's just locking down a
parade of culture I mean I I probably am
guilty like enlightened Steve Bannon I
love it I'm probably guilty of a similar
type of moments but I'm just curious as
to how one gets there I think it was
because we were talking about Mystery
Science Theater 3000 which is the guy
figured his name is but he's very older
Joel
I can't remember now but he he said it
he we were talking about that and then I
mentioned his tweet about how Disney
gave us copyright fascism and Mickey
Mouse isn't funny and just kind of use
that as a launching off point good and
Michael did you have any sort of
completely non sequitur style arguments
with your I to thank you actually
it was pretty mellow to be honest all
right it was there was there's a lot of
there's a fair amount of political
agreement around the table so the fights
that we have won't report on no I see
okay and Brandon anything untoward
happening your Thanksgiving very normal
Thanksgiving at the Finn household gotta
say alright well God thank you for the
meal it's delicious you're welcome son
how's the city going it's going well dad
it really brings the Gentile energy my
son has entered into a stage where he
just says he hates me constantly now
he's five early after well he's he's
he's just joking however when it's
sister who's 13 constantly says that
she's not she's serious she genuinely
hates me he just thinks it's funny to
say that he hates me and then I say
alright Saul I'm enough I've had enough
of the joke I'm not feeling so great
about this and he goes can I keep
calling you but and do you let him go do
you cook out it yeah I know I say butts
okay I get that that's a term of
endearment he's like okay but funny kid
he actually has a sense of humor if he's
funnier than gab McGinnis but we'll get
to that later
so meanwhile while we were all enjoying
our families there were families at the
border several hundreds of people I
don't know what the percentage of
families were some were families some
were just children of parents or some
were just
parents of children and they have
traveled through Mexico they were at the
border attempting to cross and then of
course you needed to disperse them to
protect this country you understand
these people some of them had rocks some
of them may be trained in martial arts
we don't know and so we need to protect
ourselves and of course what did the
Border Patrol do well they fired
[Music]
high-density pepper spray and tear gas
according to the AP there were some who
I guess this according for the AP US
border agents fired tear gas on hundreds
of migrants protesting near the border
with Mexico after some of them attempted
to get through the fencing and wire
separating the two countries American
authorities shut down the nation's
busiest border crossing from the city
where thousands were waiting to apply
for asylum Mexican police had kept the
the migrant from walking over a bridge
leading to the Mexican port of entry but
migrants push past officers to walk
across the Tijuana River below the
bridge migrants walked along the river
to an area where only earthen levee and
Constantina wire separated them from
u.s. Border Patrol agents and an AP
reporter saw a u.s. agent suit several
rounds of tear gas after some migrants
attempted to penetrate it along several
points along the border and here is some
guy on Fox & Friends this is Ron Colburn
Colburn is from the Border Patrol
foundation he's the president of the
foundation that supports the Border
Patrol I'm not sure what they do the tax
deductible organization I would
imagine everybody's gotta got to work
folks and here he is going on Fox and
Friends to explain all we did with the
little kids is put a little pepper in
their eyes there was a small hole they
were able to puncture through the border
wall and they hurled also it's a rocks
etc at the Border Patrol agents and then
they fired the tear gas is that
warranted absolutely and to clarify the
the type of deterrent being used is OC
pepper spray it's literally water pepper
with a small amount of alcohol for
evaporation purposes it's natural you
could actually put it on your nachos and
eat it so it's a good way of deterring
people without long-term harm oh so
those Mexican and Honduran and
Guatemalan people could put it on their
nachos they should be saying gracias
yes gracias that's what I say gracias
unbelievable couldn't couldn't miss the
opportunity couldn't miss out can I just
interject something briefly here it just
occurred to me I know we don't really
debate the use of the word fascism on
this show this not that much but we're
all I think we're all basically on the
same page but it's like a manufactured
fake crisis which is the caravan and
then the actual barbarism of this is I
mean you're starting to get extremely
textbook now very textbook very textbook
here's some photos of some of those
lucky migrants who are able to get some
of that pepper spray and I guess
theoretically put it on their their
nachos as you can see the kids are in
diapers and that's the most dangerous
type of child I can tell you that and
there's the mom wearing the frozen
t-shirt which is also you know obviously
incredibly dangerous to the American
people and and I think actually in the
background I think yeah there you go you
can actually see a stroller back there
across the
the ravine their crisis child actors yes
of course
and thank God we're being protected from
these folks listen we don't need more
children running around in strollers I
can tell you that coming from stroller
central in Brooklyn I'm very very glad
that we are firing a pepper spray at at
parents and their children so that they
can't make their way up here and
endanger all of us fabricated that in
front of Hugh train stops oh yes
absolutely and in fact here's Thomas
Holman he is the former acting director
of the US Immigration and Customs
Enforcement and I think he's now the is
he still the executive director are now
of ice he stepped down but there's
speculation that he will take over for
Nielson when she's aa generic so of
course he's going back on fox news truth
yes and here he is saying that that
these asylum seekers this is all just a
game for these people or is there is
there's heartache when you see those
pictures pictures there's the rule of
law the president continues to hammer
down on how do you address Lhasa
incidentally the rule of law would also
have Jared Kushner and others in prison
right now for their disclosure forms the
rule of law not so not so rigid when you
get to that point yeah going back to our
discussion on fascism one rule of law is
invoked maybe start to wonder does this
look like fascism opportunistic
opportunistically using the law I mean
it's a shame that those people had to
have children to make it so dramatic
when they were getting pepper spray
well first of all I've said many times I
certainly feel bad for the plight of
these people but they're not a silent
they're not true asylum seekers they
don't qualify under existing law
to claim asylum before they want to come
here you seem positive you know you know
a funny thing about existing law and you
know you keep bringing up fascism I'm
not gonna say what country it was and
when but what they managed to do was all
legal because they changed the laws to
make it legal to oppress certain
minorities in their country now you'll
recall that Jeff Sessions changed them
as a law the regulations I guess you
could call it but more or less the same
on what constituted a legitimate ask for
asylum we simply changed it we simply
basically banned all the reasons why you
could seek asylum if you were coming
from Central America domestic abuse gang
violence the fact that your country was
almost non functioning in terms of
dealing with crime and violence that
your child or your husband was murdered
by a gang and you are under threat and
there was no recourse in your own
country we just simply said it's no
longer a legit reason for asylum but
let's listen to the game that's being
played Island four they want to come
here you seen their Karen sighs I want a
job
that doesn't qualify for asylum so I
certainly understand the play these
people I can certainly understand them
want to be a part of this country but
there's a legal way to do it and they're
not in that final legal process they're
using positive they are using the exact
legal process which is you go up to the
border you say I am seeking asylum and
then we have a legal process to
determine whether or not your claim
warrants asylum that is the only legal
process to get asylum for these people
are they all have legitimate claims
statistically no but we don't know which
ones do and that's why you have a legal
process that is edified in US law to
make that determination
theoretically this guy knows it you're
using this item system which which
Harmons real true sight on the Seekers I
really are escaping in fear and
persecution but on your first point I
want the women and children escaping
tier guys we got to look at the facts
here a minority of this of this Caravan
a small minorities actually family
members women and children most of them
are adult males but the media some of
the media out there are getting shots of
the women and children to try to pull
the heartstrings of America and you know
and and even the caravan itself the
people that are coordinated whole event
they'll put the women and children up
front to make it seem like this is 5000
women children what it's not they're
playing the game some of the media
outlets are playing the game this is
this is a vast majority of a male
seeking employment in United States not
women and children now of course males
don't have families we know this right
they're not family members they're just
males they're just males looking for
work looking for looking for four
probably very very fancy and exotic jobs
I'd actually suggest that it's some
pretty anti male chauvinism right
they're not not to raise money for their
families because of course they're males
and couldn't possibly have families no I
have no family I'm here to start a
patreon right exactly I want to become a
youtuber and abandon my family so uh
that'll be Asylum please what does Homan
have against males yeah what does he
have against men it sounds like it's a
war on men from Fox News headquarters
this is apropos 2018 has been difficult
for human rights a difficult year for
human rights but if you ever wonder how
rights and abuses are documented around
the world you probably have with the
sheer volume of global crisis we're
seeing from civilian casualties in Syria
to ethnic cleansing and miramar to the
caging of children on u.s. borders it's
critical we exposed the truth in order
to defend the rights of all and bring
those responsible to justice
Human Rights Watch does just that
they're an independent nonprofit
organization known for their accurate
fact-finding impartial reporting and
targeted advocacy often in partnership
with local activists and human rights
groups they accept no money from any
government they rely on the support of
informed dedicated people just like you
so if human rights
are important to you visit HRW org slash
majority to make a donation and support
it's vital work around the world when
you do not only is your gift tax
deductible it will be matched dollar for
dollar until 2019 that means your
donation will go twice as far to advance
justice and defend the basic dignity of
people who need it most again that's HRW
org slash majority I should tell you for
what it's worth that Human Rights Watch
is going to be one of those charities
that I let the kids pick a couple out of
a list one night during Hanukkah don't
get presents you get to decide where
your present money is gonna go that's
going to be one of them I'll talk about
the other ones maybe later in the week
as we prep for Chanukah also this also
makes a great gift Saul and I were
literally arguing about this this
morning when he crawled into bed there
is no need to suffer through another
sleepless nights calm and comfort by
sharper image is the luxurious weighted
blanket that helps you relax so you can
fall asleep and stay asleep naturally
it's designed with high-density comfort
Phil to provide exactly the right amount
of weight to help relax your body it
mimics the soothing feeling of being
hugged and helps the production of
serotonin and melatonin I'm laughing
consol literally is like okay we can I
have that blanket or just put it soco's
mob but 50 exactly weighs 15 pounds and
he's like I like it I'm like what do you
like about it
I can't move so you could sleep better
feel great stress less plus made with
super soft Velveteen material calming
comfort is 100% machine washable and
dryer safe it's like you know it's like
I don't know what they I guess they call
it Velveteen but it's that like you know
cuddly material for a blankets the
material itself is not heavy they there
are like squares in it that are full of
like a heavy fell it's very I would not
have thought I mean I guess I would have
thought about it I've layer
you know buncha heavy blankets on that's
the way I like to sleep cold with a
bunch of heavy blankets on this does it
for you the common comfort weight
weighted blanket comes with a 90-day
anxiety free stress free best night's
sleep of your life guarantee from
sharper image right now just for our
listeners you can go to common comfort
blanket calm that's calming comfort
blanket calm use the promo code majority
a check out to receive 15% off the
displayed price again that's calming
comfort blanket calm promo code majority
and because you can't put a price on a
great night's sleep go online now
calming comfort blanket calm use the
promo code majority for your special
discount
and lastly today's support for today's
show comes from blue apron blue apron
delivers fresh perfectly portioned
ingredients you can use to cook
incredible restaurant quality meals in
as little as 20 minutes right to your
door just choose from a variety
step-by-step chef design recipe options
all with the insanely delicious flavors
then get rid of your grocery lists let
blue apron do the meal prep for you
whether you're looking for quick and
easy meals or full culinary experience
blue apron has you covered
folks I've been talking about blue apron
for a couple years now we were we were
customers before it's a total
coincidence that they started to I
probably should have should have
probably made it not a coincidence but
it was a told Quinn say started
advertising on this show I've talked
about some of my favorite meals
immediately I think a blue apron I think
of I don't even know what it's called
it's like it's not a Mapo tofu but some
type of like round Asian almost like a
pasta and pork god no I can't even I
can't even stop but they now have like
quicker to prepare meals which are super
helpful for me being a single dad 50% of
the time so check out this week's menu
get your first three meals free I don't
know why anybody wouldn't do this
you get your first three meals free
check it out you're gonna love the food
you're gonna love the fact that you can
able to cook a home-cooked meal without
ever worrying about shopping for it
coming up with the recipes it's perfect
blue apron dot-com / majority that's
blue apron calm / majority get your
first three meals free blue apron a
better way to cook all right quick break
when we come back David Dan
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is always a
pleasure to welcome back to this program
a reporter for well he reports for the
intercept he writes for every major
magazine that you've ever written I mean
read I would say also author of chain of
title perhaps the I don't say the
seminal but one of the seminal books on
the 2008 financial crisis that started
with housing and my understanding is
he's writing another book I can't
remember off the top of my head what
it's about but David day and welcome
back to the program hey thank you I hope
your Thanksgiving was good okay all
right I'm glad to hear that oh that was
yours Sam oh you don't even want me to
go into it okay no it was good it was
good mine was fine but so I'm glad we
got that over with that was that could
have been uncomfortable ah David let's
get into this I read I read it I read
this piece last week I wanted you on
last week and I was like I don't want it
to get buried and Thanksgiving
hooha you wrote this piece in the
intercept I find it fascinating because
so much of politics is reduced to who
we're going to elect to office and there
are two other major elements one from
the perspective of citizens we should be
doing activism to to to get our elected
representatives to do what we want them
to do in addition to building
communities etc etc the other is what
are these electives doing on the inside
because so much of what happens in our
government and it makes sense right that
it's going to be complicated and
somewhat opaque from your average viewer
reader listener because we have a huge
country and it
is you know it's like riding a ball in
some respects so you wrote about one of
one of the one of the power plays by the
Congressional Progressive Caucus in the
run-up to the leadership challenge run
Nancy Pelosi which is still ongoing but
all right tell us just set the table for
us how big is the Congressional
Progressive Caucus before the election
after the election before the election I
believe there are 77 members of the
Progressive Caucus and actually picked
up two shortly after the election
colored members who decided to join
after the election I mean this this was
kind of an interesting question because
I think the membership is going to be
more based uh
it's going to mean something a little
more in this incoming Congress and it
may have in past congresses I mean you
literally have a handful of members who
are members of the Progressive Caucus
and the New Democrats which are the
centrist sort of liable to the
Progressive Caucus so the Progressive
Caucus
in the last decade has been sort of more
a bad you can win it's hey I'm
progressive I'm a member of the
Progressive Caucus don't don't bother me
now it's going to mean something a
little more directly I feel and in my
discussions with you know people in the
know about this uh it's it's it's going
to mean that that your votes are going
to have to be a certain way it's going
to mean that your your you're going to
have to you know provide a little more
support for certain positions so they
think when that all shakes out even
though they're about twenty incoming
members that are likely to join they're
probably going to be some drop offs from
members who want to sort of say they're
progressive but don't really be voting
in a manner consistent with the
Progressive Caucus so all right what's
the mechanism so so what's that mecca so
so uh mark Pocan
Pramila j'ai pas jeyapaul others in the
leadership of the mechanism for
enforcing that I mean I think it's the
same as the mechanism for enforcing sort
of the freedom caucus you know I mean
you you vote our way or we don't support
you in your election uh you know and and
considering that a progressive caucus
member Mike Capuano lost his election to
an up-and-coming member Ayanna Presley
and and others seemingly would be on the
radar in in this next Congress III think
that's a somewhat credible threat so you
know there's there's going to be a bit
of a shake-up but bottom line is about
40% of the caucuses progressive caucus
40% of House Democrats are going to be
in the progressive caucus in the new
congressional term okay so 40% that's a
pretty big if they are voting number
it's a big number and it's in it's an
important number if they're voting as a
bloc right I mean if they're if they are
it in presumably right they're coming up
with at least maybe they don't write it
down or maybe they do but with basically
a scoring mechanism these votes that you
need we need you to take these votes if
you don't take these votes we give you a
C - or a D or an F and if we give you a
debt and F we're gonna be out there or
even a D we're gonna be out there and
we're going to be supporting a
progressive challenge to challenger to
you in your district and so that that
makes a big difference if you're voting
like a block right it doesn't matter I
mean your size is less relevant that
freedom caucus - 30 people yeah we're
talking green caucuses we're talking
about a third of what the progressive
caucus is likely to look like and now
it's not going to be quite as cohesive
as the freedom caucus I think that's
pretty clear but even if it's minimally
cohesive given the margins in the
Democratic
in in the house next year you don't need
that many to swing votes right okay so
Progressive Caucus is is Anu and so what
did they what was their first sort of
like I don't know if it was their first
but it feels like it was their first
real exercise of this I don't want to
say Authority but this power yeah this
was a definite power place so you know
we have this leadership sort of battle
with Nancy Pelosi Nancy Pelosi needs not
only a majority of Democrats in the
house to vote for her this week to be
their nominee for Speaker but on the
floor because of the way it's structured
she needs a majority of all members in
order to get the Speaker nod which means
she needs virtually every Democrat to
vote for her on the floor in order to to
become Speaker and that gives members
some power to dictate terms in the
progressive caucus new this sought this
had a meeting with Pelosi where they
said hey look we're 40% of this caucus
however we don't get 40% of the seats
particularly on key committees and and
four of them are domestic and then one
of them is separate and we'll talk about
them separately but the four domestic
policy committees through which
virtually all domestic legislation runs
we're talking about the Appropriations
Committee which sets the funding and
appropriates money we're talking about
the Ways and Means Committee which is
mainly tax policy and trade we're
talking about the Energy and Commerce
Committee where health care legislation
and climate legislation would go through
and we're talking about the financial
services committee which is financial
regulation and Housing Policy and all
sorts of other things so those four
committees and then separately the
Intelligence Committee which only has
one progressive caucus member out of its
nine the other four
are all under that 40% marker and and
and the Progressive Caucus said we want
40% representation we want proportional
representation on all of these
committees and Pelosi said yes you can
get that we will restructure so that you
get that committee a proportional
representation that's a very big deal
because the these are the places where
this legislation will initiate when
you're thinking about almost everything
that progressives are moving to one
whether it's legislation on prescription
drugs legislation on single-payer health
care or medicare buy-in legislation on a
green new deal I mean you you name it
it's all gonna go through these
committees so it would you don't have
the people you're not gonna get your
stuff through all right explain it just
explain that that that dynamic is I'm
not sure that folks understand I mean
more or less people know you know you
have a bill and then it becomes a law
and then it gets I need to do a little
schoolhouse rock here um you don't have
to so but the committee structure is
very important in that there are
Committees of jurisdiction I mean look
but much of Congress's turf wars right
if if you have legislation on health
care but the committee in the house
they're actually to the Energy and
Commerce and the Ways and Means
Committee they're gonna say well we're
taking that bill we get that bill and we
decide whether to mark it up we decide
what what to do with this bill
anybody can can introduce a bill but it
goes into one of those committees and if
it has to do with taxes there's any kind
of financing for it ways and means it's
going to look at it if it has to do with
with all sorts of issues whether it's
health care or climate or whatever
energy commerce is going to look at it
and and and they that's
we're the baseline bill begins I mean
you know things can be done on the floor
of the house although we don't see that
very much anymore but the committee's
really control the legislation and and
where they begin is critical to where
they end and in where they begin is in
those communities and and this is where
the bills get formed I mean we have a
you know you can enter you can you can
introduce a bill but but it goes through
essentially you know a sausage factory
as it were where the factory is and
there aren't enough progressives in
those factories and so this was the
power play to get a quiet you know the
proportional amount of Progressive
Caucus members in those committees doing
the work to shape that legislation we
this is we've learned from history here
in after 2008 when we had the dodd-frank
legislation turned out that a lot of
these freshman and sophomore congressmen
who won in 2006 and 2008 who were Blue
Dogs and and New Democrats they flocked
to the financial services committee and
they got to shape that legislation which
was actually far worse in that house
then it ended up being in the Senate
which is the opposite of what you would
think because the Senate is you know
people who senators come from states
supposed to be more moderate actually
they were better on that bill because
the committee was stacked with new Dems
and Blue Dogs
who go there because it's a source of
funds the lobbyists control or
interested let's say in in all of these
money committees and they will spend
money to influence them and and it was
commonplace for Democrats to put these
new Dems that they call the front line
members members who need to raise a lot
of money to
tain their seats on these committees for
access to those lobbyist donations so
that we know that that affected
dodd-frank we know that made dodd-frank
worse and progressives didn't want to
see that happen again
so this is not just for now right
because you get seniority you move up
through the committee's the the more
longer that you've been on one the more
opportunity you have to influence
legislation this is not just for now
this is for far into the future when we
have a Democratic president and a
Democratic Congress to have progressive
in these positions will change the face
of the legislation that ultimately comes
out and people should understand this
dynamic it works I mean that that the
idea that these new demmed
types right would flock to these
committees that control the money and
then moneyed interests will bankroll
their their re-election campaigns and
presumably in some instances spend
against any opponents and whatnot
there's also a flip side to this in that
like these committees are not that sexy
from a progressive standpoint in a track
buying the same money because you know
the the the the whole point is that
Wells Fargo is not going to see let's
just use her as an example
AOC on the Financial Services Committee
go like oh this is going to be similar
we're gonna throw her with cash right
this is not not gonna happen
meanwhile you know I guess the I don't
know the Greenpeace I don't know how big
their Lobby is there's something but the
Greenpeace you know to the extent that
they can get their members to vote for
somebody is not gonna vote for somebody
who's on the financial services they're
gonna do it for somebody who's
presumably on a climate change committee
I like the new one that the AOC is
trying to set up the the money quote on
this is something that Alex Lawson who's
been
working on this project he's a guy with
social security works but he's been
working sort of in a sort of freelance
capacity on this committee assignment
situation here's what he said to me he
said dig progressives coming to Congress
wanting to change the world and new
Democrats coming to Congress wanting to
be on the Ways and Means Committee like
they're very targeted in what they they
they know they can do to really
influence what gets done in Washington
and progresses come in a lot of them
were civil rights lawyers or worked in
law firms they flocked to the Judiciary
Committee Judiciary Committee has 75% of
its Democratic membership are members of
the Progressive Caucus it's almost like
everybody hangs with their people it's
easier to get things done on the
Judiciary Committee if all of the
members are practically all of them are
progressives it's easier to get things
done on the other committees if a
majority of the members are new debts
and so they almost it's almost like the
Jets and the Sharks so they've got to
keep to themselves and progressives have
not really told that story of the
importance of these committees maybe
until now and the the problem that
they're running into is twofold so the
first problem is what you just described
it's just not sexy to talk about
derivatives regulation or overnight repo
agreements it's not what progressive
members of Congress sort of feel that
they came into Congress to do
necessarily and so it's hard to get new
members excited about being on these
committees and so the only other reserve
there are existing members and getting
into shift committees so that you can
get to this forty percent level and that
becomes hard because of the seniority
factor so if you spend ten years on the
Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee and you're you're seeing this
incoming Congress and the
promote but possibility of an
infrastructure bill coming in why would
you want to switch off that committee to
start over essentially on the Ways and
Means Committee where you don't have
seniority and you don't have as much
ability to affect the the the the
ultimate outcome as you would as a
somewhat senior member on a different
committee so you you get into that and
then there are other sort of you know
political factors regional diversity
plays a role in this
they don't want multiple members from
the same state or the same region on one
committee you need sort of a sponsor
within the committee if you want to
switch or join it to sort of be your
guide to make sure you can get onto it
and get past the chairman or chairwoman
let's just talk about that for one
second the the sponsor what is it I mean
just tease that out for us because it
seems to me that you've got a problem if
if there is a well I mean gets
presumably right there's a member of the
Progressive Caucus on all of these
committee who theoretically be the
sponsor what correct okay so so what in
what but the question is what influence
they have like you know what is their
relationship with the chair of that
committee and how does this all end up
working out it's like it's like a Tetris
situation the two slot all these people
in the right place like a giant seating
chart for your wedding
tons of people can't sit next to each
other so what how do you do it and and
and how aggressive are those existing
members going to be in helping get new
members on now we know that the New
Democrats do this as a matter of routine
we we learned in the course of our
reporting that that Josh got himer is a
second term Democrat centrist member of
the problem-solvers caucus I was going
to ask you ask them these are no chair
of it actually that that god himer
is being that sponsor he's actually
going out and recruiting people to be on
the Financial Services Committee
financial services sector uh did yeoman
work in spending money to get him
elected in 2016 he did Scott Garrett
album new jersey who was a pretty
right-wing guy but and got Homer is
voted pretty reliably with the financial
services sector throughout his first
term and and going into a second term
he's trying to get more people who think
like him onto the committee so you have
in addition to what the Progressive
Caucus is trying to do the New Democrats
are doing what they always do which is
try to maximize their power on these
money committees to really influence the
inside of legislation and so how is it
going I mean they first of all who cut
the deal with Pelosi I mean do that's
cocaine and Jaya Paul had had the
meeting where they agreed to increase
the membership of the Progressive Caucus
on these committees but it's almost like
you know once they say that they have a
handshake deal you got to bring the
horses now you got a you got to close
that deal you have to find the members
willing to switch or find the new
members willing to go on these
committees and submit them to leadership
as a whole process by which committee
assignments get sold out it's the
steering and Policy Committee which it
really is just the speaker I mean I mean
Pelosi is the chair of the steering and
Policy Committee and when you're talking
about the Intelligence Committee Pelosi
actually doesn't even go through that
she appoints members herself so it's
really about bringing that package over
to the leadership and saying this is
this is who we have willing to do it and
it's it's kind of mixed right now there
there's a lot of hemming and hawing it's
very fluid I've heard stories of
of PEEP members saying that they would
switch and then changing their minds
within a 24-hour period it's it's
extremely fluid and it's difficult
because it's just not historically what
the Progressive Caucus has been focused
on certainly not what progressives on
the outside have been focused on
committee assignments is not something
that is has historically been a rallying
cry from from from progressive
nationwide and it's a difficult thing as
an inside kind of deal it's hard to
influence but you know I was hoping to
at least shed some more light on the
process and show that you know it's not
enough just to get elected there has to
be a willingness to govern on the part
of liberals and progressives in Congress
and this is right at the heart of that
there has to be I guess on some measure
some level of of sacrifice of you know
yeah you know I I just remember in in
college I had a a government professor
and he he I I don't know if I should say
too much cuz he was always worried about
but it was years and years ago he he was
sort of I think conservative leaning as
a as a young man he had served as an
attorney for a as part of the Peace
Corps for I cannot remember what country
it was but somewhere perhaps in monisha
and he stopped the US government from
doing weapons testing in or around this
this country and he you know I was
talking to him about where I was
thinking about going to law school and I
was saying something like Antioch or
something like that at the time he goes
look you know you can go to a school
like that but the bottom line is if
you're gonna go in and actually help the
clients that you want to help you've got
to learn the less sexy things and go in
and actually you know play the game
as it is so that you can win it for you
know have the causes and that's
basically what this dynamic is go in do
the less sexy stuff on these committees
where it's also going to make your job a
little bit harder to raise money
theoretically you're not going to go to
the town yeah to the you know no nobody
goes to the town hall and says I'm on
the Financial Services Committee or you
know I'm on the Energy and Commerce
Committee vote for me I'll you know a
impact will change I mean voters just
don't necessarily know about this remain
connected they don't connect it but
we've been here before in our history
like so do you remember the book the
liberal hour which talked about
policymaking and the Kennedy and Johnson
eras one of the huge sticking points was
the Rules Committee so the Rules
Committee which sets the terms for
debate and what gets onto the floor and
how it gets administered was run at that
time by a segregationist so there was
like no way to get civil rights
legislation through and also it was very
difficult to get Social Policy
legislation through because of the fears
that if you pass Medicare then
african-americans might actually get
better health care too so I mean it was
with a serious problem and what they
eventually did is they expanded the
number of people on the Rules Committee
through rulemaking and that allowed that
segregationist who ran the community to
be outvoted routinely so that was the
key that unlocked all kinds of Great
Society legislation in the 1960s and so
here we are again where progress is have
to figure out a way to get influence in
Washington and it means being as you
said taking that sacrifice which it
really is absolutely if you're an
existing member how does it be on one of
these committees yeah how do consider
you're basically giving up all your
seniority I mean everything you know
that is that's that's a that's a big
currency in
in Congress here and not just in terms
of self-esteem but literally you know
you get on a committee because you think
you're going to deliver for your
district and you build that seniority so
you can continue to deliver material
benefits for your district and when you
can't do that anymore it becomes
somewhat problematic I mean on some
level there is a quality of in
democratic politics where we're seeing a
more nationalization on some level right
like like things like writing care for
all all the Democrats not all a huge
percentage of the Democrats maybe 50
some-odd percent maybe more ran on that
that one proposal which is pretty unique
as far as I can recall at least in
modern times where the Democrats running
you know maybe it was against the war in
2006 you know but this is for in terms
of a policy it's rare to see you know
the sort of organic nationalization of
particularly in midterms
all right so and it's it's difficult to
think about it it's difficult to to
really project because you can even go
more into the weeds here and talk about
subcommittees so like ROH Khanna and
Bernie Sanders last week put out this
legislation that would force compulsory
licensing of prescription drugs if the
the price point in the United States is
larger than a basket of price prices for
prescription drugs around the world
in five different industrialized
countries so that's great but the ten of
the Subcommittee on health could very
well be this woman issue who's based in
the Silicon Valley area
who isn't a valve a supporter of the
pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical
industries she would never let that
legislation come before her subcommittee
you just would not happen so it's one
thing to write a bill but it's a quite
another to make sure that bill has a
chance at becoming law and and and it's
hard to sort
get your head around that stuff but
that's the way if you're thinking toward
the future and you're thinking about
actually getting a you know action
accomplished that's the way you have to
sort of start to think about Congress so
how is like pokin and jeyapaul how are
they how are they like how would I try
to know they're not executing this I
mean it's sort of a mistake though their
dilemma in some level it's about
one-on-one talks with members both from
the Progressive Caucus leadership
themselves and also from outside groups
we're talking about progressive kurz
labor groups various advocates whether
it's in health care or financial
services or or what-have-you
talking to members saying we know this
is a sacrifice we know this is hard we
will have your back we will and and also
it's just sort of talking to people on
these committees and and trying to get
them involved and making it sort of a
bigger ass saying you know if if we want
if your legislation on drug prices can
be passed then you're going to need
people willing to vote for it so you're
gonna have to do your job to get people
onto this committee so it's it's very
complex it's very fragile but it's just
it's it's all relationships and
communication it was point to try to get
people to do it and so what do we do
like I mean you know we're people who
hear this story a minister I mean how do
we influence this I mean I I guess the
only thing that comes to mind right now
maybe this is just my own lack of
imagination is you know act blue you
know friends like you know not unlike
the the susan collins one right like
that are not your mat marked two ears of
money for you if you go on to the queen
yeah here's the ways he means committee
fund anybody goes on ways and means
committee jumps will
a portion of this fund here's the one
for financial services I mean is that
well I don't know that those discussions
are being had but but I you know you can
certainly do that yourself with your
giant audience here but I think the one
way to for the outside to affect this
you know it's very hard it really is an
inside deal is just by publicizing it so
the fact that it's out there now that
progressives are having you know these
these difficulties mustering the the 40%
that gives a little more leverage to the
caucus leadership to say look we can't
make this deal with Pelosi and then not
deliver that would that would be the end
of us it creates a lot more pressure
around it to know that that yes
this is what's going on and yes there is
some difficulty in it I would say if
you're listening and you have a lawmaker
who represents you that is a member of
the progressive caucus go check out what
committees they are on and if well if
they're not on the committee's that I've
just described the money committees way
to means appropriations energy and
commerce financial services give him a
call and and and say I I would I would
really like it if you got on these
committees that are at the core of of
progressive policy over not just the
next Congress but Congress has to come
and and the same thing for incoming
members who probably haven't named the
committee yet but if you voted for
someone who you think is is or who ran
on saying they're gonna be a members of
Caressa caucus they're gonna be a
progressive legislature uh you know call
them and say what committee are you
going on here's what I here's what I
want out of that so you know there's
there's some room for the outside I will
say this that if every office that you
just talked about in that you
universe got ten phone calls about the
committee assignments that would be that
would represent such an incredible
increase that would be ten more than
they've ever gotten before yeah honestly
the way the algorithms work they're the
you know ten phone calls is represents
an enormous number of their constituent
percentage of their constituents and and
yeah I think that that you know I
haven't seen a coordinated campaign
around that but you know from an
uncoordinated perspective is that that
should definitely be part of this that
there should be a lot of pressure on
these lawmakers to to make sure that the
the caucus the House Democrats are
represented on these important
committees in a way commensurate with
the beliefs of the caucus all right let
me just lay this out one more time and I
get one more question to ask you about
the problem-solvers caucus but so people
should understand you're in a district
you look and you see what your Congress
person is serving on they're not on one
of these committees all you need to do
is literally tell four friends I want
you to call this number over the next
three days and say I want you to get on
one of these committees it's really
important so that you can fulfill the
deal you're going to have on a material
impact in a way that it's so outsized
because of this so people have something
to do here and you can do it you'll be
super easy in your return on investment
it could possibly be huge all right you
can do it and I would say you need to do
it really quick because this thing is
going to be wrapped up by the end of the
lame-duck session in a few weeks
all right so folks get on do it if you
do it alright so let me just ask you you
mentioned the problem-solvers the
problem solvers are a so-called
bipartisan committee I mean caucus yeah
of I don't know 20 members 30 members
they are basically kicked the can pay
down the debt what are those guys called
I can't remember now Pete Peterson
what yeah what's the no labels and no
label no arable
listen since they have a label
it's problem-solvers but that's okay
it's not really valuable and so these
problem solvers they basically went to
Nancy Pelosi you will not get our votes
again the threshold I think Nancy Pelosi
can afford to have about 15 people in
the house maybe it's 16 I can't I don't
know the exact numbers not vote for her
Democrats before she has to rely on
Republican votes to become Speaker of
the House and then things get a little
bit complicated these problem solvers
are trying to leverage it just like the
Progressive Caucus did for these
committee seats they have asked for
essentially rules changes that are
extremely weedy it seems to me about how
laws get made who has an opportunity to
mark them up in what processes broadly
speaking what is the gist of this I read
those and I just don't have the
expertise to say hey this I can see what
they're doing here I don't follow it
totally closely because it's kind of
developed over the holiday and I wasn't
really available how do I know I know
but my understanding is that the big ass
that they're making is that anything
that has some sort of bipartisan
agreement any any amendments needs to
get a vote on the floor as part of of
legislation now I don't know if that
amendment has to be germane to the
legislation the the you know is it if
there's some bipartisan deficit
reduction thing can it be it does it
have to go into a parks bill I I don't
know but it there's a mechanism by which
amendments bipartisan amendments in
particular would get votes on the floor
of Congress really subverting the
committee process by the way going
around that and and and and and moving
it forward so I you know this is
something that you could obviously see
as
as not not befitting the will of the
majority of the caucus sometimes uh it's
it's it's kind of puzzling where this
this you know what what it would
ultimately mean but it's a way to get
you know conservative Democratic or
moderate or whatever you want to call it
priorities at the forefront of
legislation in in in the next term
whether or not it has a support from the
entire caucus now you know I I could see
both sides having a problem with this
Democratic leadership and Republican
leadership Republican leadership doesn't
necessarily want uh these these kind of
ideas that don't have full support
within their own caucus getting getting
these votes uh it's it's you know there
there's ideologically rigid as anybody
so you know III could see a lot of
people having a problem with this and
Pelosi is yeah she's in a tough spot she
as you said needs pretty much everybody
on the Democratic side to support her
and so she's got to make these deals now
she's been pretty skillful I would say
and you know as a last resort which she
could do with this problem solver scoff
is to say all right go ahead you're
gonna vote against me you really want to
do that you're gonna risk a primary in
your district because you didn't support
the Democrat for speaker and you set up
a process or a bio Republican is the
Speaker of the House after Democrats won
the majority you really want to do that
go ahead we've already seen the letter
that was signed I guess by sixteen
members saying they wouldn't support
Pelosi on the floor we've already seen
that you know two people Brian Higgins
and and Stephen Lynch already sort of
waiver and say yeah I'll probably split
on the floor you know there could be
Bluff called if there's not a way to
resolve
the situation generally speaking
Democrat any kind of leadership in the
house doesn't want a situation where
amendments that are sort of beyond their
control and getting votes you know
there's a lot to be said for an open
process and let the sort of will of the
majority work its way but typically a
leadership thinks about the next
election and thinks about the hard votes
that their members have to take so you
know we'll see what happens but III
think Pelosi has played this generally
pretty well most people knows she's
going to be speaker and I don't I don't
know that this is a credible threat I
guess we'll see
David daen fascinating stuff people can
read about what we've talked about in
your piece at the intercept from the
21st we will put a link to it at
majority dot F M and in our podcast
YouTube descriptions all that David Dan
always a pleasure sounds good thank you
all right oh wait what's your new book
when's that coming up oh so well I don't
know exactly a date when it's coming out
but we are I'm going to do something I'm
monopoly and the impact of corporate
concentration on everyday life and
everyday people so a lot of books have
come out recently
Pals books man a lot of books have come
out about sort of the aggregate
statistics and and and antitrust policy
and things this is going to be a board
book about how people are affected on a
daily basis looking forward to it David
ran always a pleasure
thanks Mike Mike David Dan I would
pre-order that book right now but I
don't think it's even available for
pre-order I mean if you can start
writing it if he hasn't started writing
it yet a couple weeks he'll be done
we've hid the way is a machine is a
machine it's unbelievable I've never I
don't I still don't understand it I've
known him for
I've known him for known him for 25
years I guess but I've known him as a
reporter for 15 I still have no idea I
still think there's something going on
if somebody came to me as like a
brilliant group of policy analysts
somebody he's a deep he's like in deep
cover you know like oh yeah exactly
no he doesn't do any of this stuff
there's a whole team of people who do it
they write it for him david gain isn't a
person it's a concept right and it was
revealed there's some type of like
experiment it's all the stock image
photo yeah exactly
there's like three different people we
whenever we have David de UNAM we don't
know which one it is but they all do
that voice it ends yeah in the horror
movie you you're in some labyrinth and
it's just like hey Sam just did a new
piece right got 20 of them
maybe he's cloned I don't know it's very
strange
Amazon's exploding a loophole that was
signed during the Clinton he was a
little bit there was a little bit there
was a little bit of a hint during when I
asked him how Thanksgiving was he's sort
of answered as if someone who really
didn't exist would answer right he
answered it like someone who had
Thanksgiving with a bunch of identical
David day exactly
all my clones got along it was very
reinforcing Sam folks this program
exists because of your support you can
become a member today by going to join
the majority report com but more
importantly than joining the majority
report today is look up you got
basically three steps first one I guess
is get on your computer
second one is look up what committees
your congressperson is on second and a
half step is to see if they are on the
Energy and Commerce Committee the Ways
and Means Committee the Financial
Services Committee or the Appropriations
Committee if they're not on one of those
four committees call them
I guess there's five steps call them
tell them you
want them to be on one of those
committees they can choose be part of
the deal that the Progressive Caucus has
pushed obviously they got to be member
the Progressive Caucus and then once
you've done that write it up in an email
those four steps I guess maybe we should
be a little more clear on it but and
then send it to for your friends have
them do the exact same thing although
they won't have to look anything up they
could just call and say I want you to be
on one of these committees and believe
me you this will have a material impact
such a small thing and you could
actually make this happen because they
get no calls like this and the idea of
four people or 10 people or five people
calling because they've read this
article let's say or heard it on the
majority report and they're now keyed
into it the this is what moves them this
is the algorithm I mean I I even you
know in calling today as opposed to
emailing has even more weight I was an
intern in 1986 on the Ways and Means
Committee
Brian Donnelly sat on that committee
when they were doing the Omnibus and
like for every letter you would get or
call there was an algorithm and it was
worth like literally thousands of people
district all right
so and then after you do that then
become a member of the majority report
had joined the majority port comm also
reminder we are now what's the number
Brendon number which one the what what
number you think I'm talking about are
there multiple numbers how many how many
people have bought taken out or how many
how many tickets are like what
percentage of tickets are left for the
Brooklyn pod fest live majority report
it's on January 13 it is that correct
thing dropping like a sack of potatoes
is low I don't know if you don't have a
ticket you gotta buy a ticket where are
we at 50% now
yeah okay so 50% sellout that we we
announced a week ago it's happening
quickly so January 13th 18 and over and
15 bucks get your ticket now because
it's gonna go away
and then all you'll be able to do is go
to Michael show in February now if you
do both you have an amazing time you're
gonna be maybe if we get enough people
to do both maybe we'll just do one in
March we'll just keep doing it every
month it's actually probably come to
Grateful Dead of probably not a bad idea
it's a Grateful Dead it um get your
tickets for very first Bell house those
are also as you say a sack of potatoes
sure phone like a second doesn't fall
like a sack of potatoes folks hotcakes
is maybe a better metaphor hot cakes hot
latkes really with Ilona bhaskar sankara
and T Trevor Beaulieu it's gonna be a
lot of fun and of course David Matt
myself tomorrow on TMDs professor
Richard Wolff is joining us in studio
for those who are close followers of tea
MBS there could be some real fireworks
between him and David Griscom it could
get a little ugly and of course we're
gonna be talking about brexit and what
post capitalism can actually look like
and there's gonna be a little bit of a
primer on Northern Ireland and the
brexit negotiations tomorrow 7 o'clock
on the Michael Brooks show YouTube
channel Matt yeah literary hangover
still got the hope Leslie episodes and
the Pequot War stuff which I went on to
a friend of the show ishes podcast
historically historically to talk about
those episodes for Thanksgiving also
coming up in the next couple of weeks
me and my friend Chris are going to be
talking about democracy in Chains I'm
going to get into whether or not that's
historical fiction is a lot of
libertarian economists saying or am I
going to decode some of the rhetorical
slights of hand they used to create that
impression on Google very excited to
listen doing a lot of research on this
so that's coming up - I'm finding that
out there's been a lot of controversy
and some people I respect think that
there were some citations that were
probably mad
yeah I thought citations but some leaps
of logic around what's-his-face and
whether he actually you can you can't
answer yeah yeah so oh oh I do want to
say I was on Ronald Reagan's podcast and
just regard that just really as an
example to say everybody really should
subscribe to that podcast particularly
with what's happening now like that is a
legit everything you need to know on a
policy legal level on immigration we
didn't really need read we talked about
Hillary's comments and broader politics
around immigration European United
States but his podcast is a weekly
listen for me so please go to redirect
I'm a bit behind but it's not just
Reagan he's got at least one other guy
yeah this guy Matthew arson blow who is
a immigration attorney in Philly and
they are both like in the thick of it
and they have a big network and it's a
really good show folks calm and comfort
by sharper image is the luxurious
weighted blanket that mimics the
soothing feeling of being hugged so you
can sleep better feel great stress less
the calm and comfort way to blanket
comes with a 90 day anxiety free
stress-free best night's sleep of your
life guarantee from sharper image and
right now just for our listeners you can
go to common comfort blanket calm use
the promo code majority at checkout to
receive 15% off the displayed price
again that's common comfort blanket calm
promo code majority because you cannot
put a price on a great night's sleep
alright folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are back
just wanna degrade the white man alpha
males are back back I take all of you
Mike
alpha males are back back back back
almost has one
the males are back back
I am a total can we bring back the
eg the energy song yeah or a couple of
just put them in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break that's
[Music]
Hawkins's and the alpha males Oh psyche
what
[Music]
the back
a lot of back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
for the bigger game plan it's my
birthday
that's birthday to me to you boy I have
a thought experiment for you the alpha
males
companies to pay the price replies to be
around here like I am a total
we are back it's the fun half ladies and
gentlemen of the majority report program
so a major climate report from 13
agencies was recently dropped in fact it
was dropped on Friday the day after
Thanksgiving when everybody's paying
attention to the news just a little bit
of highlights here I should tell you 13
agencies 13 federal agencies report this
is a congressionally mandated report
there has been four of them since 2000
the last one came in 2014 it's the
National Climate Assessment supplication
or I should say report it is overseen by
the u.s. global change research program
the report stretches over 1,000 pages so
my understanding is that conservatives
will discount it because they want all
reports under the under 10 pages the
arthurs authors argue
remember these are 13 federal agencies
the global warming is quote transforming
where and how we live and presents
growing challenges to human health and
quality of life the economy and the
natural systems that support us they
conclude humans must act aggressively to
adapt to current impacts in mitigate
future catastrophes quote to avoid
substantial damages to the US economy
environment and human health as in
well-being over the coming decades I
don't know how much of this is involves
what we can expect internationally and
the implications of what will happen
internationally and what will happen to
national security because of that for
specifically in terms of what happens
overseas
hundreds of scientists and federal
officials who spent months working on
the detailed document were frustrated
but not surprised that the
administration chose to release it on
the day after Thanksgiving several
people involved in the report said it's
really release originally had been
planned for early December
but then the administration's officials
decided on Black Friday here is Rick
Santorum on CNN just absolutely giddy at
the notion that this dire report from 13
federal agencies was underreported
President Trump appears to be at odds
with his own administration over their
new report warning about the effects of
climate change did we mention that the
administration released the report on
Friday of a holiday weekend let's talk
about that Rick Santorum is nodding his
head though good for them all right well
at least you guys are transparent about
it well I mean this is a report
generated by people who are in the
bureaucracy of this these are not Trump
appointees I mean this this reports been
generated for it meaning they're
non-political well know that I think the
point that Donald Trump make is is true
which is look uh if there's no climate
change we'd have a lot of scientists
looking for work the reality is that
that a lot of these scientists are
driven by the money that they receive
and of course they don't receive money
from corporations and Exxon and the like
why because they're not allowed to
because it's tainted but they can
receive it from people who have who
support their agenda and that's what
these are all federal agencies they
received money from the government but I
love this is the point that he's making
I guess right that Trump makes it
continue this is just stunning and
that's what and and that I believe is
what's really going on here no one
doubts that the climate is changing no
one doubts that the question is how much
this man contribute number one and
number two what can man do to actually
change it and those are the two big
issues which really don't talk about
right that's all that people are talking
about all Republicans that
cool though like every single part of
the conversation is the second part well
and the fact of the matter is that the
reason why we don't hear people deny
that the the the globe is warming is
because it's not six years ago when all
the Republicans completely denied it
I think Inhofe is probably still denying
Inhofe is still saying it's it's it's a
complete hoax and so isn't and so isn't
rush limbaugh in fact frankly so isn't
the president when he tweets out that
it's cold so much for global warming
makes you think I mean it is pretty
stunning and it's also I mean I and I
appreciate the the fact that CNN i I
mean presumably they did a report on it
and they're looking for other ways to
talk about the report and this is one of
them that it's being completely
subjugated by the Trump administration I
just don't know how a rick santorum can
look into the mirror well I know how he
does it he just says that God wanted me
to lie today on CNN and I did and I've
done my job and then he calls Foster
Friess and says I did my job please send
more money really if it's about money
people protesting that you know for
instance his house like they did Tucker
Carlson's would probably drive up his
leverage when he goes to ask how much
money he you know should make for going
on to continue to deny climate change
and I love the idea that Rick Santorum
thinks that scientists not enough
science to be done out there scientist I
figured out all the important stuff and
now they're just messing around I'm it
changed if climate change didn't exist
all these climate scientists wouldn't
have anything to do just be like
reporting on the climate and saying I
did research and it's the same as it was
yesterday no openings at the Weather
Channel meant they'll misunderstand the
other keep the scientists do you really
think Rick sent or obfuscation it's just
it's just impressive to me like just the
the depth that people will sink with
such as big smile
on their face meanwhile here is a AEI
AEI spokesperson Danielle let go and I'm
trying to remember if I've ever been on
on on MSNBC with her I use a dummy I
don't I don't remember but I do recall
someone from AEI that they seem to send
out the sort of the thinnest gruel
they're like you foot soldiers when they
send out their pundits they're not
sending their best that's right like you
know in Power Rangers the foot soldiers
I remember that no oh well they were
like the sort of like a regular bad guy
but they were very easy to dispatch
there were just hundreds of them Fri
just were just go through yeah well here
is Danielle placa on Meet the Press on
MSNBC talking about this major climate
report 13 agencies in the US government
the fourth one they've ever put out in
the past 18 years last one was in 2014
says that we are facing dire
consequences we need to act on it
quickly and resolutely and here's the
American Enterprise Institute problem
again is that I think there's a
perception among those for whom Donald
Trump speaks and let's admit that Donald
Trump does actually speak for some
people that 46% is a number that seems
to be the number for people wondering
and at least and that's a pretty
substantial bunch of people the problem
for many is that they perceive this as
an agenda that is much more about
corporate and much more about law and
much more about the kind of governance
that America has and much less about
climate so from the standpoint of those
who have doubts about this and I don't
think we can have any doubts that there
is climate change whether it's entered
for genic I don't know I'm not a
scientist I look at this as a citizen as
I see it I don't understand this talking
point I'm not a scientist which means
that I don't have to
to the vast majority of scientists who
have weighed in on this that's a very
ineffective talking point right like if
you like how do you undermine the claims
of a field by saying you're not part of
the field I die I have to unless you're
trying to say that scientists are like
analogous to I don't know like palm
reader I went to I went to an eye doctor
with Saul to get his eyes checked out I
told the guy look I am NOT an eye doctor
so I'm not going to believe what you say
and Saul just squints his way through
the day now continue so I understand it
on the other hand we need to also
recognize that we just had two of the
coldest years the biggest drop in global
temperatures that we've had since the
1980s the biggest in the last hundred
years we don't talk about that because
it's not part of the agenda the United
States has been dropping in co2
emissions since we pulled out of Paris
there are actually good things that are
happening we are not using dirty coal
anymore it's the Europeans who are using
dirty coal there actually is some
corporate leadership on this yes we need
to deal with these problems yes we need
to mitigate the things we see but we
shouldn't be hysterical you know this
lady is such an unmitigated liar
fabulist I'm not a scientist so I'm not
gonna listen to the overwhelming number
of scientists in the in the world
telling us that this is man-made problem
and there are man-made solutions however
I will pull out one fun fact that it's
we've had extreme cold over the past two
years didn't nobody talks about that
anybody who's taking a science elective
could dispatch and and on top of that
I'm also not going to mention the fact
that the only reason why our cafe
standards and we're putting out less co2
is a function of California basically
saying we're not going to go along what
the federal government is saying and I
if I if I am not mistaken the federal
government is attempting to sue
California into lowering their emission
standards and all of the car companies
don't want to do it
because they don't want to go back and
forth because they realize that we're
headed to a disaster
and they know that anybody coming in
who's reasonably sane in the leadership
of our government is gonna require them
to cut back so they figure why don't we
just do the obvious responsible thing
she happens to be the vice president for
foreign and defense policy for AEI so
they couldn't get anybody else in there
that morning we need to send somebody
well guess I'll do it I'm not a
scientist but I mean that's like
particularly funny because the Pentagon
is pretty far out ahead on this as well
I'm not a Pentagon official I'm not a
Pentagon official but I think that they
should make absolutely unnecessary oil
runs which put their track like their
troops and unnecessary harm's way when
there's an alternative why you ask well
because I'm not politically correct
I don't fly a bomber but I do think that
we could drop a couple on Iran I mean
come on it's just funny though that it's
like the reason we don't do anything is
because of power right because of these
industries this is just a projection
about governance and this yes and this
is the best they've got
I mean maybe like several years ago was
like hey let's fund some scientists to
do some like alternative graphs that
look really impressive and now we could
just put some idiot out on TV well the
bottom line is they know that look the
the we're just paying for this like that
we're paying for we're paying for the
lawmakers we don't really have to spend
- too much time so I get to the public
that way
that's that why that woman who when in
the preamble to that clip she's talking
about the 46 percent or whatever people
Trump represents that and just need to
be heard about their their feelings
about climate change right like which is
a way to round up because even Trump
fans are like there's more people who
believe in climate change than like our
anti Trump I think right yeah it's
definitely it's like about 72% I think
are people who say when they're polled
that they accept that climate has
changed because of human action right
which is the simplest bare minimum way
it's pulled so her taking Trump's
highest approval ratings to say like all
of the
people also want to know what's in a
fishy of this climate Jesus also not
dissimilar from Meg Whitman when she was
not is it Meg Whitman she was a former
EPA I just recall some Saturday morning
sitting next to her I'm one of those
type of shows saying well part of the
reason is that the lib the liberal left
is just so in-your-face about this that
it forces the Conservatives to say
climate change is not real now look that
woman on the a from the a ie on Meet the
Press obviously either not terribly
bright or just assumes that the rest of
us aren't and it's probably the latter
she's probably smart enough to know what
she's saying is all a bunch of Lies and
observation obfuscation thank you she's
probably better at enunciated than I am
nevertheless she's full of wheat gruel
so you're probably thinking like humans
christine Todd Whitman Paula christine
Todd woman yes exactly meg whitman we
ran in california so we heard from the
woman from a aie who was trying to sell
us on the notion that she's not a
scientist so she can't possibly say what
causes global warming
she's enough of a scientist who would
concede now that there is global warming
I don't know where she heard that from
probably scientists but she's not enough
of a scientist to agree with the
scientists that it is a function of what
humanity is doing to our planet and
she's not enough of a scientist to
accept that scientists are saying there
are certain things that we can do to
impact global climate change so she's
probably pretending to be somewhat dim
on this which leads us to the next
question is Mike Lee Senator Mike Lee
pretending to be so dim on this here he
is I'll meet the press making well I
don't know what kind of argument about
global climate change
final question I want arias your
reaction to the climate report this is
from the federal government Congress you
guys ordered the federal government to
do this and let me give you read you one
of the conclusions with continued growth
in emissions at historic rates annual
losses and some economic sectors are
projected to reach hundreds of billions
of dollars by the end of the century
more than the current gross domestic
product of many US states essentially
this document isn't just painting a
picture of an environmental catastrophe
that's coming but an economic
catastrophe what are you going to do
about it in the US Congress senator well
first of all I look forward to digging
into the report and listening to what
other experts on the outside have to say
about it
I think it's important anytime we take a
report like that to examine what public
policies they might have in mind what
public policies that could be brought
forward that would address the problem
they're addressing without
simultaneously devastating the US
economy there's no point in that for a
variety of reasons and regardless of
where one stands on the issue of climate
change that the burning of fossil fuels
does emit into the environment a number
of things that aren't the healthy and we
put a price on carbon are you open to
carbon tax
are you open to a carbon tax no no no
I'm not at all the proposals I've seen
so far that would address any of these
issues would devastate the US economy
and have little or no benefit that is
demonstrable from our standpoint and so
I I have yet to see a proposal that
would bring this about I think if we're
going to move away from fossil fuels
that's got to be done through innovation
and innovation can be choked out through
excessive government relate regulation
we can't let that happen
alright Senator Mike Lee so so the US
government is choking the innovation to
come up with alternative energy sources
like maybe their what are they giving
too many loans to solar companies
there's a guy who seemingly completely
unprepared to answer that question
couldn't even come up with his own
talking points about that pretty
stunning
especially when we talk about energy
it's great to remind ourselves that
there's nothing in innately positive
about innovation right like company like
Exxon is incredibly innovative at
finding new ways of getting to further
sort of like harder and harder to reach
oil deposits as an example like Asian
well and part of that is also just the
cost of oil going up so no but as the
price of oil goes up a lot of things
open have become much more viable yes
innovative literally in the way that
people use these terms as like some
innate positive process of like
scientifically minded capable people
finding new ways to do things that are
difficult it doesn't mean that's
translated to more efficient energy or
getting us off of oil it doesn't mean
anything
well yeah I don't think Mike Lee is
interested in getting right oil any
worse not I mean I think broadly
speaking the know Michael he's super
concerned yeah he's very concerned he's
ready to dig into that report yeah he's
ready to dig into that way to dig into
this it was funny before he got to his
full spin like midway through an
interview it's almost like it almost was
the like college didn't do your work
presentation we really and with that all
concluded I will be happy to take your
questions very definitely a report and
it was clearly put out by the federal
government and so concludes aah and I'm
not just gonna read that report I'm
gonna get some other reports of my own
just live tribalistic fort I want to
really take this in both sky level but
also in the details thank you reports
are super important which is why you
will see them reported so I've looked at
that let's go to the phones calling from
a two one zero
area code who's this where he calling
from good afternoon Sam this John from
San Antonio John from San Antonio
welcome to the program John okay
tomorrow Bernie Sanders new book where
we go from here two years and the
resistance will be released also next
month
Berni will hold a national town-hall on
December 3rd aimed at addressing the
global threat of climate change and
exploring solutions that can protect the
planet from devastation and create tens
of millions of good-paying jobs Sanders
will be joined by 350.org organizer and
author Bill McKibben activist and our
Revolution Board Member shailene woodley
CNN host and author Dan Jones and other
in other environmental experts an
activist he also released a an op-ed on
Wednesday called Democrats need a bold
agenda here's what we should do in the
first hundred days of Congress where he
lists several things increasing the
minimum wage to $15 an hour and indexing
it to a medium wage growth here after a
path to Medicare for all bold action to
combat climate change fixing our broken
criminal justice system comprehensive
immigration reform progressive tax
reform a trillion dollar infrastructure
plan lowering the price of prescription
drugs making public colleges and
universities tuition and substantially
reducing a student debt and expanding
social security and he ends it with this
paragraph but this is the bottom line
instead of us having a congress that
listens to wealthy campaign contributors
it is time we had a Congress fighting to
create an economy and a government that
works for us all not just for those at
the top he did receive a little bit of
criticism for not having a voting rights
agenda do you think did that should be
added to his platform and I'd also like
to talk about you know Digby's take on
Pago and the new taxes on the bottom 80%
unless there's a supermajority and also
talk a little bit about the the problem
solvers John John hold on for a second
I'll answer the first question very
quickly so you can go on with those
comments yes he should add that should
be I still contend that's the first
thing the Democrats should do the
Democrats when they get into a position
of power need to pass bills that will
help them retain power and and also our
obviously the just things to do they
should make every Republican vote
against a new voting rights formula for
section 5 they should also make it
easier to vote without a doubt start
there and I think you should add that
but what what did you want to say about
what Digby's comments yeah I've been
reading dignity for about 14 years I
enjoy your writing and your inner in
your interviews with her but you know
her take on on Pago and taxing the 80%
you know unless there's a supermajority
I just don't understand that she said is
what she was saying she's I keep having
a feeling that there's more to this
story that we don't know and then a
couple of minutes later she said I I
said she says it doesn't matter because
nothing will pass anyway but but it does
matter to millions of progressives you
know if a progressive president is
elected in 2020 the Democrats win the
Senate back then Pelosi yeah you know
says hey go without unit has pay go and
then we'll have no new taxes on the body
the bottom 80% without a savage aura T
already in place I mean it'll just be
devastating and low C has already did
this I mean she already passed Pago in
2007 as a rule and then there was a law
in 2010 that was signed by Obama didn't
did enforce that also so I mean this is
nothing new from her and yeah I just I
just think this this whole idea that
like like yeah I mean you know Pelosi
you know I've been following her for
many decades just like you have and she
does have she did she has a good you
know progressive voting record but but I
think she's been corrupted by the system
and there's no reason why we should have
this you know indeed and there's not
enough III agree I think the only thing
I could say that digby the implication
is is that in the event of 2020 there
being a Senate and House controlled by
Democrats that can be
first now I am with you that the that
there's a certain amount of inertia
that's created by passing these things
and so I am a little bit more alarmed
about it than you are
the sequester in my mind was a bit of a
disaster at the very least from a
narrative standpoint but also degraded a
lot of agencies I think and that's what
you're talking about in 2010 and the
only thing that I can imagine that digby
thinks might be going on is that Pelosi
needs this type of thing to to maintain
her leadership I mean I think it's less
about her being corrupted and more about
her doing what it needs to what she
needs to do to maintain her her her
speakership in this instance or
leadership you know it's now a
speakership and the only outside chance
it seems to me of reversing this thing
is if there is a more progressive if the
progressive caucus gets even larger in
2020 and the the next leader is is
theoretically their base of support
comes from that larger progressive
caucus that's the only thing I can tell
you but I agree with you I think it's
problematic the the the other problem is
we don't have a better option but yeah I
think I think I think also dig me is
reacting to the idea that the
progressive caucus doesn't seem to be so
up in arms about it so maybe maybe there
is you know but I don't know I I'm gonna
dig around but I appreciate the call
John good jump all right thank you come
from a 509 area code who's this famous
Ronald Reagan I had a feeling Ronald
Reagan how was your Thanksgiving yeah
what a way to stare at the front half
what do you mean climate you know
finally back to back all right back to
back funhouse power
fun half powerhouses I can't talk today
that's all I'm saying
I had a funny experience that at
Thanksgiving actually I was playing the
ask the moms clip to my nephew I'm
slowly converting to your show by the
way I've got a very conservative father
so well take some time I imagine you've
got a couple of those in your family but
God yeah I was playing him to clip the
interview that Cavanaugh did and my
sister who doesn't follow politics at
all kind of heard Brett Kavanaugh
speaking and she goes is that guy drunk
but like what is what do you what are
you listening to she had no context had
no idea who he was and then my mom goes
yeah sounds like he's having a stroke
what's what are you guys watching
and then I explained oh he's a Supreme
Court justice but actually that whole
interview is pretty incredible to
revisit I wanted to say the the whole
rick santorum nobody's questioning
climate change thing it reminds me of a
subtle shift that happened in the LGBT
rights debate when when people finally
stopped arguing that gay people aren't
born that way which seems like really
obvious and it's kind of funny to think
that that debate ever even happened but
i grew up you know being taught that and
i know a lot of people were taught that
for a long time that it was just a
perversion or a learned behavior and
there was this subtle shift that
happened even amongst most sort of
evangelical types several years ago when
they finally came around to admitting
you know okay it turns out maybe they
are born that way this was around I feel
it was around two thousand seven eight
nine ten somewhere around there you
started yeah because people forget
as late as 2004 I think it was maybe
2003 George Bush got on national
television in primetime from The Oval
Office and said like you know with a
heavy heart I must promote the a
constitutional amendment to say that gay
people can't get marry and I mean this
was a primary driver of a lot of that
evangelical vote in 2004 it was their
version of you know the the Supreme
Court vacancy there was a lot of
referendum and and that was a strategy
by Rove and then it just seemed when
when there were bigger problems I don't
know maybe the financial crisis people
were like I just don't have the energy
to pretend that gay people aren't people
anymore not sure what happened yeah so
it's a small shift but I think it's
important so that's kind of it's you
know those clips are ridiculous but it's
also good to hear even the fact that
Chuck Todd would ask somebody what are
you going to do about climate change is
a step in the right direction I wanted
to talk real quick about the border and
sort of what we're seeing down there
it's um you know earlier this year all
of a sudden you know right-wing people
the local am talk radio these two
meatheads that don't know anything they
were saying things like of course you
apply for asylum at the port of entry
everyone knows that we have no choice
but to prosecute these people who are
entering illegally and suddenly this
thing that nobody knew were cared about
became you know common knowledge I guess
that this idea that the place to apply
for asylum is at the port of entry now
if you're caught entering illegally you
can still apply for asylum but this sort
of got injected into you know mainstream
thinking and so what did these people do
will they go to a port of entry and now
we're being told that that's also
not the way to do it I think a couple
days ago the the port of San Ysidro had
conducted something like 20 asylum
interviews and this is a problem that's
been building up now for years not just
recently but in Tijuana specifically
they've outsourced a kind of lottery
system to the Mexican government so that
only a limited number of people can be
interviewed per day and so there's they
were already people from all over the
world camping out in Tijuana waiting for
their turn when the caravan arrived and
it just this whole thing reminds me of
let me just wait to meet dot let me just
I wanna just I want to highlight that
point people come from all around the
world fly-in to Mexico and then
presuming that they're going to get an
opportunity to be interviewed for asylum
maybe they come from an African country
with you know famine or you know
whatever is or they come from Syria or
and they attempt to to go into a port of
entry there because there's only two
countries I'm not sure if people knew
this there's only two countries that
actually abut the United States
physically and I probably know this
because you're an immigration attorney
but it's Mexico and Canada people may
not realize this Mexico less expensive
than Canada so if you are going to go to
if you wanted to apply for asylum
legally what you would need to do is to
go to one of those two countries and
wait and to in line essentially to get
asylum you would go to the less
expensive of the countries because you
would save money if you were let's say
poor and coming from a place where you
know all of your owning x' were were
destroyed in a natural disaster or a war
or the government had decided to take
all of your stuff because they were
politically oppressing you and so you
have people there from all around the
world who come in and they spend what
little money they have left waiting for
an interview I mean how many of those
people do you think there are well yeah
I mean there I think there's thousands
of people like that in Tijuana which is
obviously a you know as a real stress on
their local you know everything right
their economy and everything else and
and what we've done like I said is
outsource the kind of lottery system to
the Mexican government to allow a
certain number of interviews per day the
crazy thing is this has been happening
forever I mean it's not anything unusual
and this is you know the most
politicized thing I've ever seen in my
life and we're told like we can't even
discuss like gun control after school
shooting because that's politicizing
something this is taking something
that's been happening for years and
years and years and the whole you know
sending the troops and shutting down the
ports of entry I've got a friend she's
an attorney she runs a non-profit in
Tijuana and she's there now and she
doesn't know if she'll be able to come
back she has court tomorrow
all of this is pure theatrics and you
know we have the the capacity as a
country to you know put into place the
infrastructure we need to make sure that
people get their interviews and if they
qualify great and if not you know
they'll be sent back but you're you know
everybody's community is full of people
who have either been granted asylum or
who came this way and they're waiting
for their hearings and you're surrounded
by those people and you don't realize it
because they're just living their lives
normally and like more they're sleeper
sensing is what you're saying right they
could be you know coming here to have
terror babies we don't know but that's
their long game obviously did you have
that ms-13 audio
of them being like Ronald Reagan's our
most effective lawyer but the ad I run
oh yes sleeper cells across the Pacific
Northwest and he calls him to talk to
Sam and say they were doing normally I
mean I I think what's happening though
is not unlike the dynamic that John
sides and I'm just saying this from just
sheer speculation but that the the
dynamic where Donald Trump got left or
liberal people who are liberal on race
that much more liberal or even people
who are moderate on race that much more
liberal in response I think there is a
growing awareness of of immigration as
an issue the interesting thing is is
that there's a there's becoming and
there needs to be because there I don't
think there is a cohesive position on
immigration in this country on the left
to the extent that there I mean I'm not
aware of a way of cohesion and it ranges
from no borders to I guess you know the
center center left you know saying some
type of guest worker program which seems
to me maybe he's really more accurately
described as center-right but I mean
what let me ask you this what what would
you say is this should be the if you
were in charge of the left of Ronald
Reagan what would be the immigration
policy that you would promote will be
the principles of that policy yeah so I
think that you have to have a broad
aggressive amnesty people are
undocumented because the laws are broken
and ill-conceived and so they need to be
changed all right I mean that to me is
that low-hanging fruit amnesty for
people who are here without
documentation get them into the system
make them citizens what do you do going
forward well I think that you need to
make it easy
for people to come here to work if they
if they want to which means having more
visas available to the industries that
that need foreign workers and I think
you also have a couple it with well I
think it needs to match labor demand
somehow I don't know unlimited but I
mean how do you measure that
yeah how do you measure I mean so
unlimited and those those visas got to
be your fully documented so
theoretically you could belong to a
union and people could be protected in
some respect yes yeah I think I think
you have to match it with with certain
really strong labor protections I have
actually another one of those family
members that you you hypothesize might
exist earlier tell me that there's no
such thing as a labor shortage there's
just employers who aren't willing to pay
to get the job done right which is like
he's really conservative but it was like
a small glimmer of of woke Ness it's
true that you know a lot of the
undocumented labor force exists because
of exploitation and and I think you
could you could quell or sort of satisfy
some of the concerns that people have
with the depression of wages and so
forth by coupling immigration reform
with a higher minimum wage or guaranteed
benefits or things like that so that the
American worker doesn't feel like he's
being displaced by you know a new
aggressive worker visa program and so
you know some of that has to happen too
and you know the problem is the left
doesn't really want to admit that that's
a problem
and so yeah I don't know it does get
complicated but I I just think you know
some and there's also just who should be
allowed to become a citizen who should
be allowed to become a citizen well the
rule right now is you have to be a
permanent resident for five years
you have to speak English you have to
you know not be deportable and and be
deserving of a discretionary grant of
naturalization I don't know that that
needs to change the question would be
who gets to become a permanent resident
and so that's where you would have to
implement like I said an amnesty to
allow people who are either undocumented
or people who are there are people
who've been on TPS now for like 20 years
and they're about to go back to being
right completely and wholly undocumented
and so you have to have a program but
I'm already I've already granted total
amnesty everybody who's in the country
you have a path to citizenship you're
all legal now and you're under
protection it's just going forward is
the question yeah I think you know there
used to be for awhile a program called
registry where you could basically and I
think they have this actually in Europe
to where you can just show that you've
been here for a certain amount of time
subject yourself to a background check
show that you paid your taxes and and
you can earn your permanent residency
it's not but what do you do if you show
up at the border do we let everybody in
well I don't think that I don't know
honestly that's complicated I tend to be
what he's afraid of open borders he's
afraid of losing his work as an
immigration attorney open borders means
you don't get to work right you better
it's classic its classic I'm looking out
for numero uno over here but I tend to
be for open borders but it does get
complicated I but at the same time I do
think that you know it's a lot of the
things that we're afraid of happening
won't happen I've got a lot of clients
who would love to go back and spend
their winters in Mexico but their laws
keep them trapped here and and having
more open borders maybe not completely
open but having a lot more flexibility
in allowing people to come and go is
better because we know that freedom is
goal and freedom and liberty are awesome
and you get paid right so you know
you're not saying total open borders as
long as you have proper documentation
that lets say an immigration attorney
could master suls after the amnesty I
want an immigration lawyer bail out
there you go and then I'll go retire
somewhere but all right Ronald Reagan
appreciate the call I'm with you on
already I appreciate the call I'm with
you I don't you can have what constant
you can have what you know open borders
it could mean a lot of different things
I think that we should be looking at
some type of if Canada or excuse me if
NAFTA was a political project not just
the corporate project or if things like
went to superhighway I do or Mercer the
you know the the the sociation of Latin
American States the Caribbean I think
there's no reason why you couldn't think
of an America's wide somewhat you know I
guess I think that would be great that
would certainly make things easier I
think I mean that's not open borders per
se it's more like it's more like just a
free passage free passes demilitarized
and you know you got anybody anybody
who's gone to a Schengen country
I mean knows it is you know
significantly easier and more humane
even for like the easiest travel
possible which is literally you know
just flying to another country to go
spend a couple weeks there it's night
and day even for that calling from a
seven six zero area code who's this
where you come from
uh hey there this is Kentucky Fried and
comrade I'm calling from California
Kentucky Fried comrade from California
what's on your mind to two points first
I actually bought my first podcast
related merchandise recently it was from
a little podcast called redirect reap
and I'm just saying I know and I'm just
saying the damn door it's going I know
I know I go you got to get on that
Brendan's working on indeed what else he
got the other thing you had you had you
were playing a clip earlier it was the
guy who looks like a thumb in a suit
talking about like how you know it's not
all women and children at the border
it's it's you know males or men or
whatever Tom home and it kind of room
yeah some in a suit guy yeah he it
reminded me I know Michael had contra
points on I think last week or maybe the
week before she did a video a year to
back where she was discussing the nature
of the all rights ideology and
specifically anti-semitism and how it
bleeds into all these different other
forms of bigotry and racism and sexism
and all that and one of the big points
she was making in the the video essay
she was doing was how there's this huge
concern among the alt-right about
essentially brown people being paid by
Jews to come to America to steal white
women or corrupt white women and every
time I hear some in a suit guys saying
oh these these are just women and
children it's actually men and it's it's
you know older military aged men or
whatever however he framed it coming
across the border it harkens back to
that point to me that a lot of this
concern is really like it's bleeding
into that right wing and kind of
fascistic mentality that like they're
coming to steal our women and I think
that what Donald - apologies campaign
what what a dog's okay you know launches
campaign with I mean that that that is
it that is of course that is age-old
that is why so many black men were hung
you know in I'm particularly
post-reconstruction probably during
Reconstruction to on some oh but
yeah that is the classic that is the
classic and that is a very durable fear
on the right that these I mean it's not
like you know I love the sterile guy I
appreciate it
Thanks of the show despite the fact
there's no merch
speaking of immigrants to this country
and the alt-right and right-wing bigots
and those who deny their right-wing
bigots I give you Gavin McGinnis who has
decided now this is complicated okay he
did 30 minute video on this and we've
watched it forensic ly and we still
can't understand exactly what his point
is but he is claiming that he is
stepping down from the leadership of the
group he founded proud boys but then
he's also saying I'm not actually
stepping down because I've never been a
leader of this group I just founded it
it's been a leaderless group but I am
stepping down as it's non leader
stepping away because supposedly this is
going to have legal implications for
some of the members of this group who
were arrested for being violent by the
New York Police Department there's known
bastion of liberal apologists who always
round up people who who don't commit
violence because they are so they're
such sjw's on the New York Police
Department so this gets a little bit
convoluted he also argues this is not
any type of organization for real it's
just like it was just a joke but of
course somehow they always seemed to
move in unison in some and there's
10,000 of them in on this joke according
to him too it's a little bit convoluted
but here's the way he opened up his
video as he announced that he was
stepping away from the group because
he's lost all his friends and his wife
is pressuring no wait a second
what he said probably I'm sorry good as
of today November 21st 2018 I'm
officially disassociating myself from
the proud boys in all capacities forever
I quit I was told to use the term
stepping down but I refused because that
makes no sense I was never the leader
only the founder although the media will
likely say Gavin McInnes steps down as
leader of extremist hate group proud
boys because that's how they roll I do
all of this reluctantly because I see I
still see it as the greatest fraternal
organization in the world but rumors and
lies and terrible journalism has made
its way to the court system and the NYC
nine the proud boys arrested after I did
a talk here in New York on October 12th
are facing serious charges I'm told by
my legal team in law enforcement that
this gesture could help alleviate their
sentencing fine at the very least this
will show jurors they're not dealing
with a gang and there's no head of
operations we are not an extremist group
and we do not have ties with white
nationalists that's a sentence that was
pulled out of a Vancouver police report
that and no one not one reporter talking
about this ever spoke to the FBI not one
reporter it's in a police report in
Vancouver it's an FBI dictum we disavow
all forms of alt-right white supremacy
white nationalism etc etc we are a
multiracial Club with blacks Jews gays
Asians etc and one thing I want to get
into later is this one second you know
gays they're one of those other races
that are multiracial yeah ben shapiro
was talking about that last week oh
right that's right I forgot the gays
they're one of the races they're more
primacy white nationalism etc etc we are
a multiracial Club with blacks Jews gays
Asians etc and one thing I want to get
into later is this whole idea of white
nationalists and white supremacy is a
crock why are we talking about it so
much
such people don't exist
um I you know I don't want to be glib
about this Heather hire is dead because
a white supremacist ran her over with
his car in the wake of her counter
protesting what was going on at
Charlotte though I mean I I don't know
try and think like what does he what is
he actually but he doesn't believe that
white nationalism or white supremacy
exists I mean what this is a little bit
of a giveaway isn't it right obviously
if it doesn't exist we can't be one we
couldn't possibly be a white nationalist
group because it doesn't exist and no
white Nash was no like there was did we
in the history of the world you've never
heard about oppressed people sometimes
being part of the oppressors that never
happens
racists like Jesse Helms for instance
right Strom Thurmond or Jesse I'm both
they never had any relations with let's
say black women or sired a black child
let's say write a racist would never do
that
no never happens I mean this is absurd
these defenses are absurd it is the year
2018 this is just it's it's absurd
you had slave owners who had house
slaves that they considered friends
family I can't possibly be racist house
I have lain with a black woman
how could I be racist I mean this is I
mean this is an absurd absurd defense
but it was embarrassing if it wasn't so
funny now look
in this clip coming up later in his opus
gap McGinnis admit
it's that he started this group he had
you know a healthy amount of racism in
him but he figured a way I need to
monetize it I need to become extreme has
a way of making money
I believe this enough to lose my friends
my wife is upset about it she won't
really do anything about it
ultimately but we have become socially
completely isolated we live in a ritzy
part of of New York in Westchester
County but unfortunately it's not the
white supremacist part and so our
neighbors are uncomfortable with someone
who's associated with that so I've
really got to quit this group because
I'm on a watch list now and oh wait no
I'm sorry that's not what he says that
that I don't know where I got that idea
from what he does go on to say is
something that is completely incoherent
about white supremacist can't exist
because you'd never meet him at a dinner
party sorry this is so long but I gotta
get off my chest I'm not no I'm not a
white nationalist and probably not white
nationalist obviously but I would go
farther than that white nationalism is
not a thing they are not emboldened by
Trump and coming out of the shadows stop
it with these idiotic tropes we do not
have a white supremacist in the White
House that belief system is remarkably
esoteric it's unlikely any of us will
ever meet a white supremacist posit the
the delusion that is here is maybe a
function of of what alcohol can do to a
brain over time or it could just be
complete ignorance you know who meets a
lot of white supremacist non-white
people it doesn't come up amongst white
to whites all the time particularly if
you are you know in Larchmont although
maybe it does I don't know maybe he's
lying - maybe he's unaware that I have
just coincidentally a story about the
right-wing violence on a rise in u.s.
the number of hate groups on a rise in
the u.s. reports of hate crimes and a
rise in the u.s. maybe it's just all
imaginary all hope there's a tyranny
or maybe it's just all ironic just a lot
of people who just started a joke a lot
of people whose minorities to catch up
to these jokes but but here he here is
his daddy
here's his data point in addition to
speaking to a write a lot of people who
want to believe there are no white
nationalists theoretically here is his
data point as to how we know there are
virtually no white supremacist white
nationalists and he's not using the more
nuanced term of white supremacy I can
tell you he's using the term you know
that it's like more like I guess
Charlottesville people or or or just
that guy who was sitting on this super
the the the supervisors board that we
talked about the other day and where was
it in Kansas who said like you know I'm
not a member of the master race you got
a gap in your tooth he says to the
consultant to the city the black woman
who was just giving a report on what was
it urban development in the city or you
know where the street signs should go
well there's no white supremacist up in
development urban devoting about it
white supremacist yet the death threats
keep coming you got any of those they're
often from women just keep scrolling I
don't condone violence that will be
looking at I have someone breaks my nose
that's nice what if I'm with my kids
oh $500 to hit me upside the head with a
baseball bat that could be fatal what
else do we got here
white supremacist oh the gun is a
liberal with a gun okay shoot me
we'll put eight grams of lead in McInnis
and you wouldn't shed a tear based on a
mess
yeah it's I think is that a listener
here's an example I like to use and it
bear with me for a second here you're at
a dinner party
everyone is new to each other at this
dinner party okay and we're talking
about ourselves we're getting to know
each other they can be pretty unusual
and everyone goes yeah that's kind of a
thing I could see first guy
hi I'm gay oh I'm but I'm married to two
men and you go Paul okay is that even
legal I never heard of that before
that person's fine next person I'm a raw
foodist and I think the fact that you
guys are eating cooked food is gonna
kill you
Jen come on you can't really be that
there's show me the science there the
next person says oh hi I'm a flat
earther and I think there's no evidence
that the earth is spherical and you go
oh gee I've heard about you guys I
didn't know you actually existed we what
about the moon it looks pretty round and
then the fourth guy I don't know what
number right now goes I am a white
nationalist I hate Jews and I want all
blacks to go back to Africa everyone at
the table would poop their pants and the
cutlery would drop Zeta either all leave
or he'd have to leave I don't think they
could continue the dinner that kind of
belief system is not matron by the way I
know someone's gonna just take that one
little clip and then put it out there as
proof that's what always happens to me
all right
now I know a lot of you are feeling like
this is incomprehensible what I'm saying
is I'm coherent dinner party this guy is
now maybe some of you are saying like
dinner party cutlery what is he talking
about really do you really think that at
the I mean the dinner party in parts of
this country where a man could say I'm
gay and I'm married to two men would
just people would just Slough it off on
some level but putting all that aside
the idea that there aren't dinner
parties where people don't make I mean
yes people don't introduce themselves as
white nationalists white nationalists
tend to believe that like they didn't
even exist they the idea that they
wouldn't say something that was
prejudiced is beyond belief everyone has
heard other people I am pretty well
known as a
fairly liberal person and I hear
comments I've actually been on trains
with people saying I've had people who
have said to me my guy who I was talking
to about building a shed at one point he
said you're a Jew you've got a lot of
money not even thinking that it was like
offensive I've had I've been on a train
with people who didn't know I was Jewish
who just said like that's where all the
Jews are this is just not even at a
dinner party this is just like oh we
have a passing I wasn't even any cutlery
to put down a hawk I remember a woman at
school who literally thought I had horns
because I was the first Jew she had met
now I guess it's conceivable that now
granted I have the Ze'ev eyes back all
the way before I want to hear more she
was she was from West Virginia it was
the 1980s oh it was a long time ago but
the idea like I don't know if he
actually believes this stuff or he just
lives in such rarefied circles or what
but I think it's a combination of that
and then that he's obviously but I mean
it's ingenuously cutting such an
incredibly narrow lane that by the
definition he's providing nothing's
gonna fall into yeah so that kind of
basically white nationalists don't exist
if they don't immediately try to recruit
upon meeting a whole bunch of new mixed
company at a dinner party now I notice
that's I noticed you're bad you don't
not wearing a name tag that says without
experiment we're like maybe so like you
you're a you're a white nationalist you
see another guy like sort of defend
Trump a little bit
you pull m'lady to the side and then you
start talking about the whole white
nationalist you have to do a thought
experiment they say this themselves
right you read any profile of how these
groups operate also I mean he does he
does that he does have his foot in both
worlds because he's associated with
white nationalism and so on but then
he's also does the old
Republican like you know here's my black
friend that likes Trump right of course
and that's another thing which is like
if you have a black friend you can't be
you can't harbor prejudiced attitude so
you're just cutting the most narrow lane
honor because black people are
genetically immune to racism right I
mean it's just you know we know what
he's doing it's not that girl you
forever that's my common quote I say
it's you forever we're done there
you go so I know son Mandela's
interesting with Gavin is if if anybody
pays any attention to him he's obviously
gonna try and lay low now to hopefully
get get back some of his his mojo in the
hipster set I think it's unlikely that's
going to happen but without him being an
extremist he really doesn't have much to
offer because it's not like the guy is
hugely funny now look I happen to know
some of Gavin's friends and one of the
things former friends I should say and
one of the things they said he
desperately wants to be a comedian he's
always wanted to be a comedian he hung
out with a bunch of comedians that's how
I met him a group of comedians but he's
just not funny and after a while if it
doesn't work what do you do you develop
a stick that sells and here's what's
problematic about it it doesn't matter
what Gavin McGinnis believes in his
heart what he's able to articulate from
his now you know drug or alcohol riddled
the brain it doesn't matter what matters
is what he does what he puts out in
public and part of the problem is is
that people give him a pass in certain
circles that I think are are a problem
do we get into the his
Rogen's comments on an tyfa as well in
this oh we should can we let it play all
right well let's play that different
time then we'll do that tomorrow maybe I
now summon Dallas top down from the ANC
which is ridiculous
it wasn't even her organization to begin
with it was a contest at Watterson Zulu
Oliver Tambo and I had to see who could
go the longest without jerking off into
the bush it is really a fraternal
organization about not jerking off and
drinking South African beer but the
laughed and other politically correct
agents have totally twisted what we're
doing and it wasn't just black it wasn't
just black Ronnie Kasrils is a Jew no
one gives him any credit for that but
he's a self-hating Jew how can we
approached apartheid when it doesn't
exist it's a figment of your imagination
everybody says apartheid well right if
you said I practice apartheid at a
dinner party everyone would put down the
qatari
I'm just doing this to help those in
prison those I have been told by my
attorneys that the Robin Islanders can
get a reduced sentence I would do
anything for those guys including blow a
guy at a truck stop do you think do you
think that the members of the proud boys
now I know they're not a real group but
they are just a Fraternal Order yes not
a TL crow that's correct
it's they're just a Fraternal Order do
you think that they sit there and they
go Gavin's really doing it for us as
opposed to like trying to get a show on
you know on on the way question I'd be
asking what was that what's that that
men's Spike TV yeah exactly
spike peanuts know who's there what was
my tweet right when that first happened
I was just like Oh looks like somebody
still thinks he'd get a reality show
right exactly
frowny face no I TV producers on the one
hand proud boys on the other what
see I Tanya did you see the movie yeah
that's a great movie yeah and the guy
who is her boyfriends or her husband's
friends who lives with his parents but
claims that he's like but security
specialist is like a prototype for all
of these people that were dealing he's
the precursor of in cells proud boys all
right Trump so I have to think that that
guy's taking Gavin's word for it right
Gavin's really funny yes yeah really
doing it for it it sucks for him because
you can't hang out gonna hang out it's
gonna be you know what there's gonna be
a bunch of like queuing on style theater
you know like like conspiracy theories
like you know flatulence maker on the
reddit thread is actually Gavin you know
on gap comm or whatever it is that day
you know you know what's sad about Gavin
though is that flatulence maker on
reddit might actually really be Gavin
yeah it's true I think you guys might be
optimistic because at least when I first
saw this video I looked at the comments
and people were like this is lame like
that here's a that's not optimist yes
maybe they're doing better than we're
giving them that's what I'm saying is
too optimistic for his bottom line let's
put up put up the put up the comments
let's do this segment we'll call this
segment do the proud boys believe Gavin
McGinnis is doing this for their benefit
I have been told it will help the Robben
Island us here we go we've got our
special segment
Gavin leaves the proud boys video let's
look at this there's 9000 sargon of
akkad
the proud boys did nothing wrong he
comes in back road and biker adventures
the man denounces the outright so who
cares what he thinks or has to say hmm
why am I not surprised that the
intellectually dishonest media is once
again succeeded in destroying another
conservative organization Conor Anderson
anti father beats and stay is stabs
innocent people for no reason for three
years and nothing happens proud boys get
jumped by an tyfa and defend themselves
for 30 seconds in attack
you know we missed a part in this where
Gavan says you know proud boys never
show up in antiphon rallies and protests
them and if it doesn't have rallies
because all they're doing is fighting
against fascists like yourself you
should do an official mr anti-fur rally
[Music]
don't show up don't bother us it's free
speech you can't appease a
mob my friend here with a Scud wharf
controlled opposition it's controlled
well done oh yeah you can't thomas
salazar you can thank joe rogan from
this backlash too he could have backed
you up what a criticized your
outfit on another interview behind your
back turns out he's just a stupid
pothead and no creative 22 extremist
group my foot proud boys are just doing
what some of us some cops are afraid to
do because of fear into their jobs
pride boys were just protecting people
can't fend for themselves
that's not extremist Tomic nothing
against pot joe just can't stand it when
people think it makes him smarter above
it's proud boys still live on gavin is
saving nine good men from unfounded
political prosecution so that's the i
tanja guy right there so wait so who's
saying that this is not who's saying oh
never apologize never surrender if you
do they win clearly everything the left
says is a lot there was a common
sentiment i people believe it Ashley
Marie I hate this I hate you been
bullied into stepping down they're not
gonna go easy on them because you
stepped down I feel like you stepping
down is gonna make it worse this is
really bad
proud boys not proud choice no one seems
to notice that I mean there's not no
they all think that that he's just being
this is ways it's all just a failure as
opposed to like they wait a second are
you sure this isn't a grift you know are
you sure you're not just doing this to
rehabilitate yourself so that you can
get a job and you know you've taken this
as far as you could go and now you
realize like it's starting to well it's
an
cost to you that it's not really been in
an ideology that it's really just been
about like I'm trying to make money and
I realize like oh this is this leading
to nowhere I'm losing too many jobs I'm
losing too many friends
my wife is mad I may have to move or
something like that this isn't about a
perspective it's just really just a scam
and I'm just racist enough not to worry
about the implications of it or
misogynist enough however you feel more
comfortable talking about it whatever
whatever it is you think this there seem
to be two type of reactions one from the
type of person that's like I wouldn't
want that heat either and I would back
down and then the other person is like
Lock and Load baby it's time to defend
the proud boy I think I know I think
there's somewhere it's just like you're
making the classic mistake you're giving
in to the left or or here's the real one
speaking of white nationalism not
existing so what's wrong so it's wrong
to be white want to preserve your nation
but is it just but just to be just be
clear you you can be non-white and want
to preserve your nation right part of
that non-existent thing that he was
talking a lot uglier control about
McGuiness once again defames all tried
conservatives please his masters in a
poetic show of phony surrender to a vet
to the very deep state which has
employed him as a distraction and the
controlled opposition mainstay I mean
use controlled Amin
twice and once I mean obviously Gavin
was always said to hold redundant to put
it funneling soy soy fun so I follow
that yeah I know more said war on men
simple that's a key takeaway yeah there
you go swara dead I could not what I
because I finally cuz that by the way
that was a very good very disturbing
movie and as soon as that guy came
widescreen a tiny movie I just was like
oh my god
this is just right I literally was like
reading all of the media landscape that
we deal with every day like now I have
an image for that guy right for every
single cop now that guy has the internet
know now that guy now he is actually
intelligence that's actually funneling
info to Rogers he's on Fox
come from a 9-5 to area code who's this
where he come from
hi I'm ed I'm calling from the Twin
Cities oh man what's on your mind
I just want to see you guys I called in
a couple of months ago about the
elections gonna happen in Minnesota and
well they're now they're done and I just
wanted I'm feeling so good man
everything went off well here we
basically retained all the executive
offices in the state including the
governorship which was I told you guys
about that guy who was running for the
GOP Jeff Johnson we need a crazy lunatic
guy and we also managed to hold the
Attorney General Keith Allen see yep
with all the controversy I was around
that one Ilhan one in the Minneapolis
seat that keith ellison vacated and we
picked up another we picked up three
seats but we lost two so it seems like
we swapped out state seats for Queen
City seats and exurbs
and everything they basically just run
out well the state now seems more firm
in the Democrat hands
there's one fly in the ointment where we
managed to take the Statehouse but we
don't have the state Senate by one seat
so I'm just hoping for like some kind of
videotape or you know a Republican state
senator that finds him like you know
what is that with his or escort or
something forward a touch if you find it
yes probably happy to remote also Tina
Smith won that one franken's re1 Franken
said yes you're the freaking everyone oh
yes he was kind of people were nervous
about it she won by 11 what's her
politics and well the governor won by 11
she fell by 25 Wow she pretty
progressive it seems that like the whole
state and much of the Upper Midwest kind
of reverted back to the end
and uh Wisconsin and Michigan are now
back under our control and I'm feeling
pretty confident I'm just so happy man
because the the way they were whipping
up sentiment out here I'm I'm Somali and
the way they were using that the whole
you know people who came to Minnesota
and trying to use that especially out
state areas to whip up votes just it was
kind of getting gross yeah well it's
gonna get a lot worse in about a year I
mean yeah no doubt because I mean Trump
came here and the 1661 who's running and
lost by one and a half so yeah he came
really close to dangerous but now it's
he I'm really hoping that you know this
thing sorts itself out we we managed to
take back everything but it was a very
you know costly division this guys
causing a lot of damage so well I
appreciate the update on it and I'm glad
it worked out well in Minnesota thanks
for calming yeah right also a great
football weekend for Minnesota as the
Gophers beat the Badgers to take the
Paul Bunyan Acts for the first time in
15 years and the Vikings beat the
Packers
Sports me I was gonna say we need a
sting for that I'm just trying to yeah
it's a button for if any new Minnesota
listeners so you go to subscribe yeah
you get it all don't forget to hit the
subscribe button for more updates on
sports news out of Minnesota that we
update you every six to eight months I'm
excited to tell you what has happened to
the high school hockey championships
that's what I'll be looking I'll tell
you what there is just something it's
this is divergent but just like the idea
of like any historical figure saying
like please like and subscribe it's
hilarious
also check out our patreon page final
call for the day folks I'm sorry we've
had people who have been hanging on the
phone for over an hour multiples of you
just this is the way the cookie false
calm from an 8:02 airbag
come from an 8:02 area code who's this
hey Sam
yes hey this is Sam calling from Vermont
Sam from Vermont what's on your mind Sam
not much just wanted to talk a little
bit just got back from Thanksgiving with
the family and not a statistic but just
a point of fact out of four siblings
there was one of us supporter he's the
only non college educated white one
among us and has lived his whole life up
in Vermont basically not having to deal
with any of the issues that he railed
against so hard just wanted to say
looking to get I don't know any advice
you can have on how to talk to someone
like that because you know in general I
don't give these people the time of day
anymore but tough when they're
blood-related my big thing is you know
kind of fall back on history you know
kind of really hit home on the whole
kind of arc of everything and try to put
that in context and you know kind of a
little bit kind of taking a page out of
your guys's book has reframe the debate
to be less about you know the thing I
tell them is you know maybe it is just
maybe you've been convinced into
believing that these people it's you
know this group of people's fault versus
the real people's fault that it actually
is but anyway just any advice you can
take as you can give on kind of talking
to these people and I hope that you know
you keep maybe finding those those
youtubers that he listens to and you
know Josie's more debate anybody thank
you
who does he listen oh my god it it's bad
it's he still listen to stefan molyneux
you know that guy's batshit crazy yeah
we have a Clinton hammer whoo oh yeah a
piece of signa actual it's pretty
hammered
I know these but these are alive this
guy might be too he might be a little
too far our guys are like actual like I
know but it was crazy you know a lot of
what you know the listening of these
people do is it's like any other
podcasts where it's just sort of like
you know the second thing he's doing so
it's just sort of like when I go home
it's just like you can hear like the
background to his life he lives in
Vermont out either
he lives in for me
yep so I mean what exactly like you know
I mean Vermont is not the most
heterogeneous population like what what
what is he experiencing that he thinks
is a function of of of what of like our
multiracial Society
what is he experiencing that it's so
problematic from his perspective or is
he just talking like more generally yeah
so I mean I think that I think a lot of
what this is about is just not having to
experience much of anything is part of
the problem you know he is you know he
works as my father he's like a
self-employed plumber so it it's really
just like the kind of amount of things
he hasn't had to deal with is sort of
what defines it the most but honestly
nothing is the is the real problem with
it it's just you know I think it's just
the sort of disaffection of being a
single guy in his early 20s living in
Vermont without much going on yeah I
mean your brother smells like a prick I
I would I would I would I would maintain
very I would maintain very low ambitions
as to being able to do anything with
that and I would focus in on one or two
things that you think it's really
important to him and just start planting
very very small seeds because it's gonna
take a lot of work best-case scenario
your brother stays sequestered in
Vermont never leaves and just continues
to perfect his plumbing I mean I you
know that's that's all I can say is that
that could be the best-case scenario for
America but for your family I would just
say like you know plant some seeds maybe
maybe something happens in his life that
he gets a different perspective but good
luck with that Sam yeah basically a
girlfriend but anyway I appreciate it
thanks for taking my call
nothing like nothing like
I guess applying some type of bomb to
your inseln Asst was just blaming other
races the woman that said I was do you
mean to callers sounds like another job
that one guy he mentioned was the the
indignant Dennis Miller fan that we play
at that one time remember he was
defending Dennis Miller
yeah the guy with the long hair that was
one of the guys oh really oh I didn't
realize that he was actually like it's
pretty yeah I at first I thought what I
was doing yeah I thought that was a joke
but yeah II like fat it's like sticks
and hammers so as the sticks I think are
the fascist the fasci sticks like
alright well folks I'm sorry that is it
for today I'm sorry callers we've got to
we've got to go but we will be back
tomorrow for more of it see you then
[Music]
no sir
[Music]
I was I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made
though the option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
