[Music]
there was plenty of fallout from this
whole Crowder thing and of course a lot
of it has to do with right-wingers you
know a complaining that they can't
mainstream gay bashing anymore
why can't I make money off of this says
steven crowder
and here is ben shapiro coming up with
his angle on how to whine about this ben
shapiro
from the bench pyroshow well he referred
to Carlos Massa as a as a as a queer
okay so the reason that I'm saying the
word is because I'm not sure exactly
what the context is for when this is
appropriately Carlos Mazda calls himself
queer but if if steven crowder says the
word queer then it's obviously some sort
of insult according to Carlos Mozza so
I'm not sure what the rules are because
the rules change every five seconds
there you go
ben shapiro pretending that like context
has no meaning whatsoever that is the
old that is the subtext and not barely
even subtext of all of those people I
mean what unites ben shapiro sam Harris
is subtext as a thing that doesn't or
context is the thing that doesn't exist
right just the word itself Queens just
the word you just say the word word as
if the word is wrong what's amazing is
you could think of even a continuum
that's like it's not only is it not one
word it's not even two things like the
difference between someone's self
identifying and then someone else being
a bigot there's people who use it
ironically there's people who use it in
a satiric context there's people who use
it an objective description of something
there's people who use it when they're
quoting somebody else I mean even that
binary doesn't cover a word let alone
just oh well the word is queer
of course I mean and adults understand
this yes adults understand
I mean the the there's a myriad of
different ways you can work use the word
Jew and it with some measure of context
you understand I can't use it in this
way I'm not gonna walk up to you no I'm
not gonna go up you know and purchase a
ticket for you know a movie and address
the the the ticket counter you know
person as you know sweetheart or honey
and the way that I would maybe you know
my you know a girl or wife or something
or yeah I wouldn't say this to my land I
mean the context matters the
relationship between the people matters
I'm gonna go out on a limb and say Ben
Shapiro does understand that I suspect
he does yeah I suspect and he's just
lying but you know whole game am i the
idea that somehow yeah I mean this is
the same thing like hey you know black
people use the n-word yeah rap songs
allowed to use it or not you know like
give me a break
okay yeah give me a break black people
were slaves and that word has a much
longer history uh you know queer was
used to describe people that were you
know just fun interesting different
unbelievable strange every five seconds
alright here is another version of the
defense of well I ain't a defense of
Stephen crowd definitely not a defense
of steeds no defense of steven crowder
but it is a defense of the idea that
somehow it is unfair now look there is a
solution to this and there's only one
solution to it as far as I can tell
because you cannot you know are we gonna
have a you know stores where you know
where people are let's say at
restaurants that people can come in and
walk up the patrons and start yelling at
them because they're black or
start yelling at them period
[Music]
no we don't allow that it's some type of
political protest even which I wouldn't
necessarily criticize the protest but
you can't expect that the protesters are
going to be then allowed to sit down and
eat no they're gonna get kicked out of
the restaurant there are terms of
service the problem that we have with
Google and with Facebook is they are too
concentrated in their power and so they
become too important in the context of
our society no one is going to let me on
to Fox News and get paid why is that
that is not censorship that is not
censorship here is Glenn Greenwald on
Tucker Carlson's program Tucker Carlson
has lost another advertiser Baer
apparently is no longer advertising on
Tucker Carlson show that is not
censorship here is Greenwald and Tucker
Carlson he joins us thanks thanks so
much for coming on so you don't have to
be a fan of steven crowder or what arrow
or anyone to see this as a threat a
threat to one person's speech is a
threat to all of our speech is it not
pause it now here is where this thing
goes off the rails because there is no
threat to this one person's speech
steven crowder hasn't even been D
platformed from YouTube he is just not
allowed to monetize his channel until he
gets rid of all the gay bashing that's
it that is it so this is already a not
even a false equivalency it's simply a
false story that is all that's here now
you can extrapolate it to other people
who may not be able to make a I mean who
who have been deep lat formed from these
from YouTube they can go on to find
other platforms they're not as prominent
which is a problem with YouTube and
concentration of this power but this is
not about free speech he has his speech
he can make it continue yeah I mean I
personally find steven crowder to be
just a contemptuous as a
commentator I do think he's an infantile
bully witch and bigot which are not
words I easily invoke he didn't just
criticize Carlos Massa he mocked him for
being gay and for being Latino you used
a lisp and things to ridicule him sends
a lot of harassment his way but that's
the point Tucker is that censorship
advocates want our brains to only go to
that most primitive first level of do we
hate this person and are we therefore
glad that they're being censored without
thinking about the framework being
endorsed or the consequences right that
in super MIT I mean I've personally it
resonates a lot for me because I've
dealt with harassment far greater than
what Carlos maza is complaining of I'm a
gay man in a country Brazil that just
elected a president driven by intense
anti-gay animus my husband's a member of
Congress in the oppositional party we've
been mocked and derided with our sexual
orientation not by a random youtubers
but by the president of the country
himself on Twitter and his family
members who are elected members of
Congress and it would never occur to me
to run to social media companies to beg
for censorship because in part it's just
something that comes with the territory
being a public figure buzzing buzzing
this analogy is not apt because Stephen
Crowder is not being censored now I
think there's an argument that bolson ro
is breaking the Terms of Service of
Twitter and shouldn't be allowed to use
this that broadcast apparatus for that
but that's a completely separate
argument steven crowder can go on and be
a homophobe and bash gay people all he
wants on YouTube right now he can do
that every day every part of his show
could be that
he just can't make money off it or at
least not in that context he can say
become a member of the mug club Tippie
for there's a lot of people do want him
kicked off completely well that's fine
but that's not what has happened and
there's no reason why people can't have
the opinion of having him kicked off
completely I mean frankly it seems to me
to be within
YouTube's rights to do that as its
structured now so if people want to go
on and make a criticism about this it is
we have a loud YouTube to get too big
because what is the alternative where do
you draw the line what can you not do on
YouTube I mean really like why can't you
talk about you know just pedophilia we
have to be really careful with these
analogies though so I don't I I I don't
even mean you at the end look know
YouTube isn't Fox News it would be
banning somebody it's analogous to and
one of the reasons it's so important to
break up and the public value is so
significant not just for independent
people who actually make a living on it
but also for consumers is its it would
be analogous to saying not just you
can't use a particular cell phone
provider but you can't use a phone
period I mean the reality is is that
these are massive public Commons that
are in private hands which is a
structural threat to us and as long as
you have incompetent profit driven
private companies determining these
things it's a problem and a threat
regardless of what terminology you use
that is the bigger story here so well I
agree I just want to know and it's just
really important to use really precise
and smart alecks I'm being very very
well criticized you Thank You Tube is
this not hold on hold on taking off is
the same as not doing a hit on Fox you
honestly think that really well wait a
second no you want to use all of cable
news
you can't wanna know all of us streets
water phones public communication no no
it's a public utility I'm saying I'm
saying listen
if you want to say it's a public utility
then go on and make that case that's
case you're not making these case
because if they're not danger to have
the hands of so concentrated in Silicon
Valley who makes these decisions wait a
sec we no no all I'm hearing is YouTube
shouldn't censor I'm not hearing from
either one of these guys that what needs
to happen is the YouTube needs to be
broken up YouTube needs to be regulated
all I'm hearing is that this is there's
a censorship going on here the word
censorship is wrong it's not accurate at
all they both know it they both know it
he is on that is the reality if he gets
the platform the answer isn't you're
gonna let anybody go on this platform to
say anything because if you're gonna
allow gay bashing on there what are you
not going to allow and why well they're
taking it as a given that YouTube has
this much control over the market and
that that's not gonna change anytime
soon I think well okay all right so take
it as a given I want to know what they
will keep off there and why what glenn
greenwald and tucker carlson would keep
on yeah they would keep though in there
and what look Carlson I don't trust I
think Greenwald is like Chomsky I think
he's a free speech absolutist so I think
the only things that he would take off
would be actual depictions of actual
occuring violence and that's it and
that's his view it may be like some
insane why wait why would you why would
you why would you keep depictions of
actual violence off what do you mean you
know that I would you do you don't I
mean you understand obviously there were
sane speech and violence I mean first of
all I'm not gonna defend Greenwald's
that I don't have the same strength of
position he has on that but there's
obviously a difference between as an
example do you think an al locky speech
inciting or talking about jihad is the
same as a beheading video if you think
it's the same then we're in different
planets I don't agree with that that's a
crazy analogy to me if I wait I don't
have to think that either one of those
is sufficient to be kept off of youtube
well no no you asked where Glenn would
draw the line and I said I think the
free speech device no no actual violence
would be like a video of a beheading but
I don't think he would take down the al
locky video no that it would be as
strong why would you shoot down a video
I'm not telling you what I think that
the line is and that's a pretty obvious
line for people who take those things
strong stead of you you trying to get
tell me what Glenn's line is what would
be your lawyer you ask to my milah well
look I'm trying to foreground the bigger
problem here which Brown let me so show
that way I'm sorry we started the show
that way so I think I think that what
he's emphasizing is important I've said
before well look here's that I've said
I'll say it again I guess I said it
yesterday one is I think under the
YouTube Terms of Service absolutely
Crowder's and violation of them so this
isn't even a question and if you're a
YouTube provider I agree with that 100%
I'm with you
the problem though that I have is that
when we get into the real world if you
start D monetizing people if you leave
it in the hands of a private corporation
if you even short of the major policy
issues don't have actual journalists
overseeing this you are going to
threaten independent media you're going
to hurt people's lives in a material
sense and and people like crowd are
gonna be fine because they're gonna get
money from oligarchs regarde right so
it's not YouTube's problem it is
society's problem that's refusing to act
let's see if they do address this
continue it comes with the territory
being a public figure but more so
because I don't want to live in a world
where our discourse is policed and
determined by benevolent overlords who
run Silicon Valley companies you know
we're always going to cater to the most
powerful faction that's what happened
here YouTube caved in not in defense of
the marginalized person but in defense
of the powerful one the one who despite
being gay and Latino works for a major
media conclusion at pause it pause it so
steven crowder is the marginalized one
and maza who's being attacked not
because he works for NBC or Vox
whatever it is but because he's gay he's
the powerful one you mean you know the
point he's trying to make which is I
don't know the point in the boy okay so
let me strip so the unfortunately and
this is the problem with Greenwald going
on Tucker and going into those frames
Mary says no no no because no because
the frame of the argument is what sets
up that ridiculous conclusion which is
that when it's perfectly crowd urging
the forum you know I'm I like and I'll
defend grunt Glenn in ways that I think
are that I agree with him on but I think
it's a major problem because I think the
bigger and more typical example that you
will start to see and already is I want
to stay with this video and what he just
said well there's okay if you look if
you just want to say look yes in
Crowder's equal to if not more powerful
than maza I agree off that horse of
course in the idea that this is about
that that Crowder's going after him
because of uh you know who owns Vox is
absurd it's absurd because that has
nothing to do with him being gay there's
nothing to do with him being Mexican
it's just absurd it's an absurd a you
know a thing to go on anywhere and say
never mind for Tucker Carlson but go
ahead caved in not in defense of the
marginalized person but in defense of
the powerful one the one who despite
being gay and Latino works for a major
media conglomerate and that's what
they're always gonna do is defend the
mob and defend the powerful at the
expense of those who are marginalized
that is such a good point they're
defending the power really quick I just
have to ask you so you don't he joins us
that is I don't blame Tucker for
laughing because that is such an
unbelievable the multi-millionaire
steven crowder is the marginalized one
in this instance while he is gay bashing
and look if the argument is there is a
real problem because society is not
addressing YouTube I agree with that but
the notion that somehow the the the
powerful has been you know is being
catered
in this instance it's obtrusive but we
right and that let me can I take it
beyond this video now well yeah but we
agree beyond this video okay but I just
want to re-emphasize to people though
that in these instances and even some of
the other examples that Glenn brings up
on Twitter there are really important
issues at stake that are getting wrapped
up and also by the way which is another
thing in my opinion that Glenn failed to
do which is buy Crowder Crowder is
polluting the water entirely and if
you're pissed about this is an
independent creator go get in his face
which is by the way what that
documentarian has done I'm forgetting
his name I think it's kiya sure was one
of the first things he said sort what
was his name Ford Fisher said this is
terrible YouTube did this by the way I
don't
ain't Carlos Mazdas fault Steven
Crowder's fault so but you know the more
examples where that language would fit
would be as an example what Facebook has
done to tell us or what YouTube is doing
by de monetizing all these independent
platforms and if they aren't broken up
and if we don't have a broader demand I
guess my point is demand that Google do
something beyond these way late in the
game reactions and then overreactions
demand they have an actual process that
safeguards independent media and
livelihoods because that's a material
reality - that's right you know I think
a smaller YouTube could be regulated in
such a way that you cannot make these
assessments of terms of condemn me this
is very easy regulation you could do
this there's no political will to do it
but to go in and say if you're gonna
have a Terms of Service
it must be assessed by human beings
precisely that that beautiful can we
that would be so great though if that
could be part of when people tweet at
YouTube over various outrages or
whatever even just place a tweet about
YouTube you you tweet that at at AG
Congress liable that lawmakers everybody
absolutely and when you're talking to
candidates about if you care about both
issues if you really care about this
issue and aren't just preening to be
part of a team frankly then that's what
you do when you out go on television
that's what I
found so ridiculous about that hit was
just like I'm just gonna go on and make
this about somehow you know
conservatives are once again targeted
unfairly I mean look the problem here is
first of all I mean the that assessment
is just so just a bizarre and misguided
it's it's it's it's shocking it
obviously has super awesome beliefs
about I mean look look also the fact
that he doesn't do that in a Brazilian
context where he and his husband's lives
are literally threatened speaks to where
he's coming from on this agree or
disagree I think it's a very well-formed
and clear position and the same and this
is also the same guy that you know this
is the same person that is gonna do the
Snowden work and critique Obama when
that's not fashionable and so on so I
think we also have to just you know be
clear about where he's coming from what
he is dealt with with his husband in
Brazil is mind-boggling and he still
maintains that position I wouldn't
maintain that position if I was in that
context I don't think I maintain that
position now and I don't deal with any
of it I mean I think I could also argue
that the that the safest place when
you're afraid for stuff like that is to
make sure that stuff is happening on
public in some level I mean it's a
different dynamic right and I get that I
I mean I get that that notion that he's
going through and that's why I find when
he goes on to do stuff like that on on
Fox that much more disappointing because
it undercuts all the stuff that I think
that he does that is good frankly
because that's just the what is the way
that we live in society I mean you know
I I my my I I have similar laments about
other people who take positions that I
think are just completely indefensible
and it undercuts their their credibility
in areas where I think they're quite
good that's what's you know so upsetting
about that in some respects I mean look
we already live in a society where
people's freedom of speech is largely
determined by how much money they have
and largely determined by the pressures
of
the market yes a lot of what these
people are getting mad about is not
government censorship it's the market
like the market is gonna do what its
gonna do and sometimes that's gonna be
good sometimes people are gonna say hey
you got to do something about this
homophobia sometimes it's gonna be bad
because steven crowder makes a ton of
money for YouTube so like I don't really
see a way out of these issues in the
short term but in the long term I have
to believe if we brought YouTube and
these public utilities under some form
of democratic control that they would be
slightly better at insuring like a
healthy discourse for everyone well in
the way you do that is through
regulation and through disempowering
them in some fashion and you know that
should be if that's the argument that's
the argument but this idea that somehow
like a private company can't enforce its
own Terms of Service that's just absurd
like you wouldn't argue that in any
other context well you know actually a
socialist Jamie and I would but yes
let's get to the bigger picture argument
well I'm no I'm saying I mean show some
consistency I mean just show some
because some some consistency with that
like I mean you know the you can't get
on cable television and get paid on
cable television just because you have
an opinion and the it's I just think
that you know yeah III to frame it as if
this is a you know picking on the little
guy is just absurd it's just absurd oh
well I've noticed a lot of these kind of
libertarian types have this view of
people who work in media as it leaves
when I mean Fox is currently on strike
because the company refuses to give them
a contract by the way these are just
they're their workers they're literally
just workers unless you're like in the
David Brooks tier which is like ten
people you're a worker and I don't know
why they think we're some like secret
powerful cabal but I've heard it a lot
shout
to Vox employees solidarity
