[Music]
we played by abide no longer supporting
the Hyde Amendment this is pretty
stunning and in some respects I feel
like you know I don't know what Claire
McCaskill still does this is she now
like MSNBC she an MSNBC contributor now
or something
oh god here is Claire McCaskill who
incidentally lost I don't know if she's
blaming these other people for losing in
her her race but here she is deriving
Barack Hussein Obama for dividing the
country you have to understand though
Chris there is such angst and
frustration with the dysfunction of our
government right now the middle has has
disappeared everyone has gone to their
respective corners and when that happens
in a democracy nothing gets done and
when nothing gets done people get
cynical and when they get cynical to use
a metaphor here that may not be
appropriate they pull the pin on the
grenade and they toss it into the swamp
and that's what Donald Trump was to the
people who supported him in our state we
need change and maybe this guy because
he is so different because man I always
do st. Obama didn't get it's like who is
it who is it that is going to go and get
Mitch McConnell to give a hearing to a
to a democratic pick for the Supreme
Court this is just absurd I was the same
go ahead I'm sorry I just I mean I just
you're absolutely right there I mean I
I've always thought of her as a
right-wing corporatist I never thought
of her as like all right I mean honestly
what the hell is that that is basically
what
this just she's just positioning this is
you know the way that she I don't know
it I mean it's it's unbelievable there
it knows she's amazing though because
she actually who cares what she has to
say well number one why the hell does
she have a job and and what an insult to
the pilot speaking of platforming and
making the living an insult to the
literally millions of people who would
do a better job as a commentator on
MSNBC than her representing a relevant
perspective but like she's so she is
another like no it's not as extreme but
I think you will see more people like
this you know rahm emanuel not with
obama obviously because he's close to
Obama but Rahm Emmanuel's like this of
like the reactionary backlash inside the
Democratic Party elite you not and and
you know what's amazing to me about
Claire McCaskill is that she endorsed
Obama in 2007 she was an early Obama
endorsed her and instead of like looking
at what's happened in last several years
it's almost like she's just like oh man
I went out of my way for that black guy
and he's why I ended up losing my seat
that's how I read everything she's been
saying this is one of the things that I
meant when I said that the Democrats at
least some of the centrist Democrats
we're gonna learn all the wrong lessons
from 2016 one of the lessons being oh we
need to get a lot more racist yeah I
mean they're not there's no you know
again like I say this all the time
there's no teaching people lessons like
I don't know like where do people you
know people don't understand the
incentive structure of different people
I mean that's just the bottom line well
no they extrapolated lessons and they
were bad ones in my opinion well no I
get one no what Sam is saying is like
Claire McCaskill has zero instruct
incentive structure to say my model of
politics has failed and in US on a
personal level her incentive structures
to say it has worked and in fact for her
it has been worse
that's why she's on MSNBC getting
nonsense and make yes amount of money
exactly yeah
I mean I don't think that the lessons
are not true to their own internal logic
right it's working out pretty well
for her but I still don't like that line
of thinking all I'm trying to say well I
know and I agree but I mean there's no
there's no lessons
this whole lessons thing is just like
there's no lessons all right that's a
chapter in the book what would you like
it better if I called them takeaways
well but they don't there's no they
don't they have a different set of
things that they're like they're their
whole structure is different so their
takeaways we presume that there's some
broad takeaways being taken away by
people with different incentive
structures and there isn't there's only
incentive they're the only people who
have takeaways are the people who are
actually talking about the takeaways
like you only have the ability to to
assess for yourself as to like what's
the lesson I should learn from this you
know this idea that like you know with
teaching lessons or other people having
lessons it just doesn't work that way
are you saying that they're learning of
the lessons is not a sincere takeaway
but more like they're gonna twist what
happened however they need to pretend
that they learn to lie think he's just
saying there are no lessons no what I'm
saying is what happened is not like our
assessment of what happened is different
from their assessment of what happened
because the only thing claire mccaskill
cares about is what happened to her and
she doesn't there's no like this
presumption that like you know we want
Democrats to win it's it's probably up
there for her somewhere if she's in like
the Democratic Party and she's in the
Senate because if the Democrats hold the
Senate then she gets you know it may
enhance her her life in some fashion but
that's not her top priority her top
priority is her being in the Senate and
and her opportunities like it's the
assessments were make are good for
people who are similarly situated and
have similar goals but the assessments
are just not the same like you know
people are like how does Dick Cheney
think that
Rack is not a failure because for Dick
Cheney it went exactly I was a smashing
success there were huge contracts they
broke the UN and humiliated the UN
system he had a lot of incentives that
was okay privatized the entire
infrastructure of the country and people
made a killing on it big success yeah
like there was no kind of yeah right it
made it so it's not like it made any
difference for him one way or another he
didn't get not re-elected in 2004 maybe
if he had not gotten re-elected in 2004
he would have been like well we
obviously sold the the war slightly
wrong like it you know right but it was
still a good thing to do I mean you know
I don't know I just this where did she
start that phrase i when did we start
hearing that about lessons yeah I don't
know people who I mean who just I don't
I don't know I mean I never heard that I
haven't heard that before into the last
couple years some people came away with
some positive conclusions and
assessments though like our friend
petered out from his lesson was that
Hillary Clinton didn't mention him in
the yeah I like I don't I I I'm not sure
well no no actually assertion it well no
I guess well look we're getting really
in the weeds I mean I think he does a he
has a desire to see Democrats win in a
certain way so he has an incentive to
learn a certain whatever we've already
done this yeah I don't know what he's
gonna have to you know it I don't know
why I'm defending anybody I should be
more cynical than you if anything
exactly exactly what am i doing speak
