[Music]
Bernie Sanders was with Harry Smith on
CBS I mean it's sort of amazing because
the the media that Bernie Sanders has
gotten over the years now relative to
where where he was able to get on five
years ago 10 years ago but here is NBC
Nightly News with my big idea Bernie
Sanders talking about Medicare what's
your big idea Medicare for all me does
that mean all yeah that's all I mean you
know let's be clear this is not a
radical idea perhaps because Bernie
Sanders has been delivering much the
same message for more than 30 years
we're going up not down here Sanders
then mayor of Burlington Vermont on The
Today Show in 1981 you have maybe two
percent of the population that owns one
third of the entire wealth of America we
met the senator on Capitol Hill in a
tiny DC campaign office bottom line is
Medicare is the most popular health
insurance program in America far more
popular than private health insurance
policies and we think if we expand
Medicare over four year period to all
people you're gonna see a lot of people
being very satisfied Americans would pay
nothing at the doctor's office no
co-pays at the ER he's even throwing in
dental and vision care companies would
no longer offer private health care to
employees the cost in the trillions with
a T if I want to can I opt out know the
word that will come from Republicans is
socialism well that may or may not be
but if it happens this is not a
socialist program you know what is a
socialist program
it's the Veterans Administration you
know what's a socialist program
your Police Department your fire
department those are government-run
programs Medicare for all that's Bernie
Sanders big idea there you go pretty
amazing to lay it out like that they
trying to like he's even throwing in
dental care and in the thasians dental
are pretty important the cost again you
know this is really important to say it
cost trillions is accurate but you also
to get a notion of whether we can afford
it you also have to put in there what it
saves and so it it cost billions but
it's trillions but it saves slightly
more and so the net effect is actually a
negative effect that's it that's
according anyways to the Cato Institute
numbers so I you know I don't I can't
totally vouch for their numbers but
certainly there have been other
breakdowns that that show a similar
dynamic but that's specifically I'm
citing the Cato Institute
