so Sara let's start with the really
massive project you undertook I guess
about a little bit over a year ago
what what was that project he's about a
year ago I started asking the box
readers to send me their emergency room
bills mostly because those prices that
are charged at emergency rooms are
charged anywhere in our healthcare
system are kept secret and I wanted to
you know write about them and so far
I've collected about 2,000 bills I read
about 1,300 of them at this point so
yeah I've spent a lot of the past year
collecting and reading a lot of stories
from the emergency room that sounds like
a total nightmare and but I am I'm
fascinated by this because I had an
emergency room visit maybe I guess it
was about a year and a half ago and the
whole billing process was bizarre
nothing was serious on my part at all so
I'm perfectly healthy but so I found
this fascinating but before we go into
the specifics of an emergency room like
what is this the this this opaque
quality to billing what is it different
from the for the emergency room than it
is for sort of that I guess the
hospital's general services like what
what is going on with this dynamic where
you know it's like I'm gonna order off
the menu but we can't tell you how much
it's going to cost until after you
finish your meal yeah you know I think
part of it is symptomatic of the larger
system but there are some things that
are unique about the ER space I think
what sips symptomatic of the system is
the fact that it's impossible to know
the prices of health care before you go
and you know if you think of any other
Goods you shop for you know if you were
going to the mechanic to fix your car if
you're going to a restaurant you would
want to know the prices of you know
there are pairs on your car but you
can't know the prices on the repair is
you're getting done for yourself so I
think that is a general feature of the
American healthcare system that is quite
bad for page
I think what's unique about the
emergency room is is twofold one is that
people are going there often not by
their own choice they are transported by
ambulance they are dealing with some
kind of emergency
often I read bills from people who you
know didn't have an emergency but it was
a holiday it was the weekend it was
after work and the ER was only place
open so I think that's one of the
dynamics you know specific to the ER is
that people are often not making a
choice it's just the place they end up
and I think what's different is you have
all these sort of providers in the ER
and this is something everyone about a
lot who might not be a network with even
though you're at an in-network Hospital
so it's one of the places you know it's
that one study has found that one in
five ER visits results in a surprise
bill from a doctor who was working at a
network er but wasn't didn't network
with insurance so there are certain
things that happened you know
specifically in the ER and some that are
more symptomatic of our larger problems
well let's I mean let's start with that
larger problem and then we'll work our
way down to that I mean I know there's
been you know there's there's obviously
been people who have explored this boat
but why I still can't quite understand
why the pricing is so opaque like how
did it develop in that way how did
someone say like oh I know what we'll do
let's just make up you know I mean it
feels like it's random prices you know
and see what sticks and not tell any of
the any of the buyers because we don't
want you know the idea that maybe
somebody else paid half for this same
procedure to inhibit the next person
from paying double yeah it is a pretty
Rube Goldberg esque system but I don't
think any healthcare wonk would have
devised I think you know when I look at
the source of this I think it's
something that's different about us for
most developed countries in you know
nearly every other developed country and
not just European countries not just you
know ones with larger welfare states but
places like Singapore or Hong Kong I'm
also Canada Britain European countries
they have a
entity that regulates healthcare prices
and they do this because they see
healthcare as just as important as
electricity or gas it's something you
need to survive and therefore the
government is going to step in and you
know set prices because patients can't
really when it's your life at stake you
really don't have much negotiating power
the United States has made the decision
not to have that kind of price
regulation that essentially leaves
health insurers and hospitals to
negotiate you know what they think is a
fair price for everything from an
appendectomy to a primary care visit to
an ER trip and no one is in that system
really has an interest in making things
more transparent you know like you
mentioned Sam a lot of people are quite
proprietary you know particularly the
hospitals and insurers they don't want
their competitors to know what rate
they've got and they want to keep that
information secret and unfortunately
there's really isn't any forcing
mechanism to make that public you know
that's why I started this whole project
the only way to find out you know what
is actually being paid at emergency
rooms is to look at the bills that
patients have received that's really the
only way I could think of to do this I
wish there were an easier one because
reading ER bills all day is not the
easiest way to do this but that's
unfortunately the best that we have
right now well I mean there is maybe an
easier one you had touched on it in
terms of government regulation but let's
put a pin on that for a minute but what
is it about what is it about this it's
is it just simply I mean you know in
terms of emergency rooms like this is
not a plan purchase right I mean this is
it's extremely spontaneous but what is
it is it is it just that that makes it I
mean why is there is it is there a
market you know a so-called market
failure or maybe just an inability for a
market to deal with this type of service
because we don't have this problem with
you know cleaners you know with you know
dry cleaners or with you know I don't
know hotels or you know there's no other
service that seems analogous to
hospitals when it comes to pricing
yeah I you know I think that's a really
good point and you know I think what's
different about it is this is the
healthcare the only service you would
purchase while unconscious you know I
wrote a story yesterday that involved a
patient who was having a blinding
migraine you know she literally could
not see if she managed to tap in 9-1-1
on her phone was taken to a hospital
that turned out to be out of network and
one thing she said to me which you know
made me laugh a little bit there's also
just terrible say you know I don't think
I could have avoided this I literally
could not see when I was you know when
this decision was being made about where
I was going to go so I think that's you
know one of the things that's different
about the healthcare system certainly
different about the emergency room is
patients often aren't making the choice
to go there they don't have much choice
so you see some behaviors similar to
what a monopoly might do when they don't
have competition you know you end up
with these really high prices and even
when it's not an emergency the the
dynamic a competition doesn't kick in in
the same way because we don't treat
health care like we treat other
commodities at least as a you know we we
don't perceive ourselves as consumers as
much as we can perceive ourselves as
patients mm-hmm
yeah and I think when you're thinking as
a patient you know your hope is to get
the best care possible to get better
especially an emergency situation you
know I think it's very challenging to
and I think another factor layered on
top of this is most the people you
interact with in a hospital in an
emergency room they won't even be able
to tell you what it's going to cost if
you you know if you ask your provider
you know how much is that ultrasound how
much is that cat scan they probably
won't know the answer and they probably
want to tell you the answer because it's
just not something that they deal with
so you know I think a lot of times I get
questions after doing this project about
well how can I avoid a surprise er bill
and unfortunately there aren't great
ways to do it and I feel like it's a
really unfair burden to put on patients
you know that you know long with trying
to get treatment you're also trying to
navigate
the system in a system where you have
very little power to to say no or go
somewhere else all right well let's
let's take a break and let's start let's
talk about some of the I guess the
highlights the lowlights of what you
found about this experience some of this
like I say not terribly surprising to me
as I experienced something like this and
it was it was pretty shocking but we got
to take a quick break we'll be right
back with Sarah Kliff just after this
