[Music]
here is Mike Pompeo
I think reiterating what Tom cotton says
- right here's Mike Pompeo saying
basically threatening the UA of the Iran
with war it's unclear who was involved
in the explosions that hit tankers the
other day in the Gulf Oman but here's
Mike Pompeo despite the slight
discrepancy in what was used and how
sure they were about this stuff that's
how it worked with weapons of mass
destruction we know there's weapons of
mass destruction there well it turns out
they lied because they couldn't know
they just felt that if we said we think
there's weapons of mass destruction
there we sort of feel like there should
be they probably couldn't have gotten
the war they wanted here's Mike Pompeo
saying the US will strike Iran if we
need to protect international crude oil
from let's say attack to help us to do
that so when you talk about military
response you're talking about that
keeping the waterways open you were not
at this point talking about a strike on
Iran
oh goodness president Trump has said
very clearly he doesn't want to go to
war at the same time we've made very
clear then we have the legal
authorization for strike on Iran we
always have the authorization to defend
American interest remember they now have
attacked US aircraft they on June 6th
there was a missile fired from Yemen
with that we assess had Iranian
assistance that took down in mq-9
aircraft these are attacks on
fundamental international norms and now
on American interest and we always have
the right to defend our country but I
ask you because there are questions
about whether the existing authorization
for use of military force the AUMF would
actually include a strike on Iran are
you confident that you could go and not
have to ask Congress for permission to
take action we're gonna I don't want to
get into hypotheticals but the American
people should be very cautious
90 united states takes under President
Trump will always be lawful always
consistent with our Constitution and we
will always do the hard tasks it takes
to protect American interests wherever
they are but do you need Congress's
permission to do what market I mean de
penser the question in the abstract
permission you said a range of options
are being looked at yes every option we
look at will be fully lawful oh okay I
feel better understand the game that
Pompey is taking here right now right
he's saying to the president and he was
saying that to the president I get it
you don't want a war we're gonna keep
ourselves out of war of course we've got
to be strong you don't want me going on
there and sounding weak and the idea is
bit by bit we provoke maybe they
retaliate maybe they don't if they don't
then we make it as if they've retaliated
and then we provoke a little bit more
and then all of a sudden oops somebody
forgot to leave the emergency brake and
we parked on a hill and there goes the
car rolling down the hill who's gonna
stop it shoot we forgot to keep the
doors unlocked and we can't run in and
open up the door and stop the car wonder
if there's any support in the Senate for
the future Donald Trump for for the the
new version of Donald Trump in 2024 in
the event that the old one conks out in
2020
let's check because Tom cotton was on
was this face face the nation find as a
hawk on Iran you see these recent
attacks these are commercial vessels not
military installations what kind of
response is warranted well Iran for 40
years has engaged of attacks going back
to the 1980s in fact Ronald Reagan had
two reflagged a lot of vessels going
through the Persian Gulf and ultimately
take military action against Iran in
1988 these unprovoked attacks on
commercial shipping warrant two
retaliatory
military strike are you you're comparing
the tanker war in the eighties to now
and saying that that's the kind of
military response you want to see we can
make a military Iraq response in a time
in a manner of our choosing
but yes unprovoked attacks on commercial
shipping warrant a retaliatory military
strike against the Islamic Republic of
Iran a retaliatory strike when we had
secretary Pompeo on just a few moments
ago he said the u.s. always has the
authorization to defend American
interests as someone who sits in
Congress do you believe that he can act
the administration can act without
coming to Congress first yes Margaret
going back to President Washington and
all the way down to President Trump the
fastest way to get the fire and fury of
the US military unleashed on you is to
interfere with the freedom of navigation
on the open season in the air that's
exactly what Iran is doing and one of
the world's most important strategic
points first of all is this really I
mean what is not United States interests
these are not us boats Japan hasn't as
far as I know has not made some
declaration that they want us to attack
not nor has Norway what is not a u.s.
interest if we can decide unilaterally
to bomb in this instance he has got it
right from George Washington all the way
down to trump but the idea that he's
calling for a military strike based on
this event that's already happened like
there's a reason pot of war folks they
want a war this is not this is not a
drill the president has the
authorization to act to defend American
interests certainly it would be in
keeping with President Obama did
unwisely in Libya in 2011 in launching a
week's long campaign to overthrow the
government there what I'm talking about
is not like what we've seen in Iraq for
the last 16 years or Afghanistan for the
last 18 years but retaliatory military
strikes against Iran that make it clear
we will not tolerate any kind of attacks
on commercial shipping on the open seas
boy does he want a war
boy does he want war nuts
