[Music]
one of the most important things that
Bernie Sanders has done in both of his
campaigns and the work of Jacobin
magazine the extent of work we're doing
is rima t realizing politics making
serious things like poverty and
inequality not bigoted fairytales or you
know over complexified technocratic
nonsense but just getting the basic
reality of why serious problems exist
what material deprivation is and the
Elan Omar gets it and she articulates it
incredibly well here she is speaking at
a House subcommittee and she's gonna
sort of actually basically connect the
real causes of poverty in this country
with in fact another type of
responsibility that we have is a public
which is actually a broad general
compassion concern and empathy for all
of us this is very well done I'm a
little frustrated because I heard a lot
about love and one thing that I know is
it's not because of the lack of love
that we're not able to feed our children
it's not because the lack of love that
we are able to house people it's not the
lack of love that we are unable to save
people from dying because they don't
have health care it's not because of
lack of love that you are able to finish
college because you got help with
childcare love has nothing to do with
this and if you want to bring love into
this you got to bring radical love
because radical love means that we
radically love every single person
within our communities to make sure that
we are providing for them the basic
rights as humans that's what love is and
that's the godly thing to do you can't
pray for your children to be fed so
you're not crying because there
crying and they can go to bed you cannot
pray for your medical bills to disappear
you cannot pray for the mold to stop
poisoning your children in the
classrooms so this is obviously one of
the most important emerging leaders we
have in our country today and someone
that all too often a Democratic
leadership has not protected when the
worst people in American life have
terrorized their politically but that's
a hundred percent right and that's the
Cornel West quote that law that justice
is love in public I mean the idea though
that we have allowed for decades both in
the religious right-wing variety by the
way there's a good example of left-wing
religiosity right there which people
should take note of but also even in
this sort of like generic technocratic
sense embraced by Third Way Democrats
that the overwhelming force of material
conditions and deprivation --zz that cut
along class and racial lines are
reducible to individuals decisions is
one of the greatest frauds and delusions
of our country and of all neoliberal and
capitalist politics and economics it is
I mean think of how deep we are in this
delusion that for decades they were able
to pull a scam that said that national
problems disparities and funding doing
due to property tax bases that all sorts
of different economic racial
environmental biases and problems that
affect and impact outcomes and education
could all be reducible to an individual
teacher in a classroom now your
individual action matters and so we know
that there were some teachers who had
way too much burden to put on them and
they totally over performed and we're
heroes in a way that no way we should
expect everybody to be and then there
were others who suck and there was no
scenario either in the hero or in the
bad teacher where it was ever reducible
to their own decisions and some
the people in serious situations of
economic deprivation yes there of pink
their actions matter in a limited way
but never in the same way as the
political and economic context in terms
of reality and we also know that when
you put that level of stress on people
and that we're lent less pressure on
them and then restrict their options
that necessarily affects your capacity
to even begin to make long-term
decisions so good for Elon Omar and
everybody else needs to be relentlessly
debunking that lie in myth in American
life
