- just to make you aware about the
situation that were in so so that is in
a some outstanding taxability spending
under your names so let me introduce
myself i'm the senior investigation
officer and my name is Matthew Benjamin
my batch ID number is AR one zero one
zero nine fun so could you help me out
the first name and last name so that I
can pull up your orders for my system
yes absolutely that's John J on Benjamin
yeah Benjamin yep okay could you help me
out shipping address the shipping
address yeah okay Billy got it yeah it's
P o box 1 0 0 for Bo walk the old walk P
o box 1 0 0 4 and that's in one little
little fool yes
inkay go ahead Hudson New York in hot
pan New York yes 1 2 5 3 4 that's the
that's the address I file for my taxes
just hold on hello that's holding my
projects
okay I'll repeat your billing address
p.o box 100 for in Hodson after that
what is it
could you please repeat for me once
again it is in Hudson New York and the
zip code is on what you said lip good
zip code is one two five three four one
two five three four correct
okay thank you for your patience mr.
John Benjamin and the reason which I've
called you that that isn't some
outstanding tax pending under your name
so which you are being listed as Alabama
Mary suspect so I'm talking about your
federal taxes John
so which you pay every year either
incorrect or orders who have made some
mistakes while filling the Texas so
please grab a pen and paper handy with
you so that I can see the case ID number
brief information about your keeps fine
okay your case ID number is Seattle
Charlie we have a libido
I'm c99 I'm sorry CP CP yeah like oh 900
3 2 8 3 2
of course ok ok ok second on Bobby's I
also have the legal a freedom against
you with you can I just say part of the
problem is yeah ok so I as you probably
know I am the voice on some major
cartoons and I recently switched my
accountant and of course
i I I'm quite convinced this guy did
willing we probably didn't ok is doing
just hold out I will transfer my call to
my senior investigation officer even
elder before yes thank you for holding
the light your call has been transferred
to one of the senior supervisor you are
speaking with officer William Howe with
a Bosch number 1 7 1 0 6 3 I believe I'm
talking to you mr. John Benjamin place
yes you are yeah mr. Benjamin yes my
junior officer must have explained to
you about the pavement what you owe the
IRS no not you ok I'm sorry he didn't
say a number let me just say in my own
defense this was clearly a function of a
new accountant that I have and I'm going
to fire him immediately
uh-huh I understand
see mr. Benjamin this sort of time I
believe he had explained you about your
case the lawsuit which has been filed
against you and about your arrest
warrant among correct oh no he did not
I had no idea there was an arrest
warrant I obviously look I'm a voice on
some major cartoons I can't possibly be
arrested what can I do to get out of
this see mr. Benjamin exactly the reason
why we are getting arrested while you're
getting arrested it's because the reason
why you are getting arrested is because
when I arrest always file the lawsuit
against US citizens they even apply they
even apply for CP 5:03 notice that CP
5:03 notice is an investigation arrest
warrant understand first of all I have
to tell you that I I philosophically
believe that income taxes are theft so I
I don't even subscribe to the notion
that you have
right to tax me but I understand if I
mean I I understand I have to comport to
your laws right
so the total amount what you owe to the
IRS it's five thousand seven hundred it
may be six dollars well that's for me is
it's virtually nothing I mean I am
extremely so all right yeah
I understand mr. Benjamin right see
today itself if I always give you a
chance to resolve this case would be
able to come up with the student about
today till today do you need it today
Yeah right
well of course of its cash would cash be
okay if you have a cash we have no
problem but you have to make like two
years how would I get you the money mr.
Benjamin you aren't gonna send it this
money to me you're gonna pay this amount
to the IRS at least IRS official
official website okay alright what's
amazing about the payment post let me
explain about the pavement procedure
that you have to follow let me just be
clear darling let me just be clear this
will get the charges dropped if I pay
the money exactly
okay what's the payment will be getting
accepted by the IRS hmm that part of
time what the four charges has been
pressed against to you and that charges
will be dropped down immediately okay do
you know what a PD PDF files are a PDF
copy a PDF file is just something I
committed PDF files which you can
download as a soft copy from the
Internet oh I see okay yes what do you
have it want you make this payment to
the IRS mmm there will be three this one
the cancellation mistakes what do you
have done under your text paper mmm well
it will be that of couple mmm second
will be like station arrest warrant so
it will be the received of course yeah
yes I understand now the specific
charges this does not involve anything
that happened with the
the vehicle that I had borrowed from my
uncle that is nothing to do with that no
I just wanted to clarify that because he
was claiming that he was gonna press
charges but he would not have done that
with the IRS yes okay
now mr. Benjamin yes it all will get
this case resolved there are certain
condition and there are certain protocol
that you need to follow the reason
because I always never accept payment
over the phone call right of course what
do you have to do what you have to do
this you have to physically do this
payment on your own as you have no idea
what this payment can be done and how
this payment can be done right I will
explain you how you can do this pavement
okay but while you're doing the
procedure I need to record everything
whatever is going on between you and the
IRS
I see so we can have an idea this
recording will be played inside a
courthouse that we can show them we told
you about the payment procedure and you
had fun hold on you're going to be
recording me this lines I've been
getting recorded come shopping with me
on a federally monitored and recorded
phone I just have to say right now I am
I'm an acclaimed voice artist I don't
know if you're familiar with some of my
work have you ever seen Archer what it
did well it's on FX it's a very popular
show Archer so ordered it
it's a cartoon okay and Bob's Burgers
that's on Fox all right now of course
the man who plays Hugo is more or less
the lead of the show but I support him
in many ways getting it's getting you're
talking about something that it is out
of this case all right oh no I'm simply
saying I'm a voice artist if you're
recording it as long as it's not used
for publication because I am a member of
a union and I have contracts and I don't
want to violate those contracts now
yes sir mr. Benjamin I'm gonna transfer
the phone call to the extension of my
senior authority and he was been talking
to you he will guide you what the Father
payment procedure will be and he will
even tell you what the certain protocol
and procedure that you need to follow
all right
yes all right and who I'm sorry who my
will will you be hello hello who will
you be transferring hello
all right you there sir yes I am all
right
Oh sir my name is Officer Eric Anderson
I'm the senior the investigation officer
working down on your case file Alex with
the Attorney General in order to stop
your arrest warrant and resolve your
case all right so these Attorney
General's involved in this yes sir okay
so this college Patrol II monitored and
recorded by the ILS local police
authorities those office as well as the
federal courthouse okay yes sir do you
know what do you know what is the
outstanding actor Meyer you owe to the
Irish somewhere in the thousands of
dollars I believe the outstanding tax
amount that you owe to the IRS which is
five thousand seven hundred and eighty
six dollars so if I give you a chance in
order to stop your arrest warrant and
resolve your case would you be able to
come up with the outstanding tax amount
that you owe to the IRS today itself you
have this much money with you or near
of course of course I do III spoke to
earlier to the the gentleman I just
spoke to my issue is listen I am a
fairly prominent I mean some would say
extremely prominent voice actor and so
III just I'm concerned about the
recording of my voice
well this whole recording and this whole
conversation is the only evidence you
have as a proof of your settlement okay
all right well then which is gonna be
going in your favor now okay well if it
works in my favor
what do I need to do this is the only
evidence you have as a proof of your
settlement this whole recording and this
whole conversation is the only evidence
you have as a proof of your settlement
should I be getting a lawyer
how long in prison I'm gonna be guiding
you sir I'm gonna be guiding I'm gonna
be telling you how we're gonna be
working out things nowhere interviewer
sorry you have to work or you're richer
how you are at your home
excuse me where exactly you are you are
at your work or you are at your home oh
well I'm at work of course I mean I I am
I'm in my office
all right so you leave you need to leave
from your office what I want you to do
is I want you to grab a pen and paper
with you your driver's license your
debit card or credit card which we're
going to be using of course and I want
you to leave from your office and I want
you to get in your car now once you get
in your car all right I'm gonna be I'm
gonna be forwarding this recording to
the attorney general's office so they
can work on your case file all right in
order to stop your arrest warrant I'm
gonna be guiding you
the further instructions the protocols
and the conditions which you're gonna be
fine which you're going to be following
in order to stop your arrest warrant
okay wait wait wait I don't have a car
am i oh what if I can get a bike no
problem sir that will do okay so I don't
have to go far no you need to leave from
your office first okay now I want you to
go near to your bike I will tell you
what you that I'll be doing wait a
second how will you be able to talk to
me if I'm not in my office I believe I'm
speaking to you on your cell phone no no
you're not
I called my office phone because I got
the phone call from the Attorney General
on my mobile phone and I I get very poor
reception here I'm very concerned what
is your mobile number Oh God
it is nine one seven five five five five
five five five that's your mobile number
what's that oh no no no my mobile number
oh I'm sorry it's 911 555 four thousand
are you sure this is your cell phone
number let me just double-check this is
you can understand why I'm very
disoriented right now
[Music]
is there any way that I could I could I
could just do this online I did to leave
the work right now would be a problem
for me I have things to do very shortly
all right no you tell me sir widget are
you gonna be using either it's gonna be
your debit card or credit card well I
can use either which is better you can
use any of the cars sir could you please
help me with your card information
of course of course do you need my
social security number for for to make
sure that I'm credited on my account no
it is not necessary sir because this
call is federally monitored and recorded
of course could you please help there
with your number yes
would you take American Express Platinum
yes sir okay
do you want the number now yes okay
three seven three six four four one
[Music]
three eight one one nine five zero three
[Music]
hello
that's all that's you wanted the credit
card number correct yes
okay would you read it back to me please
read it back to me sir could you would
you read it back to me now you don't
make a note so if can you please read me
the numbers one more time wait you did
it did you get the numbers no I did not
okay do you want to read that back to me
I want you to read it back here because
I don't have the numbers you don't you
didn't get the numbers so no hello no I
did not sir okay do you want to read
that back to me
yeah I want you to read it back yeah
okay would you read that back to me I
don't have the number so I want you to
read that back to me
hello did you get the numbers no okay
would you read that back to me please I
did not get the number hello okay did
you get Mike do you is that credit card
okay I want you to read me the card
numbers one more time yes I just did
would you read them back to me I want
you to read it back one more time okay
do you want a different credit card yeah
Oh a different okay I will get you a
different card is that that card doesn't
care because I've had problems with that
card alright okay would you accept
mastercard yes sir
okay this is not there's no color
associated with it okay the number
before one five one one nine nine four
five one three four five five five six
do you want to read that back to me
[Music]
just given one
did you get it sir are you trying to
fool around no sir Carly's not Valley
what are you talking about that card is
valid I have it right here in my hand
will you read back the number I don't
think you're taking the number right
hello
hello
hello
hello can I go back to the other person
hello hello
Oh rude man
well this is part of the problem with
the American government I mean clearly
the enforcement actions of the IRS are
not very good Alex Anderson
