a jar Adira more with Sam
Peeta the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any ELISA they
are unanimous in their hate for me
hey we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar it is
Wednesday May 8 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Iran
starts to pull out of the nuke deal as
US officials say the White House has
overblown the Iranian threat sound
familiar
meanwhile with Georgia in Ohio six
states have now nearly outlawed abortion
in this country Trump appears to have
lost a billion dollars and in several
years more money than any other
individual in the country but more
likely than anything it was a way to
avoid paying taxes it's cuz I'm smart
one dead eight injured in another school
shooting Elizabeth Warren releases in
one $100 a 100 billion dollar plan to
deal with the opioid crisis Trump about
to release a new immigration plan that
of course will undoubtedly favor
Europeans and wealthy people
Warwick Rhode Island school system wants
you to know they suck Donald Trump I
mean while pardons a war criminal
because Republicans Jacob Wall fails
again and in South Africa if you are in
South Africa go vote elections are today
all this and more on today's majority
report ladies and gentlemen what's going
on
well the power is out on this on the
iPad mmm yeah you don't need to you
don't use that during your show anyways
do you not typically yeah maybe it's
time for you not to turn it around
maybe Mercury's in retrograde mercury is
not the case
I don't know Oh Merc my mercury
oh that's not real I just like to say
that cuz yes of me what you mean it's
not real mercury does go into retrograde
yeah but I don't think it's affecting
your iPad it's working and it's very
exciting that's being mad after the show
last night this story about Donald
Trump's taxes now to be clear it's being
reported as if his taxes have been
acquired by the New York Times it's not
his taxes what they have they've only
gotten the essentially the top sheets of
his taxes which are the 1040 forms from
1985 to 1994 however and so it doesn't
really quite show the mechanisms of this
happening but the the big stories are
that Donald Trump apparently and again
it's hard to really even determine this
I think from the top sheet because
businesses individuals can make it look
like they've lost a lot of money for
eight of those ten years he did not pay
any federal taxes and they wealthy
people have mechanisms
that are legal sometimes not legal
sometimes shouldn't be legal but are
legal to make it look like they have
less money or less income and therefore
pay less taxes you think Trump might be
involved in something like that I would
be shocked but yes I do it also appears
in multiple years he appears to have
lost more money than nearly any other
single individual tax payer in the
country what matters is me I'm the only
one that matters good why do we even
bother to pay our taxes Jesus Christ
there was also some type of weird spike
in his income in 1989 but nobody can
account for of 52 million dollars
everyone knows that
and it almost wouldn't even have to be
sick yeah there you go
but the interesting about this is that
what this does is it furthers the
argument of the now there is statutory
language that says a congressional
committee can get anybody's taxes for
any reason you do not need to have a
compelling government interest but
minuchin was arguing that there needs to
be a compelling government interest well
the statute was written in response to a
scandal where the taxes were required to
determine if there was a scandal
somebody was paying taxes and so when
you have this now in the public record
even minuchin 'he's fake assertion that
you need to have a compelling interest
now seems to be fairly satisfied we have
someone who was the largest money loser
in the country like literally that guy
maybe him and one other guy and I'm sure
it's a guy and he paid no taxes from 8
to 10 years yet he's a billionaire that
seems like a compelling interest
a policy standpoint never mind from any
other from a policy standpoint we don't
we should not have billionaires who
build their billionaire now maybe he's
not really a billionaire but he
certainly has claims he is so we should
not have billionaires in this country
well I would put a period after that but
for the sake of this argument let's have
it a comma we should not have
billionaires in this country who have
built that financial empire without
having paid taxes along the way we need
to change the policy in this country and
so let's have a committee look at his
taxes there's your there's your
compelling interest well I don't know
maybe that was what's going on maybe
that's a coincidence maybe it's not I
don't know where they got those taxes
from we were trying to figure out maybe
it was one of his ex-wives now he was
married to Ivana during that entire
period except the last two years they
divorced in 92 now it's not
inconceivable according to a perhaps
some type of divorce settlement that
Ivana would not have gotten hold of any
number of 1040 the top sheets of these
forms for the next two years five years
that seems conceivable certainly in the
context of my proceedings we're gonna
check in with incomes in terms of
determining child support neither one of
us is a billionaire and neither one of
us but it's conceivable so it could have
come from her which would be the least
problematic in some way but you know
look people leak things I don't know I
hope it's not from the government but my
money's on Tiffany she's the wild card
in all this she clearly
hates him Tiffany's pretty cool hey Dad
oh what's that out there I'm the thing
and she's photocopying 1040s years ago
now the other thing that's interesting
here too is that we know there are
ongoing investigations into the taxes of
the Trump family and we know this in
part because Donald Trump's sister
resigned to avoid at least one of these
investigations his older sister Mary Ann
Trump Barry was a federal appellate
judge up until less than a month ago
three weeks ago she resigned there was a
court inquiry now this is a court
inquiry that came from complaints that
were filed last October after the
investigation by the New York Times
which reported that the Trump family
generationally had engaged in dubious
tax schemes during the 1990s including
instances of outright fraud that greatly
increased the inherited value the wealth
of mr. Trump and his siblings what judge
Barry not only benefited financially
from most of those tax schemes The Times
found this is also in the times she was
also in a position to influence the
actions taken by her family so in other
words she wasn't just along for the ride
she had to sign off on things so in a
letter of February 1st a court official
notified the four officials who had
filed complaints that the investigation
was receiving the full attention of a
Judicial Conduct counsel and then ten
days later judge Barry filed her
retirement papers here is what happens
to such investigations when someone
retires from the court they end
seems like a good time just to move down
to mile ago the investigation becomes
moot since retired judges are not
subject to the conduct rules and the
people who filed complaints were
notified in mid-april that the matter or
early April had been dropped without
finding on the merits of allegations
that seems like a poor system just
irrespective of Trump that you stopped
investigating judges it's like they can
keep doing and corrupt stuff until
they're about to get caught and then
they retire well this is this is
different because it's conceivable that
what the Times found the statute of
limitations would have expired however
so from a criminal conduct standpoint
you would be you would not be liable but
as a sitting judge and this is awkward
there's actually a higher standard that
is applied to you so that you don't get
away with like a statute of limitations
yeah it was a scumbag 20 years ago but
now I'm a judge look at me
totally unfair to my sister I change so
she could have lost her job and what
would have happened when you lose your
job in that what manner you lose your
annual pension as a judge which in her
case ranges from one hundred and eighty
four thousand dollars a year to two
hundred and seventeen thousand dollars a
year how would you like that for a
pension man I will tell you this right
now so we wants to offer me that as a
pension guess what early retirement
actually that also I wonder if that
isn't a good recipe for someone to go
after to go after Clarence Thomas
anyways so we have this report that
Donald Trump was has over the course of
ten years from eighty five to ninety
four thing was lost a billion dollars
the single biggest loser of money in
the country so much so they didn't have
to pay taxes for eight out of ten years
Howard's friends at Fox and Friends
taking the news my guess is this is good
for Trump it is an interesting look
though at how New York City real estate
developers work in the 80s and the night
anything you read this and you're like
wow it's pretty impressive all the
things that he's done in his life it's
bond what most of us could ever I don't
know that there's any suggestion that he
broke the law yeah I think the
suggestion is simply that he used the
tax laws to his benefit I think most of
us could not lose I agree most of us
we're not given if that kind of money
buy or not even through various
fraudulent schemes and we didn't have
the capacity to lose it and all sorts of
drastically narcissistic delusional
business venture that's right and say
just kid impressed by the glamour of it
uh you're getting a billion from your
dad you're losing a billion you're
destroying the government dad's helping
you with the casino it's just a big
heady mix of glamour now I like how they
say New York Times leaks a decade of
Trump tax returns now of course the New
York Times is not leaking it they didn't
have it the leak was to them or someone
gave it to them and they are publishing
it but the New York Times is Trump's
accountant that's why they hide the
taxes yeah because they like Jewish guys
i loving my money this so this big
businessman which is chronicled here
there's nothing about this article that
should surprise anybody that got the
Daily News in New York Post throughout
the the last ten years just give details
here's an example
he said pass-through income so for
example there might be an incentive to
go buy that building to buy that casino
because I'll take a loss this year in
order on my tax returns because I want
to buy for a rainy day I have the
resources because there was a time that
he was actually building his empire the
information information focused year by
year at a time of gathering loss he
bought his partners out at Trump Tower
the Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino he
bought an apartment building in West
Palm Beach for 43 million and business
losses for sixty eight point seven
for us or at least for me I can't
imagine having that much money spending
that much money and being in debt for
him it makes sense he's buying now
building it up because he had confidence
he knows who the properties would be
worth more the properties began to build
in 86 he bought Indy and excuse me in
the 87 he spent 29 million on a yacht
the market crashed the next day so no
problem he held on to it
he bought a shuttle operation it didn't
do too well but he held on to it but
when Hassan is this way the yacht is a
business expense is that where we're
supposed to yes that's where you have
underage what excuse me what meetings I
didn't mean any media meetings it to
media it's you have a lot of me the
conference yacht conference yacht
operation it didn't do too well but he
held on to it but when he sell it he
takes the loss on his taxes so for you
or I may be buying a summer home is a
big move or maybe even a trailer but for
Donald Trump he says I got some money
but I want to really expand my empire I
want to take chances positive so if you
sell your city or your second home at a
loss that's a business expense
I don't like it yeah I mean that's the
thing that's that's a little bit fishy
here the things that are constituting
business losses are a very odd and one
wonders where you know if he's excessive
a lead and dad dad owed off the limo
ride to come buy chips and wares you
know yeah exactly I mean so and look I'm
not gonna pretend to understand any of
this stuff
I haven't accountant do my taxes I don't
understand any of it however it seems
like this is a perfect predicate for
Congress to look at these taxes I mean
this would be a great learning
experience maybe they can get Brian
Kilmeade up there to work with the
committee to explain to the country
after he takes a look at all the taxes
like why this is just exactly what you
would expect from a successful
businessman it's also like the way
kilmeade says Trump decided he wanted to
take risks it's like the government's
insulating him from any sort of downside
on these risks
it doesn't seem like there's much risks
he lost the billion dollars and he still
has billions of dollars folks one of
today's sponsors is Skillshare and
anyone who goes to SK l dot s h /
majority report 3 note the three new it
is a new URL is going to get two whole
months of totally free access to skill
shares entire library of super quality
online courses and tutorials Skillshare
is a vibrant online learning community
that offers courses on everything from
design to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
everything in between their skills share
courses for everyone you'll have no
problem finding courses that you can be
useful for you both in your personal and
your professional life whether you want
to sharpen your skills with something
you already love doing or you want to
learn how to do something totally new
Skillshare has you covered they have
courses for entrepreneurs courses on
computer coding web development personal
nutrition learning new languages Jaimie
Photoshop you name it olá ah here's what
I'm gonna be doing I'm gonna be doing
this I think over the next I always say
this but maybe I'm getting too
aggressive with this but getting
starting with wine buying smarter
tasting more basically because I want to
surprise my sister mmm professional
Jasmine in wine I have the other one is
they have and this one's you know fairly
basic but I want to take pictures with
your iPhone like a pro those are the two
ones I'm going to do just small
incremental value adds to my life that's
my whole new strategy let's take a
selfie with the wine oh my god
you can get two entire months of free
access to every single course offered by
Skillshare by going to SK l dot s H
slash majority report 3 just think of
everything you can have your fingertips
for a whole two months again that's sk l
dot s h slash majority report three I
put a link underneath this video on
YouTube and I've put a link in the
podcast description check it out also a
majority report is being supported in
part today by simple habit simple habit
is a mobile app that provides a massive
and diverse library of five-minute
guided meditations and the majority
report audience can try simple habit
today totally free for an entire week
when you go to simple habit calm slash
majority today for an entire week you
can't do the entire week in one day but
starting today you can you can check it
out for an entire week simple habit calm
/ majority there is a growing amount of
scientific information on the benefits
of meditation there's also an Akita mic
them right correct
anok data data simple habit has over
2,000 guided meditations specially
designed for different parts of your day
and just about anything you might be
dealing with in life guided meditation
for mindfulness when you're wanting to
overcome procrastination when you've got
something important it worked on on
maybe it's stressing you out meditation
is designed for parents you will not
yell at the children Sam
they have meditations made specifically
for when you're waking up or your lunch
break up when you've just gotten home
from work but when you're going to bed I
mean I I am still trying to sort of get
into the rhythm of doing on a regular
basis but I have found when I do
meditate I think I'm a little bit calmer
definitely I think I am I think so too
when Maya and Sol are driving me nuts
I just 30 now surrender edy you
different people Jenny try and different
route try to sort of dislike them and
accomplish different things with
meditation simple habit is able to cater
just about anyone doesn't matter what
your goals are with meditation how much
past experience you've had with
meditation it's the variety of guided
meditations on simple habit is what sets
it apart and that's why it won the 2018
Google Play award for best well-being
app it's available on iOS Android web
browser all all of it majority port
audience could try it for free for a
week by going at simple habit calm /
majority if you're watching on YouTube
if you're listening to the podcast
check the description we have the link
is right there
for you as well alright folks so this is
a little bit disturbing the other day we
had on the program robin marty was it
and she she was basically talking about
her book the handbook for a post ro
america and in some respects i mean
we're not quite there yet but it's we're
very very close there are now six states
that have passed the so-called heartbeat
law and i say so called because it
really is more of what is known as
cardiac activity and it comes from a
tissue called the fetal pole right cuz
and you can measure that as early as six
weeks with a vaginal probe now I'm not
telling women anything about this but
for most men to be pregnant at six weeks
the average woman would not know that
they were pregnant at six weeks
your period supposed to come four weeks
some people sometimes it comes five
weeks so now you're two weeks late for
your year period at that point under
this law it would be illegal for you to
get an abortion
so in an instance like this one
an Ohio man accused of raping an 11 year
old girl just got a million dollar bond
he was arrested last week the girl's
mother filed a missing person report and
the suspects roommate allowed police to
search their home the 11-year old girl
was found in an upstairs bedroom closet
now apparently this guy was already the
subject of an ongoing sexual assault
investigation involving the girl in
additions to the rape charges he's also
facing charges of obstructing official
business and contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child
here's the thing that 11-year old girl
has been found to be pregnant
and according to the Buckeye report
Ohio's new heartbeat bill would mean
that the 11-year old girl will likely be
forced to carry the child to birth now I
don't know if the bill has been quite or
I'm sorry the the law has been enacted
certainly been signed I guess it has
been enacted at this point it will be
challenged I don't know if the challenge
will come quick enough and there will be
a stay put on this law but it's quite
possible that this 11 year old girl will
be forced to give birth to the child
of her rapist but certainly and I I
don't know it what will happen in this
specific case cuz like I say we're still
gonna see challenges to these laws but a
year from now two years from now three
years from now this is going to be the
law this one may be stayed until the
Supreme Court can hear it it'll work its
way up through cases hopefully it will
be stayed so that she can get an
abortion if it's not stayed she will not
be able to get an abortion she will be
forced to carry this rapists child this
eleven year old girl three or four years
from now this is just going to be the
case there's not gonna be any qualifying
this may or may not happen this'll be
the case there are five other states
that have passed this bill Georgia is
the most recent fifteen states have
introduced similar legislation this year
Kentucky Mississippi and Ohio signed
theirs into law laws have yet to be
enacted because they're being upheld by
courts I mean or stopped by courts but
we will see and the reason why they're
they're all passing these laws is
because they know this is going to go to
the Supreme Court and you now have a
severe enough right wing majority that
we're going to see Roe overturned or at
least inhibited enough by this now under
to understand you know we're talking six
weeks six weeks most women do not know
they're even pregnant at that point
there are only let's just talk a little
bit about
I should say there's a couple other
things about the Georgia law women who
seek lawful abortions out of state
according to US law of Georgia resident
plans to travel elsewhere to obtain
abortion she may be charged with
conspiracy to commit murder punishable
by 10 years imprisonment any individual
helps her may be charged with conspiracy
HB 481 would also have consequences for
women who get abortions from doctors or
miscarry
if you seek out an illegal abortion from
a health care provider as a woman you
would be a party to murder
if a woman miscarries because of her own
conduct
she wore drugs I don't know maybe she
engaged in activity that was to
physically risky I don't know reliable
for second-degree murder prosecutors
would be able to interrogate women who
miscarry to determine whether they could
be held responsible these are look that
makes sense that makes sense if it's
gonna be a crime if it's gonna be a
crime it's gonna be a crime no OBGYN
named dr. Jan Gunther you can find her
on on Twitter there's a very good
breakdown of one of the big talking
points that we're hearing now this this
notion of infanticide and there are only
seven states that have no justice '''l
age restrictions on a pregnancy most
states do not allow abortions after 20
or 24 weeks
in these situations where supposedly
they're killing babies who are born
apparently when you
there are times where the baby has that
that are anomalies that are prenatally
detected that the fetus has and they can
actually be born where you have an
option of referring to that of saying to
the doctors I want a live birth or non
live birth and all the only difference
there is that they would actually have
they would charge you for maternity care
and write a birth certificate even
though they know that this delivered
baby will die within moments because of
the anomalies this apparently happened
to this doctor herself but it's a good
breakdown we'll try and link to it in
the site it's dr. Jen Gunter and she
gives a very good breakdown of this
stuff her her twitter handle is dr g en
gunther and we'll put a link to the here
it is yes yeah this is the the piece and
she starts with ben shapiro going after
elizabeth warren so but you know folks
got to be prepared for this because
there are very few scenarios that don't
involve frankly the untimely demise of
I'm a Supreme Court justice that don't
squarely place this these types of
things I'm talking about in our future I
mean full on it is
payback time there is no way there is no
way the Republican Party and I think I
think even John Roberts understands this
they need to deliver now on these things
they have no excuses and like I say the
only possible scenario is that for some
reason Clarence Thomas does not does not
resign until 2021 when Amy Klobuchar is
president and whoa whoa it's already so
much negativity in this no just for
God's sake just Bernie Sanders is
present earning a little positive for
Christ's sake I mean in this God if
you're gonna be negative could you at
least give me Harris listen Amy
Klobuchar whatever I'm just used the
point is a Democrat is president I was a
whelk world right there but the fact is
as president the fact is even if Amy
Klobuchar is president and John Robert I
mean an Clarence Thomas resigns at that
point you're much better shape than you
are if he does so when Donald Trump is
president and and that's really is my
point here is that that difference is
going to be the difference between me
not saying a story about an 11 year old
girl who's raped who is forced to carry
the child or women who sought a legal
abortion in New York but were that left
Georgia to do so arrested in in prison
for 20 years that's literally the
difference like so we couldn't even make
what we perceive as the worst case
scenario president Amy Klobuchar Vice
President Joe Biden or vice versa even
in that scenario but that would require
Clarence Thomas to say like I want to
hang on for another three years so I
don't know how that even that scenario
happens but this is what the future
we're looking at this is the
implications of the Supreme Court I mean
obviously they're much broader and wider
than this but this is how severe it is
and so people have to be prepared for
this yeah it's time to break some laws
there
really no way around that well the the
point is is that there'll be some laws
broken but if police get a hold of that
woman who goes who's gay who's taken out
of Georgia she's gonna go to jail
and if they capture the people who who
helped him out of jail they're gonna go
to jail I'm not excited about that fact
it sucks it sucks that we have to do
this but we also can't just lie down and
die
and say well abortion is illegal now I
guess we give up we now live in Gilead I
was not in any way telling people to lie
down and die I will I am against that
totally against the lie down and die
strategy I know I I mean it's not it's
not law yet it's not law yet it very
well may be prevent you know prevent and
I don't think the supreme court I have
feeling they're gonna stay all these
until after the election well also for a
lot of people that situation is already
here where you know that death by a
thousand cuts where abortion access is
so restricted to so many people in so
many places it would certainly be a lot
worse if Roe vs. Wade was overturned but
you know we need to be organizing
yesterday there are there are people who
are already organizing I mean there are
organizations that are going out there
and they're funding helping women who
don't have access to abortion getting it
now that would be illegal under this
Georgia law there would be no organizing
that would be legal then so I mean we do
have organizations that and I don't I am
I have no doubt that the number of women
who don't have access to abortion who
would in a if we didn't have such
hostility towards that right is is is
not zero I mean I don't know what the
percentage is but the the difference is
going to be dramatic and there's not
going to be legal organizing that will
mitigate it going forward meanwhile
Nancy Pelosi has an evolving perspective
on impeachment
I'm not sure I know what this means but
here's Nancy Pelosi talking to
Washington Post Robert Costa and the
Democrats I mean there's clearly a
scenario that's playing out where the
Trump administration seems to be daring
Democrats to impeach him they are they
are pushing it and I think the theory
from the Trump administration is we're
playing a game of chicken even if they
come after us and try and impeach us I
can't get removed from office it's fine
for Bill Clinton it'll satisfy those
people who are Democrats may be more the
base of the Democratic Party but
independents the polling is supposedly
bad on impeachment and this is going to
alienate the Democrats from from voters
that they will need that is undoubtedly
the administration's perspective on this
Nancy Pelosi may accept that calculation
or may be slowly realizing I cannot
avoid there is too much to be lost by
not impeaching in terms of the
enthusiasm of the Democratic base and
but the point is at one point you got to
cut bait and make this decision and then
you got to go full hog and explain to
the people of the United States why this
guy needs to be impeached that doesn't
mean removed from office
it means like it's a form of censure
because the we know the Senate is not
going to remove him and convict him and
so you know I I'm starting to think that
and I think like you know this is one of
those situations where it's like my
hesitation about impeachment has been
you're not saving anything for the
second term
but I think you may have come around to
where I think that you know the same
things that are moving close like if you
don't impeach him now it looks just too
weak they are challenging it too much
and it's making the Democrats look too
weak and it's making them look muddled
seems to me Nancy Pelosi could come out
now and say we're gonna pursue
impeachment we know it's not gonna
remove him from office but there's been
extraordinary amount of law-breaking we
need to Center him on behalf of the
American public we will move forward
with the operations of government
because he will be the president until
that election but we need to impeach we
need to impeach because we need to send
a message that law breaking is wrong and
this is the only mechanism and if the
Republicans won't join us that's on them
here she's with Costas about Don Magan
you're facing challenges not just from
the AG but the White House is citing
executive privilege thinking about
asserting it as they make their case
against Congress can you hold him in
contempt mr. McGann for refusing
congressional demands well we don't know
that he has yet let's take it one step
at a time let's see where it goes and
I'll have said the president is goading
us into wants to go to send to
impeachment because that he knows as a
dua that that that's a not a good thing
for the colonel maybe he knows that but
he knows that I think that let's put it
that way who knows that I think that but
the point is is that every single day
whether it's obstruction obstruction
obstruction obstruction of having people
come to the table with facts ignoring
subpoenas and the rest every single day
the president is making a case he's met
he's becoming self impeachable in terms
of some of the things that he was let's
let's pause there that's an important
point you just made you think about 1974
yeah the House Democrats had their
articles of impeachment against
President Nixon article three of the
impeachment proceedings then was about
obstruction of Congress about abuse of
power could there be an option for
Democrats that you would consider
of a narrow impeachment proceeding
against President Trump about the issues
you just raised obstruction of Congress
let me just say that right now we have
our committees doing the investigation
it since you mentioned in 1974 at that
time Congress took months months to
build a case they did investigations Sam
Ervin wasn't there Judiciary Committee
that was the committee that was doing
the investigation and then they with the
information they gathered they came to
that conclusion but we really you know
we ran and won on for the people agenda
yeah you can chew gum and and walk at
the same time I mean the the for the
people agenda cannot be implemented if
you have a chief executive officer of
the chief of the executive branch who is
breaking the laws repeatedly I mean
that's just the bottom line
and I I I think the idea is be honest
with the American public we're not going
to be able to get them out of office we
need to impeach as a way of putting down
a marker the American people need to say
to not just this president but to any
future president you cannot break the
law without some accountability and the
Republican Party can stop you from being
punished they can pardon you they can
commute your sentence but they cannot
keep us from holding you to account for
your law breaking that that should be
the message and that way you can also
implicate the Republican Party because
they are implicated in this they are
completely implicated in this in all of
it in all of it here's Jerry Nadler
chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee basically saying that we are
in a constitutional cry
is at this moment as the president is
denying and the executive branch are
denying lawful requests of information
subpoenas from Congress this is this is
you know this is beyond norm breaking
these are constitutionally valid
procedures that the president and the
executive branch are breaking in the
tough part is they can go to the courts
but but the judiciary is very hesitant
to get involved in a fight between these
two branches of government impeachment
is really one of the few ways in which
the judiciary will step in and say okay
if you guys are taking it to this level
we can adjudicate that so by having
let's say a joint so you know like a
Select Committee on impeachment let's
say so you're not actually starting the
impeachment procedures you're starting a
committee to investigate the issues that
would be a form of impeachment just get
it out there that will provide some
measure of authority to these
congressional attempts to get this
information I mean and I think Nadler is
now just out there he's trying to get
public support for this it sounds like
you're what you're you're saying a
monarchy but by another name it's a
constitutional crisis where do you think
well the phrase constitutional crisis
has been overused but certainly
certainly what certainly it's a
constitutional crisis although I don't
like to use that phrase because it's
been used for far less dangerous
situations the phrase has been overused
I hear you but you feel that we are
currently in a constitutional crisis or
headed for one no no we're in one we're
in one because the president is is
disobeying the law is refusing all
information or to - to Congress which
means that he's taught that I mean when
when when he told the head of
his nominee for head of Homeland
Security closed the border and then and
he said well that's illegal he said
don't worry I'll protect you
it's a lawless administration we cannot
have a lawless administration there you
have it I got you covered
I got some good lawyers you need to lose
some money I can work that out too I can
see my way to looking past this but what
if there wasn't Allah I'm giving it back
dream with me special all right one more
thing I wanted to talk about on the free
show and that we got to go is Iran has
basically announced that it will stop
complying with parts parts of the
nuclear deal they have they are still in
compliance as of yesterday and they are
in the nuclear deal remember this is an
international Accord this is not just
the United States which is why the
United States is not the ability to
refreeze assets internationally or to
you know impose an international embargo
however the United States can make it
very hard and has been punishing
European and foreign entities that have
been doing business with Iran and so
Iran has been starved of some resources
rouhani basically has told folks like
the Chinese and Europeans that you need
to compensate us for the cost of the
European of the American sanctions in
some measure and starting Wednesday Iran
is now going to build up its stockpiles
of low enriched uranium in heavy water
used in nuclear reactors including a
reactor that could give Iran source of
bomb-grade plutonium so basically what
they're doing is we're basically
starting up the factory for our nuclear
program but one of them is a dual use
program we're not going to make the you
the bomb-grade plutonium but we're
starting up the machine that could and
under this announcement europeans now
have two months to figure out a way for
Iran to basically sell their oil and to
get some of their banking done and if
that doesn't happen then they're gonna
start to develop uranium that exceeds
the grade level of industrial use and
they're gonna start to enrich uranium
enough to make it bomb grade so this is
this has been this is the plan right I
mean this is john bolton putting a brick
tying it to the accelerator and
attempting to see what happens next with
the car as it goes careening down the
road well i mean and they've been so you
know making things up and distorting
intelligence and i mean this could be it
i mean this could be the thing they were
triggering even as they've been
basically engaging in psychological and
economic terrorism the past year and
using it I mean they're using it in
trade negotiations with China is an
example like this is an area that the
Chinese can can pitch elate to them on
in exchange for other things that are
more important to China but I I think
it's also just really worth noting that
going back to the beginning it has never
been documented conclusively ever that
the Iranian government is lying about
its program so I'm not to say to take
them at face value but there have never
been clear intelligence estimates that
they were developing a weapon and they
you know restarted they basically shut
down the Shahs program in the 80s and
the only reason at the time they
restarted it was because the United
States and other world powers like
France and Germany were selling Saddam
Hussein weapons when he used chemical
weapons against Iran and Iranian
leadership was like well if all members
of the Security Council are gonna sell a
guy who's using chemical weapons against
us maybe we'll you know weapon
maybe we'll set things up for ourselves
but even this move just to be very very
clear is in no way you know an
indication or a promise that they want
to weaponize it couldn't just be I mean
they're losing radically be basically
this could be performative it's the only
leverage they have yes and so it's not
unlike you know any other you know if
you don't you know it's the only
leverage and the rouhani even said I
mean rouhani said in the speech you know
he that this deal was a good thing it
was working the Europeans still want it
we've been terrorizing the Europeans as
well I mean and of course the other
thing is it's amazing that rouhani and
Zarif are still in position because when
the Supreme Leader said three years ago
he gave them public permissions and
Newton do these negotiations and said
and never trust the United States and I
expect that this will be a disaster so
well played
yeah all right we're gonna take a quick
break heading to the fun half ladies and
gentlemen we're have we got a lot of fun
stuff today we got Megan McCain we got
Nick DiPaolo my own personal story about
Nick DiPaolo I've got a good story about
Nick Nepal it's not great but it's good
I may have mentioned it in the past on
the show but now I feel quite
comfortable doing it and we even got
some we got a wonderful moment of Dave
Rubin - it's all in the fun half for you
today folks ideas six for six two five
seven thirty nine twenty is the number
just a reminder you can support this
show by going to join the majority
report com when you do become a member
not only do you support the free show
not only do you pay for my menthol
eucalyptus cough drops but you also get
the coffee shop in before it creates an
allergy free what I'll excuse me cut
wait what are you what are they
eucalyptus mint so not there's no
lavender
I'm sorry also hopefully you will pay
for my sensitivity eucalyptus and we
give you extra content every day as well
as you also have access to all our all
of our archives of all our fun half's
and no commercials so join the majority
of report.com also just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority Michael got in
at 11:00 today so that means the last
night was Tuesday Michael what happened
radhika allen joined us to talk about
her book it was a dream it was all a
dream
Ben Burgess yes she was on the show -
really good guest very very good book
Ben Burgess discussed understanding
dialectics through Hegel and Marx
explained that even if you use ad
homonyms your your arguments can be
logical yes that's exactly right it's
just big for all of us because if you
tack on a fun at home to a logical
argument that's your style
that's just style and if the person is
only responding to the style they're
being illogical because they're not
taking on your argument so a lot of
useful information so if a then B
douchebag exactly like actually
literally yeah exactly yeah that's very
valid ad hominem as we do here yes and
if all you are doing is whining about
the douchebag part you haven't answered
a or B you're being overly emotional
being overly emotional not engaging an
irrational exchange of ideas we also
talked about who really wants freedom of
course is an argument for Medicare for
all and I'd run down on what's happening
with Iran and ton tons more patreon.com
slash T MBS patreon.com slash T MBS also
Michael Brooks show on YouTube we're
almost at our first 44,000 patrons
excuse me subscribers on YouTube get us
there soon Jamie this week on the anti
Fattah out today we have an episode with
Katy Halper hostess of the Katie Alper
show wherein we talk about 90s nostalgia
because as
y'all know Joe Biden is running for
president and the 90s are back we talk
about liberal hypocrisy regarding
Juanita Broderick we talk about Joe
Biden's handling of Anita Hill and his
touchy feely problems with women
we also sip from a large cup of Laurel
Umar's tears over being D platformed we
sing a little song and we make some
indecent proposals to famous people Joe
Biden did not run for president in the
nineties yes I know but he's bringing
back 90s politics to now okay and also a
lot of things that happened in the 90s
prefigured a lot of things that are
happening today that's kind of the
thesis that's the episode in big money
I'm not saying the 90s that are worth
exploring believe me that was those were
my years 90s was a great time great time
they was emo is flowing sitcoms should
be made FEMA was flowing yes Ace of Base
cranked in the background I never heard
it I can't wait till I'm old enough to
drink Zima but then when I was it wasn't
around anymore no we drank it all damn
you I'm sure there's some like in a
dusty basement yeah
we drank every last bottle that ziba oh
and also I got a plug the live show that
I'm doing with Katie Halper and struggle
session featuring guests
Jake Flores Matt Taibbi and myself and
that is this Friday two days from now in
Brooklyn at Littlefield come on down a
Saturday on the literary hangover the
song of HeLa by Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow it's a one of the more it was
a best-seller you sold a lot of these
poems and mid 1800s 1850s so we're gonna
look into that and yeah check that out
all right six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty Cena five
you
you
we're back fun half I am is up you can I
am us through the app majority app calm
you can get the iOS or the the Android
version for free
depressive regressive on the IMS says
cool version of that terrible song a lot
of phase phaser let's go to the phones
come from a 702 area code who's this
where you come from
hey Sam do you hear me yeah who's this
HM it's broken mango from Las Vegas Road
flamingo from Las Vegas what's on your
mind bike hey I'm sick fair enough
someone kind of sore and loud on the way
in man you know you gotta have muscles
to beat the Fourth Reich nowadays you
know I understand but um yes absolutely
no Sam you know we're looking at the
current situation right now we've seen
Ascalon thing we're seeing you know
impeachment kind of being put on the
backburner for political conservatism
that because you guys had a really good
conversation about this I think maybe
like but there's here we go and um you
know this kind of this political
calculation that's pretty much
paralyzing the Democrats in the house
for full impeachment you know you look
at Chuck Schumer and you look at Nancy
Pelosi and you know they're still
beholden to the like this 20 20th
century model of politics where you know
you got a court the white moderate the
aka the casual racist and you know I
hate to give the tangerine chimp his
credit but between him and Bernie
Sanders it's been shown you can do it
and run around these guys and just just
subvert that whole that whole model take
some extent especially Bernie Sanders
show this but yet the Democrats are
still paralyzed by this kind of
anachronistic thinking well you know the
white moderates have you got the court
that whatever is disgusting cuz at this
point now one the collision course with
Iran you know it's time for the
Democrats to use the power and punish
these guys gotta put these guys on the
list now on when I say it listen to make
an enemies list literally because
tired of doing you know bipartisan you
know be barred be bipartisan with a worm
like Mitch McConnell are you kidding me
I mean well look obviously I mean I
totally agree with you and I think you
know the the problem is is that
Democrats see Joe Biden getting up there
saying you know that the Donald Trump is
anachronistic he's not like he's not a
real Republican the Republicans are not
like this I'm gonna be able to do what
you know and he and Amy Klobuchar are
talking about I'm gonna be able to do
what but but what Barack couldn't do I'm
gonna bring everybody together and the
guys leading in the polls and now I mean
I think I'm on record saying so I think
that's going to change when people when
Democratic voters get a sort of a full
drink of Joe Biden as Joe Biden as
opposed to the guy who was Barack
Obama's vice president but right but in
and maybe things will change at that
point too with the with the the
congressional leadership when they start
to see that oh wait a second maybe the
Democratic Party has changed I mean you
know there's there's data that suggests
that it has they're just looking at the
roles and they're not realizing that
well a there's two things about these
polls you they don't tell us the
intensity of people who want impeachment
versus the people the the how important
not impeaching is to those people do you
see what I'm saying I mean it's sort of
almost the same dynamic that we have
with gun control 70% to your point I
don't see your point
but if I interesting about their to Joe
Biden seems to be leading to leaning
toward impeachment which just makes what
just makes native person look look even
more isolated the other thing they did I
mean this is very strange to me because
I even like a mall heiress and you know
just kind of centrist lane or even
leaning toward a pitchman you know Joe
the Klansmen spray
I didn't you get any black which is what
this record this guy's clansmen I'm
sorry I'm in it's a hyperbolic but let's
be honest okay you're gonna put the bit
to me just like you know we're still
stuck in this place where it's like okay
Jose nothing into I mean this guy was
hanging out with James Eastland and
Strom Thurmond the best but Rex's trash
it's just like you know it's like it's
time I mean look I mean this is a
relatively new development where we're
having really the cool best candidates
and people who you know what kind of
forward-thinking no give that's got to
be punished and you got to punish
enemies but then I start really
punishing the enemies not know we have
to work across the aisle you know
center-right no we need to punish these
guys no I mean I agree I agree with you
from a political standpoint I also just
think it's important and from a
perspective of democracy I mean the
reason why we had you know things like
the lying about the Iraq war and torture
is in large part a lot you know because
of our on contra and because of correct
I mean every time there's a lack of
accountability for a president from one
of these scandals to the next then it
just they double down because that's
what people don't think they can get
away with it do appreciate the phone
call all right let's get to a couple of
these let's start with with Meghan
McCain wasn't gonna play this but
apparently Megan McCain's
husband Ben Domenech was very upset
about we won't get to him for a moment I
just want to say and I think it was his
idea to get upset about it but it's
unclear we should run that through
Google to see if he didn't plagiarize
that sentiment but we will check on that
in a moment I just want to say it's it's
odd because my read is that we'll get to
him later that uh she doesn't love him
that's just my editorial so it's just
odd if you have my view of the world
it's very strange that he would do that
so here is suckish Megan McCain on Seth
Meyers program and she's not used to two
people
well I guess she is on her show you know
she speaks to him why
variety of people but here here she is
on Seth Meyers and Seth Meyers is asking
her about her comments about Ilan Omar
Meghan McCain still apparently cannot
read because keeps getting these tweets
wrong of Olano Mars I don't know why
that is maybe they're so upsetting to
her that she can't even read them
straight yeah he's also not very bright
to be fair to her
well alright that's fair like a
submission she's obviously now stated
she needs to be more careful with her
language don't you think other people
who talk about her need to be a little
bit more thoughtful as well or do you
stand by those comments of tying her to
this her rhetoric to the synagogue
shooting I don't think I tied her to it
in particular I think that I'm calling
out what I see is anti-semitic language
and when you're talking about but even
after she apologized for it I do want to
establish the time line I don't I think
that Democrats are are hedging on this
and I think it's very dangerous and I
think Chuck Schumer and I are in
alignment about Israel's stance and in
geopolitical politics I posit for one
second well you know what's super weird
about this is that he doesn't bring it
up in terms of politics right like but
she makes it immediately partisan and
then she says but I am aligned with the
Democrat like it's it's don't use me as
your token Jew even I thought that was
tasteful the Democrats are hedging but
I'm aligned with the leader of the
Democrats it's not about politics
however Chuck Schumer agrees I don't I
think that Democrats are are hedging on
this and I think it's very dangerous and
I think Chuck Schumer and I are in
alignment about Israel's stance and in
geopolitical politics I think it's of
the utmost importance and I think she is
bringing her party to the extreme
extremism on this and I think we have to
look to Europe and what's happening over
there and that there you know in in the
British politics anti-semitism is very
common and I see it happening over there
and I worry about it happening over here
I stand by every single thing I said and
if that makes me unpopular in this room
or in front of you so be it well I don't
see that's a weird thing to take the
position trying to be a popular Here I
am trying to you know find the common
ground on this because I do think one of
the I think we could both agree by her
language about 911 I thought it was
taken out of context and I think if you
watched that whole President Trump the
same same leverage it's not the same
thing well I would say that Donald Trump
is certainly no position to criticize
her language on 9/11 based on the things
that he said about 9/11 right but would
you give I just think you have to give
people the same credence and I think now
let's just examine this theory that you
need to give people the same credence
there's no difference between people or
context so in other words just all the
criticism of Donald Trump is just simply
out of context so if I was Seth Meyer I
always said well I mean does that mean
that like when Donald Trump says like
your dad he doesn't think your dad was a
war hero like that's the same like you
just like if you've ever forgiven anyone
for any comment it's the same thing I
mean obviously that's the silliest thing
I've ever heard
well I don't know maybe you have a
different view geopolitical politics but
would you give I just think you have to
give people the same credence and I
think well I would make the
clarification between Donald Trump and
ohan Omar is one of them has apologized
and said they're gonna try to do better
and they're gonna be educated by people
who know about this that's what she said
and I think she you know it's
interesting thing when we have two
Muslim women for the first time they do
have a different perspective on things
and I think when we talk about the idea
of like let's all try to meet in the
middle on things we have to listen to
other people's perspective and oh I
agree I work on the view with joy
perspectives is there a way for people
I'm actually talking to a woman of
Italian descent every day on television
every single day there's a co-host who's
Italian she's actually really annoying
my dad would hate her he did hate her
it's totally unfair I actually have to
talk to her you know my father John
McCain he was in the military his name
was John McCain and I think a lot for
this country I have to talk to her and
race every day she says that poor people
should be vaccinated with some taxes
from my mom's ninth house so I listened
to that and I think if you want to give
that credence you have to do that even
if we have different geopolitical
politics agree I work on the
with joy behar every day I listen to
other perspectives is there a way for
people to talk about differences in
Israeli policy without getting framed as
anti-semitic language yeah I just think
you can't talk about Jews hypnotizing
the world pauses for one second guess
who did not talk about Jews hypnotizing
the world Ilan Omar she talked about
Israel the nation hypnotizing people in
terms of being above critique and we're
literally seeing what she meant by I
think we see one of the hypnotized
people but Israel but speaking as a Jew
who is a supporter of Israel in the very
generic sense having been to Israel on
multiple occasions Israel and Jews are
not synonymous and not the same and that
is in and of itself anti-semitic to say
that they are well but you don't
understand the geopolitical a different
geopolitical politics but if you're
gonna give Sam credence I think you have
to give them the same leverage friends
of Joseph Lieberman's
daughters of friends of joseph Lieberman
are also Jews yeah is there a way for
people to talk about differences in
Israeli policy without getting framed as
anti-semitic language yeah I just think
you can't talk about Jews hypnotizing
the world talking about all about the
Benjamins he's bringing up the two
tweets that she's apologized for and I
think that's a little unfair to her
especially because we've established
what are you were a press person no I'm
just someone who cares about the fact
that there's someone out there who is in
a minority who has had death threats
against her and I think that we should
all use the same language that you're
asking her to be careful about her
language and I would ask everybody else
to be careful about theirs okay what
would make you happy coming out of my
mouth right now I'm genuinely curious
I'm not I'm perfectly happy with
everything that's coming laughs and I
like that we spent this time okay I mean
I think um you know my opinions are very
strong and I think sometimes because
that is coming across I do want you to
know that
I don't like a garden teacher and she
still can't handle it it is that our
entitlement levels are like I mean she
is a the walking case for the estate tax
now the thing I enjoyed about that is
Seth Meyer was doing it all with a smile
and I think came off as not being too
emotionally invested in it I get the
sense that things were a little bit
different at the Meghan McCain home
because when she got home or got off the
set
there may have been something else
expressed that I feel bad for her car
driver and this is how apparently the
Meghan McCain household her husband Ben
Dominick now listen before we cut to
this don't cut to what he's right in
here I just want to say supposedly this
was written by Ben Dominick we have not
checked to see if someone else wrote
this and he has just reprinted it
without permission so we're just going
to assume that he actually authored this
quote he says on Twitter I see that Seth
Meyers
the untalented piece of who only
has his job because he regularly gargled
Lorne Michaels balls went after my wife
tonight with his idiotic anti-semitic
 you know now apparently I I
suspect Seth Meyers might be Jewish so
Ben Dominick is saying that he attacked
Megan McCain with anti-semitism the Jew
who used that special brand of
anti-semitism on the non Jew and I
really I it's sort of hard to much what
does he say after this is that the only
tweet seems like another one after that
that's connected to it is gargling Lorne
Michaels balls have to do with inside
still on Omar I Got News for you I don't
get it Lorne Michaels also Jewish and
here's a guy who's going and gargling
Lorne my
balls still called anti-semitic tears I
Got News for You Ben I don't think your
wife loves you Wow
well apparently Domenech sort of
apologized but then doubled down at the
same time he wrote in a statement to
media media ie that Seth Meyers is trash
I believe this steadfastly and have for
years he only has his job because of
sucking up to the right people he is an
untalented hack and he apologized for
rage tweeting but then he fired one more
final shot and said I don't like him I
think he's a hack wait wait you in the
process of trying to like white knight
for Megan McCain somehow used like any
conversation about somebody not having a
job in the entertainment industry on
merit is definitely I got to think the
talk I will say this okay the process of
the vetting job
Megan McCain I've been told that Seth
Meyers is not Jewish its paternal
grandfather parent it doesn't matter
like he answered Seth Meyers question
very well I think when he was like oh
can we have a conversation about this
without throwing around crazy
accusations of anti-semitism no we can't
we cannot you're unlike Megan McCain you
don't have a legitimate reason for being
on TV since since Dominic brought up how
people get their jobs and you know place
in society look at who his father is
Douglas William Dominic who was deputy
chief of staff the United States
Department of Interior senior adviser to
secretary and George W Bush
administration appointee also E's
recently in controversy here in on April
23 2019 the Washington Post reported
that Dominic was one of six officials
being investigated for ethics violations
in the Interior Department's inspector
general so imagine that might be a lot
of stress going on job does little Ben
have a plagiarist for different
conservative outlets and and Face the
Nation recurring guest guy gets more
seats of course and of course he's
facing me that guy gets on Face the
Nation oh yeah baby Jesus Christ what's
it take and Megan McCain can't even
handle like three minutes of a
of a nice late night comic like politely
asking her to try to not get ill on Omar
Assad your publicist but are your
publicist all right oh yeah I should
stop lying about her my dad was John
McCain what if there were any
justice in this world she would be
working at Claire's right now there any
justice world she'd be Maoist idea I
mean yeah if there were a more justice
in the world more things would happen
look you don't have to get some actual
work you know some dirt and the
fingernails could be very good for
someone's integrity all right speaking
of integrity let's turn our eyes to Dave
Rubin for a moment ladies and gentlemen
this is a clip of Dave Rubin with the UK
filmmaker Dave fuller sort of a IDW
adjacent kind of guy and but he seems to
be taking a little bit of issue with
Dave Reubens characterization of some of
Dave Reubens past guests now we've
explained in the past that fellow IDW
Dave Rubin compatriot Sam Harris turned
to Dave Rubin to get his ideas about
Tommy Robinson this is the guy that is
that British people find fascist enough
to throw eggs at nowhere milkshakes add
I should say and Sam Harris says I saw
him on Dave Rubin show and I thought he
was a great guy seemed reasonable seemed
very reasonable I was able to in that
hour now that is probably I would say
the most helpful point Steve that Sam
Harris has contributed to our society in
many ways he gave really the one
unimpeachable illustration I think that
he's given that I'm aware of and that is
how Dave Rubin mainstream's
otherwise odious people and refuses to
question them in any way that would in
any way explore the reasons why they are
really worthy
of being on a show in other words Reuben
has people on a show ostensively who are
controversial and but then very often
avoids that controversy studiously and
basically hides the ball this guy Dave
Fuller who was it sounds like he is a
little bit of a you know an ally of Dave
Reubens he even calls him out and Dave
Rubin of course I guess just simply
can't remember what he said in that
interview you talk about a new center
evolving but you draw that new center
around some people that that I would
consider on the right list edit stefan
molyneux for example well I've never
said that Stefan Bala news in the news
center
really have you ever heard an you say
that like what you have no it was it now
okay so followers is complaining that
that Dave Rubin is moving you know is
again hiding the ball as it were
defining the center including people who
are never mind I think many people have
accused stefan molyneux being a some
type of crazy cult leader and telling
people to he had something where he
would tell people to defu deep foo
that's right to basically get rid of all
your family relationships if they're in
any way inhibiting your ability to
follow him and in many respects I'm
interested in ideas in that time land
and so this this guy says like you know
you consider him into the center now
even when i debated stefan molyneux
years ago he was really a far right my
opinion lunatic libertarian now he has
since changed his stripes a little bit
because the money was more aligned with
trump so he became a trump libertarian
or maybe gave up libertarianism you know
temporarily to be with Trump because
that's where the cash was whatever it
was but let's if only there was a way to
find out if Dave Rubin actually said
this about stefan molyneux so five years
ago we're liberals and conservatives
we're just fighting a
everything now actually there's a new
center developing and I think both of us
are sort of in that not in the exact
same political part but that's but to me
that's irrelevant whether we agree on
everything or tentative sulig's and he's
saying that - stefan molyneux in the in
the other frame I never said that I said
so who do could do that compilation oh I
have the answer to that here but that
I'll cobs and cobs and donuts at cobs
and donuts on Twitter there are people
doing great work out there there is a
lot of people doing great work that the
conversation with Molyneux was
apparently on stefan molyneux x'
Christmas Extravaganza where he had a
lot of his pals come in oh well if that
video ends the way most of all news
videos do
it's got Dave Rubin like breaking down
in tears and promising to create more
white babies there you go
so that's our a day a moment for the day
if I might cream went away babies let's
talk about another recent guest on dave
rubin show we're talking about Nick
DiPaolo Nick DiPaolo is a comedian and
longtime comedian I've been aware of him
for oh gosh 20 years more maybe now he's
a Boston area guy very very much so
Boston area and Nick is likes to think
of himself as a breath of fresh air in
fact here is his poster let's let's
start let's start with the first with
nicht apollo's well now let's start with
the poster so let's start with Nick de
Paula's poster we got a spinning wheel
there so a nick is has always been a bit
of a right-winger but a guy who to be
fair doesn't know much about politics
and I always had a bit of a fantasy of
of going on
Colin Quinn's old show about 10-15 years
ago I can't remember was tough crowd and
debating they would never have me on now
they were and I was friendly with Colin
it's just I think I you know they knew
at one point
like wait a second I mean the comedians
in that area did not want to talk to me
because they felt I knew too much about
politics and and and so here is Nick
DiPaolo with his album his new video a
breath of fresh air and it's Nick
a white guy from Boston of Italian
descent given the finger to let's see we
have one woman wearing a stocking cap
another woman of that's a has a
 yeah yeah another woman with a
bullhorn I can't tell what's on her
shirt a couple women of his color canvas
dude come on Austin yeah a couple women
of color one other woman crying not sure
why and then a she's triggered a black
guy with the black guy lives matter
t-shirt and someone would the me to
think and he's given a finger to all of
them because he's a breath of fresh air
now if you put a hard hat on this guy
and put it in like you know 1969 as he's
like given a finger to uh to uh you know
civil rights marchers that's how fresh
this air is and then so Nick is very
excited about this because it created a
real firestorm and he was very very
excited on how many uh how many the lib
turds were making him popular and then
he gets in a tweet Adam from a woman
says the guy in the black lives matter
shirt his activists well yeah Dean Moyet
who was shot and killed last year but
yeah sure use him as a prop in a shitty
Photoshop job to demonstrate how edgy
and brave you are
and so Nick said I did not know that as
I found it online in stock photos
looking into changing it as we speak
my apologies Wow it leads me to believe
that they did not get rights
to those photos but pretty edgy stuff
and then Nick is so proud of himself
because here he is a little bit later
trending number one trending number one
on Twitter in New York City minutes ago
thanks to you my great fans and the
whining leftist maggots and then if you
go down to see where he trends that he
posted there he's trending number one in
New York but guess what's trending
number one in the USA of this guy giving
the finger to the black lives matter
folks trending a us a Sandra bland new
cell phone video shows what Sandra bland
saw during her arrest she of course was
the woman who was clearly unjustly
arrested and then three days later in
custody with the police obviously hiding
video footage which showed that the
policeman was lying about the threat to
his his life she died in what was ruled
a suicide I don't know if he was aware
of that what was training or he just is
just show oblivious or what up yours
guys so this tweet that I did not know
that as I found it online in stock
photos looking into changing it as we
speak my apologies is very similar to
this drill tweet this is aa so you
persecute Jared Fogle just because he
has different beliefs do tell girls and
then impress these girls get mad at me
sorry I'm sorry I'm trying to remove it
seriously like what it make doesn't make
it any better if the guy were still
alive that he's given the finger to
black lives matter like come on no isn't
the whole point of black lives matter
that black people are being killed well
here's the point here's the thing that I
don't understand why I apologize for
that
we should edgy truth-teller I mean what
difference does it make that the guy
died you still give him the finger to
him you're giving a finger to the whole
idea that black people are unjustly
target
a police he was pre complaining about
being murdered by the police I thought
the whole point was was that when the
police murder a black person you're
supposed to respect them for doing their
jobs you should give the guy who
arrested in harass Sandra blonde a
voucher to download your ear yes yes for
free and I have the courage of looking
more well I just don't understand like
why that makes a difference why feels he
has to apologize oh I didn't realize
that he died like honestly like
seriously the whole point of black lives
matter is that there are people dying
you're giving the finger to that what's
different about this guy just happened
to be a guy who died grow up but listen
in many respects were giving a nick just
a little bit more credit probably than
it's fair because we're expecting him to
to apply a little bit of brain power now
I know Nick for a long time and he's he
is not fresh that I would not say but
here is before we get to how I know Nick
DiPaolo
here is some of Nick Apollo's comedy
stylings ladies and gentlemen and this
stuff super fresh this is the part he
clipped for the promo yeah this is what
he clipped with the promo is no respect
for white European males anymore I
realize this I was in Jersey last night
working in New Jersey I had to get on
the Turnpike to come home I had to go
the bathroom of the Jersey Turnpike so I
pull into a rest area what's the name of
the rest area the Vince Lombardi rest
area that's the best we can do for the
greatest coach in the history of the NFL
should we put a statue of him in front
of his high school now let's build an 18
by 24 brick structure up to exit 13 a
where truckers who have been living on
hooker and beef jerky for 14 hours
can unload their impacted bowels wig any
guys can exchange filthy at
3:00 a.m. and where pedophiles can come
into the faces of terrified children get
all the that Vince Lombardi was for
all right posit no now this joke
obviously wouldn't be as funny to his
crowd if it was let's say the Walt
Whitman rest stop
but it's funny that he talks about Vince
Lombardi like we couldn't give him a
statue well actually they did give him a
statue let's put up a picture of that
statue right now that is the Vince
Lombardi statue I would imagine that's
out in front of the Green Bay Stadium I
think also called Vince Lombardi Stadium
which is also a named after him in fact
he was such a great football player it
would be it would have been nice if the
NFL as an as an organization I only get
football stadiums near death you only
get football stadiums no response you
get a statue you know I'll tell you it
would have been nice if the NFL its
Lambeau Field in Green Bay not Lombardi
Oh Lambeau Field okay but it would have
been nice it would have been nice if the
NFL could have done something let's say
I don't know name the trophy they give
to the winners of the Super Bowl after
Vince Lombardi in other words the Vince
Lombardi Super Bowl trophy or I think
they call it the championship trophy so
here you have nicked Apollo a breath of
fresh air talking about how disgusting
it is that they don't mean the premise
is we don't have respect for white
European males anymore
[Music]
we don't have respect for white males
anymore all they do is they get rest
stops and all statues and or huge
trophies that are that are given
probably in the the the handing over of
that Super Bowl trophy is probably one
of the most witnessed events in in
television period and the biggest
sporting event every single year in the
world what I could have said Walt
Whitman but I mean I don't know well who
gives a about Walt Whitman it's
like he just wanted the first part about
the white male Europeans don't get
respect anymore it's like what can I say
to make this just a lot of bad words -
also funny right right right
it's very edgy now look and why should
we respect white European males PS well
I mean I I don't know that we should not
respect or respect anybody or whatnot
it's just they don't know nobody she had
special respect the idea that white male
Europeans are not respected in our
society is absurd it is absurd the idea
we should other white aggrievement in
this society is absurd it's absurd today
and it was absurd 20 years ago now I
usually don't do this because I usually
just by you know make my commentary
based upon things that are public but
this is just too apropos because we have
Nick DiPaolo he's giving the finger to
these black lives matters activists and
the me to activists it's all part of his
aggrievement that he feels as a white
male his joke and his trailer white
males are not respected even though he
was wrong I mean specifically wrong like
there was like so much evidence that he
was specifically wrong in a specific
claim about Vince Lombardi he still does
believe this white agree
I know that this is not a new phenomena
for neck I know that this is not a
function of black lives matter or me -
or anything that's happened in the past
20 years how do I know that I hired Nick
wants to play a small part in a show I
did for Studios USA the show was called
beat cops it's a show that I wrote with
Charlie Fisher and I directed and acted
with John Benjamin where we both played
cops this was a low-budget production
commissioned by Studios USA before one
of the first things shot actually on on
digi beta we converted it to film and
went back to when - did you beta it back
to film but that's not the point here is
the scene where Nick DiPaolo is in and
then I will tell you how I know that
Nick DiPaolo has felt this white
aggrievement this white male
aggrievement
for at least 20 years I don't know how
this is a holiday post I mean there's
there's nothing for Christmas at all
around you know shops
there's no people
there is no Christmas decorations
there's not one wreath I think that's
the point
put out in the boonies this is gonna be
bad well look we got here John
favorite house mouses blanket and
Chandler why mean Acton and Stanley you
wimp and nerve-wrecking up not speaking
to us cuz what that we're not of the
round table I don't know I liked him
there ya know that was a great
performance is limited we we found we
found by doing a lot of jump cuts we
could easily go around some poor
performances in the context of that
sometimes your style is determined by
the the fact of what you capture in in
the context of the show and I do
remember this and they're so little of
my life that I remember that you know it
has to be stunning for me to remember
something like this and I remember being
completely stunned this show we were
shot in I think it was 1999 I think it
was and and so I had made a lot of money
as a sitcom actor I had just come out of
a very big sitcom deal with NBC where I
did a couple pilots for them and I
pitched doing beat cops on the back of
who's the caboose they allowed me to do
it without having any development
process just here's the money go shoot
it and so I had been very familiar with
what was going on in Hollywood at that
time it was the heyday for comedians
there were five networks at that time
five national networks Paramount WB Fox
ABC NBC CBS ABC they were all in the
sitcom business every night from 8:00 to
10:00 8:00 to 11:00
almost every
light on every single one of those was a
half-hour sitcom they were giving us it
comes to everybody I would do stuff
called second position which would be
that I would do a pilot in March waiting
to see if it goes in May and then I
would do another pilot in April that was
in second position to the first pilot
that's how much of a tellers Hill with
jealousy when you talk about time you
came up the amount of money was
unbelievable but it was a seller's
market so Nick says to me I'm talking to
Nick it's 1999
why am I done early he says to me he
says to me I say he says I'm moving back
to New York you are why ah guess then la
you smoke give any white guys any jobs
and I thought he was joking like I
thought he was gonna say like Emily haha
because no I'm serious
and won't give any white guys jobs I had
literally been on at that point three or
four different pilots where there was a
guy just like Nick DiPaolo an Italian
character like that like guys Island was
literally with one of them called like
it was show guy Island it was so easy to
get a job in that situation if you had a
modicum of talent now to be fair some
people can be funny and not necessarily
great actor oh that's all right
white guys but better but the white
aggrievement the idea that to be in
Hollywood in the 1990s and to be a male
comedian and to come up with the theory
that they're not giving white guys any
acting opportunities on sitcoms the
level of delusion the level of self
involvement and resent does that mean
like it's just racist you're just racist
because you're racism and you don't
think you're racist
you're so diluted by your disdain
you're looking for someone to blame for
whatever wasn't happening in your life
and it was just super easy for you to do
now I imagine that was not a new
phenomenon for him but I can assure you
that act of giving the finger to
activists is not borne out by the
activism he had the same resent 20 years
ago and now it's just being dressed up
in some other fashion
he's updated his resentment yes it's
fresh now because I changed the shirts
they're wearing in the photo shop it was
good acting well I'm be cups not bad
good direct who's the actress by the way
I can't remember her name she did a good
job because her she was a rapper she
wasn't I think that was her first acting
game no idea who she is but I found the
way both of you very believable Judy
gold Judy gold was awesome yes indeed
seems like it was playing himself
really who was de pollo well casting no
he was not playing himself he was in
method it's funny to put him in that
helmet though in the bike helmet yeah
well the idea was that these guys were
the first time in they were out of the
cage and they get intimidated in the
evidence cage but they're protected by
the cage and now they're on the street
what you and Benjamin good intimidated
right yeah yeah I think that they're
intimidated by guys with bike helmets on
yeah I mean wear your helmets people but
they look funny since we're talking
about the 90s let's go back to the 90s
this is a throwback Wednesday clip
Bernie Sanders on the floor of the house
longtime listeners of the show remember
Duke Cunningham a Duke Cunningham was a
congressman from from California who if
I remember correctly had a had a boat
I'm trying to remember what the name of
that boat was and that boat was was paid
for by largesse that he received in
terms of bribes from two
contractors and to Cunningham pled
guilty to receiving over 2.3 million
dollars in bribes the dukester
could remember what the name of that
boat was the dukester is that what it
was it's it's now docked under the name
bankers hours but that's a new name
whereabouts no this is a piece from 2013
everyone knows we're disgraced former
Rep Randy Duke Cunningham was for the
past seven plus years until his release
from federal prison in June the one-time
Rancho blahblah but the whereabouts
remained a mystery of the dukester the
Washington DC party both the Cunningham
once called home anymore yeah he was it
awesome I've actually known a couple of
people have lived on boats in in
Washington she was a cool guy but he
wasn't just a criminally fraudulent
congressman he was also a bigot and here
is Bernie Sanders calling him out for
his bigotry on the floor of the house in
1995 who said something about homos in
the military was the gentleman referring
to the many thousands and thousands of
gay people who have put their lives on
the line in countless wars defending
this country I'm just a group of people
that the gentleman was referring to I'm
talking about the military people in the
military do not support that's not
talking about you use the word homos in
the military you have insulted thousands
of men and women will put their lives
are getting by now the other part that I
enjoy about that is that I have tried to
tell you kids before back in the day
that was a slur from the right liberals
that was it there was no one going like
he's not a liberal he's the left of that
another example of Bernie Sanders being
a crypto white national yes keep going
around on with all of your incredibly
immoral stupid takes on Twitter now also
speaking of Bernie Sanders this is a
Bernie Sanders ad but it's actually
geared towards the strike that is
happening
today yeah I mean this is really like a
info video essentially I mean it
obviously comes from Bernie but it's not
your birdie isn't in it no and it is
letting people know about the uberstrike
that is happening today
uber of course is the biggest of the
ride-sharing companies I was talking to
a guy I take Juno it's not available
anywhere but in New York City and now
apparently the the dollars are the
payments are more or less the same but
when they started ooh BRR paid something
like double what it pays now and it's
very difficult for these people to to
make to make a living doing it and here
is here's one of the drivers talking
about all the money that uber is about
to wear I should say their shareholders
are about to make with the the upcoming
IPO and here is one of those strikers
where it's a company that is making
millions of dollars and the drivers are
slowly becoming slaves of their system
well at first Hoover was something great
it was so good that people thought that
they could make a career out of this
you were there quotes that you want you
are driving your vehicle I'm someone
that loves driving meeting new people
going to new places and the money at the
time was great around 2015 it was easy
to make two hundred and fifty three
hundred dollars in eight hours or less
earnings have gone down so much that
people can afford health care there's
not enough money for four basic things
that people need most people are working
50 sometimes 60 hours a week to be able
to make the money that they were making
three years ago and that means that
people are driving while exhausted I
have heard stories of people that have
falling asleep while driving people that
now don't have time to be with their
kids because they have to drive so much
I do have two jobs now I'm working doing
proofs
so uber folks are protesting and around
at least eight cities around the country
live to is lift as well yeah I just
thought wheat from our Manley Carter in
Virginia he said because of the low pay
at the General Assembly that's the body
that he was elected to I've been driving
for lyft on the side to make ends meet
I'm striking on Wednesday with thousands
of my fellow ride share drivers don't
cross the picket line don't do it don't
cross the picket line just don't now now
I I don't know what's the best thing to
do if it's worth it to call in and
cancel like the call in a fur nuber and
then cancel it as part of approaches
like I'm wondering how oh don't do that
don't use it just log out and don't use
it it's crazy like all of the value of
these apps these tech companies they did
not create something new in the world
and uber is the best example it is
literally just a taxi taxi service it's
a taxi company that it's not subject to
regulations and it's not unionized
that's the only thing they do regulatory
arbitrage and try to build market share
and labor arbitrage and it's disgusting
and they shouldn't get special treatment
they're just a they're just an illegal
taxi company let's go to the phones call
them from a four seven eight area code
who's this where he call them from folks
only got about ten more minutes so if
you've been on hold for anything under
forty five minutes I would hang up
because we're not going to get to you
come from four seven eight area code
who's this that's right you guys hang up
you leave this to the professionals like
Jeff Jeff and Georgia what's on your
mind hey real quick I had someone else
called out but I'll keep the real brief
just on everything to wrap up you and
your audience anyone else if you got
over or left any other rad share app on
the phone even if you don't use it very
often which you can spend on what you
can install it right now we're so
tomorrow if you need to but it's my
understanding that drivers that's what
they want
dude show solidarity in small lace if
you got those bad straps and phones
devices please uninstalled ins I'd
really appreciate that
the other thing I want to say say it was
uh just just about Georgia man I really
appreciate you covering this fetal
heartbeat bill I just wanted to add a
couple details that that I happen to
know about Georgia's got one of the
highest female mortality rates in the
nation paternal rates in the nation
unfortunately and a lot of OBGYNs
already do not want to practice here and
this law is gonna do nothing to make it
tougher it's also worth noting that
alabama next door is contemplating
passing a very similar even stricter
speed it's still called fetal heartbeat
bill in the coming week and so you can
see where I'm going with this you know
if you look at a map of Georgia there's
not just Georgia but the surrounding
states it's already to where basically a
large parts to say you got it you got to
take a long-ass call ride if you need to
get reproductive health services but
eventually it's going to be to the point
where you're not going to take Carlisle
you go take plane trip Lockett can't
afford to get on a plane and then at
some point that plane trips gonna get
even longer and longer and longer my
point is is that these abortions are not
going to go away they're just going to
be accessible to less people safely it's
it's uh a lot of times we get people
calling in who want to say you know
maybe we compromise on this issue to be
so Orthodox as less just about
reproductive health and I don't have
anything to say that said no can't do
that the cornerstone of female quality
all right sam takes one the rape buddy
y'all have a good one
Jeff from Georgia absolutely right come
from a seven to zero area code who's
this where you come from if they're
doing from Colorado Dylan from Colorado
what's in your mind hey I'm uh you know
today what's on my mind is uh the school
shooting from yesterday in Colorado and
I wanted to bounce an idea
sure we should just say one one student
killed eight injured I believe it was
perpetrated by an 18 year old male and
an under aged female I guess correct um
you know yeah so it's a somber day out
here in Colorado but um really what I'm
thinking right now is a program more
like a Big Brother program in my
assumption is that a lot of these if you
gave like social workers a bunch of
study programs or like study cases that
you would see upon similarities between
these school shooters I remember I don't
know if that's true I mean I know that
there have been studies like the ones
you're talking about and I don't know
that that is true actually
I'm trying to think I certainly
antisocial behavior would be you know
incorrect I'm trying to recall it was
there was less consistency than you
would have thought let's put it that way
I can't remember the specifics but a bit
but but you can find that online if you
go digging for you can find that online
I mean that's why I was that's why I
know too that it was a female because I
don't know that we have too many
examples of a females participating this
type of mass shooting but go ahead solid
point but my idea would be that let's
say there's an early warning program
maybe I'm meeting the current status of
things well the two halfway here but
when it comes to social behaviors just
like let's say there was an early
warning program when it comes to like a
social worker inside the school and you
put them through maybe like a Big
Brother program and that would kind of
take care of the underlying problems
with this issue yeah like I say I think
there's been studies you know in in
attempts to sort of like to assess who
is a threat risk and there's a an even
easier way to deal with this and that is
to not make it so easy for potential
threat you know because you can I
you can because what you're talking
about is come up with a good algorithm
to determine who's a threat create an
apparatus in the schools to assess each
member of the student body to determine
whether they are they fit that criteria
get those people into a program that you
don't really have the authority to force
them to go into hope that the program
pool would be put included hope that the
program works you don't have the
authority to take people you know
specific people in school and say we've
determined that you algorithmically you
might be a threat and so you have to do
this Big Brother program but even if you
did then you're hoping that it's gonna
work I mean look there's only one way to
stop this there's and I don't know that
you can stop it
there's only one way to reduce the
frequency of these things and the damage
that they do and that is to limit the
number of guns that are available to the
population as a whole to limit the and
and and figure out a way of doing that
within the constraints that we have now
from the the present Supreme Court I
mean that's that that's that's the only
way to at the end of the day to to get
any type of reduction are you going to
eliminate all of them no you know and
certainly someone could come in with a
knife you know and and and kill and
injure people but the bottom line is you
you need to reduce the number of weapons
I mean there's just no other feasible
way of reducing the number of people who
are injured or or died in these events I
agree with you in the short term okay
certainly but in the long term I think
what we still need to do is regrow
community bonds there's a reason why
there's been an uptick in school
violence in the past few decades and I
think it's because our society has
progressed to a point where
everybody is so alienated I mean if you
look at the statistics depression and
anxiety have gone through the roof
especially in young people there is a
correlation with the rise in everyone
having a smartphone and you know most
kids don't express it by killing other
kids but it's still a real problem so
like why limit it to the people who seem
like a threat why not just have a
widespread widespread effort to regrow
bonds make kids feel respected get
proper counseling services proper mental
health care and all like none of those
things are mutually exclusive right I
think we should do that distinct of the
issue of but I think you will see an
effect in the amount of violence that
manifests I would imagine calling from a
tu-16 area code who's this hello David
what's on your mind in fact David here
the last caller of the day what do you
think about that I want to comment you
had a discussion last week about the
whole Bill Clinton was the first black
president right issue which sounds
really silly post-obama
no my comment than that is I remember
that that was my first election that I
voted in the 92 and I think it also had
to be sides of Maya Angelou feeling that
he was treated like a black man was
talking Morrison publicans to me my bad
as that kind of thing
you could also had to do with Bill
Clinton's friendship with Vernon Jordan
and being him seen as the first
president to have a black best friend
and people really connecting with that
and you know that was the one thing I
remember from that time he had a very
populist image too I think Bill Clinton
did and was probably seen to be more
like closer to the black community in
Arkansas probably isn't
probably as well and class is very fresh
alized in America too so don't you think
she was making some kind connection
between like his class markers and the
well that's exactly what Toni Morrison
was saying because his he grew up in a
single family household he his father
was an alcoholic
that I mean I think she was saying it
sarcastically in some way but they were
connecting race and class in a way that
Bill Clinton did not turn out to be
capable of doing policy was or didn't
want to yeah you guys go yourselves
check out Clinton cash on patreon and
Chelsea that way to actually be the
Internet's talk with Alyssa Milano and
have Tony Morrison on for the 20 year
anniversary of me being declared rightly
the first black president folks we got
let's play these two clips so let's do
this first one here's my good friend
Grover Norquist on on Fox and Friends
and just trotting out the lie this is
this is sad thing like you know they the
Republicans thought they could run on
the Republican tax cut in 2018 and they
ran on it insofar as they ran away from
it well what about come here so she just
said that you know the tax cut benefits
the top one percent is that accurate
well that's what the left was saying
right when the bill passed you remember
the tax cut was very unpopular in
polling when it passed as we got closer
to April 15th of this year and Americans
actually saw the size of the tax cut
they got it became much more popular
what Harris and Joe Biden they're
talking about taking away from people
family of four posit I want to just note
they he did not answer the criticism it
just basically impacting the top one
percent but when they talk about the
repeal Grover Norquist is going to tell
us about the repeal now the thing that
Grover Norquist is not going to tell us
in fact even the candidates who are
calling for the repeal are not going to
tell us is that all the things he's
about to mention
the tax cuts for the middle class the
few tax cuts for the middle class they
automatically sunset by the middle of
the next president's term we have 474
$73,000 median income that family would
have $2,000 in higher taxes if you took
away the Trump tax cuts that's not big
the Trump tax cut was for a family of
four earning seventy three thousand
single parent earning forty-one thousand
dollars one child single parent would
cost that person $1,300 to lose the
Trump toxin that's how large the tax cut
was these are significant taxes even the
New York Times and The Washington Post
in their faction others had to say this
was a tax cut for most Americans and
that's sinking in now your posit first
off okay it's when he says it's a tax
cut for most Americans all right what
he's saying is that most Americans may
have had a tax cut but the vast majority
of the value of these tax cuts went to
corporations and to the extremely
wealthy and I have misspoke in 2025 all
of the tax cuts that he mentioned repeal
anyways and all that we're left is the
tax cuts on the multimillionaires and
the corporations but let's just see if
there was only a way we could assess how
people felt about the tax cuts coming up
on April 15th is there any way to do
that Matt do we have any mechanism like
maybe some of the polling or those are
articles no we didn't pull those because
we can get that right now I got it right
here
I emailed it to you
on tax day Trump tax cuts remain deeply
unpopular from Politico date April 15th
Wow that seemed on the day of April 15th
maybe what he meant was the tax cuts
were super popular like on the 12th of
April and on the 13th of April but by
the time the April 15th came on
Trump tax cuts remain deeply unpopular
because people know that when you give
huge tax cuts to corporations and tiny
ones to the rest of us ultimately what
happens is things get more expensive
because the wealthy people drive up the
prices and government services get
shrunken at one point if not now then
later the end of this is pretty good too
we turn down a 21 percent which makes us
competitive 15 the 21 is good to get rid
of the Trump Republican tax cuts is to
make us the least competitive nation in
the world on tax policy on businesses
that is exactly where you don't want to
be also that tax cut lowered most
Americans yes most Americans utility
bills because those utility bills just
pass on your your taxes when we cut
taxes billions of dollars in lower
utility bills for all Americans so don't
piss down my back and tell me it's
raining and all you don't get my
sneakers and a weird confused stream
those tax cuts were so not passed on to
people remember remember all the the the
supposed jobs that were gonna be created
by these tax cuts no hell is he talking
about with utility bills that just came
to his head I think he says sounds like
it's one of those like Keyser söze
moments he's looking around utilities
spills I think all the grasping at
straws lastly let's just talk about this
is pretty funny folks a lot of you out
there try and stay hydrated this is not
an ad you do so with this is like a one
way of putting a cap on all this that
we're all going to hell hashtag doom a
guy used to work at Netflix
who was a marketing guy he's got a 1.6
million dollars in fresh seed funding
and smart money smart money and he's
launching a new water company you know
that sells water but this is for people
who are a little bit tired of quote
water brands you know that are not whole
food yoga mom waters all right these are
smart edge this is for smart edge guys
yeah we don't want your soy water right
this is for folks like Matt bender
actually yeah folks it's liquid death
murder your thirst mountain water murder
it with liquid death such a cool Skull
wasted that's cool that you can just get
millions of dollars from dumb investors
to do a novelty drink its water all
something novel about that it's Austrian
water and it's packed in 12 packs of
tall boy cans I mean I God like if these
people could figure out a way to capture
the air and make us pay for that they
would I'm pretty sure the liquid gaseous
dead its oxygen Wow right I mean we
really have nothing to say about this
other than just like this is it photos
mine
wrap it up wrap it all up it's gonna
look funny in the stuff in the startups
fridge I'm gonna do a couple of im's and
get out of here
John McCain's brain tumor I Sam good
show when you haven't John McCain's
ghost on again really funny can you
put them on the Friday rotation with
Digby in Ben Dixon Rob from Austin add
to your Supreme Court calculus that a
Democratic president will need a
majority in the Senate to appoint a new
justices by the way Zima is still widely
available in Japan calling from Nebraska
Bernie supporters don't forget to use
the Bern app this is what volunteers are
using to canvass go to app Bernie
Sanders dot-com create an account
harassment bang-bang art hey comrades
and Sam as a Los Angeles native very
concerned about the 2028 Olympic Games
could you possibly get somebody on from
the no Olympics la coalition to talk
about the campaign against the games
coming to LA full disclosure I'm a
member we will we'll look into that
actually bronze plan hi everyone I'm
gonna be visiting New York for the first
time in a long weekend in mid-june do
you have any recommendations geez
museums I mean depends on what you like
to do I I would get on one of those
monster boats and ride around the the
the Harbor is actually not unfun I don't
know if I would do the monster boats but
what's a monster boat they have these
like big motor boats but riding around
the harbor is actually quite nice quite
wait an interesting aquatic death I
don't there you go there you go how's
that for recommendations JJ cool before
Donald Trump I always wondered how
people could worship royalty or talk
about authority figures as godlike I
always thought it was be out of fear for
their lives Fox and Friends blows my
theory out of the water by sacrificing
their dignity for a few extra bucks
Brock from va Lee Carter tweeted he's
been having to drive lyft because it's
General Assembly pay right there you go
yeah they make like $18,000 a year or
something crazy they just assume that
everyone's rich who's doing this
made a Mindy hey guys I'm 60 today can i
get a shout out
[Music]
well the idea is that a lot of
businessmen use that job to exploit
business opportunities so for them
getting paid that is not prohibitive in
many respects and in a large way part
that is why you want to pay lawmakers
more money actually so that it opens the
door to more people being able to do it
it's also why Trump's whole gambit about
donating his salaries at joke yeah he's
monetizing it believe me
Dodson from Minneapolis a salmon crew
wondering if you guys have any taken the
Mohammed nor justice damn and verdict
and the twenty million dollar award I
haven't read about that snow fake
question for the whole crew while
reversing the decline of the middle
class and noble cause I think it implies
inevitable existence of a helpless
underclass so is it useful to try and
raise class consciousness in the
American electorate or better to just
attack inequality in general do both the
Chris lapacho
did you see the incredibly bad tweet
from USA Today yes they said you could
the average American spends eighteen
thousand dollars a year on things they
don't need like food clothing
transportation they did say they said
personal grooming forever just don't eat
don't shower flow be Gregory from
Oklahoma Xers are my favorite generation
of people and always happened because
mostly all my favorite bands and
musicians are from that cohort but
genetics politicians are literal garbage
for every Fred Durst or Sam cedar
there's like five Cory Booker's water
boat from Kashmir Fred Durst is woke now
PS he's been tweeting at Trump I know
you think hello mr' happy Ramadan for
those are observing also wish me luck
for finals this week coming up so tired
good luck and yes easy fast local pizza
historian and solidarity with Labour's
Sam's today Sam tinder profile comes
straight from the writers room hey babe
looking for a ride now that uber is on
strike swipe right and give me a try
let's strike a blow against capital
together in a personal Congress all
right and three more Michaels impression
of Sam hey Sam Trump is trying to use
the Canadian immigration system to
promote his regressive policies
towards immigrants what he doesn't know
is the point based system we have is
only a small part of the system which is
called Express Entry it's designed to
bring in skilled workers to fill needs
in certain sectors and not general
immigration the Democrats need to push
back on this black Marxist between 8
silver implying black people's our
establishment hacks and conservatives
trotting out Candis islands to say we
are politically brainwashed the amount
of people who disregard our political
instincts is astounding right and the
final I am of the day fran from
philadelphia forgive me Matt but I
believe the la poupee was heavy way with
a flanger effect not a phaser fare
similar but flanges kind of sound lame
compared to the subtler psychedelia of a
phaser alright folks see you tomorrow
[Music]
no sir
I'm gonna get
I was
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option
[Music]
laughs right
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
