[Music]
it's the recent talk of Clinton helping
out warrant political suicide for Warren
and if it does happen and she drops out
would she endorsed Bernie
well first off second question last I
imagine she would endorse Bernie it
would be shocking if she didn't frankly
if she dropped out I I don't know I
think the I would imagine the the this
story about Warren helping our Clinton
helping out Warren I imagine is at least
founded in some reality I mean part of
what Warren sales pitch is that she
works the inside game as well so I would
be surprised if she wasn't you know it's
not like Hillary Clinton is gonna come
back and do anything but I it it is also
of concern you know when there are areas
that Warren is soft on that Hillary
Clinton is bad on as well you know if
they were meeting about you know like
how you know I've come around on the
bankruptcy bill Elizabeth how could I
make they could have made that better or
you know I liked one aspect of your
debt-free college thing and I'm gonna
incorporate a if these are the things
they were talking about but when you see
a clip like this
Emma big 'land was down in Russia and
Houston Thank You New Hampshire's New
Hampshire you know covering early
primary state and here she is I think
she's up in Concord New Hampshire this
is the Democratic convention in Concord
and she got a question that she asked
Elizabeth Warren and and I have to say
that you know like I think it's quite
clear Elizabeth Warren's worst
attributes are in regard to foreign
policy and the military in this does not
in any way swage those concerns there it
is I asked senator Elizabeth Warren
about her record when it comes to the
military budget and foreign policy which
some
the left have criticized her on I think
with with legitimate cause and this was
her answer you have focused a lot on
progressive domestic policy you also
voted for a military budget increase in
2017 how does that square with your
progressive politics when we're talking
about foreign policy if the question is
do I think we should have military
budget the answer is yes and I'm now at
the Senate Armed Services Committee I'd
had this fight over and over but there's
another part to it too we need to stop
the control over our defense budget
that's exercised by the giant defense
industry as you know we now have a
secretary of defense who spent seven
years as head lobbyist for Raytheon I
asked for some simple conflict of
interest rules that he would abide by
for example not to make decisions that
involve Raytheon and raytheon's bottom
line and he refused the Republicans
confirmed him anyway but this is what
corruption is all about putting
lobbyists in charge of our government
agencies a lobbyist further lobbyist in
charge of the Environmental Protection
Agency this is the heart of corruption
and the moment has come to call it out
and to fight back that's what being in
this room is all about so she starts by
saying if the question is what do I want
a smaller military budget the answer is
yes and that's great I'm in favor of
that the question was when you were in a
position to reflect that desire by your
vote why didn't you vote that way now I
mean I I suppose she could have come up
with an answer
you know well we had to vote for that
because we had other set of priorities
that we wanted to pass or whatnot but
the the way in which she avoids this
question is problematic it's problematic
I mean at one point you cannot decry the
corruption that exists there and then
vote for the product
of that corruption I mean that's the
point right like it's not just that
there's corruption and we're worried
that we're sending our boys and girls
out to war with you know faulty body
armor which which in some instances we
do and is a problem but it's basically a
trough an ever-expanding trough where
interests that don't really help anybody
except for themselves keeps feeding at
and I don't understand how you can vote
for the continuation of the expansion
and the feeding at that trough and then
say I'm going to stop the things that
are driving that well it ends all of the
problems you have just listed ends with
senators voting to increase the budget
and she's voted that seems to point
every single increase under including
there was one budget under Trump where
they actually gave them more than what's
requested and I I want to give people
there was a really good piece that was
written back in 2015 called Warren takes
care of defense business back home and
it actually goes especially into her
direct relationship with Raytheon which
is a major you know it's a massive
industry in Massachusetts but it's a
huge contradiction and it's structural
to her career which is why she I mean
just literally didn't answer the
question she didn't even say look you
know I voted the wrong way like he said
I've had parochial interests but now
there's something else I'm trying to do
she just did the classic kind of
disingenuous hard pivot hey speaking of
disingenuous hard pivot
