[Music]
I think we can all agree that Trump has
made the Oval Office a bit more cozy yes
Donald Trump has made the Oval Office a
little bit more cozy now of course
Barack Obama had a some type of like
golf simulator but that's my
understanding but president Trump has
Trump a sized it now what's amazing
about the fact that this exists in my
mind is Donald Trump is consistently
playing golf constantly and so the idea
that he would need a simulator suggests
to me that he may not be doing anything
else but playing golf and what we
literally see him physically do like so
when we see him speak in public
obviously he's not playing golf at that
time that times allotted for there is a
website Trump golf count dot-com is that
is that right cuz the 87 million dollars
so far his golf
he has played a hundred and fifty six
times
these are daytime visits to golf clubs
since inauguration with evidence of
playing golf in at least 72 visits out
of what are we talking about now I guess
it's been well it's been 365 times to
essentially write about 700 days 700
days so of 756 days so at least like
what is that 20% of the time at this
point he is playing golf and then he's
in his residence and all that executive
time people think it's just about TV
he's probably watching TV Fox News but
here is a sense rate of doing that of
what the the golf simulator is all about
let's look at
this is the is this is this the one that
they're doing this is the full-swing
simulator is this the one that he has
well we don't know but this will give
you a general sense of what's going on
hey guys
Taylor here golf life checking out full
swing simulators jordan Spieth has one
of these Jason Day has one of these even
Tiger Woods has one of these and now you
can have one too I'm coming to be in
play we're gonna hit some balls play
some of the gaming arcade aspects and
check it out
your Tigers gonna be one of the coolest
things about fullscreen simulator and
you can dial in your irons your yardages
it gives you all the stats we okay so
buying it I want three of them can we
trade a congressional medal hey you got
a free simulator wait so we've got one
in the White House but can we get one in
the executive office building as well
there you go that's it actually does
look pretty cool
want your president to be like not not
basically spending his days like Matt
would if he wasn't working here yeah
that looks too active for me yeah the
same simulator let's go to the phone
accidentally hit my bong with the golf
club let's see
