[Music]
in the meanwhile there is scrambling by
those on the right because as it becomes
more real for people people start to
realize how insane this vision of
America is and I think you're gonna see
the abortion numbers actually hardened
for those people who want choice I think
you're gonna see it harden and and get
maybe a little bit larger in terms of
supporting a woman's right to choose it
may not make a difference at this point
we may have gone past the point of no
return
because of what's happened with the
Supreme Court but we shall see in the
meantime here is a Matt Walsh he
apparently has a show this is not the
funny Matt Walsh this is the really
unfunny Matt Walsh very very funny right
there's a good there's a there's a funny
Matt Walsh who was on Vice and I think
he's on another show now
a UCD guy beep beep not vice right beep
and the unfunny Matt Walsh hosts the
show on the the center of conservative
intellectualism online that is the daily
wire this is the brainchild of Ben
Shapiro I believe and here is Matt Walsh
who what's his official title over there
like primetime host of religiosity or
something what is it yeah it is
something like that because I'm sound
like a writer and host and stuff like
that ok here he is one of the religious
rights most influential young voices yes
ok here it is here he is
ok now trying to in some way I mean look
I understand if he just comes out and
says God's law says there are no
abortions and that's why I want there to
be no abortions because I believe God's
law shall reign in this country i mean
there are theocrats
they exist I disagree with them I don't
think it's I think it's
mentally an American but at least they
can come out with it but this is
stunning his attempt to to to come up
with a I guess another more practical
argument about why there shouldn't be an
exemption for rape now as for the cases
of rape which are rare and in a very
small minority but as for them there are
two things to keep in mind posit number
one what but the cases of rape are what
is he saying the cases of rape that lead
to pregnancy are rare is that what he's
saying I don't mean I'm not sure I
understand even like what that what the
point is he just wants to minimize rape
just generally all right continue now as
for the cases of rape which are rare and
in a very small minority but as for them
there are two things to keep in mind
number one abortion helps rapists cover
up their crimes abortion rapists love
abortion rapists Planned Parenthood is
the is a rapist best friend because you
if when a rapist rapes someone and
creates a baby mostly one second that's
positive one second do you he pauses
there do you think that he just sort of
stumbled on to that talking point and
was like oh damn it I'm afraid that that
came out of my mouth because it sounds
like he hasn't I don't where to go no no
I think that we still sometimes at least
I do have the the we just gotta unlearn
it of like wanting to give people like
this even like 1% credit so there is
like that he just realized that what
he's saying is absolutely demented yeah
I know he planned it this way yeah no I
bet J I mean planned or not I'm sure he
does not get that it was demented okay
alright so you go back just a little bit
good when a rapist raped someone and
creates a baby most of the time they
didn't that's not what they had in mind
they they weren't trying to create a
baby and if this is a you know what here
the the people that are coming up with
these you know hard case hypothetical
say well what if a 13 year old girl is
right now she's forced to carry her baby
well if a 13 year old girl is
pregnant that's a very good indication
that probably a crime occurred and one
day our baby
probably you know you can do a DNA test
and find out who the father is and if
that father is an adult then that person
is going to jail so now we can prove we
can prove that a rape occurred
that's why rapist would rather just send
the victim off to Planned Parenthood
have the pregnancy taken care of and the
evidence thrown into a medical waste
dumpster is this guy completely out of
his mind is he not aware that the the an
aborted fetus would have DNA as well I
mean just assuming like his entire
scenario in his mind would be like how
are we gonna find out he also apparently
doesn't you know I mean I guess the
theoretically this rapist or this victim
of the the victim of incest right they
would take DNA from everyone around her
is that what his plan is but if they
were to do that he's not aware that the
fetus has DNA that the reason why we
would force in his words and his
scenario a thirteen-year-old girl to
carry a rapists baby to term is because
there's no other way to prove that the
that this uh thirteen world was raped
that this thirteen year old would rather
have this child so as to have ironclad
proof which could be presented even by a
fee I mean I don't understand like how
did they does he have no editor do they
not have like a you know sit around and
talk to other people and say hey wait a
second I have a crazy idea I want to
bounce this off remember walks to the
cool kids philosopher bench yeah I
remember when the Daily wire did that
Columbus Day animation that was really
racist in tears like I was actually out
of office that day I was on my fourth
birthright trip he's not speaking to
convince anyone he's speaking to whip
is already quite frenzied bass right
it's but I don't understand like don't
they realize that other people are gonna
see this do they think that all of the
people that follow them are just
complete morons I mean yeah they don't
care they must I mean I I would like to
we will have we'll be taking calls later
in the program if you're someone who for
a while thought like hey that is a good
idea we should make rape victims carry a
fetus to term and force their pregnancy
force their birth so that we can have
evidence to convict the rapist and
that's the only way we'd be able to do
that if you're one of those people who
for a moment or even still believe it
make sure you call in later in the
program
