[Music]
so apparently there's this pastor
Kenneth Copeland
he's a megachurch pastor why would
Inside Edition be interested in this but
apparently Kevin Kenneth Copeland who do
you by his point he bodies his plane
from Tyler Perry which is a I don't know
if you're worried about demons
apparently the the preacher said someone
asked them about he said I'm not getting
on board one of those metal tubes with
all the devils little devils and and
you'll see in this sort of interview if
you will
he explains it's not humans I'm talking
about I'm talking about devil spirits I
gotta be I would be worried about
getting into Tyler uh Tyler Perry's
plane the humor to get on a private jet
with this guy yeah no it's not talking
about white devils that's for sure oh
there you go alright so here here is
here is a mega church pastor Kenneth
Copeland being interviewed by a Inside
Edition reporter isn't it true that you
want to fly commercial so that you can
fly in luxury how much money did you pay
for Tyler Perry's Gulfstream jet for
example well for example that's really
none of your business but the business
of your donors mission I paid you kind
of caught me off guard here okay thank
you Lord let me just ask you a really
simple question a lot of people think
it's unbecoming for a preacher to live a
life of luxury and to fly around in
private jets what's your response to
that very simple it takes a lot of money
to do what we do without the airplane
that we have that I bought from Tyler
Perry and I didn't pay anywhere any
Tyler's
the greatest guy he made it he made that
airplane so cheap for me I can help but
buy it okay all right but I want to get
to the demons because people are very
concerned about that comment chance your
Inside Edition I love your eyes again
getting back to the comment you add that
you don't like to fly commercial because
you don't want to get into a tube with a
bunch of demons do you really believe
that human beings are demons no I do not
and don't you ever say I did we wrestle
not with flesh and blood but
principalities and powers can you
explain what you meant by that that by
that term then just just explain because
it's really simple you said you didn't
want to get into a tube with a bunch of
demons what did you mean do you think
that people that fly commercial or
demons but it's a biblical thing it's a
spiritual thing it doesn't have anything
to do with people people I love people
Jesus loves people Jesus people get
pushed in alcohol do you think that's a
good place for a preacher to be and
prepare to go preach to a lot of people
when somebody in there is dragging some
woman down an aisle that it made me so
mad to see that on television I wanted
to punch the guy out myself I can't be
doing that while I'm getting ready to
preach you just don't like to be around
the sinful people or the the hurtful
people is that what you're saying that a
preacher should not be living a life of
luxury what is your response to that
they're wrong
the Bible also says that it's more
difficult for a rich man to get into
heaven than it is for a camel to get
through the eye of a needle correct yes
to the scripture but he said all things
are possible with God
boom there you go onde I love it when it
goes not right baby he's calling a baby
like that's I like your ass oh my god
that is so creepy how many how many like
inappropriate like like like ah it's
trying to shut her up I mean aside from
just the the horror that those type of
people are just broadly speaking how
many how many do you think like
inappropriate sort of come ons he's he's
been involved in like how many like God
seems like a lot
I felt very grateful that she had the
door between yeah him in her but I will
say this what I would like to see Inside
Edition the business they get into is
why stop with preachers like why is
there really a fundamental difference
that it's hypocritical for a man of God
to amass that kind of money when it's
okay for Howard Schultz - well I mean
Howard Schultz doesn't claim to be super
into Jesus does he well he's Jewish
alright so like there is a certain
hypocrisy and I think that's probably
true but I still think that like
sometimes I sort of feel like those type
of things get to be a little bit like
they're a little bit distracting that's
the only thing I'm so fair enough going
after really nobody should have a
private jet I think private jets are a
problem yeah we should ban private jets
be great fly with demons the way the
rest of us do
demon Airlines you think you're too good
to fly with demons yeah no I don't know
the way you talk about that offer of the
private jet are we sure Tyler Perry
isn't like a discount private jet sales
minister get what's so cheap a hot bath
abide for the church my god I gotta flip
it I'm gonna flip it it's only a quarter
of a million dollars I Got News for you
that jet was probably more a little more
than quarter million dollars well I'm
gonna start an airline human air and all
of the goth socialists who you know
listen to my show we're gonna fly on
it's gonna be great
I'm gonna start a religion speaking of
