[Music]
we forgot to listen we forgot to look up
the the call I did back in the day to
the American Family Association I don't
know if they're still around anymore I
think they are but they had a culture
desk there that did a report on I think
it was Finding Nemo or shark's tail and
blowing the lid off of a shark's tail
how it was pushing cross-dressing where
you have you know I think shark
pretending to be a dolphin or something
and this was sending the wrong message
to kids we have that audio somewhere I
was gonna gonna introduce that another
element of the movie was pretending
sharks could speak that was also that
was there's a lot of dangerous message
but that was inspired by this story out
of Alabama Alabama public television has
chosen not to air the PBS is Arthur
episode this is of course the episode
which aired nationally on may 13th
Arthur who is a see a lovable mole or
something like that I think he's an
anteater
anteater sorry aardvark aardvark sir
yeah Arthur the aardvark and his friends
attend their beloved teacher mr.
ratburn's nuptials to his partner which
turns out to be a male whatever species
mr. Ratburn is and Alabama Public
Television was on it very quickly they
preempted the episode by showing a rerun
of a different Arthur I'll receives by
sales yes Mike McKenzie the director of
programming at the Alabama and Public
Television say they were notified by
WGBH and PBS in mid-april
the episode entitled mr. Ratburn and the
special someone and decided to show
rerun they have no plans to air the
thing later McKenzie said in an email
saying that parents have trusted
Alabaman public television for more than
fifty years to provide children's
programs that entertain educate and
inspire more importantly although we
strongly encourage parents to watch
television with their children and talk
about what they have learned parents
trust that their children can watch apt
without their supervision we also know
that children who are younger than the
target audience for Arthur also watched
the program no explanation as to why
that would be a problem to watch a
wedding but I mean it's you know I will
tell you this after they're done with
abortion they've just I mean you have
state after state now shown that they
are aggressively looking to revisit a
decision that was made in 1973 so if you
are under the impression that states
like Alabama Mississippi probably
Missouri maybe Georgia Tennessee
conceivably I don't know Missouri yeah I
don't I just want to say too and don't
forget that the whole context for this
even in a place like Alabama but
certainly Georgia is that this stuff is
pretty is paved by voter suppression you
know into a significant extent and that
was already made possible the Roberts
Supreme Court several years ago well yes
and but my point being that if you don't
think that they're gonna re-engage
Kentucky maybe even if they're gonna
re-engage in the battle to fight against
marriage equality and and not get help
from the Supreme Court
I've got a bridge to sell you or really
just about anything cuz I'm gonna make
it up I'm gonna make up the thing that
I'm gonna sell you and you're gonna sell
it to me because you are naive I mean
you're gonna buy it for me because
you're naive yeah our buddy a steven
crowder who used to voice a character on
arthur has since gone to twitter and he
takes censorship very seriously so he
said oh wait that he hasn't said
anything about censorship this is you
want to see his reaction oh yeah no I
mean he's uh he's very concerned about
censorship here it is BBS's Arthur mr.
Ratburn the teacher came out as gay and
got married on the season 22 premiere
yes comes from TV line the news comes
out an episode titled mr. Ratburn and
the special someone hmm this comes a
little surprise to most with longtime
fans they're setting miss Redman's
obsession with cleanliness fashion in
episode 246 mr. Ratburn gets AIDS oh
that one was in which think he also
controversially joined Isis which seems
as though it was kind of a giveaway oh I
get it
being gay is like joining Isis good
hilarious good stuff very funny stuff I
am so glad that I am so glad because you
know there's a lot of people out there
I'd want to chill that kind of speech
and we wouldn't get the insights that
come from that caliber of comedy the old
I'm an adult and being gays like being
in Isis for a long time pretty close to
home for him because it's the only real
thing he's ever done yeah it's true it's
true must be tough to see that who's
saying you know YouTube isn't real see
them move from strength to strength
without him
