[Music]
where are you calling from you are the
first caller on today's edition of the
majority report hello hello just me
it is you hey this is Ronald Reagan
Ronald Reagan how are you sir I hope
you're getting sleep hey yes Reagan I
turned on so I saw a link to the Pakman
show which I've never I make fun of it
but I've never actually really watched
it yeah it seems like a kind of a good
it seems like kind of a dorky guy right
well I mean I you know likes to wear a
sport jacket so I turn it on and he's
reading questions like comments and
questions but they're these YouTube
super chats that you have to pay for
right and these questions are just
pouring in like 10 dollars a pop people
are asking him like what do you think
about Cory Booker and somebody paid like
$10 to get him to answer that right okay
it's correct well we have a super we
have some at 2:00 and people do that I
mean I we have the option of saying that
if you pay we will answer your question
but we prefer a lottery based system
that involves the phones where we you
know I mean if people want to tip us on
super chat more than appreciate it
believe me and you know we see those
figures every week and some people
really come in and they they dump a big
chunk of change for you know once a
month and you know what not but so no
Megan how much like pay me to respond to
what you're saying getting to the good
part
okay sorry so he's he says that he has a
phone number that he's going to
take calls but that he won't do it until
he gets ten new subscribers ten new
patrons or whatever
remember this is this is interesting
he's holding he's got a gun to the
phones well and he's holding them
hostage right saying and guess what he
got there very quickly and it just seems
like you're leaving a lot of money on
the table my guy I'm kind of thing well
I mean I mean so what should I do I
could say like we're gonna have we if we
get ten members I'm going to start
answering the phones today we should do
that every day like I haven't got we
haven't got ten new members so Kelly
Carrie agrees with you riggan she's
trying to push this oh yeah back in the
day what the the that we do super chats
I think we super Tahlia yeah that would
do super chats yeah no but no it's not
I'm not against it I just am not for it
it just seems like you are a boss in a
capitalist wage you should be all
about just putting all the money getting
all the money well I mean you can be a
boss in a capitalist wage cook with not
necessarily being good at it I mean
that's sort of like where I packaging
myself I'm just like you know so plus my
also my feeling is like yeah good well I
also I submitted a super check because I
wanted to ask him about how he copied
your sense
oh right and so yeah so I said well I
said is it true that you literally asked
Sam cedar how to build his scent and
then copied it exactly and he said yes
that's a true story and and then he got
a little self-conscious about he said
wait damn like saying something about it
which you're not but you should be well
I'll tell you what I'll do I tell you
what I do I will answer the question
that David has if I am saying anything
about it
if
he pays me if he has the highest super
chat if he if he if he doubles his super
chat a revenue of any given week and
then puts it into my super chat to ask
me and then I will take the I will
answer that question
so it sounds like we're gonna have super
chat but only for David Pakman super
chat well know everybody can super chat
but the but I guess yeah I guess the
only Dave Beck yeah so super PAC me yeah
I don't know really what just happened
right there I'm not sure what you just
said but it doesn't seem like a good
solution but I do I mean he asked me and
I told him I could have said I'm not
telling you
well he was did you anticipate when you
answer the question you thought he was
asking like handyman questions and so
you're like let me tell you about my
table-saw
right I can totally see this yes that's
happening um so I ripped the two by
floors and whatever so don't rip a two
by but you weren't that's thinking you
do that with we didn't reply whoo
you wouldn't do that with a 2x4 but go
ahead you weren't thinking he was gonna
literally copy your Fett right I thought
he was he wasn't like he was looking for
happier that exactly showing me how to
do it you were thought it was like
another startup and you were like oh
let's exchange ideas you didn't realize
that he it was it was like the it's like
the sometimes in business espionage when
you go in and go hey what is your plan
here and then you and before you know it
you're actually giving them the whole
algorithm on a white board
yeah that means you did in a way Sam
deserves it when you say ray gun for
being some naive very naive I just
thought I thought I did I did it did not
occur to me that he was gonna build the
exact same thing I thought he would like
like take inspiration from what I did
well maybe half person area literally
not telling thinks that cory booker
without monkey even if it would feel bad
doing that a different a different
paneling yeah it's the exact same panels
now i mean there
but you know what I know he said well my
mind's different because I've got the TV
over here well that's what he said when
he answered the question but I mean give
me a break please come on back can you
hear the wide shot no the wide shot hear
the wide shot is not zoomed out about
that so one of the one other thing one
other thing that we're in the TV antenna
zone yeah and then I got a jump yeah
when you call when you call Pakman he
does the robot voice like thank you for
calling the David Pakman it's exact same
he's using the same services yeah yeah
but his robot voice says please do not
use speakerphone and respond when he
reads your area like there's some
instructions oh hell yeah
and I feel like I feel like your robot
voice could be a little bit more
explicit about what's expected from the
college okay all right I appreciate that
high strike please get to the point and
don't mention modern monetary theory
right
Ronald Reagan all of your all of your
suggestions will be taken under
consideration and I appreciate the phone
call everybody dropping the ball here
and we got you we got you question is it
true that you literally asked Sam cedar
how to build a set before you copied it
never said that Stephen Robin says is it
true that you literally asked Sam cedar
how to build his set before you copied
it yes I did I mean the difference is I
I've set it up I've combined our old set
which has this screen behind me with
similar paneling
I mean basically what what I copied was
I asked him how did he build the panel's
and he told me and I'm curious did i
I've said that Sam helped me with what I
needed to buy packaged got to cut this
segment and comment on this segment and
then what we're gonna do is we're gonna
cut
the segment that he comments on this
segment and that's basically going to be
our business our business group arouse
their plans yeah yeah I was gonna say
this is this is grist for the
progressive voices mill oh yeah so David
Pakman was building his set and then
he's still the intellectual property of
Sam Seder
because what Sam cedar seemed to be
joking but I don't know guys maybe it's
not joking by the way I love progressive
voices it's all generous of voices
outside of my show and majority report
is my favorite left commentator right
you do ads down
