[Music]
so this guy is pretty unimportant
relatively speaking so he doesn't really
make the make the racket and then
somewhat make you know make the list
look what tucker carlson is doing is
infinitely more significant powerful
formidable and needs to be strategically
dealt with um
beyond just condemnation of course it
needs to be condemned and call for what
it is the sinister game he's playing
about white supremacy my view but there
is also a huge amount of stuff he is
doing in really generating a different
discourse in right-wing populist
discourse which has a real constituency
here and it is not just race and
immigration issues it's a completely
different way inside conservative
politics of critiquing the market which
has not been very emphasized in American
politics I mean Jordan Peterson's
project would be so much less would
speak so much more formidable and less
laughable if when on the other when look
when he makes all his reactionary
statements about gender or which is
totally indefensible but when he or when
he makes his defensible statements about
alienation and loss of purpose the fact
that he couples that with a blind
defense of the market is delusional and
there have been historical conservatives
who have had some extremely you know
social views that we would argue against
Viet Minh Lee and fight every step of
the way because we just fundamentally
disagree on basic civil rights for
people but they understood that
capitalism disrupted people's lives and
that also included disrupting
institutions that they hold held dear
right like that capitalism doesn't want
you they don't care about you know
modern tech capitalism does not want you
to have a traditional family structure
anything like that because they want you
to be able to be a digital nomad and
leave every four months right so uh but
at the same time there is the Michael
savages of the world who is right on a
through-line
of the base of the Republican Party he's
still doing Drivetime radio and there's
nothing uh you know formidable about
this this is just a transparent
articulation of the Trump base this is
the only country on earth where mass
shootings continue regularly it doesn't
happen anywhere else in the world and we
are asking why here and what can we do
about it I was very disappointed in the
president attacking white supremacy he
is now saying everyone who was concerned
about the illegal alien invasion is a
white supremacist he suddenly has joined
who now he's like Jake Tapper now and
the rest on CNN that was a mistake mr.
president I am sorry that is going to
cost you thousands if not tens of
thousands of votes listen again to the
big mistake Donald Trump made today
by not listening to the right people not
having wise men around them but having
fools around them listen to this clip
six the shooter in El Paso posted a
manifesto online consumed by racist hate
in one voice our nation must condemn
racism bigotry and white supremacy these
sinister
ideologies you understand what he just
said he is now combined racism hatred
what else they say condemn racism maguet
we all agree with that on all sides by
the way including Hispanic racism
Hispanic bigotry of the type of spouse
almost daily by occasional cortex must
okay all right this guy's an idiot um
but you know this is the this is just
like the dumb lowdown this isn't the
stuff that's more you know this isn't
the Tucker stuff that needs actual
thinking and strategy this is just the
pure base racist stuff and this is of
course a major part of how Trump and
Republicans win now that's important
