[Music]
this is always fun you never seen those
before and after things where somebody
lose a lot of weight well this is one
that just shows exposes a tremendous
lack of integrity not so much weight
here is Mick Mulvaney with Maria
Bartiromo and he is at the Michael
Milken Institute
do you guys know Michael Milken is go to
jail like yeah for bond yeah well now he
set up an institute that to do damage on
society in a different way and that is
to give Mick Mulvaney and Maria brought
Teramo a platform to discuss anything
and here's Mick Mulvaney explaining how
about why it's important to have a
deficit spending on the infrastructure
bill and talking about how you know
deficits Memphis it's this is remember
this is a freedom caucus guy Venusian up
because move she has to finance the damn
thing I worry about exogenous shocks to
the system where if something happens
specifically or particularly overseas
that that that caused some type of
crisis typically we be able to fall back
on our borrowing ability to sort of get
us through that I don't know if you can
do that when you're twenty two trillion
dollars in debt at the same time I'll be
the first to admit that I've been
complaining about the debt since I ran
in 2009 it doesn't seem to be holding us
back from an economic standpoint yet I
don't know if things are different when
you're the reserve currency I think
you're an unchartered waters
I think it's all he's probably safer to
have less debt than more but I don't
think debt is really driving the
conversation about infrastructure yeah
let's just go back it wasn't just 2009
2011 where this guy was basically saying
the world is going to blow up because of
our debt
and deficit it's will not like it
if the country were to go forward with a
Republican Study Committee proposal for
such what they call drastic cuts there's
a lot of good concepts there you read it
through very quickly but he talks about
the the debt to GDP ratio the deficit to
GDP ratio a lot a lot of important
concepts I I disagree with this concept
that we can't afford to do it right now
in fact we can't afford to wait we've
talked about the the level of deficits
we've talked about the exposure that the
country has grete to to interest rate
shocks for example were fourteen
trillion dollars in debt last year we
spent about two hundred and fifty
billion dollars in interest payments
relatively small portion of our budget
last year that's because we were only
paying about two percent interest on the
money that we had borrowed the
historical average on that debt on our
interest carries about six percent so we
take that number to 6% we get to an
average in the next year or two and
you're talking about interest payments
alone that could approach a trillion
dollars there he is he's very concerned
about debt at that point and of course
the the real point of this is there were
plenty of people saying in 2011 and in
2010 and in 22 2009 2012 that deficits
particularly then and our debt
particularly then but also in general
but particularly then were not an issue
of concern at all and I know there were
voices out there authoritative voices
because I was saying that and I only
knew that because I was reading them and
so the the failure here is not that Mick
Mulvaney is full of crap the failure is
is that the the media would just harp on
these things and would allow us as a
country to to believe it to the point
where you had Barack Obama
saying I'm not gonna argue about the the
deficit Hawk eree I'm just going to
impose austerity and granted it wasn't
as much austerity as they got in Europe
which is why that we're doing better
than they were doing in Europe but still
that's 700 trillion dollar or 700
billion dollar 770 I guess it was
billion dollar stimulus two-thirds of it
was tax cuts there was just not enough
money spent and many of our problems I
think are a function of that but it was
a failure of the media at the end of the
day I mean just totally a failure of the
media certainly it was knowable because
I know it was knowable because I knew it
and I did IIIi did not come up with that
conclusion myself was just a function of
a lot of legitimate voices with
legitimate arguments
