[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday June 17th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Alexander hurtle Fernandez Fernandez
author of state capture how conservative
activists big business and wealthy
donors reshaped the American States and
the nation also on the program today
Iran announces an increase in its
uranium stockpile as the Iran deal
begins to unravel meanwhile Donald Trump
does not like the looks of his internal
polls and has thus beheaded his
pollsters Supreme Court rules in favor
of the Democrats in a gerrymander case
in Virginia but it is
mostly a question of standing New York
Times claims that US attacks Russia's
power grid in retaliation for Russia
cyberattacks Trump is angry elizabeth
warren and james Clyburn to introduce a
student debt bill buddha judge raises 7
million in April and praises Jerusalem
as the capital of Israel Saudi Arabia
may execute a teen for his past protests
and Bibi Netanyahu kristen's a new town
if you lived here you'd be nowhere Trump
orders agencies to cut at least
one-third of its advisory boards all
this and more on today's program ladies
and gentlemen welcome it is Monday
glad you could be here with us still
basking in the glow of a wonderful
Father's Day kids made me breakfast in
bed after waking me three hours earlier
and then proceeded to not let me sleep
tonight last night too so but it was
very sweet and Iowa made her first hard
boiled eggs
oh she was convinced she could not do it
but she did it she literally boiled
water it's magic yeah total magic I hope
your father's day or weekend was good we
were all here except for Michael of
course good today is Monday and it is
the second or third fourth Monday of the
month
Michels Monday
Michael it's Monday there you go he did
post a very cute picture of him with his
dad oh did he
okay there you go still in recovery mode
I guess so
they released the big Donald Trump
George Stephanopoulos interview of which
we had a couple of Clips this week right
there was the clip about him saying that
there was no collusion and then there
was the what was the other clip that we
played I can't remember now cuz it was
almost three days ago oh right I don't
need to go the FBI if somebody comes in
you know let's say Norway gives me some
information about about somebody and
then and then of course every official
involved in election said actually it's
you probably that's not you need to it's
illegal I'm gonna hear about it first
see what's in there
so I don't know I think after the Muller
report the idea must have been by the
Trump administration now we can finally
subject ourselves to a non overtly and
overly friendly media person for the
first time in probably months and months
and Stephanopoulos seemed to press him
on some things and apparently they're
also gonna this is just a bizarre moment
that ABC let the cameras run it's
unclear apparently there are some in the
media who are suggesting that this was
on purpose that Mick Mulvaney who you
will hear coughing in the background as
chief of staff was upset with the
direction that these questions were
going and coughed as a way of basically
resetting things I don't think it's
going to quite work in the way that they
thought it would because I think they
presume like Oh bill Joe
cut I think Trump thought like whenever
someone coughed in the middle of the The
Apprentice we would just cut and do a
whole nother take but news people of
course are just gonna let the camera
roll and if they're gonna find that
moment and in some ways that's the most
newsworthy thing I think and could be
the most problematic for his supporters
like wow this guy just like take two I
mean I think most politicians can do
that it's just there's very little
opportunity and value to seeing it I
think from the perspective of of news
people although it might be helpful to
watch this of all politicians but here's
Stephanopoulos at Donald Trump's desk
they've got to do something about its
tanning regime but here is a Donald
Trump with Stephanopoulos when you will
see my financial statement at some point
I assume it's going to be released
you'll be very impressed with the job
we've done much much bigger much much
better than anybody thereafter my
financial statement the Senate they'd
like to get my financial statement at
some point I hope they get it you're
going to turn it over now at some point
I might but at some point I hope they
get it because it's safe enough it's a
fantastic financial statement it's a
fantastic financial statement and let's
do that over he's coughing in the middle
of my aunt's yeah okay I don't like that
you know when you're chief of staff you
get a coffee please
just to change the sugar sorry okay you
want to do that a little differently
there so at some point so at some point
I look forward to it frankly I want I'd
like to have people see my financial
statement because he's phenomenal no
it's not up to me it's up to lawyers
it's up to everything else but they're
asking for things that they should I
don't even understand what he's talking
about financial statement is he talking
about his taxes it sounds like why are
they looking for his taxes in the Senate
wouldn't the house be getting his his
taxes he doesn't know that
well it's also doesn't it doesn't appear
that Stephanopoulos knows what he's
talking about the whole thing seems
wrong and maybe that's why he was
coughing cuz he's like wait why you're
offering your your financial statement
well there was the early part whereas
Stephanopoulos did ask for clarification
once and Trump says acumen you know my
financial statements and Stephanopoulos
just went with it because he's like who
knows what we'll get out of this I also
like how he realized like uh I have to
reset cuz the camera hadn't reset it
take three take three clapper clapper oh
we're just gonna go okay because he's
phenomenal no it's not up to me it's up
to lawyers it's up to everything else
but they're asking for things that they
should never be asking for that they've
never asked another president for they
want to go through every deal that I've
ever done they've what they're doing is
a descriptor nope they're trying to do
step step-step they want to keep it
going as long as possible to try and
demean and hurt as much as possible so
they can possibly win the presidential
election I mean there is some truth to
that part
certainly the party out of power will be
doing things to win their presidential
election I think there's probably also a
lot of pressure to do more of that
certainly by grassroots Democrats
Democratic leadership seems to have a
problem with that but yeah it looks like
he could only be referring to his tax
returns and that would be the house yeah
I hope Mick Mulvaney is okay I you know
it both there's two scenarios right the
way to watch that one is that either it
was a setup and it was a little
ham-fisted
like Mick if there's a problem cuff and
I'll pretend like I'm mad at you
and then we'll reset but he didn't
really reset he just kept going and
otherwise it just makes Trump look like
more of the Mad King in this instance
but oh there is a God and Mick Mulvaney
is dying of consumption that also would
be nice we were nice if there was a lot
of TB floating around that office
precisely but I don't know if we'll be
that lucky but who knows they had a very
strange moment there another coughing
hey folks finding a new job is a lot of
work what if you had your own personal
recruiter to help you find a better job
well
now zip recruiters technology can do
that for you just download the zip
recruiter job search app let it know
what kind of jobs you're interested in
and its technology starts doing the work
the zip record a zipper cruda app finds
you jobs you'll like and put your
profile in front of employers who may be
looking for someone like you this is
interesting because we've we've
advertised zip recruiter multiple times
in the past but from the perspective of
an employer I've used it as an employer
we also have someone in the office who
used it as an employee or would-be
employee Brendan over there don't be shy
he knows how this works if an employer
likes her profile like I did Brendan's
zip recruiter lets you know so if you're
interested in the job you can apply and
that's basically that's what happened to
you right Brendan I don't think they had
the app at the time though that would
have made it easier the wonders if
recruiter is the number one job number
one rated job search app and based on a
third-party survey 7 out of 10 people
who found a new job on zip recruiter
increased their salaries well did that
happen Brendan okay
good it did there you go boom all right
don't get carried away you don't have to
get
yeah yeah over the course as opposed to
today as opposed to when you started
working here
there were results of a 2017 u.s. survey
of over 500 zip recruited users who got
hired for a job they found on zip
recruiter but this is the best job
you've ever had right that you said that
very quickly folks the best job
download the free zip recruiter job
search app today and let the power of
technology work for you don't wait the
sooner your download the free zip
recruiter job search app the sooner it
can help you find a better job I know
that's true of just about everybody in
the office are you trying to drink more
water liquid IV hydrates you two to
three times faster and more efficiently
than water alone with the added bonus of
vitamin C b3 b5 b6 and b12 it's the
fastest-growing wellness brand you can
find liquid IV everywhere even a Costco
use liquid IV to fuel tough workouts
help prevent muscle fatigue promote
healthy post-workout recovery it's a
great alternative to traditional sugary
sports drinks because there's no
artificial flavors or preservatives in
fact it's non-gmo vegan and free of
gluten dairy and soy better yet it comes
in convenient ts a friendly powder
packets that are perfect for travel and
preventing jet lag and altitude sickness
that's where I use it the most and also
the sickness that comes maybe when I
travel I drink a little too much but I
got my daughter
using these when I feel like she's
dehydrated and started to get a headache
she gets she's one of those type of kids
who gets a headache a lot because she's
doesn't drink enough water over the
course of the day and so I want to get
as much water into her as possible I
mean same do the same right yeah III
need someone to make me do that we've
blown through this well you can call
your dad I guess I could but I get my
daughter to do that I give these things
out as gifts
well I haven't done Halloween but I love
liquid IV I know you will too right now
my listeners get 25% off at liquid IV
calm when you use my code majority a
checkout that's 25% off anything you
order on liquid IVs website just go to
liquid IV dot-com enter my promo code
majority that's liquid IV dot-com promo
code majority don't wait start properly
hydrating today lastly it may feel like
cyber crime is something that happens to
other people but stealing data from
unsuspecting people on public Wi-Fi it's
one of the simplest ways that hackers
make money when you leave your internet
connection unencrypted you might as well
be writing your passwords and credit
card numbers on a huge bull board for
the whole world to see
protect yourself today with Xpress of
EPN it secures and anonymizes your
internet browsing by encrypting your
data and hiding your public IP address
expressvpn is has easy to you apps that
easy to use apps that run seamlessly in
the background of your computer phone
and tablet turning on expressvpn
protection only takes one click it cost
less than seven bucks a month look
there's so many public Wi-Fi now it's
starting to happen around Brooklyn
little quite a bit now if you're using
these things for anything of import
whatsoever you got to use you got to use
the VPN service expressvpn is rated the
number one VPN service by TechRadar it
comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee
super-easy get the app you click it your
you're all set protect your online
activity today find out how you can get
three months free @ Express VPN dot-com
/ majority that's expressvpn e^x PR e
excuse me exp r ESS VPN comm / majority
for three months free with a one-year
package the Express VPN dot-com /
majority to learn more
alright folks we're gonna take a quick
break when we come back we're gonna be
talking to Alexandra at her dough
Fernandez about state capture how
conservative activists big business and
wealthy donors reshaped the American
states and sadly the nation will be
right back
you
on the majority report on the phone its
pleasure to welcome to the program
assistant professor of international
public affairs at Columbia University
and author most recently of state
capture how conservative activists big
business and wealthy donors reshape the
American States and the nation Alexander
hurtle Fernandez welcome to the program
thanks so much for having me on so much
of what you've talked about here you
know I've been aware of on some level
but the depth of research that you've
done is is fascinating and it's nice to
sort of have liked this stuff looked at
almost clinically if you will and let's
just start with the the the right-wing
troika as you call it what what is the
right-wing troika and and how long have
they been I guess operative yeah so I
suspect many of your listeners like you
have heard of some of the members of the
troika before and there's been some
great newspaper coverage of them but
what I try and do in the book is really
pull together their entire history and
understand how they've worked together
the sort of strategies that they've
deployed and where they've been most
successful and why and so the
organizations that are part of the
troika that I study in the book include
Alec the American Legislative Exchange
Council Americans for Prosperity or AFP
and the state policy network or SPN and
they've been around for a while Alec got
started in the 1970s SPN got underway in
the 1980s and Americans for Prosperity
is the most recent group it got started
in the mid-2000s in 2004 and there are
different organizations they organize
different constituencies they're
supported by different donors but the
reason why I call them the troika and I
study them together is that over time
they've been pushing a similar policy
agenda shifting state policy all across
the country to the ideological right
especially but not exclusively on
economic issues and they they they seem
to well I mean and part of the work
you've done here is to sort of explain
how that is
happened but they seem to fall into
place and sort of complement each other
I guess and have become to some degree
in in a blurs of each other right like
they all it's almost like a like a
conveyor belt and they all have a
different sort of station that they're
at
that's exactly right the way I think
about it is that each of them has carved
out a specific niche of strategies that
it pursues and they work together
pushing in the same direction for very
similar policy ideas and in many cases
identical policy ideas so Alec the
American Legislative Exchange Council is
in charge of the idea generation it has
companies lots of fortune 500 companies
as members a long live conservative
activists and philanthropies including
those affiliated with for instance the
Koch political network and they're
developing model bill ideas in some
cases even the exact legislative text
that it wants state lawmakers to pursue
and then it distributes those model bill
ideas out to all of its members and
encourages members to adopt it by giving
them everything you need to enact those
bills it's sort of like a bill in a box
they give you the idea the research that
you're going to need the talking points
and they'll even connect state lawmakers
with people who will testify on behalf
of that legislation or lawmakers in
other states that have succeeded in
passing that bill so that's at the Alec
component the state policy network is a
network of conservative think-tanks
across the states and they produce the
research reports and testimony media
commentary to back up all of the model
bills that Alec is producing and in some
cases SPN affiliates and the states are
participating in Alec as members so
they're helping right from the get-go to
provide the sort of intellectual and
research base for conservative Alec
ideas and then Americans for Prosperity
operates outside of the legislature it's
sort of the grassroots army the boots on
the ground that provide the heft to get
those bills through the legislature
so Americans for Prosperity has over 3
million grassroots activists spread out
all across the country state chapters in
over 35 states with paid staff you know
in many ways it's like a political party
it's got these local state national
offices and grassroots activists and you
know they'll mobilize their members to
contact state lawmakers to push them to
enact particular bills they'll threaten
to run campaigns against lawmakers that
don't support alec model bills and they
have campaign contributions that they
can direct to ensure and threaten
lawmakers that don't toe their line so
in that way alec works inside of the
legislature SPN provides the support for
those bills then AFP operates on the
outside someone like Scott Walker it
seems to me to be sort of the the
perfect encapsulation of of a political
regime slash era location that brought
all those elements together in a very
successful from their perspective way
and one that was really damaging and and
nearly became fully nationalized in that
moment and and and I should say you know
one of the things that really I think is
heard well I don't want to get ahead of
ourselves we can talk about Wisconsin
but so you have these three entities
working together what are the what are
the myths that you write about that that
surround the way that these entities
work myths I think that are in many
respects obviously generated on the left
that maybe cover up the fact that the
left is son done such a bad job of not
even like executing like even
contemplating competing on in this
territory
that's exactly right as I talked about
in the book I think on the left amongst
activists politicians and some pundits
there are some myths that have formed
about why the troika has been successful
for starters I think it's easy to look
at the success that the troika has had
in states like Wisconsin but also
Michigan Iowa Kentucky Missouri and say
well they're successful now they must
have always been successful but as I try
and show in the book there were a number
point of points throughout these
organizations histories when they could
have gone belly-up you know Aled for
instance almost went bankrupt once and
the state policy Network really
struggled to get off the ground in its
early years and I think if the left
wants to seriously construct
counterweights to these organizations to
build power in the states you know the
left has to understand not only what
made these organizations successful but
the ways in which you know they nearly
failed you have to understand both sides
of the coins to understand why an
organization is is really successful so
what are some of these myths I think by
far the most prevalent one is that it's
all about the money you know you hear
from progressive donors or progressive
organizations that it's just not
possible to construct something like
Alec or Americans for Prosperity on the
left because there's not enough money to
do so and it's true there are a number
of very deep pocketed conservative
donors you know most notably the Koch
brothers and the network that they
direct that raises you know hundreds of
millions of dollars each election cycle
but there's a lot of money on the left
as well and as I show in the book
there's been a tendency on the left to
raise money and spend it in very
inefficient ways so when I look at
efforts that the left has has engaged in
to construct counterweight so let us say
Alec you know they've tended to focus on
organizing in states that already have
progressive strengths rather than across
the whole country which is something
that Alec did very deliberately in its
early years I spoke to an executive
director for Alec that emphasized how
you know he was trying to build power
even in moderate in purple states in the
1980s and those sorts of organizational
efforts in the 1980s really you know
they took years to pay off but they paid
off in a big way in states like
Wisconsin where the groundwork was being
laid for four decades and progresses
to do something somewhere there well
another way that I think well I want I
want to get I want to get into because
this is a little bit of a valley wick of
mine because the the myth is that the
amount of money is is not sort of its
insurmountable for the left but the
quality of the money like what the money
does in what funders will fund seems to
me to be different I mean there was one
chance in in the past twenty years as
far as I can tell the most serious
attempt at even recognizing that this
was a problem was Howard Dean's 50-state
strategy which was almost immediately
junked as soon as Obama won and that
wasn't even necessarily that was more
just you know focused on electoral which
of course is certainly an important part
of it but that was just like one part of
of what would be your your troika what
is what is it that did you found that
the quality of the money that was coming
from the left made something like this
so difficult yeah you're putting your
finger on a big part of the story which
is that there is money there it's just a
question of whether or not it's going to
be deployed in ways that are helpful for
the left to build the sort of long-term
power or not and as I show in the book
there were some big obstacles there for
one thing
progressive donors foundations and
individual donors have tended to focus
you know with near laser-like focus on
the federal government and it was very
hard to convince them to direct
attention to the states you know if you
look throughout history at the times
when progressives have started to try
and build this cross state power it has
tended to be during moments when they
lacked control of the federal government
so you saw this during the Bush
administration you saw this again under
the second half of the Obama
administration when the Republicans
controlled Congress but what you see is
as soon as Democrats have a chance of
regaining national control the money
flows right back to Washington DC to
focus on Congress and the presidency now
don't get me wrong
that's really important but you need to
also be building that state capacity
your in and year out it's not something
that you can just switch on and off like
a like a light bulb you need to invest
over decades in building this kind of
infrastructure as I sort of alluded to
with the construction of Ala you know it
took them decades to really become
successful what I mean so so why do you
think that is that that the left center
left however you want to describe it
cannot doesn't I mean is it that they
don't realize what you're saying because
it seems fairly obvious
it just seems but I think my sense is
that the money doesn't want the there
there's almost like a too much of a
preciousness with the money coming from
the left like I would hate to expend
money that is just a bet that's not
going to work I would rather go for
something that is like sort of like I
can see I can see material benefit from
like I mean I I'm curious as to to the
extent that you have any you you you you
you you spend any time talking about
like that mentality of the money like
what is it it can't just be that they
don't realize how important it is it's
just like there's something that I think
the money that comes from the left isn't
doesn't enjoy it in some way or
something like they don't they don't
they don't expend their money in the
same way that that the right does yeah
so I do try and get at that a little bit
in the book with some interviews I've
done with progressive donors and going
back through the archival record for
some foundations and some donor groups
on the left and you know I think there
are two factors here one is sort of a
worldview that until recently really
prioritized policy change at the federal
government you know I think as I show in
the book there was a tendency to think
that no real policy change at least on
the left couldn't come about at the
state level you know when when
progressive donors they write about in
the book thought about the states they
thought about Jim Crow and all of the
ways in which state governments have
used their
power to oppress minorities and they
also thought about the ways in which
states are pretty constrained fiscally
you know they can raise taxes but often
state legislatures and governors are
worried about losing businesses or
wealthy individuals and so you know the
thought was if you really want to do big
redistributed things that move money to
disadvantaged Americans and help
minorities it has to be at the federal
level rather than at the states and of
course there's an element of truth to
that but if you look throughout the
broad sweep of American history major
progressive initiatives even at the
federal level have started in cities and
in states you think about the New Deal
the Great Society even earlier
Progressive Era reforms a lot of those
were sort of tested and developed at the
state level before going national
I think another issue on the left and
this is changing somewhat but another
issue has been that it's been harder to
fund long term organizational
infrastructure building rather than sort
of one-off specific projects with clear
individual goals that you can track very
closely over time you know what is the
outcome measure that that a funder would
use for building cross state power you
know it's hard to know what that would
look like certainly over the long run
you'd want to know are you flipping
legislators are you passing progressive
policy but that's a really long-term
goal so what are the sort of
deliverables or metrics that a funder
would use in the interim to know if
they're building power or not that's a
much trickier question and I think one
where funders are on the left are only
just starting to think about ways to
track the effectiveness that they're
getting that that second one is is
really interesting because that's always
been sort of my theory too and it's a
little bit that the that the the the
left funders maybe by virtue of being on
the Left maybe they're you know that
there is a desire to have a sort of a
more creative perspective on their money
and so the idea of doing one-off project
and being able to say like I in some way
you know created this is is
more important to the left than it is to
the right and the idea of funding
something that's operational that may
not have a payoff for 10 20 years and
will it be much more subtle in its
payoff and much less attributable to you
know one individual is just not as
satisfying I mean that to me seems like
a a genuine problem that is difficult to
overcome and do you let me ask you this
I mean if that's the case and if that's
your sense as well do you think there
are mechanisms in which to re-evaluate
the implications of funding you know
operational things as opposed to sort of
projects if there's a way to sort of
reevaluate reassess and repackage those
successes that could appeal to the left
have you seen anything that that that
that that touches upon you know that's
starting to come close in that regard
yeah I think you're right that for any
one individual donor there's a tendency
to want to see you know your specific
interests your pet projects grow over
time and you're more reluctant to sort
of fun just a small piece of a bigger
infrastructure building operation and I
think that's where donor collectives or
donor consortium some other work come
into play and so on the right I think
the Koch seminar is directed by Charles
and David Koch the billionaire
libertarian industrialists had been
really effective at this so when we talk
about the Koch brothers we tend to think
about the brothers themselves but really
I think the most impressive thing
they've done is assemble a network of
500 600 other really conservative
wealthy people that all agree to pool
their money and give it to the
priorities that the Koch brothers and
their top lieutenants specify and so
when you join the Koch seminars you have
much less autonomy over how you direct
your money than you would if you were
just giving that money on your own and
that's allowed the Koch Network to build
up organizations like Americans for
Prosperity that require concerted giving
year in and year out from abroad
base of donors on the left there is the
democracy alliance which was founded a
little bit before the Koch seminars but
in many ways is trying to do a similar
thing which is to say it's trying to to
pool resources from wealthy billionaires
and millionaires on the left in order to
construct organizational ecosystem and
so it's funded a lot of important
progressive organizations like the
Center for American Progress and Media
Matters the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities
but over time what you've seen is that
individual donors have had a lot of
ability to sort of direct their giving
to the specific organizations that they
want and the upshot is now that the
democracy Alliance tends to to pool
money and spend a little bit of it on a
whole bunch of different organizations
rather than pulling that money and
spending it on a small subset of
organizations although I think I think
they're trying to shift that focus and I
think shift a shift in that focus would
be beneficial to in order to build up
the infrastructure that we're talking
about especially at the state level are
they having success I mean I don't want
to I don't want to spend too much more
time on this but this I think is
fascinating because I've been aware of
the democracy alliance for for over 15
years and as far as I can tell they have
not in any way sort of had that the the
horizontal nature a structure of that
organization strikes me as one that has
basically kept it from doing anything
that's been super meaningful with long
term implications they'd you know they
they it's almost as if they all gather
together to pool their money and then
decide okay now that we've pulled it
we're all just going to expend it as if
we would as individuals yeah I think
you're right to say and indicate that
individual donors and the democracy
alliance just have a lot more autonomy
to give money where they want then folks
who are joining the Koch seminars and
it's hard because I think on the left
there's a tendency to want to prioritize
small D democracy you know if you look
at the Koch seminars they're sort of a
top-down command and control Leninist
operation where
whereas the democracy in alliance rather
ironically is more like a free market
where everyone is sort of allowed
autonomy to invest in the causes that
they care about but my sense is that the
democracy Alliance has recognized this
as a weakness of the organization and
they're trying to pool money to invest
in infrastructure and and they've
created what they're calling funds now
that we're donors gives money not to
specific organizations but to a fund
that then tries to support
infrastructure building and in key areas
and and the states are one of those
areas that they're trying to build out
those pooled funds in okay so what so
money or at least the amount of money
that is lacking on the left is one of
the myths what are the other myths in
terms of the left's ability or less
perspective on what the right has
achieved so I think another big myth on
the left is that it's easier for
conservatives to work together because
they're all on the same page they all
want smaller government they all want
lower taxes they all want to retrench
access to the franchise and these other
anti majoritarian reforms and I think
that that is a big myth because as I go
through in the history of these
organizations like Alec in the book I
find that many of the different parts
are in many of the different members of
these organizations wanted very
different things that sometimes
conflicted with one another
so take Alec for instance you've got
private sector businesses they want
lower taxes but sometimes they want
subsidies and they want measures like
additional regulations that make it
harder for their competitors to compete
with them you know that in some ways is
expanding the size of government and
you've got them in the same organization
as libertarians like the cokes that are
against any and all regulation any and
all taxes and subsidies even those that
benefit businesses and then of course
you have social conservatives who care
about things like abortion care about
things like welfare reform or or gun
rights and for many businesses those
issues are toxic they don't want to be
associated with them and so Alec had to
work very hard over time to come up
with organizational mechanisms for
getting all of these diverse actors to
basically play nice with one another and
agree to support common issues and as I
talked about in the book a key
innovation that alec and other
conservative organizations at the state
level engaged in was teaching all of
these different and diverse actors on
the right that they should prioritize
power building above all so I think one
great example of this is the sort of
attacks on the labor movement that we've
seen from groups like Alec you know Alec
managed to teach businesses activists on
in the social conservative world and the
libertarian world that if they all
prioritized anti labor reforms that
would weaken progressives and Democrats
and make it easy for those other actors
to pass their own individual pet
interests like gun rights or like
anti-abortion efforts or like cuts to
taxes and so you've seen that playbook
in the states that have slipped to
Republican control where the troika is
very strong like Wisconsin what's the
first measure that gets pushed through
the legislature
well it's attacks to public sector
unions which then make it harder to for
progressives to defend against things
like cutbacks to the minimum wage or
cuts and taxes or environmental
standards that are favored by these
other constituent groups and I think
it's been much harder for the left to
prioritize those kinds of power building
reforms you haven't seen the same kind
of effort to get all of the diverse
interests on the left together and
agreeing to commit to a common agenda
iiiiii I mean this is I mean just a
devastating I mean it's it's it's
incredibly clear that this is a major
problem for the left right I mean we're
supposed to have card check when when
Obama was elected we see the right
understand the relevance of the courts
and all the gerrymandering that took
place in 2010 I mean and and do you have
any sense that on the left there is any
more appreciation for this dynamic than
there ever has been because you know
I just think of like the Wisconsin State
Supreme Court race that took place I
don't know what was that five months ago
four months ago
this that race was so key as to
empowering all the work and that had
been done to elect Evers and a
lieutenant governor in Wisconsin and to
you know perhaps change the makeup a
little bit of the assembly there which
is way out of whack because of partisan
gerrymandering and the left
somehow just did not mobilize in that
election which to me is like it's
obviously not the only thing you want
these organizations to do but if you
don't do that you can't do the rest I
think that's exactly right
for a really long time in the
organizations on the left that I study
there's been a reluctance to think about
political change and and and policy
change as being a tool for building
power I think progressives really like
to think about using policy to improve
people's lives and think about improving
social and economic outcomes and that's
important but if you aren't building the
political power
you're not ensuring that those policy
reforms are going to be around a year
four years eight years as you mentioned
I think there's been a huge oversight on
the left and thinking about labor in its
way you know the labor movement is
important because it raises standards
for workers and ensures fair treatment
for compensation but it's also important
because labor unions have been the
backbone of the Democratic Party and of
the progressive movement and as I've
shown in other research when states
passed these anti-union laws like
right-to-work Democrats are less likely
to be elected from the presidency down
to the state legislative level the
Democratic Party in the progressive
movement is weaker and so I think labor
reform and other power ability and
reforms really have to be the first
thing that progressives push through
when they gain power at the state level
and at the national level and I think as
the years go on Obama's decision not to
push through card check and the employee
Free Choice Act is going to really
is going to really seem like a big
oversight that's hurt the Democratic
Party now I think that's changing I've
seen in the Democratic primary for
instance a much greater willingness of
the candidates to talk about the
importance of the labor movement and
reforms that could bolster the labor
movement and at the state level you've
seen some really important changes both
in blue states you see in California and
New York pass measures to help public
sector unions in the wake of the janus
Supreme Court case that's the Supreme
Court case from from 2017 that applied
right-to-work essentially to all of the
public sector but you've also seen it in
some other states as well like Nevada
has is going to expand collective
bargaining rights for public sector
workers for the first time so those are
all really important steps but I think
there there just has to be much more of
that and not just in labor policy you
know banning access to the franchise - I
think should be one of the first things
that progressives do to sort of help
build their political power over the
long run and so what's what's the next
biggest myth that you think you know
similarly I guess tasks the left to do
when you're thinking about state
legislators I think there's been a
tendency to look at the success of Alec
and say they have model bills
therefore we should just have model
bills and they'll fly off the shelves
and that'll be that you know we'll build
an organization that is just as
effective as Alec and you've seen groups
over the years try and create their own
model bills post them on a website and
then sort of expect that to work on its
own and certainly Alec is successful
because it has model bills but it's more
than model bills it's about creating
long term relationships with networks of
state lawmakers and building up trust
over time you know Alec is successful
because it can offer you know a deep set
of resources to lawmakers things like
research help being able to call someone
if you have questions about a bill being
able to understand what the bill
actually does being able to get talking
points and up-to-date research from from
leading academics that defends your bill
and of course having annual meetings
that bring together state lawmakers so
that you can build those relationships
at networks
because ultimately is that sort of
relationship building that builds the
trust that lawmakers need in order to to
rely on these model bills and so in the
progressive organizations that I've
studied you've seen a reluctance to
invest in those sort of longer-term
efforts to build out these networks and
relationships and research resources
that I think would have been necessary
in order for them to really counter Alec
and that's we're generally true I think
of of political organizations on the
left but there's sort of a a tendency to
carbon copy the specific strategy that
that is seen as being effective in this
case it's model bills but in other areas
it's different things and I think that
that just doesn't work you need to look
at the broader way in which
organizations are operating and you
can't just carbon copy individual
tactics and expect that to work on its
own so lastly Alexander who is this book
for I mean who are you hoping you know
we're talking about entities like the
democracy alliance we're talking about
an understanding of the the Democratic
Party leadership both in the state and
on a federal level needs to start to
contemplate that the first things they
do should be to solidify and increase
power when they gain a certain modicum
of power so that they have some
durability and some long term prospects
to actually implementing you know that's
sort of the the the the policy sets that
they they're being sent to Washington do
who-who is this book for and have any of
those people been reached and are they
are they going in with a PowerPoint with
your data and saying look this is why
you're losing
I hope so I've been in touch with some
progressive donors and some advocacy
groups that are trying to bring
lawmakers together across the states and
I've been heartened by the appetite
around that I think progressive donors
and organizers and state lawmakers
realize the power and balance that we
see across the states and so there's a
hunger for ideas ideas that can help
explain why progressives are in the hole
and what they can do to get out of it so
I think the book is
is meant to be a guide for anyone who
cares about these issues but especially
folks who are serving in government who
are running organizations that try and
move state policy or federal policy and
people who who are supporting those
organizations like foundations and
donors Alexander hurdle Fernandez the
book is state capture how conservative
activists big business and wealthy
donors reshaped the American states and
the nation we'll put a link to it on
majority dot F M thanks so much for your
time today I really appreciate it
thanks so much for having me on I had a
great time Mike all right folks
there it is we need that data it's all
there the the the stuff about the donors
is something that you know I think we've
talked about on this program for a
couple years just at least in my
anecdotal experience that is part of the
problem with the left is they don't like
to fund operational things they like to
Center left left they like to have
things that they can say this is the Sam
cedar project for DES blankety-blank
to register voters this year basically I
mean it's yeah it's something so that
like oh I increased voter turnout by 10
percent and I get a 6-month you know
we're you know ability to perceive my
success or failure and that I can
actually look at something that has you
know finite edges and is is defined in
such a way that I can say like that was
me and I I mean I think to a certain
extent it is what whatever the sort of
the brain synapses and ammos that make
someone of the left as opposed to the
right I think that's part of it I think
there's just an idea of like
I want this this is an extension of some
form of personal expression yeah I think
you're right I also think even a lot of
progressive Democrats do not understand
the need for independent working-class
institutions like strong labor unions
yeah I mean I think that that's been a
problem not even just with labor
independent institutions and one of the
first things that Obama did and I
specifically asked senator Sanders about
this exact thing one of the first things
Obama did when he took office or when he
got elected was to take ofa Obama for
America which was a be a myth I mean
talk about a networked army of
grassroots activists and would be
activists and they specifically
basically I mean just took that to the
slaughterhouse because they did not want
a challenge on the outside that could go
rogue I guess I don't know they they
were specifically keeping people from
funding outside organizations starting
the day after the the nomination in
Denver after the Democratic convention
and there is there is a psychological
problem and it's also but the big money
I mean in addition to the money not
having as aligned interests as the you
know some of the groups that they might
support or the you know maybe you get a
little nervous about supporting a
legislature that five or ten votes away
from getting a little bit more
aggressive on rent control or getting
more aggressive on taxation or whatnot
it is and so but I think that the the
problem that overrides that is just more
like yeah I know I I just want something
where I can say like you know I'm
responsible for this I mean I understand
that imp
I mean I I can't I can't even I can't
even have a boss must be nice
must be nice it's nice alright folks
gonna take a quick break
head to the fun half where our members
represent my boss many many bosses so
many bosses and you can be one of them
you can yell at me for being late you
can scold me for bringing in you know a
tuna fish sandwich into the office and
be like what are you doing it's smell is
infringing upon everyone these are just
some of the some of the benefits of
being the boss around here
enforce a strict dress clothing code
yeah this mat has it worn that red
stained shirt in a long time have you I
don't know where it is it's underneath
the couch but you can become a boss of
me
by going to join the majority report
calm when you do you become a fraction
of a boss of me you have fractal fractal
Bossa to Tovar me by becoming a member
for just pennies a day
ours is a boss full movement indeed so
bossy plus you get extra content and you
get your show commercial free if you're
interested in the deals that we offer
you can always check out the podcast
description we will include that in the
in the members show as well let me just
also say look we've been having a little
trouble lately not a huge amount but a
little bit of trouble lately with some
of the members feeds and whatnot part of
this is a function of a redesign of our
back end and just learning new habits in
terms of posting things part of it is
there are new standards for advertising
and for podcast
specifications that have changed up
things so if we make the app compliant
other things have to change in this and
that bear with us we're doing the best
we can we're not one of these companies
that are funded to the tune of two
million dollars or three million dollars
or really nobody funds us I mean
everybody is a customer we do not have
big-time investors or anything like that
because I let Michael run the IPO
offering and it didn't work out and so
here we are but join the majority of
port comm as always if you want the fun
half but don't have the financial
resources to swing it send us an email
at majority reporters at gmail.com we
will hook you up we don't want to lock
anybody out for financial reasons also
just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea
or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off and Michael's not
here but he will be here tomorrow night
40 mb/s Matt do you have any idea what's
gonna go on there just a bunch of
attitude I bet yeah mainly attitude I
don't even know for the guests so I
can't really plug it so just what I mean
check it out there's a lot of attitude
free Lula and yeah probably a Lula
segment I mean things are heating up
with that right now in a big way that
the the story they intercept broke my
big deal Michael's been doing a Michael
Tracy like victory lap oh yeah going
around developments I saw him go and
taunt Jimmy door resisting that he
apologized to his audience for that's
not true
Jamie it's happening with the anti
Fattah this week on the anti Fattah we
had on a Ben Burgess author of give them
an argument logic for the left we spoke
with him about oh no it's loading I was
reading it off patreon I guess I'll just
have to remember what we talked about
how marks could be the messiest of
the 19th century and still remain
logically sound
ben shapiro stefan molyneux my run-in
with an Elon Musk fanboy so that is in
the main episode and the bonus as well
we continue our conversation and that
all came out last week and it's out now
also this past weekend we recorded an
episode with Sophie Weiner who's been on
the show once before she's in studio for
the first time ever she's visiting from
Australia and we talked about her new
techno scene called plural latarian
which is a socialist techno zine and how
we can use this kind of the kind of
spaces opened up by party culture to try
to radicalize both the culture and the
world at large
we also later in the week have a bonus
coming
featuring Sophie Weiner as well it is a
real crime think hours where we talk
about an infamous crime think article
about how the necessity of washing
yourself and smelling good is just a
capitalist conspiracy so oh yeah I knew
that check it out Matt yeah check out
literary hangover the most recent
episode for patrons is the such such
were the joys essay by George Orwell on
his time at prep school on Thursday I'm
recording a gonna be a really long
episode the first part is gonna be sort
of a sketch of the utopian socialist
movements that made it to America
specifically the one of Charles Fourier
who is this French guy who thought we
needed to make communities of exactly
1620 people that would be ideal and they
need to be like sort of giant Versailles
type phalanx as they'd column and also
human activity is going to warm up the
atmosphere I've read about this dude
just an interesting guy and a lot of the
things he talked a lot about sex so that
kind of scandalized a lot of people but
he also predicted that the environment
would heat up because of human activity
which is an interesting prediction he
went a little bit for sex and then he
said the melted the ice caps would make
the oceans tastes like lemonade and
that's something that everybody who
likes to discredit him likes to bring up
no critic has ever not mentioned that
part but it cool if it and maybe he's
right who knows well they may taste more
lemonade II yeah
not necessarily like lemonade well no he
said it tastes like lemonade well
lemonade may have tasted differently
that's true so you know was they were
very salty with their lemonade they said
expected delicious treat so it took a
while to get the formula right yeah and
he also thought we would be able to ride
like these sort of robot Tigers or
somewhere else but anyway he inspired
Americans they set up a one called Brook
farm that nathaniel hawthorne went to
and he thought it was gonna be s so he
left after about a few months but then
he wrote a satire about it alright folks
see you in the fun half
you
we are back the fun half ladies and
gentleman fun half of the program see if
I was able to time the call we'll be
taking your phone calls we of course
will also be taking your IMS you can IMS
on the app as it is as it were all of
that indeed here we go did I get in or
did I go to the voicemail didn't even
call try that again thank you for
calling in to the majority report please
use no speakerphone and give your one
comment or question ready listen for Sam
to call out your area code Sam will be
with you shortly it's true all of that
is true ladies and gentlemen just make
sure that you where's my mic my thing is
not showing up in there
hello all right well let's do a piece
here we talked about Donald Trump with
Stephanopoulos before the interview
apparently coughing Mick Mulvaney was
coughing and interrupting things we
don't know if that was planned or what
this story was with that here is another
moment as Stephanopoulos had a lot of
access to Donald Trump we've seen him
now sitting in some type of garden we've
seen him in the in the Oval Office and
now he's driving in his limousine it's
weird it feels like this was shot with a
an iPhone doesn't it which is
conceivable that they did decide like
let's go with a smaller camera the idea
being that he will not feel like he is
on
TV on TV I mean I know that is a theory
that a lot of people have when they do
some some stuff like this maybe that's
what was going on here
here is Stephanopoulos talking to Donald
Trump where Donald Trump's pretending
they're gonna roll out a new health care
plan I feel like this is the fourth time
he said this since the other health care
plan went down in flames
the III think the Democrats would would
would love this but here is Donald Trump
insisting insisting I mean there is a
there is a sense that he's like flailing
around panicking now when I I say that I
don't mean to in any way imply that he
is capable enough to know whether he is
genuinely in political peril or not
could be he's just panicking and he has
just as good a shot if not a better one
of getting reelected than he did last
time so there's only so much value to
this and as long as it does not end up
being like maybe I need to start a war
to you know it may be largely irrelevant
but here he is talking about health care
whether you go to voters over this next
year what is the big unfinished piece of
business you're missing this is so we
almost had health care done Healthcare
is a disaster obamacare but we've
managed it much better than their
managers so we've made it serviceable
but it's not great
we're going to produce phenomenal
healthcare and we already have the
concept of the plan and it'll be
Christian talking with the planning yeah
well we'll be announcing that in about
two months maybe less it's unbelievable
it's Jay he's changed though cuz he used
to be too weak yeah yeah it's always the
increments of two but yeah two months
will get you to it I wonder if there is
some type of like some type of I don't
know sales research they used to give me
two give me two minutes if you're on in
two hours
let's go to take this calling from a
what the heck is going on with this
phone system is a little bit messed up
calling from a two one zero
Erica there's the two two one zero can
hear me two one zero are we up to one
zero two one zero
let's try this come from a six one seven
area code who's this
well Jonah's been through Chicago been
from Chicago what's on your mind I was
wondering if you could help me with some
anti-union talking points I deal with my
family oh you want me to give you
anti-union talking points all right yeah
well I what are the what are the talking
points my uncle has told me that you
know that New York teachers union is a
bad Union because they just want more
tenure and more unwarranted job security
I mean I've never ever ever heard that
they are looking for those things I mean
it's you know everybody I would imagine
would want that but first off what your
uncle doesn't understand about teachers
is that there's no huge line of young
teachers great teachers who are like I
want to be in this profession where I
get underpaid with working with
understaffed and under
that doesn't that's not the case so the
implication that I mean let's just carry
out his argument the idea is that they
want to keep good teachers out and keep
the old bad teachers in there's no ocean
or army of good teachers waiting to get
in A & B there's also real problems a
lot of times with administrators and as
much as I'm sure your uncle wherever he
works understands like you know the
personal politics when you have
organizations like this that are small
little fiefdoms because there's really
no other way to do it inevitably what
happens is if you they're sorry
we're getting a little bit of feedback
let me let me drop you I know I'll just
answer your question I could hear you
but you were some reason there was
getting some
flapper but to continue I would say tell
your uncle that this is also one of the
ways that you provide some
accountability for you know principals
and the middle management at these
schools the bottom line is that what
teachers want it's probably a little bit
more of a salary but more than that they
want to be able to do do really - lot of
two things one they want more resources
which can be translated into less
students just more dollars per student
because as you know teachers end up and
I know this just as being a public
school parent in a well-funded school
that gets the extra funding because
parents are able to contribute a lot of
money they still need things like hey at
the beginning of the year can we have
tissues can we have magic markers can we
have notebooks can we have this type of
stuff I'm not just talking for this
specifically for the student but I'm
talking like as you know class supplies
and I think what they want particularly
coming out of this era of high-stakes
testing is more freedom to do what every
educator says is the way you should
educate which is it starts with the kid
with the student instead of trying to
impose standardized measurements for the
kids progress you start with the kid and
you fit the curriculum around the kid to
the extent that you can now obviously
the more kids you have in the class the
harder that becomes to do but I think
teachers really makes teaching that much
harder and less rewarding to not have
the ability to respond to the kid that's
what education that's what educators do
and then I would say is a third thing
which really is sort of outside of the
purview of teachers but that's the point
is we need to
deal with societal problems that end up
getting manifested in school and in you
know the failures of education like
poverty malnutrition lack of early
education etc etc alright let's go back
to a to 100 area code see if we have
this person cuz it starts with the two
to one out
good afternoon Sam John from San Antonio
good afternoon John from San Antonio
it's good to to talk to you
alright good interview with Alex her
tell Fernandez I reference an article he
wrote with the Poli Sci professor
there's a motto milk miltenberger and
Leah Stokes in a call I made a few
months ago three professors published an
article in The New York Times on
Halloween of last year called Congress
has no clue what America wants with the
subhead people in the US House and
Senate have wildly inaccurate
perceptions of their opinions and
preferences so most of your listeners
are familiar with the awesome
progressive organization Justice
Democrats they endorsed and promoted a
progressive candidates who won in 2018
like AOC receded to Lib L on Omar and
Jana Presley just Democrats are
endorsing those candidates again in the
2020 cycle in addition they're endorsing
incumbents rogue Ahava row kana there's
a leading surrogate for Bernie and
privilege aya Paul who's a
medicare-for-all bill is over a hundred
sponsors in the house just as Democrats
have been started looking for a
candidate in January that they they can
endorse against Trump's favorite
Democrats Henry Cuellar who represents
the 28th district of Texas
according to the Congressional quarterly
party unity study he votes with Trump
sixty-seven percent of the time and 115
Congress was the second highest total of
any Democrat in the south and the house
this district is a safe democratic
district whose margin of victory is
usually around 30 points yet Cuellar
voted to defund sanctuary cities and we
services for women's health he received
an A rating from the NRA he's leading
contributor to the geo group which is a
private prison company that has been
sued on multiple occasions for allegedly
forcing detainees to work for food the
geo group also makes a huge portion of
their income imprisoning people on
behalf of ice on Thursday Justice
Democrats endorsed Jessica Cisneros it's
a 26 year old human rights attorney from
Laredo Texas she supports Medicare for
all $15 an hour minimum wage and the
green New Deal she's already raised over
$100,000 and was a lead story on last
Thursday's the Young Turk show and even
did an interview on MSNBC yesterday
according to Pew Millennials and
Generation Z will represent 37% of the
electorate in 2020 by 2028 they will
represent a majority of voters there are
two articles that I recommend reading
one is just came out on Thursday said
brace for brace for a voter turnout
tsunami by brown Ron Brownstein in the
Atlantic and the other is the coming
generational war which is a subhead the
Democrats are rapidly becoming the party
of the young and the consequences
consequences will be profound it was
written by conservative Niall Ferguson
they don't agree with often and I it's
Freeman who was a research analyst and
this was published on May 6 in the
Atlantic I'm extremely encouraged by the
vast amount of progressive for
candidates that have already announced
their candidacy and as time goes on this
moon will continue to grow and we will
make a difference so I want to hear what
you have to say about about Sisneros is
run and anything else for that reference
well I couldn't be happier about
Sisneros run and I Cuellar has been
horrible for I think as long as I can
remember things period like if I'm not
mistaken he endorsed George W Bush in
one of
his runs for president if not both he's
bad I don't know how he stayed in there
frankly but yes he is like seems to me
to be the perfect one of the perfect
candidates to be you know knocked off
you know the generational stuff you read
about this stuff hopefully hopefully it
sticks you know I I hope that's the case
I hope but Democrats continue to sort of
like you know pursue that but yeah I'm
I'm totally excited about Cisneros well
we saw it in the UK right like the the
Labour Party of Jeremy Corbyn
outperformed every single poll in the
snap election that they had in 2017 and
it was largely because people who don't
usually vote in large numbers such as
young people and poor people came out in
droves
yeah and in the turnout in the the 2018
midterms as a percentage the highest the
biggest increase was from the Millennial
Generation which went up from 20% which
is God awfully low it's and but it went
up to 36 which is still you know lower
than the other right of voting ranges
for generations but I mean it's it's
improving and people are you know are
really enthused I think a lot of it is
Trump but also a lot of it is this new
generation which which you know the
younger voters relate to I mean you know
I mean they tote they totally relate to
not to a Oasys policy agenda it's
totally in line it's not radical in any
way you know to them it's just that's
the way what they believe in it I think
it just really bodes well for the future
of politics in America I I think there's
also probably and this is completely
anecdotal and speculative on my part but
I would also imagine that social media
has made politics more accessible to
more people and to younger people
and so it filters down there's just more
mechanisms in which they can you know
run into politics algorithmically in a
way that you couldn't before right like
you would have to opt into I'm gonna
watch Sunday morning talk shows no one
under the age of really I mean I I mean
I don't know who watches that anymore
but no one under the age of like forty
would ever even contemplate doing that
unless it was like almost like a I'm the
guy in our group of friends who's like
sort of the geek and that's the way I
stand out but I don't even really watch
it I just say I do because no one can
call me on it you know so I think
there's a lot more I think there's a lot
more access to politics not necessarily
with a lot of depth but certainly some
that enough to motivate people to at
least go vote but we shall see I I hope
I hope we do see that record turnout in
2020 and it'll be interesting to see if
all of what's happening between now and
then is largely irrelevant to the
outcome but you know one never knows
appreciate the call John from San
Antonio it with a to know area code that
worked out well they will get to do that
again with another two that's it
there's only no no twos that have been
for a long time this one's up there it's
a five call him from a five one seven
who's this where he come from hey this
is Tim calling from Grand Rapids
Michigan Tim from Grand Rapids Michigan
what's on your mind well I've been
thinking a lot about the massive efforts
that have been going on from the
right-wing for decades really to just
reframe history in order to pretend that
all of their beliefs and policy
prescriptions are correct because you
know they can't win the moral
arguments or even the practical
arguments as I was thinking about the
tolerance paradox and how that doesn't
stand up to scrutiny in such muddy
waters like it could be easy from
someone in the center to say well but
you're not tolerating them so I was
thinking of a new framing which is
basically people on the right tend to
demonize individuals because of who they
are you know color of their skin what
they believe religion how they behave
sexuality people on the Left tend to
demonize individuals because of their
ideas because of their morals I mean
does that seem like a good framing or I
don't know I'm curious which I wouldn't
say necessarily morals but I think ideas
in their actions I mean you know I this
is also what you're talking about that
sort of Tolerance paradox I never
claimed to be tolerant I like to me like
these I just think the idea of of of
principles in the context of human
behavior is silliness you know I can
understand it sort of like broader
things like this but these sort of you
know that I am you know principally
tolerant I think is is is silly I think
there are bad ideas it's just that I
won't and I won't and and I to the
extent that I have any principles it's
just sort of like some broad very broad
and I won't even call it principles
they're sort of like you know they're
less specific than that about I want the
best outcomes for the most amount of
people and frankly like even that I
think is also you know a silly thing to
say because what I constitute would to
me means best is something specific you
know someone was saying to me today on
Twitter that
you know that it's you know sort of like
making some type of hypocrisy argument
to me and I don't care about hypocrisy
of course politics are hypocritical
human beings are hypocritical I'm more
interested in what the outcomes are I
can justify the outcomes I don't it's
not I'm sure there are times that I am
hypocritical somebody was you know
saying like though you must have no
problem if you don't care about
hypocrisy you must have no problem with
Mitch McConnell denying Merrick garland
asita but now saying that he will seat a
Republican yeah I have a problem with it
because he's a Republican and because I
know what kind of justice he's going to
put in there but I'm not gonna sit
around and whine because Mitch
McConnell's hypocritical are you kidding
me if there was no hypocrisy and Mitch
McConnell he wouldn't exist they would
have to like have I'm not even Canole
it's it's just a it's absurd do you know
it's like oh you know my son I say to my
son like yeah look you can get a you
know a cotton candy later but we stop
off and get ice cream and then he says I
want a cotton candy now I'm like well no
dude you're not gonna have two sweets
this afternoon he goes you lied or or
like we may have time to go see a movie
we'd ran out of time you lied come on
grow up
it is not much for the taller at left
right exactly I mean it's just like it's
just that kind of stuff I you know
that's that's well I agree with
everything you said and I and I think
what really matters is the policies that
are in place and what actually happens
but I just was trying to think of a way
to broadly cut through they're
incredibly disingenuous framing of
everything well I mean in terms of for
me the way I cut through that is just
talk about the specifics like you know
yeah I remember one of the debates I had
with libertarians where he was like well
the problem is it's the American public
doesn't appreciate that you you know you
need to deserve health care and I'm like
well then guess what
you're out of luck because you know
that's uh you know the the talking about
basketball be like the problem is the
rim is actually only about a foot and a
half why it's like well it's a game
you're playing right exactly
it's like yes it is a problem it's a
problem for you if you think that you
have a sort of a bizarre belief in terms
of like who deserves to be healthy but
it's not a problem for me and there are
definitely times where what the American
public believes is contrary to what I
want and that's when it's a problem for
me but the principle you know I don't
but you know I think the principle even
like the principle of democracy well
then you have to be okay with slavery if
everybody's for it no I doubt and if
you're against slavery when people are
for it then you can also be against
other things no I don't I can do
whatever I want and I'll sell it I'll
sell it to the American public that's
basically I appreciate the call okay
thanks I just don't know how adults you
know make that distinction like I just
found out that partisan politics or like
partisan it's like a definitional right
like that's the whole point if that we
if we were just gonna operate all of
this on principles we could just put it
into an algorithm and walk away I just
need to find the one principle that
perfectly fits all these different
situations yeah or even just do subsets
I mean but it doesn't work that way you
should make that your campaign slogan I
will no principles no first principle is
certainly right yes exactly
no first principles because you know
what I'm not a religious fundamentalist
that's why libertarians are gonna love
it
they're gonna have real problems that
search for a sort of fundamental like
thing that can sort of explain all is
that's sort of fundamentalism it is
fundamental it is just simply a
different I mean you know someone a
friend of mine who is
rather Orthodox Jew told me one of the
things that's nice about being an
Orthodox Jew being a fundamentalist is
that there's so many decisions that are
taken off the table like marred inity in
particular is extremely relentless with
decisions that you have to make every
day every moment you have to make these
decisions it would be nice to wake up in
the morning go like I don't have to
choose what clothes I'm gonna wear I
don't have to choose what I'm gonna eat
today I don't have to choose or navigate
what how the relations I have with the
different people in my family or my
community or what not so much of that is
predefined for me that I don't have to
deal with that I mean III think that's
alluring it's it's not you know I mean I
just like like like that Dogma 95 with
filmmaking good I don't have to make a
decision about which key lights I'm
gonna use cuz I've the rules or I don't
get that I don't have to worry about
certain things I just gonna I'm gonna
shoot the movie and but I'm sorry I just
also I think that can be also super
unhealthy not so much in filmmaking but
yeah well there are some choices that I
think people should always be
responsible for making themselves and
there are some they could maybe be taken
off the table because we have too much
crap in our consumerist world like we
don't need 10 different kinds of corn in
a box for breakfast cereal but you know
are our family relationships the way we
relate to our communities and the tasks
that we spend our time on that's a
choice that humans should have agreed
Gregory from Oklahoma the Green Corn
rebellion show is now on YouTube please
subscribe to the green corn rebellion
show on YouTube along with being a
patreon I'll be covering news stories
I'll be doing album reviews and
countdown lists he's big on the new
metal thank you to all who have been
supportive when I was in high school I
was the political nerd who watched the
Sunday morning political talk shows I
watched them with my mom while
pancakes or waffles and bacon there you
go Gregory well I hear you man
believe me but snowflake Network this is
a test to see if I am so turned on as
they were not on Friday and I was thus d
platformer denim our listeners missed
out on my topical and pithy remarks
meander Dada YouTube wished old Matt a
happy Father's Day by de monetizing
doomed with Matt bender podcast
yesterday please visit doomed dot TV
subscribe and support thank you majority
report we'll put that on I wonder if the
right the LT right was reporting him or
something it would happen there I don't
know but Matt will be on this show old
Matt will be on this show a week from
Friday as our Friday guest I know maybe
even get him in studio that would be fun
worlds collide I don't know what that
means Michael is gonna be doing this
Friday because mile is graduating from
junior high it's not the biggest
graduation but it's not the smallest
either how many years was she at the
junior high 203 no we only did two at my
in North Dakota really I was so relieved
when I got out of middle school I
believe me I'm pretty excited to have
her to be out of there tanky Carlson hey
great show guys been listening for a
little since my awakening one critique
would be too much focus on white
supremacy that is not a big issue it's
just mainly mainstream madness they're
really just whites working-class folks
going through a rough time plus if we
arrest white supremacists then the left
is next no pesky proletariat Bernie
supporters are real angry with Warren
and are starting to sound a bit like
2016 Hillary supporters is that right I
don't even pick up on that him I don't
know what they're referring to there's
been like some principled critique of
Warren from like Jacobin and other
leftist outlets that people are trying
to paint as like sexism or or whatever
but that kind of misses the fact that
they still think Warren is better than a
whole
of male candidates yeah I grew at that
also Michael's annoyed with Elizabeth
Warren so maybe that's what this
person's Chianina oh why is that he's
just sick of her wants to hurt he thinks
she's stealing Bernie Shane okay let's
see what should we go to here we've got
a couple of oh this is very exciting
ladies and gentlemen Donald Trump still
in the real estate marketing business
the latest let's see what do we got here
is this so you will recall that Donald
Trump has has a special relationship
with a Bibi Netanyahu Bibi Netanyahu is
still in trouble right oh they have to
do another election they call that
election right so he's having a lot of
problems and what is the last refuge of
the scoundrel well of course that is
patriotism but what if you are already a
goober nationalist well then it's Trump
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu unveiled a plaque marking the
location of the newest settlement and
the Golan Heights on Sunday you're too
kind the marker proclaims the settlement
will be known as Trump Heights yes here
it is Netanyahu said the name was chosen
to thank President Donald Trump for
breaking decades of US tradition and
recognizing the Golan Heights as part of
Israel in March prior to that point the
u.s. observed the International custom
of considering it occupied territory the
custom there all international customs
Trump Heights called Ramat Trump in
Hebrew is a symbol of the airtight
alliance
that's developed between the US and
Israel Trump has repeatedly aligned
himself with Netanyahu's right-wing
policy vision for his country arguably
for cystic the new town has yet to be
built Netanyahu called it a historic day
in a tweet Trump think Netanyahu and the
State of Israel for this great honor who
wants him land there you go
can't wait to sell that it's just
they're just the grossest I can't even
begin the row tell you how sort of like
viscerally disgusting I find that all of
it I mean to be fair I think of all the
settlements as Trump Heights so this is
really just making it official I mean in
some respects it is nice at least to
call a spade a spade as it were right
yep and you know people who consider
themselves progressive but are mmm maybe
not so progressive on Israel's issues
the connection between Trump and
Israel's right-wing government is made
very explicit now here's somebody who
apparently does not have a problem with
Donald Trump naming the or moving the US
Embassy to Jerusalem it has effectively
a look I think for a long time certainly
during the the Bush years although I
think Obama may have in some respects
restored or at least headed down a road
to restoring the United States as an
honest broker in the context of figuring
out some way in which to end at least to
a certain extent the palestinian-israeli
conflict but mayor Pete apparently has
no problem with what Trump is doing and
I'd be curious as to knowing what is
going into this thought process
here he is talking to Mike Allen on
Axios his HBO show saying he would not
move the Israel the US and bet embassy
back from Jerusalem to Tel Aviv would
you move the US Embassy in Israel back
to Tel Aviv I think what's done is done
and I don't think the Israelis believe
that would leave it look we need a big
picture strategy on the Middle East I
don't know that we'd gain much by moving
it to Tel Aviv I will say so I'll tell
you what you would gain you would say we
are committed to being an honest broker
we are committed to showing all sides in
this conflict that we are not going to
look at this from one particular
perspective or another we understand
that Jerusalem is about as hotly
contested as anything anywhere could be
and that's what it would show and then
you move on to the big picture continue
we need a big picture strategy on the
Middle East I don't know that we'd gain
much by moving it to Tel Aviv I will say
so it's so President Trump did the right
thing I didn't say look well you did you
won't you wouldn't done do it that
doesn't mean he did the right thing
here's the problem with what he did is
that if you're going to make a
concession like that if you're going to
give somebody something that they've
wanted for a long time in the context of
a push/pull even with a strong ally like
Israel right we have a push-pull
relationship and you don't do that
without getting some kind of concession
instead we've seen the Israeli
government continue to act in ways that
are detrimental to peace and I believe
therefore also detrimental to US
interests it's the same thing with the
recognition of the goal on look the
Israeli claims in the Golan or not
something to be ignored they have a lot
to do with legitimate security interest
but when we did that we were doing
something that could have been part of a
negotiated package and instead we just
gave it away worse we gave it away
probably for the specific purpose of
having an impact in Israeli domestic
politics which should be
the last reason that we would be
conducting u.s. foreign policy it should
be designed around American values
American interests and American
international relationships do you
support a right of return for the
Palestinian refugees that's of course
the principle the Palestinian refugees
or their descendants have a right to
return to the land or property they were
forced out of during the 1948 and 1967
course you support do you support the
right of return I think that concept can
be honored in the context of a
negotiated peace I don't think it should
be presumptively declared by a u.s.
presidential candidate I'm concerned
though that we're walking away from the
possibility of peace when you have the
Israeli government talking about
annexing parts of the West Bank so you
would not insist on that I think it
could be honored as part of the
framework of a negotiation I'm not going
to declare it at the outset as a
precondition for peace see I mean here's
the here's the problem with the way that
he's answering these questions and he's
he's doing so in a very smart way
I mean he's extremely well-spoken
superbly reasonable I think he's right
to say that this can be a part of a
negotiated thing I mean I personally
would say it should be but you cannot in
one breath say we've given this away
with getting nothing in return and then
unilaterally take it off the table
the idea that I'll take it back cuz
there is a way to regain that leverage
and that is to say hey guess what I can
take it back I can move it back I can
move it back just as easily as Trump
unilaterally moved it to Jerusalem I can
unrecognised the Golan Heights just as
easily as Trump unilaterally recognized
to go on heights because international
law is on my side it's the only
reasonable way to do it I suppose there
are concessions I could conceive of that
the Israeli government could make that
would do that I don't know them off the
top of my head because of course they're
not concessions to me they're
concessions to the peace process I mean
there's there is ways that a intelligent
guy
like people judge could articulate these
things but he sets up walls for himself
that he manufactures that are artificial
as a way of not really saying what he
was going to do the idea that anybody
would come in and say I'm gonna take
write a return off the table is absurd
nobody would say that I don't you think
Donald Trump would say that he would say
basically the same thing in a dumber way
which is like I'm not gonna negotiate
above the you know a deal right here
with you and so that's the thing with
Buddha judge that is that is a little
bit problematic and I find this quality
of his across the board very well-spoken
very intelligent intelligent enough to
know that he's not at the end of the day
really saying anything or making any
type of commitments and that is very
very worrisome well he made a commitment
to keep the embassy in Jerusalem that's
true
that's very true what's done is done
right very aware of the message he's
sending yeah
oh yeah he is tight roping what are the
things that we have said in the past is
a problem with the ubi is that it is
often is a political one I mean I think
we've had multiple people on this
program to talk about the ubi I think at
one point I had a little bit of a debate
about it in principle I think it's a
good idea to give people money or you
could get around that by giving them
goods like health care and then you
don't have to give them money I mean if
you're gonna give people three thousand
dollars a year guess what I would rather
you give them health care much cheaper I
mean excuse me much more expensive than
three thousand bucks a year
I think there's some value with baby
bonds and whatnot in particular I think
I like about baby bonds is it doesn't
provide the obvious cudgel to dismantle
things like social security things like
medical insurance things like automatic
stabilizers like food stamps and food
assistance and nutrition assistance
things like tant things like housing
vouchers and one of the ways that the
ubi has been presented in the past and
it's very hard to imagine that it
wouldn't be used even if it was passed
and implemented it wouldn't be used in
the future down the road is some type of
leverage point is to dismantle these
things and actually just in many ways
just it's it's very much about basically
saying I'm gonna let the market decide
but I'm gonna give you a little bit of
an advantage in the market and here is
presidential candidate Andrew yang given
up the ghost here now I don't even know
if Ruben notices it although he's been
reading Milton Friedman I guess and
certainly Milton Friedman's idea to do
this
but here it is Dave Rubin talking to
Andrew yang about ubi
so what why not just blow apart so that
I think the best libertarian argument
that I've heard for ubi is that
basically if you want to do ubi it's got
the right idea why not just blow apart
the social safety net as is tape because
we know it's just a boondoggle of middle
management nonsense positive all that
the words saying the words it's a
boondoggle of mintage management
nonsense means nothing this is
absolutely 100% not true
food stamps not a boondoggle you know it
does mean something though blow up the
social safety net right that means
something but it's not I would like to
see evidence or data that suggests it's
a boon dog that's what's so frustrating
about the yang people as they think
they're not being ideological when they
say stuff like this right full of middle
management nonsense with all the
whacked-out incentives incentives that
you're talking about why not just take
all of that money which I do we even
know how much money is actually put into
these things of course so how much right
now um six hundred billion give or take
give or take all right so why not take
the 600 billion that are on programs
that we know are creating as many
problems probably as they're fixing if
not more and then do it that way like do
you think because it almost feels like
it's like a little bit of a stopgap that
you'd still have to get to that problem
eventually oh well that's the beauty of
this the freedom dividend proposal is
that you have the six hundred billion or
so and then you're saying hey guess what
like it's now a new right of citizenship
everyone gets it and then what's going
to happen is you're going to
dramatically reduce the enrollment in
these programs very very quickly because
a lot of people would be like I prefer
the cash and then then this new incoming
population would just opt for the
dividend and then never end up on these
welfare programs so you would end up
shrinking the enrollments over time and
the way you describe you just wouldn't
do it all at once because you know there
are a lot of people in very distinct
situations and this is actually much
more politically feasible and popular
than going and trying to tear these
programs up and you know from from the
roots up yeah are you worried though
that the positive in other words he's
saying two things here one is it gives
you the political cover to go in and
begin to dismantle the welfare state and
things like things like food stamps food
nutrition this is just a system
automatic stabilizer it increases as
more people fall into poverty if there
is a recession without that mekin
people are screwed but you'll have been
able to destroy it by that point because
the ubi will keep them out of food
stamps and then we can just eventually
make the program so small and
restrictive six hundred billion dollars
I mean I love the idea that you can have
this conversation convinced that it's a
boondoggle have no idea what it costs
incidentally our military budget this
year is what seven hundred and sixty
billion 770 billion I think going into
2020 but I love how you can just
immediately say that's a boondoggle
course it's a boon Doug how much is six
hundred billion is that a lot or is that
a little if you want to find some
boondoggles go to the Pentagon yeah is
there any more of this are you worried
though that the that because states have
different things related to social
programs that I mean we sort of
addressed this already but just that
different states will deal with it so
differently in terms of how they're
giving benefits off UVI that it just is
gonna create this we may have a
bajillion people moving to one state and
leaving another state or the rest of it
or you just think that that's well
that's one reason why having uniform
benefits because right now there are
block grants that go to various days in
the state's do different things with it
as you're suggesting and those are the
programs that would be swapped out for
ubi so the more people that opt into ubi
then the like smaller those grants would
be a largely Medicaid that's what he's
talking yeah he the first thing he cites
on the how are we gonna pay for you bi
is SSDI and basically and I've looked
into this a little bit but minor sin is
about eight to nine million people on
that get SSDI payments and the average
is over a thousand dollars over the
thousand dollar yang dollar ones and
that's for like handicap transportation
and stuff like this is Social Security
disability insurance which is very very
difficult to qualify for and the idea
that you would basically take the most
vulnerable people in our society and use
this as a mechanism to erode their
support systems
just this is I mean when we've talked
about ubi in the past this that scenario
is exactly exactly what is problematic
and so just to illustrate this for
people imagine you were getting like
paying $1,200 in handicap transportation
costs a month and all of your friends
who aren't disabled they get off their
yang bucks $1,000 a month but you don't
get the yang bucks cuz you need to keep
your SSDI payment your friends are gonna
be like hey let's go to the beach with
our yang bucks this month you're not
gonna be able to do any of that because
you're gonna be behind them every month
because you you have to have you have to
make the choice between yang bucks or
these welfare programs like if this if
the yang thing went to everybody
regardless of any kind of assistance
they got then I think it'd be an
interesting program but this completely
this makes it dystrophy is it a left ubi
would be done on top of the existing
welfare state yes and and there have
been left cases for that kind of a ubi
like Peter phrase wrote a good article
in Jacobean called curious utopia's sort
of explaining how a ubi a left ubi could
hypothetically be some kind of non
reformers reform they would move us
closer to socialism but that's not what
this is right and that's always been my
fear about the ubi is not so much the
apathy that you couldn't come up with a
good one is that it's too easy to come
up with a bad one and and in addition to
that taxes being somewhat regressive is
my understanding the idea that you're
going to take someone and say choose I
guess I guess at the beginning of the
year right like Oh turns out you chose
wrong sorry dude
guess what that adds to administrative
overhead right exactly of course and
then the idea that like what happens
like how much do you choose when do you
choose how long is the period of time
that you choose you opt in for and how
do you predict when you're on Social
Security disability how long you're
going to be on for I mean this is I mean
I get the appeal right like a thousand
bucks a month would change
my circumstances substantially but that
that's not the limits of my political
imagination Oh for people that run
patreon podcast it'd be great to have
that many people with that much money to
spend but you can't do this and Shafter
the most vulnerable people like that and
there's no reason to other than
ideological reasons that you're running
some like sort of I want to make
government smaller campaign but don't
want to be honest about it
let's play this clip there you know the
there's two stories that just adding to
the body of work just talking about how
a repulsive are our disposition our
national disposition towards immigration
is particularly coming from the
administration one is that on Wednesday
the body of a seven-year-old girl was
found 17 miles west of Luke Ville in a
remote desert area officials believe the
child was from India she was trying to
cross from Mexico into the United States
with a group from India Tucson Sector
border control agents spoke with two
women from India who said they had been
separated from three other people trying
to come across the United States with
them a woman and two children Border
Patrol agents believe human smugglers
dropped the group near the Mexican
border where they were told to cross the
terrain into Arizona alone agents
searched for the missing people north of
the border in remote terrain about seven
miles west of quit to be Quito's Springs
they eventually found the little girl's
body after a few hours the area had a
high temperature around a hundred and
eight degrees
officials said searchers found
footprints that suggest the woman and
child returned to Mexico they're
continuing the search with Mexican
authorities my understanding is this is
very close to the area that Scott Warren
a man who has been whose trial just came
to a deadlock jury who was on trial but
on trial by the American government for
leaving water for immigrants trying to
cross the border so they would not die
in the desert it's grotesque meanwhile
the New York Times has done a story on
the youngest child separated from
parents I mean I did this is kidnapping
this is kidnapping
the child was four months old and spent
the next five months of his life
separated from his parents he's now
almost two still not able to walk on his
own or to speak kids develop at all
different rates but the idea that this
kid was not traumatized
one day taken from his parents by US
authorities here is a Caitlyn Dickerson
and Brian Staedtler I guess talking
about this story it took me months to
find Constantine Mootoo so I mentioned a
federal court case earlier that had to
do with family separations and that
prompted ultimately the reunification of
separated families and while I was
looking through those court records last
summer I found mention of a four month
old baby I've been really interested in
separated babies in general and
immediately thought this is probably the
youngest child and and quickly learned
that he was but because all of the
individual records in that court case
were sealed and because you know as we
talked about the government data
really limited it took a long time to
find him basically just calling
everybody in the country to see if
anybody heard of a four month old baby
had been separated and ultimately we did
he spent five months separated from his
parents
he's almost two now and he's still not
able to walk or or to walk on his owner
to speak four months old when he was
separated and you think about the
parents and why they decided to come and
you think about the government that
broke them up Kalyn thank you
you can tell you tell Statler probably
has young children I mean I think
certainly it's it's problematic for
anybody with any sense of of conscience
to find this problematic but I think for
parents to contemplate their four month
old baby being taken from them for five
months and the trauma that would
represent for that child is not an
expert on developmental like sort of
issues but I'm pretty sure those are
pretty important months not to be
traumatized Oh I mean without a doubt
without a doubt I mean look the reality
is is that I think the vast majority of
your disposition of life is going to
take place from probably month three to
age five and the younger the more
relevant in terms of shaping that I mean
this if you've ever planted anything or
grown anything I mean it all just makes
total sense physiologically there are
things that you can do at that age in
terms of repairing things you simply
can't do
the amount that your eyes can get fixed
and repair and generate new cells even
until age 6 or 7 is just there's nothing
you can't replicate that it's torturous
it's it's just it's it's brutal and you
know I mean I look when you go from
basically doing this horrific things to
children people overseas through bombs
through tanks through drones through
guns and you make a population that is
paying for it
with their tax dollars just accept it
the doing this on your in your own
country you know just becomes just a
slightly marginal you know becomes much
more acceptable and every time we allow
anything like this to be okay we are
enabling another atrocity and horror
that is yet to come
and so everything that's happening to
immigrants now it's just going to make
it easier for it to happen to other
people it's really just horrible
uh what is uh-oh okay let's listen to
bench Piero's insanity here's Ben
Shapiro he would who would have you
believed there are good Jews in bad Jews
the Bad Jews are the ones who don't act
like he does I mean to be fair I think
he's a bad Jew fair enough
that is the thing about Judaism is that
the Jews get choose there is no Pope but
Pope Shapiro thinks the he is one and he
is now going to tell us about the
morality how horrific it is for children
to be raised by two loving parents of
the same sex because obviously of the
varied experience he's had in dealing
with kids of parents of the same sex
what are your thoughts on adoption in
the States well adoption needs to be
made much easier right now it's it's
insane but states are basically cracking
down on adoption agencies if those
adoption agencies have religious
backgrounds we've seen adoption agencies
in places like Massachusetts actually
shut down if they prefer to hand a baby
over to a traditional male-female couple
as opposed to a same-sex couple
so Catholic Charities have shut down
adoption services in Massachusetts
because of this now I think there is a
perfectly secular rational case for
handing a baby over to a male and a
female because I don't think that males
and females are the same I don't think
fathers and mothers are the same which
is why every single Father's Day and
Mother's Day I make the same joke on
Twitter
it's a running joke and it is happy
second legal guardian of unspecified
gender day because if you don't think
there's a difference between fathers and
mothers or males and females and why
have a Father's Day or a Mother's Day
just have an unspecified legal guardian
Day but if you peel the child needs a
mother and a father then yes I think
that it is perfectly fine and perfectly
rational and in fact good to prefer all
other things being equal
obviously a male-female couple to a male
male or a female
Elfi mail couple or a single mom and
there is nothing
I think remotely controversial about
that in a social science sense now again
that's all other things being equal if
you're talking about an abusive
household where the male is abusing the
female as opposed to two males we're not
abusing each other
obviously that is different if you're
talking socioeconomically the difference
between growing up in a house on food
stamps as opposed to growing up in a
middle-class household that makes a
difference to it's multifactorial in
other words but one of the things that
would make adoption easier is more
adoption agencies not fewer adoption
agencies also the hoops that you have to
run through in order to adopt are just
ridiculous right we should be we should
be making all of those kids that we have
kidnapped at the border available to
adoption to male-female its families
it's a pretty amazing maneuver to go
like to say we need to make abortion
easier and then sort of make a sort of
case that we should allow abortion sorry
adoption agencies that discriminate
against gay people to have more like
like he's saying we restrict it's too
hard to adopt in this country it's too
hard to adopt because we have agencies
that just want to discriminate against
gay couples and and therefore they get
shut down as if if there is that much
demand that there wouldn't be other
agencies that get up there the reasons
why we have intricate laws about
adoption have to do with protecting
children and have to make you know and
have to do with preventing baby mills
and and whatnot but the idea that
because you know 58 years what it was it
I don't know 50 years ago
somebody wanted to call father's day and
I think a hundred years ago we had
Mother's Day which of course was
incredibly condescending is like we're
gonna throw you a bone you can't vote
you can't have your own financial life
you can't have an economic life you're
not quite a slave but you can be raped
without it being rape but you got your
day he's such a little softest like I
talked about this a lot with Ben Burgess
what he's doing in this clip is what he
does a lot and it's called a category
error right he makes one argument that
nobody would argue with which is that Oh
men and women are different and like you
know there actually is science to say
that the sex binary and the chromosomes
is not as much of a binary as people
think but just for argument's sake yeah
sure many women are different everyone
can see that
and then he claims that it logically
follows from that that kids need a male
parent and a female parent when there's
absolutely nothing to bridge that gap
there's nothing to bridge that gap and
the idea that parents who come to adopt
aren't necessarily better than parents
who have had a child on their own like
the consciousness that you need to go
and adopt versus oh we had sex and now
one of us is pregnant is so different
that III mean I don't know how you
measure this but those parents who adopt
regardless of what the sexes are I would
imagine on average are far better
parents in some respects then whatever
couples that happen to have a child
should be the spurns we have when
Shapiro talked to with Andrew Neil and
he sort of freaked out but he also
mentioned that the Obama participating
religious persecution of Christians and
religious people in general and he was
talking about how Obamacare made you
provide birth control or whatever that
Obama the over-the-counter thing was so
that's like if my if my religious health
insurance provider doesn't want to give
women birth control they shouldn't have
to and that's the persecution it's the
same thing with the Catholic adoption
agencies they don't want to give they
people so yeah then you're not in the
adoption business anymore sorry right
exactly you can't get licensed by the
state which is responsible for
protecting
people the Catholic Church is not a good
thing it's not right
fail they lost that responsibility they
lost that trust I think maybe just a
little bit gonna take a while to turn
that back
speaking of loss of trust and
responsibility this is just unbelievable
story out of Arizona
excuse me out of Phoenix yes the police
department is failing to identify a cop
seen in this video it was a couple drave
on Ames and Aisha Harper she was
pregnant
they had their two young children in the
car
apparently they were in some store I
don't know what it was like it may be a
toy store or some type of department
store one of the kids apparently took a
Barbie and they got into the car it's
unclear whether the parents were aware
that the kid had taken the Barbie or not
and here's how the cops reacted you will
hear it if you have kids in your car
you're going to want to skip this and
you should know if you're not seeing the
visual that there are multiple cops with
their guns drawn over a Barbie but don't
imagine for a moment that just one of
the little girls in the car took a
Barbie from this store just imagine that
the couple
they they shop lifted I don't know a TV
or like an iPod or whatever it is that
you think is of some value that the cops
being told that there was shoplifters
because I'm just trying to set this up
so that you can give the cops the
greatest benefit of the doubt
shoplifters in that car you will hear
the cops yelling you will hear the man
Draven aims basically be as compliant as
he possibly could and you'll hear the
mother who is holding a one-year-old
child in her arms a pregnant mother
[Music]
their four-year-old daughter walked out
of the dollars yes yeah no get out the
 car record john cornyn she just
cried don't don't point out my kids
[Music]
[Music]
that last voice was the voice of I think
just bystanders who are videotaping this
can't believe what they're watching
woman holding a one-year-old child and a
cop gets up into her face and starts
yelling at her and this is in Phoenix
they want the the woman to put the
one-year-old child on the on the tar
it's been what you know 95 degrees there
it shows how messed up a world we live
in that my primary feeling right now is
relief that nobody got murdered yeah
yeah they got a cut they got a release
the name of that cop uh yeah at least
apparently and there were two cops there
who seemed to be completely out of
control yeah the one who came into the
woman's face at the end who had just
like you know yelled at the other guy
who was basically like I'm gonna get
shot he was worried about getting shot
he's like I'm complying I'm complying
they will not release that guy's name
the other cop that cop who they won't
release his name apparently is you know
on some type of suspension or something
like that the other one is out on the
streets yeah everyone who thinks that
the left is hyperventilating about the
threat of fascism fistic elements
already exist in our state and it looks
a lot like this really just just
disgusting you got to wonder at one
point I mean you know what kind of
training is going on that no one is
stopping this cop his partner's not
stopping this cop 4 year old girl took a
a Barbie
so here is Mitch McConnell and folks
we're not gonna get too many phone calls
so I'm afraid so if you've been hanging
on and you want to jump jump but a lot
of clips here's Mitch McConnell who of
course of course
he's going to see whatever Republican
judge you can get on there of course he
is was this predictable of course it was
I made this prediction two and a half
years ago Mitch McConnell's gonna put
every single judge he can do on there in
any way he can and guess what there's
not a single thing that can be done to
stop him he no longer recognizes blue
slips there's no longer any filibuster
here is Mitch McConnell mm-hmm senator
you you had your legacy on judges with
President Trump is gonna be terrific any
constitutional judges appointed to the
court if another seat opens on the
Supreme Court you're gonna push that
through absolutely you know the
precedent that people ignored back in
2016 when I made the decision not to
fill the vacancy during the middle of a
presidential election was who controlled
the Senate that's right you know you
have to go back to 1888 to find the last
time a Senate of a different party from
the president confirmed a vacancy the
Supreme Court that occurred during the
presidential election makes sense mm-hmm
we will still control the Senate next
year if there were to be a vacancy of
course we would fill it you can almost
see him almost crack up in that there's
a moment there we almost cracks up it's
probably because the look of belief and
acceptance on the face of the Fox and
Friends one of those is Dan bond Geno
guy who I guess got kicked off of all
the who in order to get booted from NRA
TV first off there's no such thing as
constitutional
judges that's a made-up thing isn't
every judge supposed to be
constitutional that there's no judge the
best judge in the world wouldn't say
like I'm constitutional judge that
doesn't make any sense it's just a
made-up term that means nothing just
combines two words you could say
patriotic judges it's also a made-up
thing McConnell knows he's full of crap
of course he is well he said the
American people I mean just to specify
he wasn't always saying this he was
saying let's let the American people
decide right absolutely it's you know
but he found his you know talking point
that is going to satisfy the the boobs
who watch Fox and Friends but the bottom
line is elections have consequences this
was completely predictable of course
Mitch McConnell is going to break every
rule or norm or whatever it is to get
people to get in and part of the reason
is because Republican voters are okay
with that far more okay with it than
Democratic voters and I say that as a
regret Democratic voters should be just
as upset just as willing and in fact
just as demanding of whoever Chuck
Schumer whoever it is to go in and do
whatever it takes to win to be
politically expedient if you will that's
what politics is it would be very nice
if we were living in an era where there
was Senate comedy and they all you know
went and took a fits afterwards you know
a hard day on the floor of the Senate
and said you know we're not gonna push
on this one because it's not the right
thing to do it's your pick and well
we're just going to return things to
normal
doesn't that sound deluded doesn't the
idea that someone could shame
Republicans at this point
sounds deluded
it does doesn't it this is from a tweet
joy read apparently asked Joe Biden how
he'll get his agenda passed Mitch
McConnell quote I know you're one of the
ones Joe Biden said who thinks it's
naive to say we have to work together
but Biden goes on to say you can shame
people to do things the right way
well idea that Mitch McConnell could be
shamed in any way is either so diluted
or such a lie that the person who utters
such a thing should either be kept from
harming themselves or from harming
others this is so cynical so far from
the truth that Joe Biden must know or
Joe Biden has maybe he never had him but
has completely lost his marbles one of
those two things has to be true he
either knows he's telling a massive lie
or he has completely lost his marbles
and I think he knows he's telling a lie
that's why he says like I'm going to
address your critique before you say it
and I know that's Garrett critique
because everybody knows that Mitch
McConnell has not an ounce of shame but
it's amazing it's amazing this is and I
mentioned this earlier that somebody was
arguing with me on Twitter like mmm you
don't believe in hypocrisy as a
principle or anti hypocrisy
you and Joe Biden sitting together in a
swing that's that's those are the two
people there that's that those are the
two people who argue for hypocrisy
people who are fundamentalists and
people who are artists and
those artists are usually in
the center they're just corporate
centrist unbelievable unbelievable I
want Joe Biden to say this again on that
debate stage and I hope there's somebody
on that debate stage who is willing to
say to address Mitch McConnell because I
don't know that there is I don't know if
Bernie is going to say that Bernie's not
the one who's gonna you know necessarily
target Mitch McConnell Bernie's probably
not gonna go after Joe Biden I don't
think he might but I don't think so well
Bernie has been targeting the right to a
large degree like maybe an anticipation
of the general and building a case for
why his political vision has the best
chance of beating back this kind of
right-wing populism that's taking over
the world right now I think Bernie for
the most part it's very reluctant to go
at individuals and I don't know that
it'll go at Biden this early and the I
doubt it question is will there be
anybody else up on stage saying like
what I heard you say about Mitch
McConnell and I don't know if there is
they're all gonna focus on Donald Trump
maybe if they try to get Bernie on his
you supported a challenge to Obama what
do you say about that if you don't like
Obama so much and Bernie can just say
well Joe thinks Obama's better at or
Joel thinks he's better at Obama than
Obama is right you know you're bad when
I'm siding with Joanne Reid against you
there you go
I can only imagine the look on her face
that prompted him to address her
critique before she uttered it here is
Mike Pompeo
I think reiterating what Tom cotton says
too right here's Mike Pompeo saying
basically threatening the you at the
Iran with war it's unclear who was
involved in the explosions that hit
tankers the other day in the Gulf Oman
but here's Mike Pompeo despite the
slight discrepancy in what was used and
how sure they were about this stuff
that's how it worked with weapons of
mass destruction we know there's weapons
of mass destruction there well it turns
out they lied because they couldn't know
I just felt that if we said we think
there's weapons of mass destruction
there we sort of feel like there should
be they probably couldn't have gotten
the war they wanted here's Mike Pompeo
saying the US will strike Iran if we
need to protect international crude oil
from let's say attack to help us to do
that so when you talk about military
response you're talking about that
keeping the waterways open you were not
at this point talking about a strike on
Iran oh goodness president Trump has
said very clearly he doesn't want to go
to war at the same time we've made very
clear that we have the legal
authorization for strike on Iran we
always have the authorization to defend
American interest remember they now have
attacked US aircraft they on June 6th
there was a missile fired from Yemen
with that we assess had Iranian
assistance that took down in mq-9
aircraft these are attacks on
fundamental international norms and now
on American interest and we always have
the right to defend our country but I
ask you because there are questions
about whether the existing authorization
for use of military force the AUMF would
actually include a strike on Iran are
you confident that you could go and not
have to
ask Congress for permission to take
action Morgan I don't want to get into
hypotheticals but the American people
should be very college talking about 19
United States takes under President
Trump will always be lawful always
consistent with our Constitution and we
will always do the hard tasks it takes
to protect American interests wherever
they are but do you need Congress's
permission to do what Margaret I mean
sir the question in the abstract
permission you said a range of options
are being looked at yes every option we
look at will be fully lawful oh okay I
feel better understand the game that
Pompey is taking here right now right
he's saying to the president and he was
saying that to the president I get it
you don't want a war we're gonna keep
ourselves out of war of course we've got
to be strong you don't want me going on
there and sounded weak and the idea is
bit by bit we provoke maybe they
retaliate maybe they don't if they don't
then we make it as if they've retaliate
it and then we provoke a little bit more
and then all of a sudden oops somebody
forgot to leave the emergency brake and
we parked on a hill and there goes the
car rolling down the hill who's gonna
stop it shoot we forgot to keep the
doors unlocked and we can't run in and
open up the door and stop the car
wonder if there's any support in the
Senate for the future Donald Trump for
for the the new version of Donald Trump
in 2024 in the event that the old one
conks out in 2020 let's check because
Tom cotton was on was this face face the
nation find as a hawk on Iran you see
these recent attacks these are
commercial vessels not military
installations what kind of response is
warranted well Iran for 40 years has
engaged this kind of attacks going back
to the 1980s in fact Ronald Reagan had
to reflagged a lot of vessels going
through the Persian Gulf and ultimately
take military action against Iran in
1988 these unprovoked attacks on
commercial shipping warrant two
retaliatory military strike are you
you're comparing the tanker war in the
eighties to now and saying that that's
the kind of military response you want
to see we can make a military Iraq
response in a time in a manner of our
choosing
but yes unprovoked attacks on commercial
shipping warrant a retaliatory military
strike against the Islamic Republic of
Iran a retaliatory strike when we had
secretary Pompeo on just a few moments
ago he said the u.s. always has the
authorization to defend American
interests as someone who sits in
Congress do you believe that he can act
the administration can act without
coming to Congress first yes Margaret
going back to President Washington and
all the way down to President Trump the
fastest way to get the fire and fury of
the US military unleashed on you is to
interfere with the freedom of navigation
on the open season in the air that's
exactly what Iran is doing and one of
the world's most important strategic
points first of all is this really I
mean what is not United States interests
these are not us boats Japan hasn't as
far as I know has not made some
declaration that they want us to attack
not nor has Norway what is not a u.s.
interest if we can decide unilaterally
to bomb in this instance he has got it
right from George Washington all the way
down to Donald Trump but the idea that
he's calling for a military strike based
on this event that's already happened
like there's a reason pot of war folks
they want a war this is not this is not
a drill the president has the
authorization to act to defend American
interests certainly it would be in
keeping with that President Obama did
unwisely in Libya in 2011 in launching a
week's long campaign to overthrow the
government there what I'm talking about
is not like what we've seen in Iraq for
the last 16 years or Afghanistan for the
last 18 years but retaliatory military
strikes against Iran that make it clear
we will not tolerate any kind of attacks
commercial shipping on the open seas boy
does he want a war boy does he want war
nuts
alright I got time for one more phone
call and I'll take some IMS and gotta go
this is the last phone call of the day
come from a 306 area code who's this
where you come from
hey I'm calling from blue Swan what's on
your mind well I just wanted to talk
about building a wall across the
northern border here I'm a Canadian
libertarian okay I'm not really I just
wanted to create some sort of cavalry in
response to Canadian politics or yeah oh
well I appreciate that
was that it no I'm but no but I just
wanted to let you know it's a comment on
the politics that's going on in Canada I
just want that there's there's likely
gonna be a new right-wing conservative
government entering entering leadership
in Canada here and I find your show
interesting because a lot of what you
guys talk about and a lot of the
politics that you discuss ends up
washing over into Canada
so sorry you're sorry about that yeah
that's where the that's where the law
comes in you know got to keep that on
your side of the border
I would not hum yeah but um it's it's
really interesting what's going on here
but the right is really spreading and
it's likely going to happen in Canada
well hopefully we can turn the tide here
and then you know you guys will be a
leading indicator for you but I mean
we've been getting plenty of Canadian or
right-wingers that have been coming down
here so I don't know thanks for David
from Sharon McGuinness right thanks man
Crowder I have a comment on Crowder all
right make it quick
all right well you guys had you had a
caller calling in about about the last
year it was with regards to a gay joke
that's in your your interm song right I
don't know if you guys remember that
yeah I do is kind of yet yeah
well that kind of exposes kind of a
foremost hypocrisy because you've got a
joke about it so the context with
Crowder's that he's saying that he's
being maligned because of his gay jokes
but you guys did it in in a context that
that made sense it aligns with my sort
of humor where I kind of create a
caricature of right wing talking points
and if you like that that is what you
guys do right right there's a there's a
difference between a joke about
homophobia where the homophobes are the
butt of the joke and a homophobic joke
where gay people are the butt of the
joke yeah and if we start putting out
videos that deny the reality of the the
AIDS epidemic in the 80s that joke will
start to look a little bit different
when we play it ourselves
exactly so like that really exposes that
that like Crowder's essentially full of
 you know I mean it's not about the
content it's the context of the joke
it's not the word yes of course it's not
the word gay is not the problem yeah you
can say the word gay at least in my mind
people say it's a question what does it
matter who says it I mean the point is I
don't think that there is a word and I
include the n-word in this that you
cannot say frankly but the context in
which you say it better be May made it
clear as to what the intent is
particularly if it's one that's more
sensitive and you know we're all adults
we all know what that means I appreciate
the call blue Swan I mean we're all
adults and we all know what that means
there has been context where I have said
the n-word on air and I don't I mean on
air but it was done in a context where
my audience you know would understand
why I was saying it and what the intent
behind it was and so you know and I
don't know I can imagine a context in
the future where I would say it I'm not
gonna you know I'm not gonna say now
it's not necessary and I don't need to
use it for the impact of the word but
context matters the the tweet that I put
out that got me fired temporarily the
reason why I got rehired was because
everyone including anti-rape advocates
were like this is the 1% of rape jokes
that are actually jokes that identify
who the victim is and who the
perpetrator is and are satirizing those
who would be apologetic for the
perpetrator context matters and you know
I will say things to people who are
adults presumably listening to this
program that I wouldn't say to
six-year-olds because they can't pick up
on the context but everybody knows what
the context in which steven crowder is
doing it does his humor his humor even
if you think it's funny all right done
with the phone calls gonna do five IMS
get out here sorry I'm already late Gabe
formerly from Chicago hmm Sam but you
signed up for membership so I'm gonna
need you to come in for some overtime
next Saturday
[Music]
yellow no sweater hey Sam and collective
please shine some light on the San
Francisco da race my old friend cheetah
Kisa abuddin is running in a brilliant
anti-establishment progressive campaign
not to be missed we got to check that
out there's a lot of da races that are
interesting around the country it's been
so far world gone wrong job scaredy is
definitely something only union members
want Mountain West Socialists Sam is
going to make me start irrationally hate
the number 2 senator purred I'm just so
tired of the Democratic Party and their
spinelessness Winnipeg Craig big shout
outs Jam it
cinge and Canada's NDP who just
announced the plan to expand our
single-payer health care system to cover
a pharmacare eye dental hearing mental
health and addiction coverage pajama boy
hey Sam I know this is getting a little
head but if Bernie does win and we don't
win the Senate do you think you'll be
able to get much done I don't know Lois
77 time to start calling libertarians
what they truly are anarcho-capitalists
and they final I am of the day left
coast lefty please consider reaching out
to Dave Zirin of edge of sports in the
nation magazine he views sports through
a social justice lens is well-versed in
the harsh realities in Olympic Games
transgender s News player protests from
Colin Kaepernick to Muhammad Ali's
fascinating guy what seemed to fit in
right with a majority report i suggest
you google yeah majority report and dave
zirin and also Ring of Fire and Dave
Zirin
I've spoken to Dave's iron many many
times on this program many times he's
got a great guest and he's got a great
podcast himself he's got a good take on
the the transgender athlete stuff that's
been going on oh maybe we'll have Mun
bring a fire to talk about that would be
good all right folks see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know son
I'm gonna get
I was
[Music]
yeah clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made the
option
rubber bands
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
