[Music]
let's listen to bench Piero's insanity
here's Ben Shapiro he would who would
have you believed there are good Jews
and bad Jews the bad Jews are the ones
who don't act like he does I mean to be
fair I think he's a bad Jew fair enough
that is the thing about Judaism is that
the Jews get choose there is no Pope but
Pope Shapiro thinks the he is one and he
is now going to tell us about the
morality how horrific it is for children
to be raised by two loving parents of
the same sex because obviously of the
varied experience he's had in dealing
with kids of parents of the same sex
what are your thoughts on adoption in
the States well adoption needs to be
made much easier right now it's it's
insane but states are basically cracking
down on adoption agencies if those
adoption agencies have religious
backgrounds we've seen adoption agencies
in places like Massachusetts actually
shut down if they prefer to hand a baby
over to a traditional male-female couple
as opposed to a same-sex couple
so Catholic Charities have shut down
adoption services in Massachusetts
because of this now I think there is a
perfectly secular rational case for
handing a baby over to a male and a
female because I don't think that males
and females are the same
I don't think fathers and mothers are
the same which is why every single
Father's Day and Mother's Day and make
the same joke on Twitter it's a running
joke and it is happy second legal
guardian of unspecified gender day
because if you don't think there's a
difference between fathers and mothers
or males and females and why have a
Father's Day or a Mother's Day just have
an unspecified legal guardian day but if
you peel the child needs a mother and a
father then yes I think that it is
perfectly fine and perfectly rational
and in fact good to prefer all other
things being equal
obviously a male-female couple to a male
male or a female female couple or some
and there is nothing I think remotely
controversial about that in a social
science sense now again that's all other
things being equal if you're talking
about an abusive household where the
males abusing the female as opposed to
two males we're not abusing each other
obviously that is different if you're
talking socioeconomically the difference
between growing up in a house on food
stamps as opposed to growing up in a
middle-class household that makes a
difference to it's multifactorial in
other words but one of the things that
would make adoption easier is more
adoption agencies not fewer adoption
agencies also we hope that you have to
run through in order to adopt our just
ridiculous right we should be we should
be making all of those kids that we have
kidnapped at the border available to
adoption to male female its families
it's a pretty amazing maneuver to go
like to say we needed to make abortion
easier and then sort of make a sort of
case that we should allow abortion sorry
adoption agencies that discriminate
against gay people to have more like
like he's saying we restrict it's too
hard to adopt in this country it's too
hard to adopt because we have agencies
that just want to discriminate against
gay couples and and therefore they get
shut down as if if there is that much
demand that there wouldn't be other
agencies that get up there the reasons
why we have intricate laws about
adoption have to do with protecting
children and have to make you know and
have to do with preventing baby mills
and and whatnot but the idea that
because you know 58 years what it was it
I don't know 50 years ago somebody
wanted to call father's day and I think
a hundred years ago we had Mother's Day
which of course was incredibly
condescending is like we're gonna throw
you a bone you can't vote you can't have
your own financial life you can't have
an economic life you're not quite a
slave but you can be raped without it
being raped
but you got your day he's such a little
softest like I talked about this a lot
with Ben Burgess what he's doing in this
clip is what he does a lot and it's
called a category error right he makes
one argument that nobody would argue
with which is that oh men and women are
different and like you know there
actually is science to say that the
sexes binary and the chromosomes is not
as much of a binary as people think but
just for argument's sake yeah sure men
and women are different everyone can see
that
and then he claims that it logically
follows from that that kids need a male
parent and a female parent when there's
absolutely nothing to bridge that gap
there's nothing to bridge that gap and
the idea that parents who come to adopt
aren't necessarily better then parents
who have had a child on their own like
the consciousness that you need to go
and adopt versus oh we had sex and now
one of us is pregnant is so different
that III mean I don't know how you
measure this but those parents who adopt
regardless of what the sexes are I would
imagine on average are far better
parents in some respects then whatever
couples that happen to have a child
Shapira the spurns we have when Shapiro
talked to with Andrew Neil and he could
sort of freaked out but he also
mentioned that the Obama participated in
religious persecution of Christians and
and religious people in general and he
was talking about how Obamacare made you
provide birth control or whatever that
Obama the over-the-counter thing was so
that's like if my if my religious health
insurance provider doesn't want to give
women birth control they shouldn't have
to and that's the persecution it's the
same thing with the Catholic adoption
agencies they don't want to give they
people so yeah then you're not in the
adoption business anymore sorry right
exactly you can't get licensed by the
state which is responsible for
protecting
people the Catholic Church is not a good
thing it's not right
fail they lost that responsibility they
lost that trust I think maybe just a
little bit gonna take a while to turn
that back speaking
