[Music]
this is unbelie-- do you know that guy
Jonathan Solomon did anybody know this
guy's name he what there was he used to
work for the AP years ago a lot of
people know that guy's name and face
when I saw this I realized I've been
doing this job for about three years and
I don't know if I've seen his name her
face doesn't tell you okay Jonathan
Thomas John Solomon the he was I mean he
was never a big name because he was just
a reporter AP but his reports were
always very very slanted and then I
think he went to work for the AEI I
think I'm not 100% sure about that but
now apparently works for the hill and
listen to this let's do the test I can't
tell if he's in the New York office or
the Washington office I wonder where
he's he's based out of but here is a
John Solomon and everybody's getting
into the act folks over at Fox in terms
of let's let's listen to this report you
tell me if you believe this as I came
here tonight these guys they're all I
guess they're laughing about the the
Russia stuff there is in the right-wing
world the news that's about to break
about the investigations is of course
about the Clinton Foundation and the
enormous scandal that's about to explode
but here is on Sean Hannity here's John
Solomon talking about it I'll tell you
what's not funny on the way here tonight
a woman stopped me on the street angry
and screaming at me and tossed her tacos
on me I did come in smelling like taco
dip tonight I apologize but the sort of
vitriol and silliness that goes on we
ought to just stay focused on the facts
and what happens every day in our lives
there's
so somebody's walking around the streets
of new of Washington or New York with a
taco eating a taco the temperature last
night or two days ago was I think well
at 30s they were putting a you know in
New York maybe he's in Washington DC and
it's warmer and boy she must have had
some pretty bad aim with that taco sauce
that she had because he doesn't look
like he has any taco I saw you on a
c-span Journal at 3:00 a.m. in 2002 and
you are very bad constantly for
reporting biased news I'm gonna throw
this dusty you know at you I have been I
have been aware of this guy for over a
decade and I have know if he was sitting
right where you are Michael I wouldn't
know who he was I saw Brian lamb in 2007
you were always distorted the Bush
administration's record on the invasion
of Iraq I'm gonna throw a taco at you
before you go on with Hannity I know
you're scheduled the idea that there is
any individual in the entire country
who John Solomon doesn't know right I
guess he could be there could be people
who know his work well enough that are
like you're a horrible human being
I'm gonna throw a taco at you and in
John's like hey Bill come on we used to
be colleagues but the idea that there's
anybody in anybody in the country who
knows who this guy is to have enough
anger to take their food that they're
eating in the middle of the day on the
street the taco they're eating in the
street one of those classic street foods
and throw it at him is just beyond
belief everybody talks about rush
limbaugh or even the new guys like a
Dave Rubin or Jordan Pederson but if you
really follow the news it's John Solomon
and you know normally I believe in the
Rules of Civility
but if it's jus I'm throwing a taco at
you Solomon because you are the most
important right-wing propaganda and the
United States they mobilize and like
breaking his door like John Solomon kid
oh yeah
hi everybody protests being a total
waste of time
why is everybody protesting at Tucker
Carlson's house when John Solomon is
still running around without any public
accountability I mean this guy's really
important
I saw him during a call-in segment in
Washington journal at 3:45 a.m. in 1999
and it was just the atrocious the way he
talked about the contract of the America
let's throw a taco at him
it doesn't look like he was at AEI but
this is a no I never heard the Circa
news anybody now after leaving The
Washington Times Solomon became chief
creative officer for circle news circa
as a mobile news application filed in
2011 that streams updates on big news
events to users in June 2015 it shut
down but its relaunch was announced
after its acquisition by Sinclair
broadcasting as yeah as chief of circa
he wrote and published a number of
political art that's when people really
got mad at him yeah when you made the
singer was Sinclair and you can claim a
household face a name that was when who
really changed let's go to the phone
does actually have an air about him of
somebody who should have a taco thrown
it there's no dad no I don't know don't
misjudge me
if anybody was to get a taco thrown at
him I would put him on the list but it
wasn't for his professional no it's just
because he looks like an Interpol looks
like a target for time yeah he just
looks like I have a feeling like an
Interpol notice for doing bad more
likely like country what's the German
word for a face in need of a taco
exactly I I have a feeling this guy
probably parked in like a handicap zone
and walked out and somebody's like hey
dude you're not supposed to parked and
goes the right wing is said like the
left is so angry that this woman who's
quadriplegic was pissed I parked in her
space there so filled with anger let's
focus on facts and not time to throw it
okay call it from a 509 area code who's
this where you come from
