[Music]
all the things that came out of that
hearing what were your your top I don't
know two or three takeaways I mean
Michael Cohen came off very credible
more credible more credibly the other
word more credibly than I would have
initially thought the more fun
revelation and I guess we kind of knew
this but I really love the story about
Trump getting that bitter to buy his
self portrait for the highest amount of
money and then buy it back with charity
money and then hang it up in this golf
course it's like the most Trump story
I've ever heard in my life and it's
gotta be a crime people donate to the
Trump foundation they don't but do it
well I guess his like bylaws must be
just completely lacks there's no doubt
that you are not that that there is some
violation of a statute in terms of you
know for a taxation statute you get your
the planing will inspire the kids to go
to the golf course it'll be a bit of a
help them think positive for their tests
but yeah that sounds like such a narrow
one of the criminal violations that we
heard during the hearing here is a
moment that I think was perhaps the most
relevant in terms of what happens with
Trump the the hearing was largely devoid
of discussion of conspiracy to defraud
the United States right and the
underlying crime for what collusion is
largely I mean there was some of it
talked about it in terms of stone
calling and supposedly knowing about
WikiLeaks I also am not convinced that
the story about Trump not wanting to win
didn't in some way make the idea of
Trump in some fashion colluding with
anybody because he didn't think he was
gonna become president this was just a
business deal for him right which is why
I think the you know this line of
questioning as well as Acacio Cortez's
was more fruitful because it focuses on
the tax
elements which are really were the meat
and potatoes of the whole investigation
I believe right exactly and this is
representative Raja Chris Nam or a fee
and he this this brief exchange is I
think on some level the most relevant
it's only 16 seconds but here's the
question here's the answer is there any
other wrongdoing or illegal act that you
are aware of regarding Donald Trump that
we haven't yet discussed today yes and
again those are part of the
investigation that's currently being
looked at by the Southern District of
New York so we know Michael Cohen is is
working with the Southern District of
New York to on on at least multiple
other cases that of of criminal activity
by the president like it's almost as if
and I can understand the strategic
reasons and the tactical reasons and
maybe there is stuff there in terms of
Russia but it's almost as if in setting
the bar about Donald Trump that he was
some type of Manchurian Candidate and
there was some type of like massive
undercutting of our national security
and all that may be true but focusing
exclusively on that we just heard about
enough crimes in that hearing the other
day that they would have impeached like
every other President Bill Clinton was
impeached because he lied and in
deposition about having sex with
somebody yeah I mean this is what I
think some progressives I don't have
been saying for a while is the over
focus on the Russia stuff to the
exclusion of or to the detriment of his
tax crimes is a political mistake I
think that it seems to them because
they're in the Washington DC bubble that
you know the foreign policy apparatus
the national security apparatus and
undermining that is a far bigger crime
than financial ones which they see on
the day-to-day basis but those are more
easily provable this guy is not smart
enough to
cover his tracks and I think that that's
what we're gonna see also Muller is
clearly limiting his scope to collusion
and being conservative in that way so I
don't know if he's gonna come back with
any smoking gun about collusion like
what you're saying and that that you
know Republicans may rejoice but then we
have the southern district chipping away
at those other crimes yeah and I think
that's totally true and I also think
that these broader sets of crimes and
broader atmosphere of corruption is the
type of stuff that he's a egregious and
incompetent and extreme example of
because that's who he is but it reflects
systems problems and that's another
difference and approaches here inside
the Democratic Party the the only thing
that I would say that that would be I
think a legitimate response to that
critique of the overemphasis on is that
in three months from now we're gonna
have two or three or four examples of
what we just saw with Michael Cohen
we're gonna see Phil uh Felix aider up
there we're going to see weiselberger
who was the CFO for a Trump Inc we may
see others we couldn't see this prior to
now because Republicans were not going
to have hearings like this they simply
were not going to bring people up and
you wouldn't and part of the reason why
I think you know Michael Cohen probably
lied the first time around was because
he thought he could get away with it he
just thought he that you know he's not
like oh as Donald Trump the reason why
Donald Trump signs these checks and you
know breaks law like this is because he
thinks he's gonna get away with it I
want to see what if Felix Sater I'm
eager to hear that because that's the
only thread of this Russia thing that I
find particularly interesting and I
think we've always said literally from
day one mafia money laundering stuff and
the conduit as and also the Nexus like
if there even is like a tangential
connection or a direct connection to
intelligence services it's all going to
be at the Nexus of Felix aider and that
will be interesting and also an again I
don't know like if the broader
proposition like that marked life told
me of like
there's no restrictions on campaign
funding basically at all there's
lobbying groups for every foreign
interest with money you can imagine in
DC again this is a reflection of a
systems problem and I just also think
that for me the most interesting element
is Moscow
Trump Tower definitely that's I think
where all of this lies Trump wood isn't
colluding to win the election he's right
that's motive right right the motive is
he wants to make a couple hundred
million dollars and he will promise the
Russians anything if he doesn't like
he's gonna be President he's not gonna
have to fulfill those promises and
people reporting that he really didn't
plan to be president for a while if you
read I don't know if you guys read
devil's bargain but that was a great
yeah devil's bargain good book yeah and
that it's it's been clear that this was
a marketing campaign it's always about
him his image his brand the dollars in
his bank account at the end of the day
and so there's really no difference in
my view of like the Russia deal versus
whatever it is he did in the Bronx to
get that stupid golf course going yes
all the same way yeah what do you see
blown up it's all the same way of
operating yeah I think that I think
that's I think that's the case and and I
think I I there were moments and I would
have to go back through the testimony
but there were moments where I felt like
the Cohen was still holding stuff back
but he might be because he's crop across
cooperating with the Southern District
there were times when when those moments
happened he he acknowledged that he
couldn't talk about it but I and I there
were still times one or two times where
I thought he's still not there's some
stuff that I think he thinks will never
come out and and and I'm not conveying I
I'm just there's just too many there's
just too much here that too many
crosscurrents to expect all of this to
come out I have a feeling that there's
just some stuff that may implicate just
too many people on some level but the
other thing that came out of this was
that the Republicans are really really
bad at this like they they're so out of
practice
that on some level they they got used to
yelling into an echo chamber over
Benghazi they and they spent the past
two years knowing that these were all
sham hearings that they never had to in
any way ever you know sort of like
deliver anything and they're just out of
practice they're not good at this and
they're not bright but it's also
righteous indignation is so it it
doesn't ring true when you have all of
these indictments lined up behind Don
right now and the fact that they were
just up in arms consistently throughout
the hours and hours of testimony and
they kept deferring to Jim Jordan and
yielding their time to him as if that
would be effective I mean both of these
red-faced a-holes Jim Jordan and Mark
Meadows were not effective communicators
and yet they seem to be the ones leading
the charge the entire time well who are
you gonna do it you can have Higgins do
it I mean there's but there was one or
two guys who I thought were okay and
they were that they seemed to be back
benchers they were it's like the
Marshall McLuhan thing like TVs are cool
but is it cool vers hot mediums they
were way too hot
they were just whining and tantruming
and bloviating but I also think like and
this in this is a relatively minor point
but it's like not only is there no
authority because of the indictments
there's also like what are you actually
saying here like Donald Trump funny to
us but still part of his big brand with
his base is like I'm the business guy
the best people the best blah blah and
the whole thing was like the only
subtext could be was like wow look at
Donald Trump this poor incompetent
doddering man who just got totally hosed
nice monster and we're here to defend
him and it's like okay so your basic
defense of your president that you treat
like a Roman god he said he's a
who can't even get a good lawyer even
though he's like the best businessman in
the world right very hard when when the
when it's your number two guy
essentially is sitting right there
