or one more study this is worth talking
about youth suicide rates are higher in
states with high gun ownership rates
this is according to a team at a Boston
University School of Public Health
household gun ownership was the single
biggest predictor of youth suicide rate
in a state the single biggest predictor
and I think the response that I mean I'm
just trying to imagine the response that
people on the right are giving to
something like this well that's just
because guns are more effective well it
might be a good idea to get rid of the
guns it's weird because people kill
people guns don't kill people
yet this correlates it is well known
that people with access to a gun are far
more likely to complete a suicide some
data had suggested that gun ownership in
general was associated with higher
suicide rates the research looked at
some questions isn't it possible that
gun households are systemically
different from non gun households right
so that it's just a total coincidence
that there's something about the desire
to have guns that leads everybody in the
house to be depressed and that the guns
don't cause the increase in suicide rate
it just happens that people who are
suicidal tend to have more guns which is
also not subsonic rates that that's not
enough but and and the the researchers
looked at the question is it possible
there are just higher rates of
depression and suicidal ideation in a
gun household even if that was the case
that would be a pretty compelling
argument to limit gun ownership that
make you think of killing yourself well
know that there are a certain percentage
of people out there who want to commit
suicide
the maybe we should just prevent them
from having guns so they're not so
successful that to me seems like it but
I want to see how they vote first they
they didn't that turned out to be not to
the case for each ten percentage point
increase in household gun ownership the
youth suicide rate increased by 27% this
was in the American Journal of
Preventive Medicine the only other
factors that were associated with the
overall youth suicide rates were suicide
attempt rate and the percentage of youth
who are Native American so for example
in Alaska the soot youth the suicide
rate is 15 or so suicides per hundred
thousand people this is under age of 19
and just about 60% of households have
guns in South Dakota the suicide rate is
fourteen point nine per 100,000 again
just under 60% have homes of homes had
guns in 2004 in New York and New Jersey
suicide rate is 2.6 or so per 100,000
and you have rates of 20% have
households have guns and in New Jersey
eleven point four percent I mean I
suppose you could look at this in and
say all right well let me look at what
upstate New York is because that's maybe
more like it is in in a place like South
Dakota on some level right maybe it's
just depressing to be in a place where
it's so rural and but that's that's a
fact the availability of firearms is are
contributing to an increase in the
actual number of suicides not just
leading youth to substitute other means
of suicide for guns so there you have it
meanwhile the Supreme Court is reviewing
a case and we'll talk more about this on
the Second Amendment
the case itself is is narrow in its
scope in terms of New York City in a
particular handgun regulation but the
principles that may come out of it may
essentially wipe out the ability for any
gun control possible period end of story
