[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday January 29th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this the fort
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Renea Allen on her book it was all a
dream
a new generation confronts the broken
promise to black America also on the
program today Whittaker claims that
Muller is almost done and he'll do the
reviewing of the report thank you nancy
pelosi says that trump can do the State
of the Union address next week Senate
advances a bill making it illegal to
boycott Israeli products sure in the
house Roca HANA plans to reintroduce the
War Powers Resolution on Yemen and
Republican leaders in the Senate think
in a state tax repeal is a winner
shut down meanwhile still having painful
effects and John Bolton's dumb games
could get a lot of people killed new
report shows the tax cuts a failure even
on their own terms
well depends on if you believe the terms
we were given and Trump's EPA passes on
water testing requirements for deadly
chemicals in our drinking water so if
you've got a problem with the tax cuts
just drink enough water and it'll all go
away
no is Rick's itself up Denver students
march in solidarity with their teachers
as Virginia teachers March yesterday and
West Virginia teachers vote for a
one-day work stoppage mitch mcconnell's
got a Russian oligarch money problem
and lastly happy 2019 folks the Supreme
Court may effectively kill roe v wade
this week by doing nothing all this and
more on today's program I'm gonna get to
III will not leave the first half of the
show before I tell you about this
Supreme Court really it'll be a non
decision that will effectively kill roe
v wade i this is not hyperbole this is
something that we've actually talked
about I think multiple times over the
past year or two about the way it would
go down this could be one of those
moments literally any minute now and I'm
frankly sort of shocked at the complete
lack of coverage it's getting but we'll
see I will I will explain at the end of
the program I should say the end of the
free half here because I think this is
something that everybody should should
know about but we'll talk about it after
the guest
uh I don't know why I feel obligated to
read this email but I do just to show
that as much as we have a problem with
math around here that we can bring the
country together in spirit of
bipartisanship hello Sam at all maybe it
was that just I appreciate people using
the et al moniker that's uh I know how
you all feel about math but it's like
science in that it doesn't give two
shits about how you feel about it it
just is right math doesn't care about
your feelings anyway according to the
show numbers in my majority report app
this Friday will be mm 19th majority
report happening in the year of our Lord
2019 this is a singular occurrence no
matter how many more majority report
shows there ever are there will never be
a show number that matches the year
please consider the mathematical
numerological astrological and
historical significance of a show number
matching the current year the odds of
this happening are astronomical but you
and your intrepid crew have done it
celebrate invite some serious math nerd
on Friday and geek out you know you want
to yours for nearly three years now
never asked for anything until now
listener para look I have some bad news
for you we have made an executive
decision that after Friday we are only
going to number one show a year so it
will be 2019 will be the last numbered
show for this year and then we're gonna
do another one in January of 2020 so
this will not be a singular occurrence
it's actually going to be repeated for
years now because it's so fun because
it's so fun I just like the idea that we
would have let 2000 episodes go by
without even realizing that right but
we're gonna March 2019 so starting
Monday the show will go like this it
will be Monday will be
the 2019 a show and then 2019 be on
Tuesday 2019 see on Wednesday etc until
we get down to Z and then of course we
will go back to 2019 a a will be the
next show 30 shows out or 24 shows out
from Monday and then 48 shows out it'll
be AAA and so on it'll make sense we'll
make it all the way to the 2020 and then
we can just start over again that's some
powerful numerology right there yeah so
it's not that big of a deal
it is not singular we have we have math
may exist in the but it is we just
showed how you can manipulate it so it
kind of does care about your feelings it
does I didn't feel good about it an't
gonna do it speaking of not feeling good
my my daughter over the past couple
weeks had a horrible stomach virus there
was a lot of vomiting and how did I deal
with it well it was it was painstaking
but what I did do and I hope they don't
mind me talking about this because I
guess you don't want to associate that
with this but I gave her a bunch of
liquid IV because I was very concerned
that she would get dehydrated and it's
very difficult to say to a kid hey drink
a lot of water and have them do it I
mean it's difficult to say to a kid do
anything and have them do it but with
110 percent daily value of vitamin C and
b12 liquid IV is a great way to stay
healthy and hydrated during these cold
winter months
liquid IV is not your average
electrolyte drink mix it uses cellular
transport technology in a specific ratio
of glucose sodium and potassium which
when mixed with 16 ounces of water helps
your body absorb more water and
nutrients directly into your bloodstream
it can provide the same hydration as
drinking two to three bottles of water
liquid IV is the fastest growing
hydration brand you can find them
everywhere even Costco and you can find
them all at Costco's nationwide
like I say I use this when I've been
drinking a little bit too much
I use it when I'm feeling like I'm a
little dehydrated but was able to give
some to Milo when I was worried that she
was gonna get dehydrated
I love liquid IV I know you will too
right now my listeners get 20% off at
liquid IV dot-com when you use my code
majority a check out that's 20% off
anything you order at on liquid IVs
website go to liquid IV com enter my
promo code majority to get your savings
and start getting better hydration
that's liquid IV dot-com promo code
majority don't wait get hydrated today
and lastly two more pieces of house I I
was incredibly remiss first off this
goes out to my buddy
lawyer Matthew a happy birthday a couple
days late I apologize and this the royal
fanfare to celebrate the birth of Ronald
Reagan's has is a father again they let
him they let him do it again sort of
shocking but he has a my understanding
is a very healthy daughter and mom and
dad sibling all doing healthy and are
well and healthy and excited to have
their so congratulations sucker did not
listen to me did not listen
alright I have a feeling this is gonna
be the last time we're talking about
this guy cuz I just I don't think I've
ever seen anybody so quickly so
thoroughly humiliated in so many venues
by so many different people there is
really I mean this is like dunam sam
nunn burg it's more than that it's more
than that because there's no pity and
there's not even like there's not even
the same like sort of Jawad de vivre in
this this is just feels like it
everybody's doing their job right
everybody and and that job of course is
to make Howard Schultz the billionaire
owner of a series of cafes coffee shops
or formerly that he doesn't get to be
king just because he's so rich he can he
can go around to be unofficial King as a
lot of these billionaires are doing but
he doesn't get to be named the king
sorry
and here he is with Andrew Ross Sorkin
is that is that it is does Andrew Ross
Sorkin does he live in one of like
Howard Schultz's like suit coat pockets
does he just hang out there as a
billionaire whisperer
yeah yeah he's he just the sort of
pallet pals around with him
and here is interviewing him at Barnes &
Noble this is in New York City correct
and CNN was covered today cover this
library's this they videotaped it like
they do all events at Barnes & Noble and
for people who nobody knew who this guy
was three weeks ago
and talked about if this was his plan to
sell books I got some bad news for you
buddy
here we go I am seriously considering
running for president as a centrist
independent and I wanted to clarify the
word independent which I view merely as
a designation on the ballot was i ross
Sorkin's a look on his face when he's
just like are really upset now so there
was that heckler that was highly
inappropriate and so he came back
another one came back for a more
appropriate one same guy
[Music]
we're gonna get to that idea and that
sentiment in just a minute
there you go that was awesome
they're gonna keep trying to do this
though well what what do you mean
they're gonna keep trying to do what who
is they uh egotistical billionaire
centrists who represent that point of
view the most amazing thing about this
was yesterday when Michael Bloomberg
basically said like hey I was I
swallowed enough of my pride to not do
this like I my therapy worked for a long
time for me to just get to the place
where I wasn't just so narcissistic that
I thought I could do this
I am richer than you and if anybody
should have done it it should have been
me and you cannot do it yeah if there's
one thing billionaires hate its other
billionaires taking liberties that they
themselves didn't take right and he's
like I was big enough man like if
there's any billionaire who deserved to
be king it would have been me and since
I was big enough to not take it it is
absurd that you would even think about
taking it in fact it's a personal
offense to me
that's what Bloomberg is saying that's
so awesome but this guy is and but this
is where was where was he let's just
listen to this a little bit he was on
NPR Morning Edition right this guy's
like put aside for a moment that he's
that the whole concept is obnoxious and
offensive put aside the the the
incredible narcissism the the sense of
propriety the this sort of like the the
complete obliviousness this guy's also
really bad at this and seems to have
just like the I'll tell you what this is
an example of this is an example of a
guy who has had no one question anything
out of his mouth for years nothing
nothing he's showing up on all these
shows
with like not even 1/4 baked ideas about
what he's doing this is a guy who has
been so encased in an Amber in terms of
like criticism or even the questioning
well he's used to getting ratioed on
Twitter I mean but you don't you don't
think he looks at that do you you don't
think he looks at the replies he has
somebody who brings them a form that
says you got this many replies oh great
he doesn't know what ratio means no I
think he's mad that people are allowed
to tweet at him he probably doesn't he's
probably just so far removed and it's
stunning because he's completely
unprepared for this and he's getting
softball questions virtually from
everywhere Cheryl Doral you had to be
balanced and equalled with creating
value for our customers and most
importantly for our people would you be
changing as president laws are pushing
to change SEC regulations anything else
to change the business environment in
which shareholder value has become
utterly paramount for companies across
this country I don't think I would be
changing laws but what I would try and
do is influence public CEOs to
understand that we have a moral
obligation and responsibility not only
to make a profit and create shareholder
value but also to do everything we can
to do more for our employees and the
communities we serve because it was it
you know no why would you need to be
president to do that right he's like I'm
not gonna use any part of government to
to in any way infringe or mitigate the
horridness of shareholder value concept
of the what of the way the company
should be measured I'm just gonna do it
from the bully pulpit but here's a guy
with billions of dollars he could spend
300 million dollars and he'd be on so
many ads across the country saying this
that we get sick we would know every
every contour to of his face we'd be
able to count how many hairs are on his
head with the amount of money that he
would spend in the same way that I would
constantly
like we're gonna go out for a good
company dinner but he needs to be
President to do this apparently but no
laws serve can you preach your way to
that change on a large scale in a system
where a CEO who doesn't maximize
shareholder value can get sued or lose
the company financial performance in a
way is the price of admission we have to
a company has to perform but you don't
have to perform at the expense of your
people what Schultz has not made clear
at this early stage at least is how if
at all he would change the economic or
political systems under which he grew
rich it is not clear how he would reduce
the national debt although he says it is
far too high
he says Republicans failed to take it
seriously and he accuses Democrats of
making promises that could enlarge it
free Medicare for all government paid
free college for all first of all
there's no free nothing is free
President Obama's theory was that you
reduced the deficit in small measure by
raising taxes on the wealthiest
Americans president Trump's theory was
that you reduced the deficit by cutting
taxes on the wealthiest Americans you're
smiling which if either of those is true
look can I say it in my own words thanks
so we we are in dire need of
comprehensive tax reform what which
would include a significant level of
infrastructure development is it safe to
say that the wealthiest would have to
pay more whatever the rates become
however the reform is structured what I
would say is that we need comprehensive
tax reform
o'my can stick with that because I think
there are there are a number of areas
here that that need to be addressed and
and and I'm not trying to dodge any
question I just I feel like you know
what what we have today is an unfair
system however when I see Elizabeth
Warren positive yeah I Got News for you
he is trying to dodge a question when
you say I'm not trying to dodge a
question and everybody thinks you're
dodging the question guess what you're
dodging the question
either taxes are gonna go up on the
wealthy or they're gonna go down if you
just change you know well they pay $30
worth of taxes on $100 but what we're
gonna do is we're going to
we're gonna splice that up and what
they're gonna end up doing is paying $15
taxes on $50 and that's the way that we
are that's the comprehensive reform that
we're talking about well I mean do they
end up paying more or less I'm going to
avoid that question in my own language
but let me take the opportunity to
criticize Elizabeth Warren however when
I see Elizabeth Warren come out with you
know a ridiculous plan of taxing wealthy
people a surtax of 2% because it makes a
good headline or sends out a tweet when
she knows for in fact that's not
something that's ever gonna be passed
this is what's wrong I mean we you can't
just attack these things in a punitive
way by punishing people but I'm just
thinking you've got trillion-dollar
annual deficits now in good times
getting that down calls for some
specific painful sounding things drastic
cut in military spending at a time when
the United States is confronting China
and Russia and who knows who else
changes to Medicare and Social Security
tax increases on somebody are you gonna
do that
well you haven't talked about growth so
you think you can grow your way out of a
trillion I don't think you think no I
don't know I don't think you can grow
your way out of a trillion dollars but I
remember I'm I've been an entrepreneur
for the last 40 years I view things a
little bit differently than certainly a
traditional politician and I have a 30
year plus record of being able to solve
complex problems in unique ways though
he is vague about what he would do if
elected Howard Schultz is insistent that
he can be an alternative in the
presidential campaign
I can't think of anything that is a more
quintessential expression of our
democracy then provide the American
people with the noise for president
doesn't have to be binary between a
Republican and Democrat he says the next
president must be the right person and
he will decide within months if he
thinks that person should be him oh my
god oh my god why does this guy even get
to be interviewed on NPR that's what the
hell I was saying about he was on 60
minutes yesterday - like how long did it
take
for them to give Bernie a serious
interview last time around it's it is
stunning he just bought his way on to
these places and is talking about
democracy demands that he that some
wealthy guy run as an independent it's
shocking it's it's shocking the level of
delusion and some people speculated that
this was basically a shot across the bow
threatening you know if you'd nominate
Elizabeth Warren if you nominate Bernie
Sanders this is what's gonna happen but
Mike Bloomberg came out and said no you
will not I think to update the
libertarian challenge we should do a
billionaire debate challenge to people
like Howard Schultz want to call in and
debate us yes I will do right now this
is a message I'm sending out to Howard
Schultz debate me I insist you come on
this program you can call in and if you
want you can fly in get fly in and you
can I'll let you sit in this seat
I'll sit I'll sit over there and you can
sit here it builds so much character for
him I think I think around it by yes men
all the time
I think democracy calls for it all right
we got to take a quick break when we
come back we talking to ronique WA Allen
on her book it was all a dream a new
generation confronts a broken promise to
black America will be right back
[Music]
you
am seeder on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome to the
program producer with fork films and
author of it was all a dream a new
generation confronts the broken promise
to black America Renea Allen welcome to
the program good to be here Pam so let's
start with with with why what like what
why did you set out to write this book
which was I guess basically an
examination in many respects of of the
Millennials black Millennials response
to I think well you you'll tell us from
your perspective but you know a a
perpetual frustration that black people
have in this country absolutely I saw
stories the millennial generation which
as you may know is not doing too well
overall you know there are lots of
stories particularly about kind of these
urban elite over educated you know
entitled folks but what I felt was
missing from the conversation was
actually a story about people of color
and particularly young black people like
myself I saw my story feeling a little
bit different yeah absolutely like kind
of a millennial story but in race makes
everything look a little bit different I
felt like things like you know
discrimination and racism and and the
burdens at that time was being missed on
the story of the Millennial so I wanted
to change that and talk to people and
not just myself I get tired of listening
to myself but I wanted to talk to other
people and hear what they were going
through too and the things that they
were experienced so that's why I started
to write the book and you ended up
interviewing about 75 people across the
country telling tell us how you found
them yeah range of ways you know some of
the stories about Millennials are out
there um so there were a few that I were
interested in but I kind of looked at
what the traditional notions of success
for
in America what opportunity looked like
and and then started kind of in other
things are pretty common housing
education student debt and in reached
out to some organizations as I talked to
more to people about this book some
people contacted me with friends or
family some stories I found in newspaper
articles so really a range of ways that
I reached out to people and decided who
I wanted to profile and the the the
title of the book it was all a dream
comes from a biggie smalls song what
what why that title I mean well at what
point did that title come in for you I
guess I think that kind of was actually
where I started I mean I didn't wanted
to talk about opportunity in in black
America and I wanted to talk about
opportunity and young black America and
somehow you know initially the
conversations were about the American
Dream and what that meant and I think I
was just listening to the music I
listened to a lot of music and the title
of the songs you see came up and this
idea this notion of dreams was really in
my mind and it kind of came from they're
pretty organically but I mean I was also
interested in how the notion of the
dream in the black community obviously
thinking about Martin Luther King's
dream and how that has kind of changed
and more for different generations and
how you know I think biggie song is
actually a play on MLK's lehrerin lyric
ml MLK's speech and how even jay-z even
after biggie died kind of said you know
what was it all a dream and how we were
kind of I think as a black community
constantly thinking about dreams and and
promises and and really systematically I
think being denied and that is
systematically but culturally as well
being denied aims and promises and and
what that meant
has that I mean the because juicy is is
is optimistic I think as it's on right I
mean and and so has the perspective or I
guess let me let me ask you this from
from and and then I want to get into
maybe some of the the individuals but
I'm curious as to what let's start with
overall what your experience is of black
Millennials what their response what
their perspective is on the American
Dream how you you know might imagine
it's different from white Millennials in
terms of what they experienced and and
then will I want to talk about maybe
what that how that relationship to the
American Dream has changed or if it has
changed at all in in some earlier from
earlier black generations yeah so I
think I mean one of the most surprising
statistics I found pretty early on when
it relates to the American Dream was
that black millennial more than anyone
in this generational cohort actually
believe in the American Dream the most
now when you look at the study that's
actually young white people who say that
they've achieved it the most but young
black people actually believes in it
they're optimistic I think we are
optimistic as a people and I think that
partially because we have like no other
choice to be but optimistic I think you
know America's been pretty crappy to to
black people to be young in black
America it doesn't always feel safe I
mean there's a group of young women in
New York State that it just was search
you know for their clothes we see
countless video after video of young
black men and women being brutalized
terrorized and even killed by law
enforcement we know that you know it's
it's not always safe place to be
America's not always a safe place
however I say that with a caveat because
I do think there's a lot of joy there's
a lot of optimist optimism there was you
know high political rates of
participation a little cool
participation in the black community so
I think that like these are all really
wonderful things and I say that but also
I think that there's still a desire to
be seen as human to be not seen as you
know a burden or a problem and I think
that you know every single black
millennial I talk to despite you know
sexuality or political affiliation or
you know class physicians that race
their race impacted their lives I think
that that matters and I think when you
look at white Millennials for example
and and I should say black and
Millennials of color doesn't necessarily
mean they have equal experiences but
particularly you look at white
Millennials I think that sometimes they
don't have to worry about those things
they don't have to worry about things
like am I gonna get home safely
now they're worried and equally is
burdened I think by some of the things
that the Millennial Generation overall
faces like you know student debt for
example um or
you know home ownership but I think that
because they don't have to contend with
some of the other forces like racism and
discrimination their dreams are you know
a little bit different I think that for
black Millennials you know they still
want to not be they want to be visible
um you know they want you were the only
group that is sad to say our lives
mattered and that's a pretty significant
thing for me what that does to a person
you know having a black president people
don't necessarily think cured issues
around race or racism so it's a unique
space to be but at the same time I think
a lot of our dreams
um the fundamental dreams you know still
center around you know home ownership
housing but we also want to be free
and I think that we don't know if I
would think that I did white millenials
don't have to worry about that where do
you think it lies I mean and I think
like the the you know you write about
buying a house and I guess in 2005 and
subsequent to that finding that you were
eligible for participation at a class
action because the mortgage your lender
was involved in predatory practices and
and I think you know the the idea that
black Americans were targeted more with
these predatory practices is is a
function of their being in addition to
their being sort of broadly speaking
less wealth in the in the black
community because the less opportunity
to develop wealth over time
but also less opportunities to to borrow
and so going in and in in getting a
suppose it's a subprime loan or at least
those type of terms when you maybe you
didn't need to actually it had you been
had you been white or had not been sort
of cajoled into this I'm not saying you
specifically I'm talking about the
community but what I wondered like what
what to the extent that we know we're
talking about you know black lives
matter and to what extent is is the the
relationship between is the these fears
are they being as the difference is the
difference for Millennials that there is
a theoretically a greater awareness you
know broad-based awareness of of what
black Americans go through in terms of
particularly in the context of police
and and in this concept because of just
like video cameras I mean within the
black community right I am and correct
me if I'm wrong but I imagine there's
been you know Gen X baby boomers they
were
you know those generations were all
aware that like look you're gonna get
treated differently you know you're
telling your kids you're gonna get
treated differently you got to be
careful out there I imagine that's you
know that's not new the the newness is
that there's almost you know there's an
ability to show it to a broader audience
ya know I think that's absolutely true
however I'll say that I think that for
in the millennial generation really and
I'm in the next generation Gen Z will
see a - we had to do this with the
understanding that we were in the kind
of shadow of the civil rights movement
right Jesse Jackson had run for
president we saw Barack Obama most
Millennials came of age is Barack Obama
was was elected you know to the White
House I think and we are the most
diverse adult generation now Jonesy just
took us over I think being the most
diverse population that we are the most
adult our diverse adult population I
think that so many of us or a lot of us
you know grew up even seeing you know
with with white or partners of other
colors oh you know schools are largely
segregated now but you know a lot of us
have had friends of other colors and
other races we there are lots of black
representation on television I Oprah was
coming up coming to dominate as as we
were growing up so I think that there is
this message that well if you said we
can do it so can you if Barack Obama can
do it you know you guys just work harder
but but there aren't you know there
aren't limitations I mean even Donald
something this was I think the 90s you
know said that he'd want to be a
well-educated black because they have
lots of opportunities so there's this
language of opportunity is out there and
in in race doesn't matter I won right
when Obama was um after he was elected
you know there's all this talk of like a
facial America so there was you know
there's not and even and I should say
even I'm not sure if you've read it but
even as recently as
last week or two weeks ago there was an
article and how doesn't Boston outlet
beside MLK scream of racism his love
race is largely you know been achieved
which is like what so I think that you
know we we have it a bit it's a
different place it's essentially the
same story but I think we grew up in a
different place than Gen X and
definitely the baby boomer so that makes
it even that makes our experience is
unique I don't want to say better or
worse but unique I mean I just want to
tease that out a little bit more like
what what is it is it more is it more
complicated in some ways in that it's
not as you know that I you know if
you're fighting for the right to vote
you're fighting for the right to not be
discriminated when you go into a
restaurant if you're fighting for the
right to not be discriminated when
housing you know it's a fairly binary
straightforward thing but if you're you
know if you ostensibly have those rights
but the the options are are limited and
in the context of a generation like the
Millennials where they don't have the
same opportunities that we did in Gen X
and those people who are who have the
least political power broadly speaking
who are subject to racism are going to
be even more impacted by the the
dynamics that are impacting the
Millennials broadly speaking is that in
some ways I mean I don't I don't know
you know it's not a competition but it's
and I can tell that it's you know
obviously it's unique but I'm curious as
to that dynamic that is sort of the the
problems are more subtle in some
respects than you know somebody turning
a fire hose on you okay yeah that and
that's like I find the frustration of
this generation now there are lots of
things that aren't so subtle right like
you know we are seeing black and brown
men gunned down
on cellphones right that that is that is
if that is not subtle we we see the
language that use even around well you
know sometimes the language can be there
dog whistles right sometimes that can be
subtle and not-so-subtle but I
absolutely think that and from the
Millennials that I spoke with said that
that was the most frustrating part about
this generation about feeling less than
but having to prove that you experience
some kind of racism in a way that you
know people want you to say well to
someone call you the n-word because
that's you know that that's back to
people prove that racism still exists
but what I think is harder for people is
for someone to say oh here's this
mediocre woman who just got promoted
over me and I think it's raised but I
can't quite tell I'm not sure or I don't
or something you know a friend of mine
who's deceased
student you know has a great job her dad
is you know a VP of a company um you
know that's why you know she she had
this network but you know I didn't have
that and in people seeing that as you
know a problem of race and things like
affirmative action not being advocated
for as much someone's you know being
asked for the ID at a polling place is
it races and not like you know I feel
like a lot of young heels are kind of
playing this game and don't always know
how to deal with that but still
ultimately feeling that they are less
than that their lives actually are you
know worth less that they aren't being
as equal and that's a phosphate in place
to be in to what extent in your
experience are our black Millennials
sensitive to race I mean excuse me to to
to class oh yeah because I mean it's
it's interesting dynamic and I think
we're going to see it you know play out
you know more and more in these
elections because the
the african-american vote was the older
vote seemed to go at least in within the
context of like the Democratic primary
anyways seem to go with with Clinton
younger vote seemed to go with Sanders
we're gonna get another opportunity I
think in some respects during this
primary to see how that shakes out I'm
curious what was there what where does
class figure in with black Millennials
that's a great question
um I think class is absolutely a it's
it's huge I have two chapters one
specifically focused on black
professionals and one focused on
working-class Millennials and it plays a
huge role in their lives I actually
found that much like ILS hosted a study
on black middle-class folks and in the
90s and he said that black it was a rage
of a privileged class and I found the
most actually frustration I think with
middle class or upper income black
Millennials and I think it's because and
this is kind of the same conclusion that
coasts um came to earlier on that they
have more of a proximity to like people
they are in corporate spaces more they
feel like they're tested by the system
quote-unquote even more so and they were
frustrated you know by all means every
single person I spoke with in this for
this chapter in this group had made it
they were professional but they felt
like they were always questioned and
they felt like twice as hard with a very
very real thing prevent that they
experienced every single day and it was
a real I would say even burden on their
lives and it also impacted their lives
in other ways that were interesting to
me like I started a lot of reporting for
this book during the height of the black
lives matter movement and they felt that
as black refresh
they sometimes couldn't even protests or
speak out in the ways of some of their
counterparts could so that impacted the
way in their decision on how to be vocal
um so that was also interesting and they
a lot of them thought of the class
survived because they thought that they
had more on the line but so that was
that was really interesting and yes I
good no I'm I'm curious I mean if I if I
understand what you're saying that there
was the that the the the wealthier and I
guess in terms of you know compensation
or in terms of making money the more
successful folks you spoke to they more
acutely felt their the impact of their
race is that what you're saying I think
they felt that in the I think they felt
it in in the context of the workplace
more um because often these are folks
who were the only one or one of a few
they felt directly that they had a kind
of deal with this microaggressions every
day and I think more than any other
group they struggled with kind of as you
mentioned earlier is what is this subtle
racial innuendo how do I deal with that
and what are the consequences and
repercussions for that that's
interesting and why and why is that just
simply because they're in a their the
world in which they work in is just more
white and yeah and they're being judged
to constantly by white people absolutely
absolutely I mean it's you know it kind
of goes across industry right largely
white folks are the ones in power
whatever you're you're generally talking
about but particularly in these
corporate spaces in these professional
environments they didn't feel like you
know even even the ones with good
positions with you know a lot of power
still
feel like they had autonomy they still
didn't feel like they had the freedom so
to speak as their well white
counterparts to just kind of be were
there any particular people or stories
that you met I mean characters who stuck
out for you as you as you as you met
these 75 people that that stick with you
today yeah one so I wanted to look at
opportunity and how people were
successful and what even success meant
and a broad range of ways and how they
were approaching that and one way that I
was interested in was sex work wanted to
see if that you know was what was going
on in that industry and for young
Millennials and talk to a bunch of sex
workers in Chicago and actually two
stories there one of a dominatrix who
was working to literally pay for her
master's degree her parents cut her off
actually because they didn't agree with
her wanting to pursue Gender Studies and
she you know had some loans but it
wasn't enough so ended up becoming a
dominatrix and actually as she said
still was being charged
she could still only charge with them
but she couldn't charge the same as her
white counterpart hmm because of you
know I'm just discrimination like I you
know she was making a third of what they
were making um but also he talked about
how her largely white clientele and she
felt conflicted about this um because
she felt like you know people like her
dark skinned
I mean her clientele were largely white
men and how she would are with them
while also a saying like black feminist
ideology and and how it was very
cathartic for her to kind of crack the
whip on what she says well you know see
my yeah
yeah and she had a class analysis where
she did you know she didn't like how you
know their their class position and
associated with that and also um you
know they just were not mo kind of say
that so to speak so it was criticism
that she said that was a way of healing
for her um I thought that was just
fascinating she was a completely
fascinating person in that so I just
kind of blew my mind yeah yeah it's it's
also it's also stunning that she's she's
getting you know she's that sort of
conscious also of not getting the market
rate right for I mean because it sounds
like some of those those clients held
were specifically you know they were
looking for a specific that I think
rates was obviously playing a big part
in what they were looking to in terms of
their catharsis as well who else struck
you I mean there was a character from
Ohio Michael whose story was was was
pretty I mean that's not his real name
but but but but tell us about him as
well yeah I know he's another one who
was fascinating because I want I set out
to talk about student debt right because
that is a millennial experience I think
Jenna started you know to experience
that but Millennials really had seen
tuition rates climb and I was trying to
figure out like what what the role of of
Education was in terms of mobility so I
met this young man who had the stunning
amount of student debt he but his story
it was more complicated than just being
someone who took out a lot of money for
college he actually went to school on an
athletic scholarship and was injured I
had no idea that those scholarships
aren't necessarily for or for years now
there's some groups advocating for that
to be changed for you to be able to have
multi year scholarships but
once he was injured he wanted to pursue
his education and had to do his best to
figure out how to do so now he also came
from he didn't come from like you know
so to speak the of poverty his dad had a
kind of good working-class job but
because of where we are and what's
happening to the working-class and
industrialization um his dad had to
retire early so he's you know his
factory closed and so he couldn't you
know assist his son at college after he
lost his se lost the scholarship and his
story kind of smiled as he was just
trying to constantly play catch-up after
losing the scholarship you know figuring
out how to deal with healthcare um in
trying to take kind of jobs here and
there running for for student government
he's quite a charismatic young man but
also said he felt a difference of not
having the security that some of his
peers did of not being able to ask his
his parents for significant amounts of
money and trying to really contend with
that and still kind of remarkably going
to school going you know going through
school and he wanted to get a masters
degree despite having the kind of
staggering amount of $100,000 of debt he
was continuing on because he felt that
this was his dream alright so lastly and
what when you entered it what do you
think how did your perspective or did
you go through any like a major change
in perspective on I guess Millennials or
yourself in the context of of this
guessing study of folks yeah I think it
was more depressing than I realized
about how young black people really feel
marginalize in America how they feel
invisible
a lot of people including that in
I just spoke about Michael was feeling
depressed a lot of people were suicidal
was a hard thing to to see it like you
are constantly told you are less land
they felt like they were still treated
that way however I think the amazing
thing was that so many young people were
persisting they were determined to make
their own way they were determined to
push back and that was wonderful and
amazing and that feels like you know
what black people have been doing for
years but also what millenials are doing
they they were entrepreneurs they were
having side hustles they were optimistic
and that that was kind of amazing to me
I was blown away by that
well it's fascinating stuff franaqua
Allen the book is it was all a dream a
new generation confronts the the broken
promise to black America thanks so much
for your time today I really appreciate
you thanks so much for having me Sam all
right folks
gonna head into the fun half oh but
before we do I want to talk about this
this case that I think we're going to
know within a day or two if essentially
roe v wade is is done is it is
inoperative in this country and what I
mean by that and let me just be clear
from from from from the get go right now
there is a federal right one that the
Supreme Court has determined is embedded
in our Constitution for women to receive
an abortion and it is a important enough
right that it cannot be infringed upon
but at the highest standard of scrutiny
in other words there
cannot there can be some mitigation of
that right some infringement upon that
right States after a certain number of
weeks the state can outlaw abortion
except for in very narrow circumstances
but the most recent example of this
scrutiny came in regard to a trap law
which is a short for targeted regulation
of abortion providers in 2015 it was
2030 yeah 2015
excuse me 2016 there was a Texas law
that went to the Supreme Court it was a
whole woman's health versus Heller stet
this is a Texas law that basically said
well specifically said a physician
performing or inducing an abortion at a
clinic had to have active admitting
privileges at a hospital that is not
more than 30 miles away from where the
abortion is performed and that hospital
needed to provide gynae logical or
obstacle health care services so if
you're at a and many times physicians
working at these clinics do not have
[Music]
admitting privileges at hospitals
certainly not within 30 miles but very
often they just aren't affiliated with
the hospital they work for the clinic
may travel depending on the state they
may travel around to various clinics and
whatnot this was a law that was set up
specifically as like a bank shot to make
it impossible for clinics to provide
abortions to women it's like also you
know
they have other laws like trap laws like
this like the clinic must have 22 foot
high ceilings you know things that are
basically impossible to have happen in
the real world that decision the helis
that was a 5-3 decision Scalia was dead
there was eight eight justices on the
court and Kennedy added the fifth vote
to the four liberals on the court an
identical law was passed by Louisiana it
went to the four a Fifth Circuit Court
of Appeals and that Court upheld the
Louisiana law now even one of the guys
on the court appointed by Reagan wrote
in the dissent that you all are ignoring
the Supreme Court precedent circuit
courts of Appeal they cannot ignore
Supreme Court precedent in this law as
written in Louisiana was was virtually
identical if not identical to the Texas
law the Supreme Court struck it down
this fifth circuit could could not find
without completely ignoring the supreme
court that this law was constitutional
so the way that this is resolved is the
case heads up to the Supreme Court the
lawyers who are representing the
abortion clinic and two of the
physicians presumably worked there
filed an application Supreme Court on
Monday yesterday to halt this Louisiana
law because they've already resolved
this question if the Supreme Court now
which is constituted very differently
than it was in 2016 Kennedy is gone
Scalia's seat has been filled
there is a 5-4 majority more than likely
to simply say we're not gonna address
this in other words we have no problem
with lower courts ignoring that
precedent we set about trap laws and if
that's the case every state in the
country that is a red state and more are
gonna try it well the red states are
going to try and legislate something
very similar they'll probably just start
with this and then if that's not
effective in eliminating abortion
services in their state they'll come up
with another one and roe v wade there's
not gonna be any announcement that roe v
wade is overturned but roe v wade is
essentially no longer in effect now this
dynamic already exists to some degree
around the country you have I think it's
one or two states in the center of the
country where there's maybe one abortion
provider virtually impossible to reach
for a huge percentage of the people in
the state but this is gonna be more
comprehensive this is going to be
contiguous states it's gonna be a real
problem we're gonna get to that
situation and I think people predicted
it
when Kavanaugh was nominated that it
five years abortion will all be all be
you know at the very least in 25 30
states across the country it'll be
illegal and this will effectively make
it illegal insofar as the requirements
that the states will have will make it
practically from a practical standpoint
impossible to get an abortion in those
days
and we should know within a day or two
whether the Supreme Court how they react
to this if they they say to the Fifth
Circuit no send it back you you do you
did this wrong we've already ruled on
this then it's alive for another you
know who knows but if they don't there's
going to be 25 states within a matter of
months probably 20 states within a
matter of months that will pass similar
legislation and abortion clinics will be
basically impossible in these states so
that's terrifying it's terrifying and
it's like it you know it's like watching
a slow-motion train wreck the moment
Donald Trump won that election it was
all but assured right I mean you know
maybe a meteorite hits the Supreme Court
or you know knocks out people but this
is this is the reality and we'll know in
a couple of days about this at least
this threat and I don't know maybe
Kavanaugh gorsek will be like or Roberts
will say I don't feel comfortable
overturning precedent that is two years
old but when they don't really have to
say anything they just have to sort of
turn their eyes away and look away a
little bit very dangerous stuff these
are gonna get pretty crazy I think the
next two years are gonna be pretty nasty
stuff I could be nasty well past that
but guarantee the next two years
you know everyone made fun of the
women's strike for being sort of a cue
imminently forming thing that's not a
real strike but like we might have to do
a real one and I'm glad people are
starting to wake those muscles up again
because we're gonna need them it's
certainly happening amongst the the
teachers across the country I mean there
was a vote apparently
taken last night in West Virginia to go
do a one-day work stoppage in this West
Virginia is where a lot of these
teachers strikes in this round started
and the fact that they're willing to go
and do it again they're not playing and
not to mention all the airport workers
the airport we talked we talked about
that yesterday it was when the when the
airline attendants basically just said
look what's happened with the with the
air traffic controllers we're next that
was a not so veiled threat and it worked
it worked it took two hours essentially
for that to happen lastly before we go
into the fun half there's still a couple
of days left I don't know the specific
day I think there's at least like a week
left let's play this clip of know me
constant because this is captures some
of the reason why I think she's a good
choice for Public Advocate in New York
City and you know the fact is is that
she is the one candidate in the race who
I think is the most alien ated from the
political establishment in New York I
don't think she's particularly liked by
a lot of those players and that's why I
actually think it's she's perfect for
this role she's the only one who's not
taking any real estate developer money
anybody knows New York City politics
knows that it is real estate money that
is the most corrupting force and
problematic force within within New York
City and here she is this was at a
candidate forum I believe making that
case
it's not enough to be progressive I'm
90% of the issues it's that 10% of the
issues that determines whether somebody
has been illegally evicted from the
neighborhood that they grew up in it
determines whether or not a council
member sides with rezoning their
neighborhood it determines whether or
not these oligarchs who are buying up
our apartments around the city are
paying taxes or not why is it we're able
to give them tax breaks but we don't
have the money to build affordable
housing we are in crisis we need to take
this seriously and it's Public Advocate
I am not only not taking any form of
developer money whether through
loopholes or not but I am taking them on
directly investigating them and I'm
investigating city agencies or like the
MTA where we have a real estate
developer sitting on the MTA or Niger
that's having closed-door meetings
because they're owned by developers we
have to start understanding that these
two work hand in hand the developers in
the city are making our city inequitable
and they're driving out Oh Oh from
middle-class higher middle-class to
low-income in this city making it
completely unaffordable all right and
look if you're a New York City resident
every dollar you give will be matched by
eight dollars by New York City because
of their matching funds if anomie gets
raises I think there's another ten to
fifteen thousand dollars she has to
cross in terms of the threshold it's not
a lot of money unless you start
contemplating the idea that it's it's
not a lot of money for a political race
but at a hundred dollars or fifty
dollars or twenty-five dollars or ten
dollars a click it it's going to take a
little bit of an effort
so no pitch for the the show membership
today we're going to put a link to know
Mickey's act blue head over there if
you're in New York City resident and
that is I mean you can donate money to
her and that's great but a New York City
resident you donate ten you're given or
80 you donate 250 you're giving her I
can't even do the math on that what is
that like 2,000
so and it's only up to 250 that gets
matched so head over there
help her out today we have a link at
majority dot F M what is it just you go
to act blue to write I'm sure and look
up no Mickey Khan's kon st and we'll put
that on there on the website just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
of course you can go to join the
majority report and check it out there
is no tea MBS tonight it is Thursday and
Bill Fletcher jr. Bill Fletcher jr. will
be on the program and I suspect it's
gonna have to change next week too
because we're gonna do the State of the
Union on Tuesday next Tuesday unless
let's probably Nancy says you can't come
again to him be nice sort of hoping
maybe they can be pushed to like April
Jaime any anti Fattah this week oh yes
so we still have up our history as a
weapon from last week where Sean and
Matt Chrisman from chopper traphouse
talk about why is a us never had a real
labor backed socialist political party
and tomorrow we're releasing a new
episode that we did with Leslie Lee the
third from the great podcast struggle
session where we finally talk about The
Handmaid's Tale and other more effective
resistance art like the first purge the
Handmaid's Tale yeah the book of the
show the TV show and what it means and
on I love it
yeah I know well you know there's a
slightly longer news cycle when you have
podcasts your market about a culture
your marketing department would have
said wait we want to peg that to the
return they're not gonna get aggregated
like that now well maybe well talk about
it some more
I think we're done with it actually I
we've watched it we've seen enough well
you're not gonna see the new season no
all right maybe it maybe if there's some
some compelling new stuff in there we'll
have to talk about it some more
we're gonna have to do a marketing
on the majority report retreat please
it's a speaking site guys litter
hangover we're doing the House of the
Seven Gables 1851 check that out oh it's
coming back I think I think it's very
timely now election I'm not being not
being facetious about that also at EMBs
live show Friday night if you are in the
area should come to that at the bail
house check it out all right folks six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty heading to the fun half
[Music]
you
fun half ladies and gentlemen
action well I don't know this is really
a correction but it is an update this is
a this is a corrective update how's that
at the mr Ombudsman yeah I heard from
the majority board Ombudsman and they're
saying that I was not fair in my
representation of what took place on the
Joe Rogan experience number two one two
to eight with a Barry Weiss and if you
recall well we you should probably play
the original clip shouldn't we so that
it can make it the it more obvious what
what happened I'll hold on one second
we'll find that here it is it is about
27 minutes in 27 and so the other day we
played a clip from Joe Rogan show where
you know zom with the Barry White's and
we have our issues with Barry Weiss as
well but nevertheless we were using this
this clip as an example of how sometimes
you know there is motivated reasoning
would you call that
confirmation bias confirmation bias
thank you and there's this narrative
that they want to promulgate that the
left is out of control and not just the
left but the the sort of I guess the
social justice left now there certainly
of course individuals who are you know
extreme in one way or another but in
terms of it gaining hold in society
just so you know the idea that white
people have oppressed black people in
this country or that race if you're
black defines your life far greater in
terms of limitations within our society
than it does if you're white broadly
speaking it's not true for every single
individual but we just interviewed
someone who talked about this in the
context of Millennials across class
lines across all sorts of circumstances
and this has been the case for hundreds
of years in this country I think that
should be obvious to everyone so the
incidence and those things that maintain
and reinforce that dynamic are far more
pernicious than those that may be
extreme in trying to end that dynamic
does it me is that clear why that's
different
why extremism for social justice
warriors does not equal extremism for
white supremacists because our society
is already white supremacists
and has been for hundreds of years and
even if you're one of those people who
think it's more or less gone there's
still you still must acknowledge that
the dynamic still tilted and that the
danger of extremism of a white
supremacist far outweighs the extremism
of a social justice warrior because just
our history in the context right I mean
if if I have a scale and I have a
hundred pounds on this scale and I have
20 pounds on this side of the scale the
idea of adding 20 on this side
versus 30 on my side is still more
problematic right it's still going to
tilt it down this way many sides right
so that's why this confirmation bias so
dangerous because it not only overstates
the case but it way over states and over
estimates and over pathologize --is the
crisis that could be created by this
type of extremism but nevertheless so
this happened propagation of hatred of
Russian homophobia sexism transphobia
racism and ableism now if I was this so
are we supposed to yeah sterilized white
people there it is we could see it up on
the big screen so it's even cruel that's
large but see this this is the thing
racism is racism is terrible right so
how do you stop racism
well racism is can only be perpetrated
by white people oh well the problem is
white people we got to stop white people
well now you're racist like you're
literally being racist to stop is this
really everywhere I've never thought
well there people are finding it and
posting it online and someone sent it to
me my no no it's everywhere it's
probably just one right do you
seem like the print but the person
exists that person exists and they think
they're progressive do you see the cold
civil okay and then they talk about you
know the cold civil war that's kind of
coming this and that like that as if
this is a real danger if as if there's
some type of danger that somehow white
people are going to be despite the 300
400 years of evidence that we have in
this country that white people are
perfectly safe they may be subjected to
sort uh you know class issues they may
be subjected to the same type of
problems in terms of opioid addiction in
some instances more it was actually my
understanding is that particularly early
on that white people were more
susceptible to opioid addiction because
they had a higher incidence of having
health insurance
and black people could not could not get
the pills to get addicted to in the
first place
yeah and doctors are a lot more generous
with the prescriptions when you're white
and when you're male but so but they
it's really important for this
conversation that they're having that
this be true and dangerous in a mounting
danger and if there's only one guy well
it's only one guy but it's hugely
extreme and if this catches on well so
we criticized the Joe Rogan for not
looking that up because it turns out it
was complete fraud it you'll notice on
the bottom of that poster it says it
from the Emerald City I think an Tifa
and the Emerald City Anthem I said
that's not us it says more about the
channels of communication and
intelligence that are feeding into Joe
Rogan than it does about the world right
exactly and but it also look we get
stuff like this all the time too and you
just have to take the responsibility of
just before I put it up there if it
seems a little bit extreme we should
double check it and there are stuff
we've there's been many occasions where
we have said let's not report this let's
weigh today and see what's up it's just
bizarre I mean I don't expect your organ
to know that much about anti-fascism
like anti-fascists are mostly Communists
and anarchists they're not black
nationalists well they may be just
really self-hating white people and
don't want anybody to marry them or mate
with us but now but we want to correct
the record because apparently someone
did text to Joe during the show and say
hey man let's fake cannot change
Craner irredeemable right is crazy
cancel culture I was talking about this
with with Kanye honestly we were talking
about cancel call when was he on the
show we're talking about in person oh
okay on the phone on the show okay I'd
like to see him with the samurai sword
pose again poster it's been it was first
posted over two years ago
and it supposedly is my control oh yeah
that makes sense
this is the world where it's hard to
find what's a troll was something I can
say that if I was cynical no wait a
second it's easy it's easy to find it
took three seconds for me to find it you
just put you just put in an taifa poster
white people Snopes that's all it takes
so but it's amazing how like oh well
yeah okay don't disregard what we just
said for three minutes about that was
based around that the premise has been
completely exploded but let's continue
let's continue like maybe you need to
reevaluate with everything that came off
that premise but alright but we've done
our job we've done a correction there it
is let's go to the phones call them from
a two four zero area code who's this
we're talking oh hi Sam it's Peter from
Maryland veto for Maryland what's on
your mind
I've been thinking I was kinda gonna
want to get your take on this I I've
sort of been thinking that perhaps um
Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders might not
run I think in Joe Biden's case it's
sort of democratic politics he's kind of
passed them by at this point I don't I
don't think that unapologetically
center-right position is gonna it's not
gonna really go anywhere at this stage I
don't think and plus the last time I
heard him speak he seemed a little a
little like loopy he referred he
couldn't remember who and Coulter was
referred to as a blonde girl sort of it
or something that allowed the quiche I
you know Vito I I have heard
you're not the first person to say that
to me let me play it that way yeah as
far as Bernie goes I think he's making
he the reason why he's taking a while I
think it's because
I think it's gonna be harder for him
this time that it wasn't 2016 so the
reason the competition is just going to
be a I think a lot more fierceness time
than 2016 number one and number two he's
been so successful in changing the
political discourse in this country and
moving things
I mean it's looking like there's not
going to be anybody really seriously
contending that's not for a
medicare-for-all for example and so if
he gets into the race
it's his campaign I mean I guess he
could I guess he could say look I was
here first with all this stuff and
that's that's true
I don't know if that's a winning
strategy though in other words when he
was wondering just to guess Hillary
Clinton right right yes right I guess
yeah I think your point is well-taken
there's a couple of things I would say
then with that makes me agree with your
assessment that this is going to be a
tougher race in some respects for Bernie
there was a much more stark contrast
there was also a lot less people running
you know and in Kamala Harris I made
this point last night on on Hayes she it
is hard you know like and she's come out
for medicare-for-all and some people are
complaining that she said I'm serious
about this which they're taking her as
meaning I'm not serious about this and
it's not what which that seems a little
silly to me but maybe it is I don't know
but the bottom line is what like I can
tell you what Gillibrand's brand is
right I mean she has been very active
she's had a couple of issues that have
animated her senatorial career
specifically you know in terms of like
issues in the military with sexual
harassment and assault and rape
cory booker has been associated with
criminal reform Kamala Harris and you
know she came out for at the very least
I don't have she came out for free
college but she came out
for well here's what she meant it here's
what she said which was strange she said
I'm for debt-free college detriment you
started talking about student loans and
what I'm thinking well if we're taking
about student loans
that's not there's gonna be some debt
there but yet she's died I think without
a doubt she's gonna be one of the last
with it when the you know if there's two
or three or four candidates at the end
of this race she will be one of them
guaranteed guaranteed you can see it for
major retail she's a big-time two dollar
totally she's very good at delivering
you know aspirational rhetoric and and
here's the thing it's gonna be difficult
for Bernie because Bernie is gonna run
on policies not unlike Elizabeth Warren
right Elizabeth Warren is gonna be the
wonk
right and so isn't Bernie to a certain
extent and right the thing is is that
that is very effective if you're running
against one or two other people and it
the fact that you're talking about
policy constantly and they're not
exposes them as not having any specifics
but if there's 12 people on the scene or
15 people on the scene or twenty people
on the stage and all you get is six
minutes in a 90-minute debate to talk
saying things like we've got a problem
in this country and we need to fix it is
all you need to say and and and so that
is gonna make it very difficult the
reason why I would think that Bernie
would run even if he thought that he
couldn't win and I actually think that
he thinks he can win but even if he
thinks he couldn't win is it worked last
time in terms of getting these issues on
the table it's gonna work again and I'm
going to whoever the nominee is gonna be
is gonna have to come to me in terms of
these policies not to him persist
specifically but to his position exactly
you know what that's reason enough to
run
right appreciate that's reason enough to
run I mean he ran last time he entered
as a running an issue campaign to
promote issues no reason that can't be
the baseline this time either I mean you
also have to look at all the powerful
forces that are going to pull someone to
the right as soon as they get in office
no matter what they ran on and one way
to predict what they're going to be like
is to see what they've been like in the
past the advantage that she has
particularly when it comes to Kemal
Harris is this she was an attorney
general so the policy she worked on were
very narrow right she couldn't propose
any type of other programs other than
programs that not even programs as much
as with like sort of law enforcement
initiatives and while you and I and the
people in this room maybe some of the
people who listen to this program think
like oh my god this arrest people for
the truancy of their kids is horrible or
oh my god
the idea of criminal justice reform is
important or oh my god we have too many
prisons is dismissing those is a problem
for us but I think sadly and I say this
with a lot of regret I don't think it's
gonna be that huge for a big portion of
the Democratic electorate I don't think
it's a big I don't think it's a problem
for on the right I think it's you know
advantageous on in a democratic party
today you know look Bernie voted for
that that same law the the Clinton law
that Clinton talked about super-predator
like the Democratic Party was
to the right on these things
significantly he also spoke out against
it at the time if I recall correctly I
it's possible he voted for it and
there's no doubt that he's better on it
obviously then Kamala Harris but my
point is is that's where the center of
the country was I don't know that she's
caught up I imagine she would talk a
different a slightly different game now
than she would when she was coming out
of San Francisco trying to appeal to the
state of California nevertheless I still
just don't think it's gonna have the
salience with the rest of the Democratic
Party there's gonna have to be something
else
that and I think it's just basically
gonna be if Bernie runs and Elizabeth
Warren you know
continues they're gonna have to offer
proposals that are going to force her to
the left well also speaking about the
past like people don't trust politicians
when they say I'm for this thing they've
heard it all before she just came out a
favor of Medicare for all it feels a
little bit opportunistic he's signed on
to Bernie's bill when it came when he
brought we introduced it yeah but like I
think people are gonna trust someone
more to actually follow through on it
who's been going on about single-payer
health care for decades
you might be right who just started
talking about it you might be right
given the choice you might be right
there I mean I I hope you're right I
mean this is what the primaries for
right exactly
[Music]
let's go to 2:08 area code who's this
where you come from
I been lemon and calling from Seattle
Ben what's on your mind well you know
how Republicans always come up with wise
and they repeat them repeatedly every
single time they get on there's just a
reflex
I mean Democrats to start repeating you
know the facts I've been doing
statistical analysis on the FBI data and
in 2017 Republican states had thirty
five percent more
violent crime then blue states okay so I
made a video so everybody could see it
just on YouTube crime data show you work
and you can pull the crime data right
off the FBI website and see that red
states do have horrendous crime data III
would imagine I mean overall crime is
down though across the country I mean I
don't know I mean I think that's the
case I'm not sure you know and I imagine
that's a valuable thing and it could get
more valuable as time goes on I'm not a
hundred percent sure what it's supposed
to do for people though right
I mean what what do you imagine
Republicans are Republicans this is one
of the big things they scream that a
Democrats are the party of crime and
open borders but the reality is red
states crime is just horrendous
I mean hey it's a dog whistle though
yeah I mean the the problem is is that
you know crime is down significantly in
this country over the past 25 years and
you know people can debate as to why
that's the case I happen to think it's
because of lead regulations but that's
what's not that's neither here nor there
and so even talking about crime as a a
top issue top-five issue is to me it
seems to be you know a little bit
self-defeating because crime I don't
think is the primary issue I think it's
a and to the extent that it is I think
it's a fairly localized issue you know
that's what that data shows me is that
it's there's disparate um problems and
to the extent that there's any type of
national problem as far as I can see
it's that you have some Police
Department's a decent number of them
across the country that are
not restrained enough and not
well-trained and maybe there you could
have some type of federal involvement
but the idea of crime itself as being a
primary national issue I think is
playing into the hands of the
Republicans in and of itself but I think
what you're doing is valuable work and I
would tell you to continue to do it and
send us a link to that video we'll check
it out okay all right appreciate the
call come from a six-30 area code who's
this where you come from
hey Joe from st. Louis what tell you I
do yeah
sorry there's a little bit of a feedback
for me but yeah I was calling just about
the hilarity that is Howard Schultz's uh
fake boot of this campaign mm-hmm I was
uh on Facebook yesterday and he's doing
one of these like master classes where
like an expert in the field teaches you
how to do something it wasn't was it to
make an espresso yeah and 700 comments
and like 200 angry faces and everyone is
just saying like get out of the way
idiot I'll never buy Starbucks again and
people in the internet just don't go
being obviously there's a billionaire he
has no you know semblance of reality he
thinks he's still likable but I just
didn't know if you guys have been seeing
some internet response I haven't seen a
lot of that but I'll tell you something
Bill Burton I mean this guy this former
Obama guy I mean it's amazing the Obama
crew
he's got eighty-seven percent one stars
out of on his only 15 customer reviews
customer reviews on his book I mean I
think the Delta between national
television exposure and success of this
book it could be the the greatest in the
history of publishing appreciate the
call Joe
yeah Axelrod did it we know
never underestimate ruling class fealty
it's David Axelrod one thing you can be
sure of the consultants who sign on with
Howard Schultz campaign may help
facilitate the second Trump term but
they will surely make enough to keep
themselves in to overpriced coffees for
life exactly but it's funny that
Axelrod's writing that about Bill Burton
well Axelrod's oh well he's on the
Buddha gig at rain-x erotic he's don't
know what the mayor from Indiana the
boots again oh he's on the Buddha gig
train I saw Axelrod mentioned in the
deck I have money they're all like all
the Obama people have sold out not all
of them but of the vast majority of them
has sold out in such sort of like really
disturbing ways
uber and just like they went on to like
campaign for I can t remember like
internationally like horrible people
wait did you say that they're working
some of them are working for Schultz
Bill Burton oh my god yeah well somebody
just I am me a quote from George Orwell
that feels relevant about the ruling
class siding with fascism and it says
quote the British ruling class were not
altogether wrong and thinking that
fascism was on their side it is a fact
that any rich man unless he is a Jew has
less to fear from fascism than from
either communism or democratic socialism
when ought never to forget this for
nearly the whole of German and Italian
propaganda is designed to cover it up
the natural instinct of men like Simon
hor Chamberlain etc was to come to an
agreement with Hitler that sounds right
to me yep yep the ruling class of a
large portion of it is going to break
for the right eye I have no doubt but I
mean there's just you know in terms of
votes there's just not that many of them
they do have an undue amount of
influence though that's true
kitties Congrats on the merging of the
year with your episode numbers I can
appreciate your excitement about that I
was born in 1980 and ever since the year
2000 my age is equal to the sum of the
first two in last two digits of the
current year ie in 2019 I'll be 39 20
plus 19 that is super exciting nuclear
negroid Sam do you consider big E's in
1997 hit Mo Money mo problems to be a
positive song or as I do a Franken
somber analysis of how capitalism fails
men of color no matter their associated
a mixed rata I I'm not going to lie I
did have to read the lyrics of juicy to
to to make an assessment and I in my own
defense I never was a big listener of
lyrics I just what I just I don't have
an appreciation for anything that is
even remotely poetic I just don't
that is a liability well one that I feel
should not come as a shock to anybody
who's listening to this program for any
extended period of time
Fram from Philadelphia everyone
interested in understanding Venezuela
should immediately go listen to the
recent historically episode with Mike
prise nur of the Empire files like Sam
and Michael often do Ayesha does a good
job asking pryzen er to pause his
narrative and spell that out it fills in
some gaps left by Brooke sees otherwise
good interview with Eva go injure a
square the scary stuff sadly expects
code is to go for it now Ammar been
traveling but always listening fantastic
interview today and with that professor
on for-profit higher education
exploiting the Paul poor Mike can't wait
to catch up with path Thursdays and TM
BS it's redo regime change for Latin
America with Elliott Abrams back and
although we're consumed with what's
going on the US of A must pay attention
yes Sam Kamala will be affordable not
only because she will leverage Obama
mystique a machine but aka sorority
sister hood will bring the black girl
money and network machine she also
seduces the centrist allusion machine as
well Colin from Nebraska bench
at a young America's Foundation lecture
two days ago he thinks markets and risk
are unique to capitalism and confuses
worker cooperatives with any other
business legal structure before it grows
large enough where the owners hire
employees socialist student gets
destroyed I'm not sure I followed any of
that but secret identity politics
newsflash it appears to Sam Harris has
changed the logo and name of his podcast
from waking up to making sense perhaps
he realized after the Ezra Klein podcast
he should dial back the stoic guru angle
instead go with the title that reflects
his general confusion and lack of
self-awareness trickster kampala Harris
lied during Kamala Harris lied during
the town hall about her lifelong being
anti-death-penalty it's proved she's an
opportunist who will say anything
depending on what is popular politically
she gets into office she will be even
worse than Obama and we will have a
president Trump jr. in 2028
um I I just I I think people have to be
sort of careful of of making you know
those type of claims like I if she's
that opportunist and you know the tides
are moving a certain way then she will
ride those tights and she will you know
opportunistic politicians like this ride
the back edge of those tides always but
they still ride the tide I don't know I
don't know that Barack Obama came in
thinking that he was going to be able to
that marriage equality would happen I
don't I don't I don't think he did
sometimes you just say there's gonna go
with the flow well sometimes it's not a
matter of you know losing your way or
being disingenuous but like just not
having the will to follow through and
stand up against the powerful forces
that are trying to get you not to do it
I totally agree I totally agree I'm not
making a case for Kamala Harris
I mean I you know I don't there's no
you're not getting an argument for me on
that I'm just analyzing where we are
right now it's it's really too early to
know if that's gonna happen but it's
certainly a possibility
indeed calling from an 847 area code
who's this where you calling from hey
it's Josh from Chicago hello Josh from
Chicago
I'm not calling in to defend a deep-dish
pizza today don't worry all right I'm
glad you do that all the time
it speaks for itself I was actually at I
want to add in about the Kamal Harris
and also these sort of centrist
candidates and what I've noticed about
them and how they've sort of adopted
these sort of progressive things right
and where I think Bernie's Lane is I've
noticed that a lot of times they will
the way to tell for better for lack of
better words a wolf in sheep's clothing
I felt like this was especially true
with Gillibrand who I think is I she's
basically kind of just a hack I think
right now is they will not offer any
kinds of specifics right and we'll speak
in generalities and then in case
children shall blow that question on
policy of America which was basically
kind of just a lay up question and I
think where Bernie and Warren do will
rise above is that they do actually
speak in specifics and I think it was I
think was Michael who talked about this
the other day where he said that I mean
Bernie can almost ate each other in a
primary by almost being sort of a tag
team for progressives and building on
each other's ideas and even though she's
a bit more raucous I've been incredibly
impressed with the campaign she's run so
far she's apparently done a good job in
Iowa and I just I think it's very
possible that Kamala Harris and I don't
remember exactly how Marco Rubio was
perceived by a Republican
right it's also very possible that she
goes the way of Marco Rubio where people
see through her and she just goes
nowhere it's possible I mean it's
possible here's the thing especially in
a primary big as Democratic primary yes
it's possible yes but I will say this
the thing that that really did Marco
Rubio in was his work in the Senate
people like he you know he went out on a
limb for immigration reform and then he
stepped back and basically dropped it
literally dropped it in front of
everybody and I just don't think there
is going to be an opportunity for Harris
to make that kind of mistake in the next
two years I just don't think there's
going to be and but you may be right
we'll see we'll see I mean it's too
early it's too early to make these
assessments it's just you know she comes
out she's got 20,000 people at her
announcement rally her her you know sort
of coming out went off fairly flawlessly
but we'll talk about it right now I
appreciate the call Josh here is Kamala
Harris at in a CNN Town Hall which
follows her big rally 2014 and it was in
California where that there but I will
remind you California is in the third
tranche I think it's the third or fourth
basically week of primaries Super
Tuesday very early and that's gonna make
a big big difference it's tough it's
tough here she is with with a Jake
Harris at Drake University in Iowa
excuse me Jake Tapper
that would be
and she's talking about medicare-for-all
correct me if I'm wrong to reiterate you
support the Medicare for all bill I
think initially co-sponsored by Senator
Bernie Sanders you're also a co-sponsor
I believe it will totally eliminate
private insurance so for people out
there who like their insurance what they
don't get to keep it well the listen and
the idea is that everyone gets access to
medical care and you don't have to go
through the process of going through an
insurance company having them give you
approval going through the paperwork all
of the delay that may require who of us
has not had that situation where you got
to wait for approval and the doctor says
well I don't know if your insurance
company is gonna cover this
let's eliminate all of that let's move
on all right let's go to the yeah I
think she met let's move on not to
switch questions Jake Tapper took it
that way but look I mean here's an
example of the opposite of what we've
been talking about right she doesn't
address the words that Jake Tapper says
in terms of like that means that people
can't keep their insurance because she's
smart she does must say that because
that ended up being a you know a club
that they clubbed Obamacare with and
Obama would but she went on to say why
nobody's gonna care about that so here
she is talking about the morality of
billionaires gotta be careful here folks
cuz you know you need money to run for
office if you're not gonna get all those
$27 donations
my question for you tonight is simple in
a society where nearly 1 in 5 children
live in poverty is the existence of
multi billionaires morally defensible
well here's let's just say this we have
had policies in this country at least in
the last two decades that have
disproportionately benefited the top 1%
to the exclusion of working families we
have a situation in our country right
now we're just recently this
administration passed a tax bill that
benefits big corporations in the top 1%
to the exclusion of supporting working
families and that is unconscionable and
you are exactly right we have babies in
America today that are on the verge of
starving we have families that cannot
pay their bills in fact one of my
proposals is that we address this
inequity around what I what has been
termed what would be one of the most
significant tax cuts from middle-class
families in generations and it is what I
propose I call it the lift Act but what
we would do is for families who are
making less than $100,000 0 second we
before we hear what the plan is
to not address that question this is an
insufficient answer from my perspective
and and I'll tell you why because
someone was talking about like you know
two decades what is that what are you
talking about two decades it's been like
50 years that we have had this income
inequality like she's not steeped in
this and it's clear and there is only
one way to deal with wealth inequality
in this country now you could say like I
have no problem with wealth inequality
fine but I think people listen to this
program know that we have a problem with
it but there's only one way to deal with
it and that is not by providing six
thousand dollars extra for some segment
of the population that and that's not a
bad idea
but that's not going to deal with wealth
inequality wealth inequality can only be
dealt with by limiting
the income of people of people making
billions or millions of dollars does the
income inequality let's start with
wealth inequality obviously you need to
in some ways get more aggressive with
taxing wealth there's a lot of arguments
that is very difficult to do people are
gonna hide it and this and that that
that all that may be true we do it in
terms of like we tax wealth in the
context of property taxes right now we
could do it with other things we could
do it in terms of capital gains we could
do it in terms of a high top tax in a
marginal tax rate the ideas are out
there every day for the past two weeks
we've been doing a video with the AOC
talking about it on national television
so it's not hard to find but she doesn't
want to go there people can make their
own assessments as to whether or not
it's important that she goes there but
make no doubt about it she's not going
there good hundred thousand dollars a
year they would receive a six thousand
dollar tax credit that they could
receive five hundred dollars a month
understanding that we have so many
families in America right now that are a
$500 emergency away from complete
financial catastrophe let's also
understand that we've got to have
economic policy in this country that
understands that right now it's not
working for working people right now in
America in 99% of the counties in
America if you are a minimum wage worker
working full time you cannot afford
market-rate for a one-bedroom apartment
that is absolutely unconscionable and so
we've got to correct it and part of it
is that people at the top 1% people who
are making 10 million dollars a year who
have 50 million dollars a year they need
to pay more taxes
she gets there
and what we have to do is correct course
because for too long the rules have been
working against working families and
working for the benefit of the top 1% we
have to correct course she now she won't
go as far as saying that billionaires
are morally indefensible she says you
got to raise taxes on the wealthy but
this is not anything that's particularly
no like it look there are specific plans
out there it's just interesting to me
that she'll cite the ten million dollar
figure right which is where AOC has put
her seventy percent tax rate that she's
you know rhetorically it's just
interesting I will make this prediction
she will be a lot more specific this
time next year well she's gonna have to
be exact cause the beauty of candidates
like Bernie and Warren is they make
people say what they mean exactly like
like I heard someone say that Obama was
the last horoscope candidate or the last
candidate who could be vague enough so
what he's saying could mean you know
whatever you want it to mean and that's
just not gonna be possible
that's exactly right well Trump was the
last one I think well that's well I
think you could get away with it on the
right and a little bit different way
than you could on the left particularly
in this day and age that that ship has
sailed that's right but that's exactly
my point is that you know there's a lot
of stuff in there there's a lot of like
you asked me a question are billionaires
immoral I'm gonna tell you I'm gonna
tell you everything that you know
already about a problem that exists but
I'm gonna prove to you that I know that
that problem exists and then I'm gonna
give you a vague answers to how I'm
gonna fix it yeah yeah I mean Bernie got
Hillary to run against single-payer
health care the last time around she was
not expecting to have to do that it is
gonna be very different this time it is
and and the fact is is that you set
expectations during these during these
during these campaigns and it's a lot
harder than it used to be to set these
expectations and not meet these promises
I mean promises usually get mad
there's not a lot that Obama promised
that he didn't deliver on it's just the
people didn't listen to carefully to the
promises yeah
entitlement reform was on the bill and
fortunately that didn't happen because
of the freedom caucus did he promise
card check card check I don't know if he
I think he said he would sign it but the
problem I think was more with the Senate
in that instance but also like what I
was saying before about the powerful
rightward forces that enact on you as
soon as you get into office if someone's
being this vague at the outset like that
well does she is it doesn't bode well
for the future wait to see where she is
in January of next year
I mean it's understandable why on day
one you're not gonna be you're not gonna
have the same specifics
you know because frankly that was also
my point in terms of her brand Elizabeth
Warren she's gonna come out with
proposals that are going to be
surprising insofar as how they're
executed same with Bernie but there's
not gonna be any proposal that's gonna
come out of Bernie or Elizabeth Warren
they were gonna be like wow I had no
idea they wanted to do that right I mean
that's just not gonna happen because we
know already what their agenda is
komm from an eight four five four seven
area code who's this where you come from
hello Bryan from Chicago what's on your
mind hey first of all thanks for taking
my call just let you know a longtime
listener first-time caller you guys do a
great job love listening and I don't
know if anybody else was catching this
but I had a hard time I couldn't hear
the videos that you were playing on the
phone line at least so I missed all that
clip I heard your commentary but yeah I
just want to let you know since you're
doing some troubleshooting it seemed but
anyway I'll keep this short do you know
if anybody's really spoken out about
what they think about private prisons or
anything specifically Kamala Harris you
know if she said anything about that
well you know it's funny that you
mention that
about private prisons I don't know that
she's addressed private prisons as of
yet on the federal level I think the the
the on the federal level the Obama
administration had basically said we're
gonna get rid of private prisons if I'm
not mistaken
now that was reversed by Trump but I
have no reason to believe that she is
going to be to the right of Obama on
this like you know prison reform is a is
one of the few bipartisan areas where
you have a certain amount of cover
regardless of where you are however we
do have this clip of Kamala Harris from
2013 at the Chicago ideas week and again
I sadly I say this with the regret don't
think that Democrats largely are going
to have as much of an issue with her
stance on criminal justice reform that I
have but at the very least it should be
out there here she is at the Chicago
ideas thing and you can and we're gonna
make it so that you can hear this you
tell me how you would characterize her
perspective on the idea of criminal
justice reform six years ago I have
friends like Eva Patterson okay so I say
with all love and warmth that part of
the concern also for people who who are
progressive thinking and liberal minded
or just progressive thinking in terms of
just fix it fix it is that we all have
these posters in our closet that is
attached to a stick that we sometimes
will cart out when we're talking about
criminal justice policy and those
statistics that you first heard when we
opened it up incarceration and we run
around with these signs build more
schools less jails build more schools
let's just and we walk around everywhere
build more school we to protest build
more schools less jails put money into
education not prisons there's a fun
problem with that approach in my opinion
and it's this I agree with that
conceptually but you have not addressed
the reason I have three padlocks on my
front door so part of the discussion
about reform of criminal justice policy
has to be an acknowledgement that crime
does occur and especially when it is
violent crime and serious crime well
there should be a broad consensus that
there should be serious and severe and
swift consequence okay so I mean now
this is a little bit hard to sort of
grasp what she's saying here she says
that when you talk about putting more
money into education versus prisons you
cannot ignore this fundamental the truth
that the why there are three padlocks on
my front door so it's unclear to me if
she's saying there you can't ignore the
fact that people are afraid of crime if
that's just a political situation and
then she goes on to say you got to
acknowledge that crime exists now I
don't think that people who are saying
put less funding for prisons more
funding for education are saying the
crime doesn't exist I think what they're
saying is hey we're putting a lot of
people in prison for illegitimate
reasons not we shouldn't and I know
there are some people who say abolish
prisons we've interviewed them on this
show but that's not what I'm talking
about I'm talking about sort of what
it's considered sort of mainstream normy
politics at this point I don't think
that there is any major contingent in
the Democratic Party that says we don't
believe crime exists but I think there
is a I think the mainstream of the
Democratic Party in 2019 says there's a
lot of people in prison who shouldn't be
in prison there's in fact there's an
extraordinary number of people and
that's what I think the marijuana uh you
know criminalization legalization
movement is largely about that there's a
whole whole like hundreds of thousands
of people in our prisons for drug
offenses and for small-time offenses
that are that that perhaps not only
should they not be in prison but to the
extent that anything that they did that
we have a real problem with as a society
could be fixed by more opportunities for
people that come from some basic
services maybe not just education maybe
sort of anti-poverty things and a whole
host of other initiatives but to set up
this dichotomy is highly problematic to
strawman and say and maybe it was
different in 2013 but that's not that
long ago to say that there's a vast
majority of Democrats or people who are
saying that we want more money for
education they're saying that there's no
such thing as real crime that we're not
acknowledging that crime is real that
violent crime is real that to me sounds
like a very very strange formulation
that is problematic now she hasn't had a
chance to address this in 2019 she may
come back and say you know I've
rethought my perspective on this stuff
and you know she should have had that
opportunity and people should be asking
her that but this is you know right now
what I feel like the thing to do for
people is a long list of questions for
all the candidates not just Kamala
Harris not just Bernie Sanders but
Elizabeth Warren and and Pete badging
her and and anybody else who's declared
when it's time to start coming up with
questions that people should be asked
yeah she argued against releasing
nonviolent offenders because they were a
valuable source of labor in prison I
want to see that boom also I don't know
what that part was Jamie I mean I
wouldn't be surprised but lawyers under
they do okay have a clip of that I'm
over here but one of the I think one of
the main things that's kind of keeping
the marijuana legalization held back so
much is just the seizures that they get
from it local police departments and
everything they can seize your car your
house or whatever is connected to
supposedly connected to that drug
trafficking our opinion and that's
that's a big fun source for them so I
think that's one of the things that
creates I'm sure that's gonna go by the
wayside that's that's that I mean it's
not going to happen tomorrow but largely
across the country that's done that I
mean it is done you know the fight about
marijuana legalization is all but over
you know a dinosaur wags its tail 20
minutes after it's heads been lopped off
or so I'm told and that's what we're
seeing now I mean the head has been has
been more or less severed the the cats
out of the bag it's just a matter of
time now but appreciate the call oh and
2013 was also the same year that black
lives matter became active I'm pretty
sure so it just shows there's some
questions it shows like two very
different approaches to criminal justice
in America and it's a time when a whole
lot of people especially young people
especially young black people were
saying you know this isn't working for
us social social 760 do you think Howard
Schultz would hurt Trump in the general
election more so than it would hurt the
Democratic nominee keep up the great
work left his best I think it's not it
depends on who the nominees are
hey depends who the Democratic nominee
is frankly JJ cool I've heard plenty of
complaints about Hillary Clinton
possibly running again but I have two
thoughts people are overlooking one
third time is the charm to there is some
aggressive leftist who build their
career yelling about her think of the
possibilities guys I I don't I I just I
don't think that's gonna happen as well
those young aggressive leftists I will
say enough is enough
hi guys good to be watching you again
earlier this week some fashion youtuber
visited Birmingham in the UK
for a literally 30-second appearance at
some shop and his fans brought the city
to a standstill
The Guardian then published a frankly
patronizing op-ed confident performative
ignorance of YouTube culture in the UK
and it got ratioed on Facebook obviously
I'm happy about mr and company's
popularity on YouTube but what's your
opinion on the relative importance of
such culture in a world where fascism is
on the rise and the oceans are boiling
up Cheers
I mean I'll check it out but just off
the top of my head yes YouTube culture
is a problem but you know look the
celebrity culture is probably the least
problematic because that's been there
you know it's just it's a question of
medium the difference with the
difference the the real problem I think
on YouTube is more like the political
culture on YouTube yeah it is super
toxic and has skewed incentives for
people want to get famous there's been
people in those 'god bless democratize
it now you don't need big corporations
telling you that you can get famous you
can go I'm famous by you know I don't
know taking a hammer and smacking your
hand and you know doing a series of
videos like that but the real problem is
stuff like this like that we're doing in
our space I think is more problematic
frankly the Chris lapacho
great news Sebastian Gorka has his own
callin radio show called America first
it's on after majority report the number
is 8 3 3 3 3
Gorka I got through yesterday and told
to me he was a Nazi a fake doc there and
his dissertation was a joke send us time
coats folks look listen listen yes send
his time codes hold on I'm gonna do a
public service here wait a second what
the heck was name of that
I gave this number to two Ronald Reagan
I gotta find it
there is a I'll tell you this is this is
a trade secret of mine so I don't know
if people have ever seen the time where
I started to there was a guy who was
harassing Janine a radio talk show host
who was going to go up to protest
Janine's performance up in Boston this
is about 10 years ago and local Boston
guy who the Ken Kenny Ken show is based
on actually in many respects and I
called him and he had no screener very
much like what we do no screener and I
got on the air and I sort of mocked them
with Massachusetts accent and then he
hung up on me
and then I call back and I got right
through and I called back and I got
right through and I called back and I
got right through now how is it I could
do that when they could see my number
well there is a service where you can
spoof your caller Ids and it is a great
thing to do if you're gonna go into a
talk radio show you can do different
area codes you can go all over the place
it's fantastic old man racist isn't
listening right now
no I hope he is I don't care and tell us
I think it's called I'm trying to think
of what the name it is I know it's
something to tell us
I'll find out what the name of it and
I'll tell people about it calling from a
954 area code who's this where you come
from good how you doing Santiago
wonderful first off I just want to thank
you guys I discovered you about honor
like nine months ago and it's been a
it's been really educating so I
appreciate what you guys are doing keep
it up how'd you find did you find a son
on YouTube so I started getting into
YouTube and I would watch The Young
Turks and you know it would be one of
the suggested videos so view
tube suggested videos as hotcakes you
guys okay but yeah my question is in
regards to as a theme apathy in general
but you know with everything that's
going on especially what you're talking
about Roe vs. Wade and whatnot you know
it's it's easy to see that some sort of
action is harder these days especially
in a Internet kind of environment so my
question specifically is just how do you
see or when do you see some sort of
action needed beside just voting for
representatives you know activism back
in the day let's say Martin Luther King
jr. was effective and in terms of just
physical bodies but you know Trump
getting elected and the use of memes and
yeah no I'll be specific about this I
think people need to begin to become
more aware of their power in terms of
their labor and it we just saw a prime
example of it it's been
undersold and it has been obfuscated I
think and I don't know I don't know how
deliberately but the reason why that
shutdown ended was because of what the
air traffic controllers were doing and
the threats that came from the flight
attendants and the TSA there was an
understanding that they had basically
hit their limit and they were gonna do
something and they started to do it
Friday morning there were three airports
they had to shut down or haul flights
for like an hour
it was a brief work stoppage and that
basically brought Trump and the
Republicans to their knees
within hours within hours and it has
been undersold the implications of that
and and and frankly I'm not convinced
that part of the reason why they get
nervous is just like we don't
this to be too exposed look we're
watching it with the teachers in red
states right now and there's gonna be a
couple more examples inevitably they're
gonna happen but the perspective on on
this one thing the power of withholding
labor has changed and it it changes
slowly people have to see it because
it's very scary concept very very scary
for people with good reason
but it's a very scary concept but I
think if that starts to catch on more
you're gonna see that's when things are
gonna start getting dramatic yeah and a
real quick follow-up it was it was a
wildcat strike as well that was tacitly
supported by the Union like that's what
the statement said to me anyway the
sick-out and like people always look at
me like I'm crazy when I say these
things but like how do you think that we
got the right to legally unionize in the
first place
people went on wildcat strikes like
working-class people took risks with
their own lives some people died so that
they could have a chance at a better
life and so that we could - and people
need to remember that we do the work
that makes this country run and
something like airports it turns out are
pretty easy to shut down we saw it when
the Muslim ban went through right after
Trump got elected and we're seeing it
today and they shut down the flow of
Commerce and they mess with rich
people's lives that's the other thing -
it's not just about airline travel it's
like all of you know you know your
package that you've been waiting for how
would you like to wait another couple of
days that's a problem alright what's
your fault just in terms of I haven't
fought I haven't looked this up
specifically but I have heard hints of
the use of the word economic terrorism
and what they're doing with people with
their protests of Israeli products and
stuff I was just wondering I what I hear
from you is that it's still very much
needed physical bodies in the street but
in terms of our ability to let's say
stop buying certain products or not show
up to work all on the same
and what not being considered economic
terrorists are utilizing laws - do you
see the internet being useful and not in
the way that the Republicans have kind
of or maybe the far right has kind of
hijacked using misinformation online and
is there a way to let's say take that
back and utilize it today or is it so do
you think in the streets no I mean I
think I think the I don't think it's an
either/or type of situation I think you
know that we know more about these
strikes in the in in the you know the
the red states teacher strikes because
the internet right I mean that there's
not it's not an either-or and it can't
be an either-or appreciate the phone
call the Internet can be used to
organize the street actions indeed let's
go to the phone oh we got to call from a
two one five area code who's this how
are you Mindy hi I just wanted to just I
don't want to keep you on the phone for
a long time but people my age are loving
Kamala I mean they know that you have
some issues but they're in South Bay I
know they don't know no I mean like
Republicans Democrats I mean you know
not Republicans but like you know Mike
like my girlfriend but I mean they're
going nuts they're they're just on
Twitter they're going up to batter I
keep I keep asking questions like Camela
or Warren or like Camilla and Kovich are
like I keep trying all different
combinations and it's like you look at
my feet or anything you can see they're
going freaking crazy over Camilla yeah I
mean unless she unless she makes some
really like horrible thing I mean even
with her thing what would she do at
minuchin because I was reading about her
like you know the things that she doing
she was an AJ they don't care well I
would say I would say two things Mindy
I'd say two things one is it's super
early to is Twitter is not the real
world and we're not just talking about
I'm not just talking about Twitter I'm
talking about people that I'm talking to
friends people invited I know which I
think I know I know but but you also got
to remember like she's the first person
to you know she's well I mean a Warren
has declared but it's still early and
what do you think right III know it's
still early but what about it do you
think there'll be any combinations like
like Camela and Klobuchar or like Warren
and and Klobuchar or like kamila and
Warren or bait like it would be hard to
imagine that with 15 people running and
the nature of like of the people running
that we will not see it's conceivable to
me that will see a vice president
outside of of of the people that are
running but I would not be surprised to
see a vice president come from who's
running here you got a lot of people who
are young right who and there's there's
definitely like different lanes of the
party that that and I think less and
less does geography mean as much as sort
of like demographics and psychographics
so I wouldn't be surprised I don't think
people are going to run as a ticket
until the the convention but I wouldn't
be surprised
cuz there's something I really like like
I mean I love the Castro guy I mean I
mean well I know I'm just saying but
like I mean there's certain people that
are out of any like newbies talking
about Gillibrand
nobody's talking about salsa guy ever in
a positive way
everybody's like all my friends just
seemed to to love her but I I don't know
I just I think that Warren and Bernie
are pushing everybody so much to the
left that they're all going to have the
same exact policy eventually they're
going to end up with the same policy but
I will tell you this at everybody that I
know doesn't really I mean they would
like Kamala to run but it to ever the
nomination nominate whoever gets the
nomination they're behind her it's him
they're totally behind them
I mean everybody is just completely
unified in that theme I I think it's
it's I think it's hard to I think there
are going to be some people who will be
like I will never support X or I will
never support Y but I think those people
are going to be pretty narrow I think
that's I think the soup yeah and last
thing Steve Schmidt yeah he's the one
that I don't know if you know this did
you know this I don't know if you talked
about this he's the one behind sure
powered yeah you got to make money Mindy
it's hard out there for play scumbag a
long time ago I'm sorry did I say that
was did I say that he was not no but I
keep asking the same theme these people
are like I hope Steve Schmidt's so
amazing cuz he's a patriot he's not a
goddamn Patriot he looks good a nice
blue suit and he just wants money and
people are not receiving that yes sir
you know I'm waiting for and you know
the other one the darling is they love
Nicole Wallace I'm waiting for Nicole
Wallace to do like a big select well
she's got her TV show so I don't think
she's gonna have to do that but
appreciate what I have a question for
you because I know you consider yourself
your progressive right you're a lifelong
Democrat no okay so what is it about
these centrist candidates that would
make your Republican friend feel
comfortable voting for them Trump what
is it about them though well no Trump
it's Trump I mean like okay so I'll just
give an incident with my girlfriend like
if Marco Rubio won she would be a marker
she would be a a Republican but because
he's so offensive and they're so snooty
they can't deal with the offensiveness
of him
and the babies and the Kjus thing I
think knocked them over the edge
everybody went nuts with the babies in
the cages that's what I think so if
people are going to vote against Trump
no matter what wouldn't it be better to
listen to the progressives in the party
then the people who used to be
Republicans and want less progressive
policies especially on economics well in
reference to my one golfin that I'm
going to talk about just using her as an
example she's not all for this like even
though her husband's a doctor and he
loves his Medicaid or Medicare patients
the best she said that they have the
best insurance and he loves the Medicaid
you know part of the senior citizens
Medicare they're not like a hundred
percent loved and the fact that that
their money is going to go to pay to pay
for college for kids that are you know
poor they don't love that idea they
don't love the progressive ideas now you
have to remember there you know in the
tax bracket where they get really good
benefits from being a Republican so and
they're also scary though they're really
scared of the whole progressive agenda
that they even they don't understand it
and they you can't even get them to
watch CNN half the time let alone have a
progressive attitude about things they
live in a little bubble like Howard
Schultz I mean not that kind of bubble
but they live in a little bubble their
big decision in life is what they're
going to wear to a wedding I mean they
don't have the same problems we have I
don't I just want to caution any
Democrats against letting folks and not
just people but like interests like that
moneyed interests steer policy within
the party as it starts to attempt to
realign into something more populist and
oriented towards the working-class you
know it if they're against Trump know
about
what then they can come along or not
there's an ADC Jamie blessing Jamie I
have literally told her to go
herself a hundred times I don't care
what she says okay seriously I don't
care what any of them says we don't they
have to come on our chain we don't have
to go on there exactly I appreciate so
that's good right all right love you
love you good new ABC news/washington
post poll 47% of Democrats say they want
to candidate close to them on issues 43%
prioritize a candidate who could defeat
President Trump that is those numbers
are problematic to say the least yeah
you kind of convinced me on the
electability thing I think it's less
clear than I did before the the the the
problem the problem with that 47 or 43
percent is just like we're talking about
a polarized electorate in the context of
a polarized electorate now because I can
also would guarantee that the assessment
of that 47% as to who is more electable
is also probably like the electability
thing is also going to split right down
the middle this is going to be pretty
messy stuff yeah I still think there are
good arguments that Bernie is more
electable but well there are good
arguments for everybody I mean honestly
I mean some people are stronger than
others but gone from a 6 1 0 area code
who's this where you come from this is
going to be the final call of the day
Mike from Pennsylvania we just had 2 in
a row that's why I thought when I saw
those numbers yeah so I'm gonna hope you
don't mind but gently told you if I can
you saw how why would you do that gently
here's the way I look at it we have to
go after Kamala Harris with everything
we've got
now this is that we have to make her
unex
double to progressives unfortunately
that's our role is we have to be the
propaganda arm of the of the leftist
movement if we sit back and allow the
centrist to attack Warren and Bernie as
unelectable and make no objection in
kind to kamal harris those people who
prioritize meeting Trump which is
totally rational thing to do by the way
will say well you know I like Bernie and
Warren's ideas but they're just not
electable nobody's attacking Kamala
Harris nobody seems to have a problem
with her we have to you know I've been
biting my tongue and I've been trying
not okay get into alright whitterfly at
ten o'clock I hear what you say he's bad
I hear it's it no no no no listen she's
not my preferred candidate but do you
think that you can make a legitimate
argument that she's unelectable I think
if the entire progressive movement
rejects her because of her previous
positions and well that's a different
order but because the aren't well hold
on for a second are you making do you do
you think that the argument is that
she's unelectable in the Democratic
primary or do you think she's in
unelectable in because unelectable means
a thing right so if you think she's
unavailable if she's unelectable in the
Democratic primary you have nothing to
worry about if you don't want her to win
if she's unelectable you saying that
she's unlike so here's what unelectable
means to me and then we can proceed
unelectable is on the day of the
election a majority of the voters will
not look for you for whatever reason
which election and so Kurt the actual
election the general election so like oh
it's no no I mean I mean I mean
anyway it's a phrase is what
I'm trying to say like oh you ate the
canary oh alright well here's here's I
mean this is why we're talking across
each other I'm using the word as it is
in the dictionary and you have an
idiosyncratic version of the word
unelectable to me means she can't win
specifically in the general
okay and I don't think you can make that
case I don't think that well I see you
can what's your case what's the case
that she can't win in the general the
case she can't win in the general is
that a significant portion of the
progressive left repels and votes for a
third party because they've had it with
centrist Democrats who are willing to
sacrifice the interests of working-class
people and the poor and who want to
impose a extremely harsh criminal
justice platform and who personally
profited off of donations from Donald
Trump and women inch and seeing all
these other people who she supposedly
against is Mike are you going to say
right now that if Kamala Harris is the
Democratic nominee you're gonna vote
you're not gonna vote for her well
here's how I'll answer that question
without I won't dodge it which is at
this time we are two years a little bit
less from the presidential election
it's me saying that I won't vote for
Kamala Harris in November of the
election means that she will lose the
primary I'll say it if we actually in a
situation where she is the nominee I'll
vote or whatever this is why I disagree
with what with with your with what what
you're arguing is that I didn't believe
that you didn't believe that nobody
believes nobody's gonna believe you Mike
nobody's gonna believe anybody rationale
that you're not gonna vote in to the
extent that there are there's gonna be
very few if Kamala Harris is going to be
stopped it's not going to be on an
argument of electability it's just not
believable because she's gonna win some
primaries and under there I don't what
is it about I think they're wrong and
and and that's why I have been saying I
don't think there's any candidate who's
not electable unelectable and i thats
the truth and it's the most defensible
position the question then becomes the
question then becomes
we'll Bernese positions or warrens
positions or whoever it is positions be
more you know rise to level so the first
thing that from my perspective what must
be done is to neutralize those 43
percent who prioritize a candidate who
could defeat President Trump because
every one of these candidates can be
President Trump well they're gonna make
an se you can say they're wrong about
the electability argument but it's it's
they're disingenuous way of attacking
Bernie without attacking the policies
that are popular that's fine all right
but I'm going to have that argument I'm
gonna win that argument because yes
because the day out there did I I can
assure you this I have a better chance
of winning the argument that Bernie or
Warren is perfectly electable then you
do the Kamala Harris is not our I mean I
can make all sorts of arguments about
how Kamala Harris is a calyx from
California and I don't think she'll
appeal to Michigan and Pennsylvania as
much as Bernie was will and I think we
all know what I'm saying and that's not
an argument I want to make but I also
think it has there something to it right
Hillary Clinton won Michigan Hillary
Clinton lost Michigan by what 10,000
votes and now you have a Democratic
governor there and you don't have act of
voting suppression so you tell me that
Kamala Harris is not going to make up
7,000 votes in Michigan like here's the
thing there's two years here and we
don't know what's going to happen in
society or work no no I you're
disengaging from the argument we're good
we're doing a test argument here Mike
and people are gonna decide what's more
compelling my argument that she can win
or yours that she can't and I'm telling
you you're never going to win any
argument that she's not electable yeah I
I agree I
come around to Sam's position you think
Kamala Harris is gonna take Georgia
because I think she could hear so well
here I'll make the argument I think that
there's been a transformation in the
consciousness of a large section of this
country where people are no longer
willing to make the ideological
compromises that you seem to think that
they're willing to make that they were
going to peaceful medicare-for-all
issue though well wait so you're not
arguing about her positions now you're
just arguing whether we can trust her
where's the evidence that she is not
against that she signed on to Bernie's
thing on day one all right ated argument
that we have to do in order to get our
platform actually accomplished in the
real world is she can say she's for it
but she's totally disingenuous sort of
like Obama was disingenuous when he told
the afl-cio that we have to lose a
single pair he didn't do it he didn't
pursue it he waited she can't just look
at what Obama and wait a second Obama
and Edwards and Clinton all were
publicly for essentially the same plan
the only thing that he that he didn't
get was the public option all right
I mean well he's been surfing he surfed
the wave right because that's the way he
originally Mike we're arguing you need
to argue to me that Kamala Harris is
unelectable and your argument is that
with no evidence just your hunch that
she's disingenuous I happen to agree but
remember we're taking positions here
right this is we're doing moot court
your argument okay unelectable I have to
say I tell him to say we have to make
her on electable right thing okay that's
either correct that will support her
vision there's a better will not support
her there's a better way of making this
argument all right it's that we
shouldn't elect her not your your like
your it's it's what you're talking about
is like a bank shot three times over if
the P the easy argument to win is that
donald trump who has the lowest pay
ability ratings who won in the flu
kiyose of flu kiaus tways last time okay
if people want to say that it was russia
fine they can say there's 12 other
reasons why he got 70,000 exactly which
no democratic candidate is gonna make
that mistake again right i mean there's
there's a hundred reasons why Hillary
Clinton lost there were 30 years of
literally a cottage industry that
operated and made money off of making
her look bad none of the other
Democratic candidates have that
liability the argument that you want to
make is those forty three percent of the
Democrats who like Kamala Harris or some
percentage of them who because they
think that she's the only person who win
you're wrong she's not the only person
gonna win vote for the person who think
you think is going to provide the most
the closest to your vision of what where
the country's you and be cat the polls
that that's where the argument has to
start with and that is going to require
a candidate who comes up and has a
compelling vision for the country and
then you can make that argument you can
you can talk about the way Mindy didn't
answer Jamie's question when Jamie was
like well what is it about Kamala that
makes people comfortable is Perkins with
voting for the second half of that
question is what makes them not want to
vote for Bernie or Warren if they're the
same if they're all Medicare for all and
they're all largely the same on the
policies what about Kamala Harris is
appealing to them and the answer is they
know she's disingenuous they know she's
lying she's just not a strident about it
I mean she's just not she's just not as
strident about it I mean look the the I
I think I think the the disingenuous
argument I think is gonna be problematic
I think you just go right on you start
here's the thing you start with the
criminal justice reform because if you
cannot convince okay the significant but
not
overwhelming part of the Democratic
Party that this makes her inappropriate
to be the primary winner then you've
lost so it has to start with the people
who put criminal justice at the top of
their list that's how you stop well why
do you think she's a top-tier candidate
because she just got to make her a good
candidate she just was able to mobilize
20,000 people who come out and from her
thing and well write Y an Feinstein
running or why is it a million others
why she's the one running like why does
she get 20,000 people to come out what I
haven't seen her do anything significant
and she never even made it because I
don't know if you're Mike you you
clearly you got to be aware of the fact
that the most active the most active if
there are two if there are two
demographics of people who are the base
of the Democratic Party who are the most
active in activated by the Trump
election it is women about exactly her
age and I would say african-american
women and and I I think there's
something to that right but it I think
it's not led by the masses like it's if
you look at the polls she doesn't rise I
love beta O'Rourke and I think he's a
joke candidate and I think you would
agree that too so there's some sort of
party apparatus and donor network of
core and their allies in the media that
are pushing her of course really believe
that she's going to make these issues
like you as a left-wing commentator have
to say knowing who supports her I don't
believe her seeing her videos from two
years ago when you as a progressive
cannot vote for Kamala Harris because
she is not one of us and you have and I
know that's an uncomfortable way but but
yeah Mike but I
well you're not listening where I'm
saying this has to start with criminal
justice reform because if you cannot
convince those people right who are the
biggest athlete you know activists in
that space it is
largely it seems to me african-american
Millennials and if they are not prepared
to just to you know register problems
with Kamala Harris then it's going to be
a real problem that's I mean that's
where it's got because they have the the
most prominent voices they have done the
greatest amount of work in that space
and she um she based upon you know at
least of what we've seen of her past is
a very problematic candidate in that
regard and so that's where it's gonna
start right Mike I've layered three
videos on it today
I understand make a big deal but you're
you know you can't start with on
electability you can't start with she's
not in favor of the thing that she
signed on before with Bernie Sanders for
you can't start with that is what I'm
saying what I'm arguing I know you're
arguing I understand she thought really
progressive is that oh she's supported a
medicare-for-all bill and the answer to
that is she's totally disingenuous
I mean someone who could laugh about
using a big stick on poor parents three
years ago
Mike listen to what I'm saying listen to
what I'm saying I'm telling you you're
trying to build the 10th floor of a
building before you lay a foundation and
that's very problematic because he's
gonna fall look that's I understand your
frustration with people using the
electability argument on Bernie but I
think in this case and you know I've
changed my mind a little bit about this
after talking to Sam the best way to
counter that is to make a positive case
for why that argument is not a
negative case for why camallo Harris is
not electable because we don't really
know um and if it's not come out
if somehow we were to knock out Kamala
Harris it would be a different and there
are like like it or not they do have a
constituency of their own they've got
the pink hat ladies and they've
got people who are like moderate
Republicans who don't like Trump Bernie
Sanders on the other hand would have
like I mean he's probably gonna get
endorsed by the TSA that's 50,000 people
right there who would come out to
volunteer for him and he would get a lot
of people out to vote who don't normally
vote which is what Jeremy Corbyn was
able to do in the UK especially the
youth vote their participation jumped up
by 12 points than what it was before so
like let's let's focus in this instance
on the positive construction of that
argument because yeah otherwise it's
just not that strong and all I'm saying
is that you cannot jump
- she's disingenuous because of her
phraseology with medicare-for-all there
is no evidence that you can present at
this time that she is disingenuous about
Medicare fraud I may agree with you that
it's opportunistic but there's no
evidence that you're gonna provide
that's gonna compel anybody however
there is a lot of evidence that she is
completely not on board and in the wrong
direction it has been a malignant force
in the context of criminal justice
reform so what I'm saying is you
establish that first and you do not you
you you undercut your argument by
starting with Medicare for all you start
with your strongest point I do agree
that she's disingenuous about Medicare
for although and we should get to that
after the criminal justice stuff the
criminal justice stuff must be
established because that's right that's
her biggest liability and that is the
one that will be most revelatory to
people now and I think what I'm trying
to say in a nutshell is we have to be
propaganda agents which means we can't
be neutral on Kamala Harris and wait and
see we have to just say no she is
unacceptable because whatever reason you
know for me it's criminal justice is it
is an end to its
donors because I look at things in a
system's way like who supports these
candidates and that will tell you what
they will do once they win and as we saw
with Obama he was supported while by
Wall Street he served Wall Street's
interests it was a point-blank pretty
clear and obvious facts to though
because once you gut if you focus on her
as Attorney General right and the the
failure in the context of a criminal
justice analysis the next step is the
mortgage her role in the the mortgage
debacle and then what comes after that
Mike who did she get money for her
donation from a new yes right so just
build this organically when people get
out there and they say because she said
the words and this is important to me
and therefore that's proof that she
doesn't believe it's important to her
you know what they do they make
themselves look like idiots and they
make it possible for everybody just to
completely ignore what they're saying so
all right look
dude we're going to continue to have
this conversation we're all right talk
to you later
this is interesting Stacey Abrams to
deliver the Democratic response to the
State of the Union
this is gonna be responses to the State
of the Union are notoriously places
where prominent candidates go to end
their career and so now although Jim
Webb did one if I remember correctly and
that was pretty good for him and he was
a lunatic but it'll be interesting I I
hope they do it in a live venue not in a
diner not in in a closed room do it in a
live venue that's why it always fails
because you've just come out of a
situation where
the president has delivered to a live
venue and there's that energy and
there's the cheering go into a live
venue with about a thousand yeah do it
from a pulpit do it from some I mean go
in there and go into a live venue all
right folks
we've run out of time Mike from PA just
completely we'll get to the the
Venezuela stuff tomorrow and the regime
change stuff tomorrow all right
speaking of tomorrow see you tomorrow
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I just got cut
[Music]
feeling better yeah
[Music]
where the choice is made
[Music]
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
