all right let's play one more clip and
then we'll do some IMS and then we'll
get going this Mark Zuckerberg on the
hill today will probably have a little
bit more about this tomorrow
but he is being asked by Maxine Waters
about the Facebook policy of not
fact-checking ads now well let's let
hear the clip and then and then we could
talk about having ads can be an
important way to inject your message
into the internet may I interrupt you
for a minute are you telling me I think
I should said to me before you plan on
doing no fact-checking on political ads
chairwoman our our policy is that we do
not fact check politicians speech and
the reason for that is that we believe
that in a democracy it is important that
people can see for themselves what
politicians are saying political speech
is some of the most scrutinized speech
already in the world do you fact check
on any ads at all yes
describe what you fact check on Oh
chairman actually thank you for the
opportunity to clarify Facebook itself
actually does not does not fat check
what we do is we have feedback that
people in our community don't want to
see viral hoaxes or or kind of wide
maybe clear you do no fact-checking
on any ads is that correct chairwoman
what we do is we work with a set of
independent fact checkers who somebody
that tanks on you have you contract with
someone to do that is that right
chairwoman yes and tell me who is it
that they back checked on a chairwoman
what we do is when content is getting a
lot of distribution and is flagged by
members of our community or by our
technical systems it can go into a queue
to be reviewed by a set of independent
fact checkers
they can't fact check everything but the
things that they get to and if they a
part something is false then we all
right my time has expired and someone
else will continue on
line of questioning I mean first off
you're not censoring speech by having a
banner under an ad with a refutation I
mean you know in part of what is
problematic about political advertising
in the era of no Fairness Doctrine and
it obviously didn't applied is that
there's no you don't have the same
ability to sort of like balance things
out with two different arguments and the
idea that you wouldn't fact-check
politicians ads doesn't mean you you you
why can't you just flag it and say our
fact checkers found this to be false
just a banner underneath click here for
more information
well you know that they don't want I
mean because it goes to you there they
don't want to inhibit their address they
don't want to inhibit their ad revenue
and they also don't want to acknowledge
that they're a media company and not
just like a social platform whatever the
hell that even means right at this point
and and the other thing too you know I
always say to the extent that they have
started to do this they go to like right
wing think-tanks on foreign policy and
all of a sudden you know really
important reporting on you know us
interference in Latin America's and
example is obscured and there's no doubt
that because there is a far-right
constituency sure like Brendan was just
saying to go to free beacon like I mean
metate the responsibility and then when
they do they go to all the wrong sources
by the way Mark Zuckerberg has a hands
and staffing people judges campaign I'm
but I have a buddy who was looking into
sort of like Texas state races and for
the Texas a for a Texas House dictor
district he said the spending for one
candidate was nearly $15,000 on Facebook
alone yep
the and Jack Berg I I don't know if you
covered this yesterday or the other day
he was saying Facebook was founded on
this idea during the Iraq war that we
need to have other voices
during the Iraq war I wanted to figure
out a new way to rate my classmates at
Harvard was not designed like that at
all
at that times literally to rape girls
hotness you could rate how hot they were
and how good their position on Iraq was
yeah it was like yeah are they a dime
piece and they didn't know that the
administration was lying on tubble UMD
but there was no it was not it was it
was built to be for a specific you know
within specific colleges it was the we
used to get a Facebook you know in
college you would get in who you get a
book full of people's faces and names
you know and he just digitized that
basically genius and there was a good
there's a couple people could search for
it I can't quite remember maybe was
Daryl Lind who was there at I think
Harvard at that time I was like the
Facebook wasn't anything like a platform
to express opinions about anything no I
mean III was I was on it relatively
early cuz it really I mean it's so
discussed like literally it was like
Harvard than the Ivy's then they
expanded it to like you know Stanford
and then they did like MIT and then all
of the small like liberal arts colleges
in New England like it was totally
elitist in every way so I was on it
pretty early and there was I mean there
wasn't even a newsfeed function it was
another way to you know basically like
essentially if you didn't have
somebody's phone number you could
connect with them that way and it
literally was like the whole emphasis
was on your personal page and you know
what books are you reading or movies or
sports you're into or whatever there was
no news aggregate feature at all unless
you wanted to use your personal page
that way all right we're gonna go
through
