I would like to talk about my favorite
or least favorite trust fund baby Megan
McCain is maybe the most useless person
on planet Earth
she is not intelligent she has limited
broadcast talent she is purely the
product of American nepotism and she is
sort of the millennial version at times
of this thing that a certain type of
centrist or a certain type of liberal
gets fixated on which is of course the
reasonable Republican or the good
Republican and all of this fantasy
nonsense and what has been proven over
and over again are basically there's
three versions of this scenario one is
your Mitt Romney and you give a great
speech about how Trump will lead to
trickle-down racism and it's so horrible
and blah blah blah and then a couple
months later you're they're getting
cocked at a midtown eatery or nice
restaurant because you're trying to get
Secretary of State or your Jeff Flake
and none of your moral hang ringing has
anything to do with voting to stop you
know Brett Kavanaugh from getting on the
Supreme Court
Jeff don't ask me or what flake exactly
or you know the second step is you're
you know you've built a whole career or
if you're Rick Wilson or David Frum and
there's this never-ending appetite
apparently amongst a certain part of the
kind of like bougie centrist relatively
politically illiterate readership for
you to castigate Trump for being a jerk
while essentially you share a lot of the
same policies as him and you helped get
us to the predicament and the crisis
we're in or you just were involved in
electing any number of ghouls and
zombies and gangsters to public office
or you were a prime advocate of a global
war and torture regime
or the third option which almost never
ever happens but you become like a guy
Kevin Phillips who is I don't even know
if he's still alive but he was a Nixon
adviser and still a very questionable
figure in a lot of ways but by the time
you got to the Bush era he was writing
books on why the Republican Party was
essentially just purely in thrall to
Wall Street and big business and also
the Democrats and he had a kind of
broader populist critique which is to
say he wasn't a Republican anymore okay
so there's three scenarios here there's
irrelevant hand-wringing nonsense
there's the I don't like Trump because
he's uncouth but I support laying waste
to the world and stealing people's money
and I'm generally useless and the only
people that I have any sway over are
mediocre centrists and liberals because
no actual conservative would ever listen
to a David Frum as an example and then
there's the third option which is that
you actually wait a second I'm not an
 anymore and I'm out of here
and even that former bush lawyer who ran
for Senate in Minnesota I wouldn't have
voted for him but okay I'll give him
credit he was like I'm a Democrat and by
the way we need to protect the
environment now I support Medicare for
all fair enough Meghan McCain a lot of
people tried to slot in that second
category and she had that embarrassing
moment that made the rounds during her
dad's funeral where she was like okay it
was like already great like okay and it
was uncomfortable and weird to watch but
of course it made the rounds of people
who tweet and Graham that sort of lame
ass thing and here is Meghan McCain
broke with the best contribution she's
ever made to public life being really
clear about where her primary
allegiances lie on the view the serious
lesson for Democrats also is that
Republicans are not going to vote
against their own agenda and against
their own interest meaning I think
there's an impression sometimes if you
don't watch Fox News the all Republicans
if you're against Trump or you have
issues with his rhetoric that
automatically I have somehow
a morphed into a liberal that every
ideology in principle I've ever agreed
on that the principles that make me who
I am the conservative that I am have
flown out the window and all of a sudden
I'm a Democrat that is not the case
Republicans are going to vote for their
own agenda and they did a lot last night
especially in Senate and gubernatorial
races and I think the Democrats are
really competitive were the ones that
were more moderate so that is a lesson I
would take pointing to me actually
because when you when you look at the
Republicans it's disappointing you're a
Democrat it's not just winning for me
I'm a hard publican I'm gonna end up
voting for Republicans and there's a way
to differentiate I think it wasn't
candidate it was discipline
no actually in substance there isn't and
I think obviously Megan's not
intelligent enough to realize that but
she actually just articulated that
precisely herself and what is her agenda
she's literally a trust-fund baby who's
been handed wealth in a career from
inception and she is going to vote to
give herself more of that and protects
what was already given to her and she
lives in New York and her dad probably
occasionally was like it was a bad call
to vote against making MLK jr. Day a
holiday and I should have when I had a
chance when I was running for president
in South Carolina in 2000 I shouldn't
have cooked out I should have said
obviously the Confederate flag is a
symbol of racism and incidentally even
though I still vote against marriage
equality and so on we've got some gay
friends around because we're essentially
multi-millionaire entertainment family
but when it actually comes down to
things well daddy was about endless wars
invading the planet and you know killing
plenty of people in the Middle East and
saber-rattling in Eastern Europe and
deterring China and and daughter is into
getting money given to her so that she
can have even more luck in her entirely
unearned career I mean honestly like you
could read thomas piketty's or you could
look at megan mccain and the lesson
about intergenerational wealth and how
it
clora defies society is there I mean
this is somebody if this was the
daughter of a Kmart manager this is not
someone who's rising to the top of a
meritocracy this is pure mediocrity
through contacts and she's going to vote
to give herself and that is the
Republican you know at least a wealthy
part of who votes her Republicans who
actually get policy rewarded and if she
has to look the other way on white
nationalism and homophobia and all the
other stuff she will even as she
continues to like listen to Lord and
have gay friends or whatever the
else it is that people think make this
wretched human being moderate I wonder
if she signed a contract extension
recently or something like that cuz it's
very rare that the never tremors will be
like yeah I'm not gonna work with you
guys yeah I'm not really your ally yeah
this Trump stuff I'll I'll feign outrage
but like fundamentally I'm not gonna
change any of my behavior right that's
true but she's also getting a good job
at I mean you know the the anxiety and
the temper tantrum she had about
socialism a couple of months ago she has
like a certain there is something very
like the paws are coming from across
town oh yeah
she's like the smelling salts are out
and I think it's like it's different
when well daddy says Hillary will be
okay right now it's like oh my god
they're actually voting for people that
might mean that I won't inherit like six
houses you know like this might mean
that I might not have just a completely
unearned decadent lifestyle than that
and that is a problem that terrifies me
and she said it terrifies me and what
ideas we realize whether people like
Megan McCain are conscious of that or
not I think it definitely registers like
you can tell like the stream is gonna
dry up even if you're not really sure
that's why you're supporting this I mean
I think that and Megan McCain knows but
generally when people like it's it's a
mystery because why they're voting for
Republicans because they're socially
this or that right make it so it's the
one they don't care that's that's all
that is secondary to irrelevant and
I also
