let's play this clip this is Donald
Trump trying to pretend that somehow he
doesn't know Matt Whittaker the person
he made acting Attorney General this was
Jeff Sessions chief of staff and really
would be almost disturbing if he didn't
know who he was how do you make a guy
acting Attorney General that you don't
know right
but here's Donald Trump here's Donald
Trump claiming this
[Music]
I didn't speak to Matt Whitaker about it
I don't know Matt Whitaker Matt Whitaker
has a great reputation and that's what I
wanted I also wanted to do something
which frankly I could have brought
somebody very easily from the outside I
didn't want to do that when sessions
left what I did very simply is take a
man who works possession there you go he
just took a man to work for sessions
yeah that's so that's so true because
rod Rosen sign doesn't you know he has
nothing to do with that department right
why would you want rod Rosen who's been
acting as it can basically be acting
Attorney General for one of the bigger
cases that they've been working on over
at the DOJ that's a stupid comment
comment yeah well he's just you know
what it's I mean he's so stupid like he
does that Prescott did you see when he
got so mad when they kept answering him
question and he just backed up with a
red face and was like like a
two-year-old walk you're getting scolded
by their teachers okay walks
away from the podium very Mussolini like
and he's going and everyone so means
Sarah and she's sitting there with one
eye you know and the website in
Rome and the right side of the world
like and she's like smiling Oh Mike
you're gonna be my vice president it's
like such a dick Oy he's just
like they should all gotten up and just
 walked out and left him standing
there I think Billy
bullying a2 is so not classy Jim Acosta
he's mean to Sarah Huckabee who's a -
every day it's totally unfair
