so John let I mean you you start your
piece off and and and I think it's an
important piece because the the left
really has it seems to me a either
I mean largely a an undefinable in many
respects a very defensive position when
it comes to immigration in this country
we keep hearing comprehensive
immigration reform nobody seems to do I
think your average person does not
necessarily know what that means
you know when the rubber meets the road
so and one of the things that the left
is accused of is an open borders policy
and I think there is sort of that some
type of you know largely you know it
depends on where on the left
people are situated there is a knee-jerk
reaction to be nervous about that for
some reason we will we will get to that
but let's just start with you you cite
the story of Sir Cyril Radcliffe as a
way of explicate a--sort of a failure of
borders in our modern era tell us about
that right yeah so Sir Cyril Radcliffe
he was the English lawyer who was
charged with nearly single-handedly
charged with drawing the border line
between Pakistan and India when the
British Empire was backing out of was
South South Asia and he had just a few
weeks to do to draw this line it's
incredibly complicated he tried to
follow a little bit of the natural
Geographic makeup of the area but also
he had to take into considerable account
the very complex religious cultural
ethnic divisions and history and he did
he has never been to India before and in
a couple of weeks he basically in you
know tried did his best but in the end
it was slapdash and he divided India
from East and West Pakistan and East
Pakistan now
the Bangladesh and almost immediately
there was intense violence and and you
know what what there's massive migration
to get to the other side the lines that
he drew there was a very complex system
of Enclave within Enclave and even a
couple times within Enclave where there
is tiny parts of the countries in little
islands in the other country and it was
a it was a complete map and I think that
this is one of many examples throughout
the world that we can point to as being
an arbitrary and you know nothing
natural about it
formation of borders and you know we now
see this argument a lot in this country
a contemporary saying like well if we
don't have borders we don't have the
country but you know we're like talking
about open borders isn't necessarily
abolishing a border those are two
different terms and I think defining
these lots of these terms is really
important but one is the second part of
that argument stuck in a hole in that
argument is that it's simply a
historical we haven't had enforced
militarized borders in this country as
recently as about 30 years ago I mean
you go a little bit further back and to
the early 20th century and we had almost
zero infrastructure at all along any of
the u.s. Geographic borders so I think
all right so let's just I just want to
be clear on that on that dynamic yeah
it's it sounds a little bit remedial but
I think people should understand it
there is value at least in terms of
let's say jurisdiction for law or you
know a property ownership or you know
you can't you know you can't have you
can't let off fireworks whatever it is
in in the context of border because we
gotta understand like who is responsible
for this which which which which town is
responsible that's why we have borders
between towns in you know and borders
between states but they are open borders
I mean so the states exist
a militarized border there's no reason
why a nation can't and your point is it
is certainly the the the the it's been
the case that our borders have been
written and enforced insofar as it
provides jurisdiction but in terms of
there being a military or militarized or
a while wall or checkpoints or stuff
like that not so much
right you know you that's a point that I
think is is a good one to make is the
analogy of the United States versus you
know an international border so we have
borders between all of our states and
people can cross them freely and you
know they have to then abide by the laws
in a new state and that the laws are
different and but we don't see mass
migration across different states even
when there are pretty significant
differences in incoming quality for
example and so militarizing the border
or demilitarized that border won't
necessarily result in a massive influx
of people which i think is a is driving
a lot of the scare right now and that's
one point the other point is right now
with the status quo which is a
militarized border we are having a large
increase in or a large influx of
migrants it's not historically large but
it is still significant and so the
border doesn't really work so you can
try to establish these concrete barriers
but people are going to get around so
the the real question i think should be
when people come because they will come
how do we integrate that how do we do so
in a humane way or how do we help create
societies on both sides of the border
that are have like access to opportunity
and justice and and and and there i
think is a conversation that we're
entirely skipping when we only concern
on the border we tell and really I mean
it we're skipping sort of I guess the
the the conversation about immigrants I
mean the the
we of the estimates of how many
undocumented folks there are in this
country and I've seen anywhere from 10
to 20 million undocumented folks
everyone agrees that half of that number
whatever it is you know 10 or 20 half of
it our people who just over came here
legally just overstayed their visas so
it's near the border is irrelevant in
that conversation as well right yeah
yeah I think that one thing we need to
emphasize is that like the any sort of
policy that we're enacting is going to
be you know we need to extend some sort
of humanity towards people who are
either caught up in our immigration
system and people who are here and I
think that the most UMaine way to do
that is to look at the reality of what's
going on that people are coming and
there will continue to come as long as
there's gross disparities and income and
there's you know climate change bearing
down on especially the global south and
if we don't take into consideration how
to accept these people or how to help
them as our you know as fellow human
beings deal with the travesty that
they're dealing with you know just
trying to wall them out and isn't going
to make anyone safer or anyone anyone
like have a happier life because it
doesn't work and we've seen that
throughout history well alright let's
take a break when we come back let's
talk about the the and I think we've
touched on the ethical although I think
there's more to be said from an ethical
standpoint but there's also
environmental reasons to have open
border there's also economic arguments
free.if for open borders that we should
touch on so let's take a quick break I
will be right back ring of fire radio
we'll be talking to John Washington
about his piece what would an open
borders world actually look like
we'll be right back after this
