[Music]
the story I want to just highlight just
because you know we talk about antitrust
people ask how would you break up
various entities you know this is this
is another example of where antitrust
falls down in the United States Spotify
is suing Apple in the in the EU over the
way that Apple treats its apps in the
App Store right you have a huge
percentage of the market in in terms of
apps goes through the Apple App Store
and you cannot introduce an app that
doesn't give Apple cut of every sale
that you make and now of course it's not
an issue with Apple music right which is
a competitor to Spotify but I can tell
you that part of the reason why it's
taken us so long to get our app up there
is because even though we were not
selling memberships we couldn't even
link back to our website with the
majority FM so you know without giving
Apple a cut we may end up just doing it
because they they seem to like know that
we're selling membership somewhere and
so we may end up giving them a cut but
that's I mean that's like extortion sort
of now I guess we could put our Apple
app on a different platform if we could
but we can't so they have created this
closed system they've gotten big enough
now where some 50 percent maybe more of
our audience loses an iPhone or an iPad
so this is an example of what a rigorous
antitrust would do this is
anti-competitive I don't know how you
would compute whether this is cheaper
for the consumer or not but that's not
at the point it is anti-competitive it
undermines innovation and
and broadening the economy and and of
course it consolidates political power
as you increase the economic power as
well
