[Music]
good news folks with this is happening
now right okay so when does the budget
have to be settled by I was in a 21st at
December and Nancy and Chuck visited the
White House today and I don't know this
is giving me like PTSD I would just
remember when they first went in the
White House like I guess at the end of
17 right and basically said hey we're
gonna make things much easier for the
Republicans that actually ended up
leading to the tax cut in my estimation
because they had room to maneuver here
is Donald Trump Trump wants a wall and
he wants money for the wall and the
Democrats better not to give it to him
this is not the time to concede in my
estimation I don't think there was
anybody who voted for the Democrats in
that midterms who was like I hope we get
a wall out of this here is part of that
meeting where Trump threatens to shut
down the government one thing I think we
can agree on is we shouldn't shut down
the government over a dispute and you
want to shut it down the last time Chuck
you shut it down
no no no and then you up weddings
alright quickly and when each I don't
want to do what you did 20 times I've
called for I will shut down the
government if I don't get my wool none
of us have you you've said you want to
put that who said it I'll take it okay
good you know what I'll say yes if we
don't get what we want one way or the
other whether it's through you through a
military through anything you want to
call I will shut down the go up there no
and is around and I'll disagree I am
proud to shut down the government for
border security Chuck because the people
of this country don't want criminals and
people that have lots of problems and
drugs pouring into our country so I will
take the mantle I will be the one to
shut it down I'm not gonna blame you for
it the last time you shut it down it
didn't work I will take the mantle of
shutting down and I'm gonna shut it down
for border but we believe you shouldn't
shout down thank you very much everybody
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
let's see what else goes on a lot of
friends of mine want it a lot of people
that Chuck and Nancy know very well one
and I think people you'd like we have a
lot of people that want the job chief of
staff so we'll be seeing what happens
we're no rush no rush we don't need a
chief of staff why because we have a
wonderful chief of staff right now we
really just know we are in no rush over
a period of a week or two or maybe less
we'll announce it well maybe more but we
have a lucky brother what the position
thanked week or two let's all right so
we got two things here first off Chuck
Schumer is in Chuck Schumer heaven
because he has the president on on
record as saying I'm gonna shut down the
government and the Bailey's hate it when
government is shut down the Bailey's get
so frustrated Bailey's of course is
Chuck Schumer's make-believe family that
gives him advice on stuff I don't know
if he goes to like mr. Rogers gives mr.
Bailey's neighborhood I I am of the mind
that it really doesn't matter what we
just saw that exchange at the end of the
day what matters is that the Democrats
do not agree to give funding for the
wall the disintegration of our
government is already underway at this
point it is very very harmful to
government workers to shut the
government down
they go on for lo they don't know are
they gonna be able to afford Christmas
presents they don't know when their jobs
are coming back to camp budget etc etc
but the Republicans have constant
consistently done this for years for
years and the Democrats just cannot play
this game anymore
and I think the inclination is in this
country to blame Donald Trump for
everything largely because he's an idiot
and a criminal and so they need to be
steadfast and then the other funny thing
is is that you would think that if you
get rid of you chief the staff and it
was your decision to get rid of them
have somebody lined up you might you
might have a couple you might have
somebody lined up you might have
somebody lying but yeah I got friends I
got a lot of people want to do it it's
so many people want to do it I don't
want to hurt anybody's feelings who
really wants it here's the problem I'm
afraid of hiring or firing anybody and
John Kelly was supposed to do that but
now he's fired well I think Trump should
shut the government down forever I don't
think it goes far enough you know put
your money where your mouth is a
government shutdown for a few days bad
for workers government shutdown forever
no more president's 2020 do whatever we
want libertarian socialism good for
workers so if he wants to do that to own
the libs fine I do it for real I have a
feeling that if you were to go to a
place with no government and 300 million
people who wanted to eat that you would
be a bit of a mess I don't think that it
would be good for really anybody god it
breaks them eggs to make an omelet
that's true but translates really well
yeah that's that's true you got to break
some eggs to make an omelet but I mean
in this instance what you're talking
about is the omelet is a lot of death
and carnage and starvation and Hort so
yes in that respect but you think it
would be worse than
we have now under Trump I think yes
getting rid of the entire government
just shut it down shut the whole thing
down are you are you serious
Jaime I am being jokey but there is a
serious point underneath it take me
literally not seriously take don't take
me literally what what is that what is
the serious point though I mean the
serious point is that this system of
governance is bad and it doesn't work
for the majority of people and we need a
major change in order to fix it do you
think shutting it down
is the best way to fix it like do you
think what would come out of literally
shutting the government down would
actually be better than what we have now
I do I have reason to believe that it
would be I don't know if I'm 100% right
in that but you know what I think we're
headed for a collapse one way or another
yeah yeah going to find out eventually I
feel 100% confident that that would not
be the way to to to get a better outcome
like I would rather have the Train what
do you think all the PE guns would do I
would rather have the transition be more
gentle than just one day what do you
think all the people with the guns would
do well if it happened today the right
is much more heavily armed than the
latter safely win you just said Trump
should shut it down for good now yeah
well this isn't exactly how I want it to
happen I'm just
I mean I'm pointing in a direction of
something okay I mean I think there's
facetiousness but yeah sure definitely
but I and I think yeah
