all right here is another moment that
was worth watching in the debate if you
want to understand cuz a lot of people
ask me like what happened to Kamala
Harris like why isn't she doing well I
don't know I can't quite explain why
she's not doing well but I can show you
an example of just somebody who does not
have a someone who has a ten year I
think right like this is fascinating she
is going she is going out Elizabeth
Warren cuz Warren has talked about you
know the question is good you know
breaking up big tech companies you know
is that problematic because Warren is
you know has been an antitrust person
for an extended period of time she has
called out Zuckerberg directly and she
wants to you know antitrust across
different sectors but and so here's
Harris going at her and it sounds like
Harris is about to question Warren on
some element of antitrust and about
monopolies that Warren hasn't thought of
and I you get the sense that Warren is
like it's girding is just like she's
yeah because they still think of Harris
as a formidable opponent so Harris needs
to cut into Warren so she's like alright
here it comes here it comes and Warren
starts I mean what Harris that starts
off with like you know okay Elizabeth
you say this about about monopolies but
why haven't you dealt with this of what
should be the rules around corporate
responsibility for these big tech
companies when I called on Twitter to
suspend Donald Trump's a account that
you did not agree and I would I would
urge you to join me because here we have
Donald Trump Oz it no we're going to go
back
and no no keep it keep that because I
want to just play the smile one more
time here the smile okay okay
she thinks she's about to get caught on
something like you know and I've been in
this position before like I prep I prep
I prep oh my god I'm gonna be debating
this libertarian professor and he shows
up and he's not as formidable as I
thought he might be and here is
Elizabeth Warren so Gert you know
girding herself for this this attack and
then she has to hold back a laugh when
it's how come you haven't called for
Trump to be banned from Twitter watch
this the rules around corporate
responsibility for these big tech
companies when I called on Twitter to
suspend Donald Trump's account that's
pretty good
alright so let's play the whole clip
because it's pretty amazing like are you
seriously talking about antitrust and
then bringing it into the question of of
banning Trump from Twitter like what was
amazing too is that Harris was on was on
Twitter later boom owning the fact that
a bunch of different topics weren't
brought up and she spent an extinct like
you know I don't know what percentage
over time I would say maybe a sixth of
her time talking time I mean how much
should you should be frightened is was
two minutes right I mean to think that
but this is an incredible trend because
okay she goes after Biden on busing
which is a real issue but they and they
have the t-shirts literally ready to go
right and then within days she's like
yeah but actually I essentially have the
same policy I just wanted to use that
then you know we criticized her on the
straw thing I think that that's in some
ways very analogous of like here's
something I can signify but I don't
actually want to talk structurally like
I'm not talking about a green new deal
I'm not talking about radical emissions
cuts and now we go to this she's not
even just talking structurally it's
getting recently ridiculous if this goes
at least a straw I don't I don't think
that that's smart
but you could still say okay there's
plastic pollution like okay there's
something material to it even if it's
not the way to go I think and now we're
just going into all right let's talk
antitrust Donald Trump didn't read the
Terms of Service and what about shadow
pen and what about shadow babe I mean no
honestly I mean this this is resistance
Maria Bartiromo stuff it's embarrassing
but I do want to also say this what
we're talking about is a grave injustice
when rules apply to some but not equally
to all and in particular when the rules
that apply to how she said you don't
apply to the powerful and so Senator
Warren I just want to say that I was
surprised to hear that you did not agree
with me that on this subject of what
should be the rules around corporate
responsibility for these big tech
companies when I called on Twitter to
suspend Donald Trump's account that you
did not agree and I would urge you to
join me because here we have Donald
Trump that's 65 million Twitter
followers and is using that platform as
the president of the United States to
openly intimidate witnesses to threaten
witnesses to obstruct justice and he and
his account should be taken down we saw
in El Paso that that shooter in his
manifesto was informed by how Donald
Trump uses that platform and this is a
matter of corporate responsibility
Twitter should be held accountable and
shut down that side you know what it
matters you know what it you know what
this reminds me of Laura Loomer knows
because it's a chaining myself in front
of start off because dude's gotta go
you're gonna introduce you're gonna talk
about the premise is that we live in a
society with two tiered system of
Justice we have a two tiered system of
rules those for the powerful and those
for the weak the fan I am shot I am
shocked that you will not join me in
calling for this guy to be banned from
Twitter I really honestly like when you
think of all the disparity that exists
in this society that's why I would like
what you could outs why senator Warren
I would like you to join me in
condemning myself for putting the
mothers of truant truant children in
prison and letting Steve minuchin get
away with multiple financial crimes
because of this whole two-tiered justice
system I was just talking about I just
the thinking like you you could do that
Martin Luther King bit essentially with
like you know just sort of the smallest
of like why why why Wallace get extra
editorial space it's even it's even
worse than anything yes just like I
couldn't think of anything actually
analogously small ah Drive my car and on
Thursdays when the parking rates are a
nickel more that's the sign injustice
that we have or you know I don't even I
can't even know that wouldn't even work
there's literally nothing that you could
think of that even like she almost like
Warren almost doubled over and laughter
like cuz she thought like oh there's
something big coming over it's quite a
wine various the first part of the wine
up I thought she was actually gonna go
into Warren's
like corporate legal advising stuff I
was like is she gonna talk about that
that's fascinating and then she went to
and then she went to the to the to the
monopoly stuff and I was like I mean you
know Harris is another like she's an
attorney obviously maybe she may be
Warren missed something in her plan and
they're sorry Donald Trump you got to
keep keep yeah keep going the way and
then just quote Donald Trump's pull up
this tweet to after mile of Donald
Trump's it I'm still nothing it's we
look at you sorry and shut down that
site it is a matter of safety and
corporate accountability thank you
senator Warren you can respond so clerk
I don't just want to push Donald Trump
off Twitter I want to push him out of
the White House that's our job but the
way join me in saying that why it is
that we have had laws on the books for
antitrust for over a century and yet for
decades now we've all called on how the
big drug companies are calling the shots
in Washington big AG how the gun
industry big tech you know we really
need to address the
elephant in the room and that is how
campaigns are financed
sponsibility applied it now it's thus
warning that I'm not gonna take any
money from big tech executives from Wall
Street executives we've already agreed
Bernie and I we're not taking any money
from Big Pharma executives you can't go
behind closed doors and take the money
of these executives and then turn around
and expect that these are the people who
are actually finally going to enforce
the laws we need campaign finance rules
you can't support it's all you you it is
it does not represent a system of
justice to say that the rules will apply
differently to different people this is
a matter you are saying of holding
big-dick accountable building big tech
accountable because they have an
outsized influence on people's
perceptions about issues and they
actually influence behaviors we all have
to agree this is their power it is
immense
senator Coburn you about that it seems
to me that you would be able to join me
in saying the rule has to apply to
truckers anyway it does to Facebook I
think all of the rules should apply
across the board I don't have a problem
with that is that if we're going to talk
seriously about breaking up big tech
then we should ask if people are taking
money from the big tech executives if
we're going to talk seriously about
breaking up big drug companies we should
ask if people are financing their
campaigns by taking money from okay now
I do have a theory that occurs to me as
I'm watching this let's put up the tweet
though that Kamala Harris tweeted out
you just watch what was that a two and a
half minute exchange that is the theory
she borrowed out on xanax after after
the debate she wrote three hours not one
question about climate crisis not one
question about LGBTQ rights
not one question about immigration these
issues are too important to ignore after
you talk about banning Donald Trump from
Twitter now I do have a theory there
have been instances most of this granted
in fiction where you make some type of
Faustian bargain where if you say
certain words or get certain words to be
said by someone else then you get
something it's quite possible that she
had some type of deal with the devil
where if she could convince Warren to
say those words Kamala Harris would be
present like that's just one of my
theories because otherwise it is
completely baffling as to what she
thought she was getting she's so
marginal right now that it wasn't even
worth to worth it to say two-tier
justice system Steve minuchin thank you
next I mean like we were saying earlier
in the in in prep that I mean Warren
wasn't even that great in response
because it's like when you're playing
tennis with somebody who has like this
totally bizarre game without like any
proper strokes and they somehow just
keep lobbing the ball over the net you
can't actually really get into a rhythm
yourself it's like III guess I'll turn
this into a question about campaign
contributions this person's really
obsessed with this really trivial thing
yeah she's clearly getting up on that
sin she used to be much better at this
and now she's uh well you saw you know
you lost John love it might not be long
for Kamala Harris that's right Jon
Lovitz said Kamala Harris going after
Elizabeth Warren on banning Trump from
Twitter is one of the more pathetic
stunts I've seen in a debate and then
who's in Sam's it's uh
Kamala national oh okay well that makes
sense it's like oh wait who's this guy
saying this is wild John he's violating
Twitter like who's still hitting this oh
of course it's the guy who advised her
to say this probably oh I've got the
perfect thing for you to say you can
nail her cuz Warren is
come out in favor of a banning a Trump
from Twitter I mean that Wow
I could imagine like maybe oh there's a
lot of like Twitter Donuts yeah there's
a couple of like weirdos let's go to the
phones
