and so the other day we played a clip
from Joe Rogan show where you know
zom with the Barry White's and we have
our issues with Barry Weiss
as well but nevertheless we were using
this this clip as an example of of how
sometimes you know there is motivated
reasoning with you what you call that
confirmation bias confirmation bias
thank you and there's this narrative
that they want to promulgate that the
left is out of control and not just the
left but the the sort of I guess the
social justice left now there certainly
of course individuals who are you know
extreme in one way or another but in
terms of it gaining hold in society just
so you know the idea that white people
have oppressed black people in this
country or that race if you're black
defines your life far greater in terms
of limitations within our society than
it does if you're white broadly speaking
it's not true for every single
individual but we just interviewed
someone who talked about this in the
context of Millennials across class
lines across all sorts of circumstances
and this has been the case for hundreds
of years in this country I think that
should be obvious to everyone so the
incidents and those things that maintain
and reinforce that dynamic are far more
pernicious than those
that may be extreme in trying to end
that dynamic does M is that clear why
that's different
why extremism for social justice
warriors does not equal extremism for
white supremacists because our society
is already white supremacists and has
been for hundreds of years and even if
you're one of those people who think
it's more or less gone there's still you
still must acknowledge that the dynamic
still tilted and that the danger of
extremism of a white supremacist far
outweighs the extremism of a social
justice warrior because just our history
in the context right I mean if if I have
a scale and I have a hundred pounds on
this scale and I have twenty pounds on
this side of the scale the idea of
adding twenty on this side versus thirty
on this side is still more problematic
right it's still going to tilt it down
this way many sides right so that's why
this confirmation bias so dangerous
because it not only overstates the case
but it way over States and over
estimates and over pathologize --is the
crisis that could be created by this
type of extremism but nevertheless so
this happened propagation of hatred of
flesh and homophobia sexism transphobia
racism and ableism now if I was this so
are we supposed to yeah sterilized white
people there it is we could see it up on
the big screen so it's even cruel that's
large but see this this is the thing
racism is racism is terrible right so
how do you stop racism
well racism is can only be perpetrated
by white people oh well the problem is
white people we got to stop white people
well now you're racist like you're
literally being racist to stop is this
real
I've never thought well there people are
finding it and posting it online and
someone sent it to me
I know it's everywhere it's probably
just one right is somebody the
print but the person exists that person
exists and they think they're
progressive do you see the cold civil
okay and then they talk about you know
the cold Civil War that's kind of coming
this and that like that as if this is a
real danger if as if there's some type
of danger that somehow white people are
going to be despite the 300 400 years of
evidence that we have in this country
that white people are perfectly safe
they may be subjected to sort uh you
know class issues they may be subjected
to the same type of problems in terms of
opioid addiction in some instances more
it was actually my understanding is that
particularly early on that white people
were more susceptible to hope you own
addiction because they had a higher
incidence of having health insurance and
black people could not could not get the
pills to get addicted to in the first
place
yeah it doctors are a lot more generous
with the prescriptions when you're white
and when you're male but so but they
it's really important for this
conversation that they're having that
this be true and dangerous in a mounting
danger and if there's only one guy well
it's only one guy but it's hugely
extreme and if this catch is on well so
we criticized the Joe Rogan for not
looking that up because it turns out it
was complete fraud it you'll notice on
the bottom of that poster it says it
from the Emerald City I think an Tifa
and the Emerald City and if I said
that's not us it says more about the
channels of communication and
intelligence that are feeding into Joe
Rogan that it does about the world right
exactly and but it also look we get
stuff like this all the time too and you
just have to take the responsibility of
just before I put it up there if it
seems a little bit
we should double-check it and there are
stuff we've there's been many occasions
where we have said well it's not report
this is way today and see what's up
it's just bizarre I mean I don't expect
your organ to know that much about
anti-fascism like anti-fascists are
mostly Communists and anarchists they're
not black nationalists well they may be
just really self-hating white people and
don't want anybody to marry them or mate
with us but now but we want to correct
the record because apparently someone
did text to Joe during the show and say
hey man that's fake had not change
Craner irredeemable right is crazy
cancel culture I was talking about this
with with Kanye honestly we were talking
about cancel call when was he on the
show we're talking about in person oh
okay on the phone be on the show okay
I'd like to see him with the samurai
sword poster it's been it was first
posted over two years ago and it
supposedly is my control oh yeah that
makes sense this is the world where it's
hard to find what's a troll was some
what I was gonna say that if I was
cynical no wait a second
it's easy it's easy to find it took
three seconds for me to find it you just
put you just put in an taifa poster
white people Snopes
that's all it takes so but it's amazing
how like oh well yeah okay don't
disregard what we just said for three
minutes about that was based around that
the premise has been completely exploded
but let's continue let's continue like
maybe you need to reevaluate with
everything that came off that premise
but
