[Music]
apparently over the with this help of
the weekend Kim Kimal Jung Kim jong-il
rather criticized Joe Biden and John
Bolton
called John Bolton the war monger they
must be reading they must have good
intelligence reports that Iran in some
ways trying to isolate John Bolton in
the administration and and maybe this
was also this was a way to reach Trump
with a little bit of like a little bit
of medicine a little bit of sugar the
medicine John Bolton there's a warmonger
and also Joe Biden not that bright and
here's Trump responding to this they
give you pause at all to be appearing to
side with a brutal dictator instead of
with a fellow American the former Vice
President Joe Biden
well Kim jong-un made a statement that
Joe Biden is a low IQ individual he
probably is based on his record I think
I agree with them on that but in terms
of criticism that you're sort of
supporting a dictator instead of an
American vice president well when I look
at what's been done by our vice
president and the president when I look
at the horrible Iran deal that they made
look what happened since I terminated
the Iran deal look what has happened to
Iran Iran when I first came into office
was a terror they were fighting in many
locations all over the Middle East they
were behind every single major attack
whether it was Syria whether it was
Yemen whether it was individual smaller
areas whether was taking away well from
people they were involved with
everything now they're pulling back
because they've got serious economic
problems well I mean aside from the fact
that I may agree with the worst
president in the history of our country
arguably and a brutal dictator on Joe
Biden's
and the estimation of Joe Biden III I
got to take a little exception with what
Iran was doing before certainly they
were funding terrorism around the Middle
East when you talk about Yemen I think
arguably we spread as much terror there
as Iran perhaps maybe in some respects
even more because we certainly have
enabled the killing of thousands upon
thousands of civilians not to mention
just you know what has been created
there in terms of like famine and and
whatnot and in an inability to deal with
the famine and natural disasters there
so I don't know but it's interesting to
see Joe Biden's like no appearance no
enthusiasm plan getting under a Donald
Trump skin even abroad pretty impressive
pretty impressive stuff
