[Music]
so let's play this clip from pod save
America and and this is what I find you
know sort of somewhat I mean I you know
look I don't listen to pod save America
on a regular basis I know a lot of
people do that's all well and good I
think probably on balance they're a net
positive for optional I did have on my
back in the day on my grumble profile I
did say let me tell you why you can do
better than pod save I'm not just
qualifying you but do better right
that's practice there was which was a
big change when just putting a pod save
in America a pod save America in your
bumble profile will get an immediate
swipe whatever side is bad
that's what left but this type of stuff
I think is you know sort of problematic
because it's so reminiscent of another
guy in who in my mind served a similar
purpose maybe you know different era
obviously where everything was a little
bit more to the right but here's a Jon
Lovitz echoing what I heard during the
run-up to the Iraq war which was right
war wrong reasons or wrong reasons but
right war one of the things that's very
hard in this situation is that this is
one of those rare times where Trump
isn't getting everything totally wrong
you know this is a situation where just
because Donald Trump has an ideological
interest in proving something in
Venezuela and just because he is not he
has shown such deference to dictators
around the world and has such authority
Arian tendencies at home doesn't mean
that there are places where we align I'm
trying to remove Maduro it's just that
we might have a slightly different
approach yeah I mean all right and so
here's the thing I mean the and I don't
know what
they I don't know what the slightly
different approach is that these guys
have but the the reason why we should
not support intervention in Venezuela is
not because Donald Trump supports
intervention the reason why we shouldn't
support intervention in Venezuela is
because none of our interventions and
maybe somebody can come up with one off
the top of my head I can't think of one
but it's much easier to think of our
interventions in the past that their net
result has been the has been more d2
stabilization more violence an
incredibly amount of durable
destabilization and violence for
instance you could just get into a car
and travel north from Venezuela and get
into Central America maybe wouldn't even
have to go that far actually but El
Salvador and Guatemala and Nicaragua
Honduras where places have been highly
destabilized and because of US
intervention in one form or another so
there's nothing good that comes out of
this and you can certainly believe that
Maduro is anti-democratic that the the
dissolution of that you know the
rewriting of a constitution the
dissolution of a legislative body and
jailing his opposition parties and the
run-up to election you can have a
problem with all of this and still
ultimately say the US can't fix this
problem by intervening it can only
exacerbate these problems and even if
there is a short-term fix that the u.s.
thinks it has inevitably and invariably
these things go south and also I mean I
will just do that without opening all of
it certainly greatly contributed to the
problem by our actions but uua outlines
the bigger more important points but
I think there's a smaller by your logic
point here which is actually really
important for understanding how
legitimately problematic things like pod
save America and all this like
resistance discourses because like if I
was to stipulate that okay these are
people who don't have an anti
interventionist anti-imperial view so
they're susceptible to supporting
policies that you know I just
fundamentally opposed in a place like
Venezuela but they an especially pod
save guys are supposed to be the types
of people that really recognize that
Donald Trump is in fact uniquely unable
to do anything and uniquely dangerous
and there is just something
extraordinary about people who rightly
spend all day saying that he's racist
he's incompetent he shouldn't be trusted
with anything and then the one area that
they're willing to give him deference on
isn't one of the most dangerous and
neatly problematic areas that we do
period that reveals a lot the the the
exact same dynamic took place when he
started launching bombs into Syria right
that on news on MSNBC with all these
ostensibly
you know sort of folks who would
otherwise oppose Donald Trump who are
like we need to do this and then come up
with a plan I'm like who exactly is
going to do this like you're you're
sitting here telling us the Donald Trump
is completely out of control or is
completely incompetent you're gonna
trust this guy to wage war on I mean
like like what are we afraid of what is
anybody afraid of with Donald Trump like
you know beyond what you would be afraid
of of your average Republican policy it
is that he's going to get people killed
like that he doesn't have the agenda of
not just that he doesn't have the agenda
of the United States in mind as his
primary motivating factor and I would
argue that I don't even know what that
means
because I think different people
different presidents would have
different notion of what our key
American interests in any given sake and
what when doing something in the the for
the benefit of the United States I think
has a different definition for different
people depending on what part of
American society they're in but the
bottom line is you're giving Donald
Trump essentially the the keys to the
car on you know the night where there's
more drunk drivers on the on the streets
than any other night you're letting him
you're you're allowing this guy to
operate in the most dangerous of
contexts and so even under right by
their logic it makes no sense
