we were talking in the last segment
about the state of the union and we were
talking about how so much of what the
president said I mean there people did a
lot of fact-checking so much was sort of
factually untrue but even the the sort
of the rhetoric itself seemed incredibly
disingenuous however he did get pretty
high ratings for the speech you know I
think maybe seventy two thirty approval
rating somewhere around there maybe a
little bit less and but it turns out
that those polls showed that the
audience was like twenty percent more
Republican than the country is and so
the vast majority of people who are
watching that were Republicans and and
and you know republican-leaning
independence so I'm not surprised that
worked well with them are you know I
mean in fact the number I saw is that
only twenty four percent of the audience
where self-described Democrats I mean
yeah that would make sense don't want to
watch this car you know I mean the
Democrats the one and it was thirty
percent I think of word independence
which I think we can assume were
republican-leaning independents which is
how that that sort of works so it's not
surprising and by the way that's not
really that uncommon aid they say that
most state of the union's except in a
time of crisis like the one I mentioned
after 9/11 it's usually the audience is
composed of partisans more than the
other side but I mean you know why not
it's a boring speech I mean I could
barely make myself listen to them when
it's somebody I like much less somebody
that I don't like and it's not their
authentic
Trump I mean for him in particular this
is not his best venue he loves it
because he feels like he's you know I
don't know rosin weenie or Caesar try
something you know right but you know
it's a variable the pageantry and he's
always looking at the ratings and I
haven't seen I didn't see what the
ratings were I should have looked it up
before I before I came on here but you
know whatever I'm sure he was very
pleased that all those people loved his
speech and that just you know gives him
validation but noting that none of the
substance that was in it aside from you
know as you pointed out the wall and the
law and order well law and order except
for the FBI he doesn't appreciate that
kind of an order but the law and order
of the uniformed police particularly at
the border you know he's all for that
and one of the things is very
interesting about about this is that he
mentioned that this this Caravan you
know this is a new Caravan in the speech
and I think most of us were kind of
blink and going what the hell is he
talking about
on Fox News if you're a person who
watches Fox you have you are under the
impression that there is a army of
immigrants marching toward the border
right now and getting ready to invade it
is overwhelming the Fox News shows the
the entire network is obsessed with this
so he was speaking to his people with
this and this week he sent in you know
he said he's sending in four thousand
more troops why more troops to protect
the border and all that I mean this is
this is an actual alternative reality
for the people who were watching that
show that the rest of America had they
been watching it would have gone what
the hell's he talking about I mean I was
and I tried to tune into Fox just
because it's part of my job and so and
then I went oh okay well you know he's
talking about that Fox News craziness
and they were apparently ecstatic about
this said he brought that up and that
he's he's going to protect us so this is
you know this is a very strange
phenomenon it this speeches was supposed
to be it's designed to speak to the
whole country speak to the Bible you
know the both house of Congress at the
same time and give us all a you know a
sense from the presidential perspective
of where our country is at a given
moment I mean it's why it's called the
State of the Union it's not the state of
the country it's not the state of the
nation it's called the State of the
Union exactly exactly and here he is
he's basically I mean a lot of that
speech was was you know I mean besides
from all the unity and by
and stuff I mean there were plenty of
aspects of that that were literally just
they weren't they were it was an
alternate narrative that isn't real and
that half the country more than half the
country really just has no idea what
he's talking about I mean it's very very
strange we've never had a president that
that did this before it's very unusual I
mean even the most you know the most
hardcore kind of partisan presidents and
there have been those before they
understood that they had kind of a
responsibility and understood that their
electoral fortunes depended on having at
least some crossover appeal to people
who you know you don't naturally just
sort of fall into the hardcore base that
they represent and he just did not done
that and he said he continues not to do
it so it's a very bizarre kind of
experience watching him in these sorts
of situations it just doesn't fit I mean
he's much more authentic and believable
at one of his rallies that's where the
real Trump comes out that's where the
person the real president is and you
can't you don't really get a sense of
who he is in these kind of events at all
right but again you know it came off as
he came off as well-received and it does
give us a sense of sort of you know and
and we have to parse this of course
right which parts of that speech were
just sort of like pablum and which were
ones you know pablum to make his
supporters feel like he is you know he's
he's putting his hand out across the
aisle right and so you can't you know
he's doing that you can't blame him for
that he's got to do it and he's doing it
and then which part of it is also the
parts that he thinks are gonna drive
people you know ostensibly to the polls
or to raise his approval rating and I
would be I mean you know I I imagine the
State of the Union helps him you know
within the margin of error you know but
I think to a large extent we're baked
into the cake and now you know I know
we'll talk about this later in the
program
but the interesting polling out about
Democrats this this past week suggesting
that the the overriding issue in 2020
perhaps rightfully so perhaps mistakenly
is just getting rid of Donald Trump and
everything else is not just going to
take a second-place seat it's going to
take a total backseat in fact they'll
kick it out of the car but we got to
take a break a Digby if you'll join me
in the next hour I'm Sam cedar this is
ring of fire radio
