[Music]
some of this Bernie and rogue and stuff
let's see where do we got here
one thing on stock speculation tax that
Rogan is kind of impressed by if
something on redefining American
greatness and then UFOs wait oh here's
the stock speculation one came in after
oh ok ok ok that's where I get confused
alright let's let's listen to number ten
this is this is a big deal I mean it's
good that Bernie goes on the show this
is one of the biggest shows that are out
there of people who are I mean just
broadly speaking it's one of the biggest
you know podcasts online shows that
exist I mean I don't know you know the
specific numbers but very close
consistently on the top of the podcast
charts and on YouTube it's huge and it's
good news it means that Bernie's out
there looking for votes where he can
find it he also of all the the shows
that he could have gone on to reach
these people this is the best of those I
think and certainly Joe Rogan on the in
the wake of talking to Cornel West you
know I think is like at least a very
least exposing his listeners and viewers
to a whole new set of assumptions and
ideas this is not addressed when we talk
about making America great wouldn't like
fixing the worst parts of the country be
the primary concern the the less people
that grow up in a terribly
disadvantageous position from birth
wouldn't that be an important thing and
what can you do to resolve that well Joe
I think you you know you said it better
than I can
I think you're right you know when we
talk about what it means to live in a
great society a great nation a nation
that we're proud of I'm afraid there are
some people who have incredible wealth
and power so you know what's great is
that we're seeing a growth in the number
of
in America isn't that terrific now we
got one guy who's worth a hundred and
fifty five billion dollars how great oh
by the way we're building more nuclear
weapons and we're spending seven hundred
and fifty billion dollars a year on the
military isn't that extraordinary and by
the way you see the yacht that that
billionaire has you know three miles
long isn't that great
your point is that we have to I think as
I understand what you're saying we have
to redefined what being a great nation
is about we are not a great nation when
we have 40 million people living in
poverty and in despair we're not a great
nation when we have massive levels of
income and wealth inequality when 87
million people can afford to go to a
doctor today
so they answer your question I think
that as a nation we have got to focus a
great deal of attention on those
distressed communities often their
African American often their Latino
often there are rural white communities
and that means making sure that the kids
they get the quality education that they
deserve making sure that we're creating
good-paying jobs in those communities I
voted against NAFTA permanent normal
trade relations with China and other
trade agreements because I knew that
those agreements were written by
corporate America with the goal of
shutting down plants in this country and
moving abroad and the result of that has
been the loss of millions of good-paying
jobs and the complete destruction of
communities all across this country in
the south and all across this country
and in you know what's what's
fascinating to me is that I don't get a
sense of where Rogan is on this it's
like - how much you know what and and
I'm I'm using Rogan only as a as a
surrogate for some cohort of his
audience sure there's a bunch of his
audience that don't care I'm sure
there's a bunch of his audience that sit
and there were a few what Bernie says
but there's a bunch of his audience that
I think are probably you know like Joe
probably wondering like wait a second
how does the idea of measuring the
greatness of the country
has a function of how well it does for
the most amount of people possible
versus how well it does how far into the
stratosphere we can send specific
individuals right like in the context of
health care like do we have a great
health care system if princes from
foreign countries come here to get a
liver transplant or whatever it is some
type of procedure they can't get
anywhere else or do we have a great
health care system because the entire
population has better health better
outcomes etc etc now these notions I
don't know if they're mutually exclusive
but in the context of our system they
seem to be because when you incentivize
providing super uber care for the
wealthiest amongst us that's where your
resources go and they're not spread
around now maybe there's a system maybe
where you could have the the best in the
world and provide to the most people
it's not inconceivable
I don't know how durable that would be
but so what so what if the question is
how are you going to measure what is the
definition of a great country is it one
that produces you know the the most
billionaires and has the most elite
health care and has you know I know it's
like how do you judge whether a country
creates longevity do you measure the
oldest living person or do you average
it out amongst the entire population in
Bernie's mind and I would argue probably
everyone here to it is when you average
it out are you is everybody
participating in the success
the country and in the more people you
have participating in the success of a
country of a society that's the
definition of success and many of the
people go on that show say the opposite
you know they're not quite explicit
about it but all of the examples they
cite of our greatness as a nation are a
function of what an individual can do we
can allow we can we can grow the biggest
billionaire in the world I mean it's
like okay am I gonna dedicate my garden
to growing the biggest watermelon and
suck all the resources out from the
entire garden into creating this one big
melon which if you know anything about a
watermelon you got a certain limited
amount of time where you can eat it and
if you can't eat all of it then most of
its gonna go to the waste or am I gonna
have just a series of smaller
watermelons throughout the garden that
we can pluck and enjoy watermelons
through a much longer season I'm just
saying that because I very evocative
well I had a lot of watermelons for the
kid today I got dug it I got seedless
one that goes like this in a yellow one
but I mean that's basically what it
comes down to and it's fascinating it's
gonna be fascinating to see like what
this does to Rogen's outlook because
only presumably right there's it's some
reflection on what's happening with his
audience and we're talking about several
million people so that's not an
insignificant number of people you know
like I could actually see this moving
the needle for Bernie a little bit who
knows considering how huge his audiences
who know and how many downwardly mobile
millennial males are probably in it yeah
I mean I don't know I have no idea I
mean if I would be subscribing to help
it's super smart I would be surprised if
somebody came to me and said like oh did
you know that Rogen's key demo 70% of
his audience is like women from ages of
38 48 if someone told me that I would be
really so Joe the first time I wasn't
doing GMT we were in Burlington was
outside of his ski lodge great mountains
great yeah James there I'm there I
looked inside forward I realized we're
all part of the same DNA structure and
if we're all part of the same DNA
structure
why should jeff bezos take up so much
more of that DNA it's really a very
simple concept if you think about it we
have one more clear than that what was
the other clip with the wallstreet yeah
okay and and I imagine we're gonna see a
along the themes of the clip that we
just watched where we define success
based upon how many people enjoy that
success versus how many people what what
what what size of success a limited few
enjoy here's Bernie talking about all
three in one piece of legislation were
to actually is to make public colleges
and universities tuition-free cancel all
student debt in this country that will
cost two point two trillion dollars a
lot of money over a 10-year period we do
this through a tax on Wall Street
speculation which will bring in two
point four trillion dollars we bailed
out Wall Street 11 years ago and by the
way these are crooks on Wall Street who
engaged in illegal behavior taxpayers
against my vote bailed them out if we
can bail out Wall Street you know what
we can cancel student debt and provide
public colleges and universities
tuition-free when you say a tax on Wall
Street speculation what exactly do you
pull the attacks on all of the try every
sale of a taxi people buy and sell
stocks and bonds all of them up we have
a very modest tax on it and by the way
it will have an impact on speculation by
cutting back on the high-frequency
trading which we now see so you would
just there is there's no current tax on
direct so you would put a small amount
and that would do the job that that
would raise more than enough money it's
a very small tax it exists a small how
much it depends on the nature of the
transaction but it's less than 1/2 of 1%
really yeah yeah because the amount of
stocks being strong but and so and this
is not again a new idea it's it's being
done in countries all over the world
there it is I mean the
financial transaction tax it is
essentially like like like a sales tax
except for it's much smaller because
there's so many of these transactions
understand too that a lot of these
transactions are actually run by
machines there and maybe the majority I
don't know likely just automatic
programs that just run and there is a
the cutting into the amount of
speculation and the amount of trades
would undoubtedly be a benefit to the
stability I guess of the of the market
but nevertheless it's like look the
theory has always been like if the stock
market is doing well then the country is
doing well
well now that's there there's no there's
less and less correlation and this could
actually be a way of correlating it a
little bit because there will be a
material benefit to the benefit that
people are getting on Wall Street lastly
let's just play this last clip from
Bernie this could be the one that ends
up getting him the most votes on an
appearance on Rogan and that this is
where things get a little freaky-deaky
so I'm gonna let you go because I know
you've got very important things to do
one last question if you got into the
office and you found out something about
aliens if you found out something about
UFOs would you let us know well tell you
my wife would demand that I let you know
is your wife a UFO not now she's out of
UFO know it says birdy what is going on
you already access the records and you
don't have any access okay you let us
know though all right I'll be on the
ship well that's about the show house
ladies all right thank you sir I
appreciate you all right all right Joe
we gather should have asked him to do
that on this show in case he decided
that question was stupid it stormed out
bright smart there it is Bernie so
another reason to vote for Bernie he
will let you know about the UFOs all
right I'm gonna race
