[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday July 16th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Trump
doubles down on the racism and
[Music]
Republicans denounce him
psych meanwhile the squad Strikes Back
and the house to vote on a resolution
condemning Trump's racist remarks that's
unprecedented new abortion restriction
in effect today will impact
woman's ability to access abortion
around the country it's day two of the
Amazon Prime strike by workers in
Minnesota forgot to mention it yesterday
stop those orders now Trump's new asylum
restrictions turn out to be obviously
illegal and Pelosi shoots down a clean
debt ceiling deal with the Trump
administration Elizabeth Warren under
fire for her 90s corporate bankruptcy
representation Bernie Sanders meanwhile
uses his email list to fundraise for the
squad Iran opens the door on negotiating
away ballistic missiles meanwhile Puerto
Rico leaked texts throw the governor's
race into turmoil and Congress wants to
know is Lyme disease a pentagon F up
oops
DOJ declines to prosecute the cop who
killed Eric garner because that's how
they roll now and lastly the USDA is
about to fire the vast majority of its
scientists all this and more on today's
program when I say the USDA is about to
fire a ton of the majority of its
scientists I mean well first off about
means I think close to today and the
vast majority could be like 75 percent
of them and that's what the USDA is
basically all about
science in terms of keeping our food
supply functioning and safe etc etc the
Trump administration wanted to move a
research agencies to the Kansas City
area from Washington DC pretending that
the USDA scientists work with farmers
like individual farmers but that's not
actually what they do
staff have until midnight tonight or
last night to decide whether they will
uproot from Washington DC area and join
the Department as it moves its research
branches from Washington DC to Kansas
the move is set to be completed by
September 30th it is basically a
strategy by the Trump administration to
sideline scientists and researchers and
to really essentially assault the agency
right like I mean there is according to
people who work there you're basically
looking at this is from Laura Dodson an
agricultural economist with the ers ers
is the is the Economic Research Service
which is a wing of the USDA the other
one is the National Institute of Food
and Agriculture so the economic research
service obviously does not that need to
be out there in the fields checking on
the soil quality she characterized ers
is this this agency is the product of
like 50 years of institutional knowledge
and gathering up researchers who are
very specialized in their
and as of yesterday just 27 out of the
250 staff members of ers had committed
to moving to the Kansas City area the
agency is not even accepting or
contemplating allowing for people who
maybe have children who are going to
school in the Washington DC area or
maybe they have a sick relative or maybe
they have a family member who is getting
cancer treatment in the Washington area
there are no exceptions there are no
mitigating circumstances the decision
comes as other agencies are also
planning to relocate parts of their
teams amid around the country this is
also going to be happening to the Bureau
of Land Management
Rebecca Boehm of the you know Union of
Concerned Scientists
told the hill it keeps science out of
the policy-making process as that we've
seen many times that this administration
doesn't like facts or research that
isn't convenient or is an impediment to
their agenda so I think moving them away
accomplishes that I will tell you
something that in the brief tenure I
have had working in companies really any
institution I mean I guess to a certain
extent that's even that's even
accurately accurate in terms of this
what we do here close proximity is
perhaps one of the most underrated
elements of of influence within an
institution maybe it's not maybe it's
not underestimated maybe it's exactly
estimated correctly which is the point
here but if you bring the scientists
who are there to advise Congress and you
move them to Kansas they will not have
the same impact both the agencies voted
to unionize in response to the move SME
estimates tallied by employees show that
70% of the ers employees designated for
Kansas City will not be moving for knife
ax that's the Institute of Food and
Agriculture forty five percent of those
surveyed said they'll not move the move
is expected to impact about five hundred
and fifty staff so mission accomplished
here I'm gonna be really hard you know I
keep thinking about that interview that
we did with Sam Bagenstos now probably
two years ago about how agencies get
destroyed with eight years worth of
Republican rule and I would say that
this four years pretty darn close to
what eight years of the truck of the
Bush administration was like I guess
this was back in December of 2016
Bagenstos worked at the Department of
Justice under the Clinton administration
and then again under the Obama
administration and so he had a very
unique perspective on how that could
destroy he also ran for Supreme Court in
the state of Michigan last year I don't
think he won in 2018 but you can check
that out that's episode 14 89 from
December 20th 2016 and I keep thinking
about that if Donald Trump is booted
from office and decides to go and
frankly we have a clip today that makes
me believe I don't think there's going
to be a tan armed coup but it does make
me believe that it's going to be
complicated more complicated if he loses
then I think
that I had earlier suspected and a lot
of the reasons I can give you two
reasons
bill Barr and when you hear the clip we
have from him today relative to the what
we heard from Donald Trump the other day
I think you'll understand if there was
any questions that this guy was full on
Roy Cohn and I don't think with Bill
Barr it's just about protecting the
institution of the presidency that's not
what I'm getting that's not the vibe I'm
getting from this dude now but this is
going to resonate for a long time a long
time we will update you as we get more
information on that before we get to
what's been going on obviously with
Trump the squad as they've become to be
known and Nancy Pelosi let me first talk
about how high how challenging hiring is
and it's good Michael has just going to
the bathroom so we can talk intimately
here about this believe me the best time
to look for new hires or replacement
hires is when you don't need it super
hard to find the right mix particularly
around for this show because you need
you know we work with everybody so
intimately closely that you need to find
talented people you need to have a big
pool of talented people from which to
draw from so that you can pick someone
who you think is going to fit in with
the dynamic in the office in something
this small maybe a little bit different
when you get into a bigger business but
you still want obviously talented
competent people there is one place you
can go where hiring is simple fast and
smart place where growing businesses can
connect with qualified candidates that
place is zip recruiter dot-com /
majority one quarter
of our workforce in this office is from
zip recruiter and I imagine our next
hire may come from there as well
zip recruiter sends your job to over 100
of web's leading job boards but they
don't stop there with their powerful
matching technology zip recruiter scans
thousands of resumes to find people with
the right experience it invites them to
apply for your job as applicants come in
zip recruiter analyzes each one and
spotlights the top candidates so you
never miss a great match
zip recruiter is so effective that four
out of five employers who post on zip
recruiter get a quality candidate
through the site within the first day we
got multiple on that first day right now
my listeners can try zip recruiter for
free at this exclusive web addresses zip
recruiter dot-com slash majority a zip
recruiter dot-com slash majority z IP r
ec r u-- iter dot-com slash majority zip
recruiter the smartest way to hire ah
all right let's start with just this
clip because i thought this was pretty
funny yesterday and then we'll get into
donald trump's racist assault on people
so yesterday we played a clip of joe
biden really being disingenuous by
saying and he he's been spreading this
type of stuff before to about medicare
for all saying that if we go with
medicare for all we're gonna have to
take like a four or five month hiatus
from people being covered with
healthcare or something there's some
bizarre construction just designed i
guess to hit the ears of people who
don't spend too much time thinking about
this stuff i mean it's a really cynical
move and then he got even more cynical
or he said like you know we're gonna
we're gonna get rid of the ACA and
replace it with something we're gonna
get rid of obamacare because he wants to
make it like medicare for all is a an
assault on obamacare now of course we
played a clip of barack obama six months
ago
eight months ago I guess it was in the
run-up to the 2018 midterm elections
saying Medicare for all is a great idea
it's being pushed by the Democrats it's
a great idea he said we should have
point out what kind of event Biden said
Medicare as you know it goes away that
was at an AARP event the four o matic
Ares right of course and Joe Biden is to
my knowledge has not been asked like how
do you square this with what Barack
Obama said just eight months ago the guy
who's you know that's where the Obama
part of Obamacare came from was from
Obama's last name President Obama and
back in September October of 2018
he said Medicare for all was a great
idea that's a very weird position to
take if you think it's going to wipe out
Obamacare yeah you think he would have
mentioned that IIIi would think he would
have been a little bit but what concern
no nobody's asked Joe Biden that like
how do you reconcile those things two
things but Simone Sanders who is Joe
Biden's campaign advisor senior advisor
and a forum a spokesperson for Bernie
Sanders she was asked to reconcile her
previous positions on Medicare for all
addressing not just Medicare for all but
specifically the idea of it rolling back
Obamacare and she had a tough time doing
it this is with erin burnett on CNN so
so let me just ask you though because
medicare for all on this point you used
to and in your prior role with working
with Bernie Sanders you know you
intellectually came to the conclusion
that you could have Obamacare add to it
and get Medicare for all and obviously
now you're saying that it's different
right because Joe Biden is saying you
can't you can't have Medicare for all in
Obamacare because Medicare would replace
Obama care here you are back in 2016 and
I want to play it Symone cuz I want to
give you a chance to explain to
everybody how you came to change your
mind here you are thinking big is how
we get change in this country they can
bigot that we got the Affordable Health
Care Act and thinking big is how we're
going to build on that with a
medicare-for-all single-payer system
when we talk about a medicare-for-all
single-payer system we're talking about
universal healthcare we're not talking
about doing away with Obamacare with the
Affordable Health Care Act we are
talking about building on its enormous
success so now Joe Biden says that it
would Medicare for all would get rid of
Obamacare what is not just a second
because I unequivocally reject what is
being set up here what I just saw to be
clear let me just let me just be really
clear for a second yes in 2016 I served
as a press secretary for senator Sanders
I'm extremely proud of the work that I
did on that campaign and the work that I
have gone on to do since when I left the
campaign in 20 in June of 2016 but let
me tell you something talking about
universal health care has been a very
popular point in the Democratic Party
has been you know popular in places
across the country frankly it's popular
with Republican voters and independents
alike but when you talk about health
care when you talk about coverage we
have to talk about specific plans and
what I've in 20 min 2016 we were having
these conversations what senator Sanders
has put on the table is not an expansion
of Obamacare it is not it is it does a
way with private insurance and what is
currently on the table and his Medicare
for all plan says that Obamacare isn't
enough that we that we have to go on and
do something else this is not an
expansion
now if the Sanders campaign would like
to say it's an expansion I hope you
would welcome them all to your program
to have that conversation but for anyone
to suggest for anyone to suggest that
because I work for Vice President Biden
now I feel differently I that's just not
true I welcome a conversation I want to
know but they say well I played that no
I don't mean a sentence hold on hold on
I didn't say it to do a gotcha I said it
because what you look better than what
you're saying now you're a thoughtful
smart person you've changed your mind
and I want to give you a chance to
explain to people why because Erin I
believe in building on the enormous
success of Obamacare but the plan that
is currently on the table that is being
discussed by a number of folks when they
talk about Medicare for all particular
specifically senators and
plan does not do that and that is the
difference and so if the Sanders
campaign or anyone else would like to
assert otherwise I welcome the
conversation our campaign obviously
welcomes the debate because health care
is so important to millions of people
across America but I think I just want
to be very clear all right well I got I
get some bad news for Symone Sanders
that was not clear it was not clear as
far as I know the plan that Bernie
introduced in 2016 is the same plan as
today I don't think it materially
changed in any way now does it build on
Obamacare well yes I would say it does I
mean Obamacare was an expansion of
Medicaid and was a subsidized subsidies
to the private marketplace to deal with
uninsured people who fell between
employee based coverage and essentially
government-run insurance programs does
it build on that yes
whereas 20 million new people got health
insurance through the Affordable Care
Act you will see another I think about
20 million people get health insurance
under a medicare-for-all program whereas
Medicaid gave about 10 million people
access free access to doctors to
dentists etc Medicare for all we'll give
that to 300 million people so it's
building on these things in fact one of
the things I remember the policy experts
talking about with the Affordable Care
Act and I don't think it fully did this
but it came close the idea was we get
everybody in the barrel we create the
notion that health care is a right for
all
now had Medicaid been able to be
expanded in all the states across the
country you probably would have seen
another BAP for five million people
three million people may be getting
health insurance and the idea was to
establish the right of American citizens
to have quality health care to have
health insurance that would pay for it
right I mean we all theoretical II have
access to health insurance to healthcare
even without our insurance I mean yeah
make Hoss ten or fifteen grand to break
your leg but you have access to the care
you just got to make more money but this
Medicare for all does expand upon that
of course it does and the idea of like I
don't know you know you got a I'm going
to very soon Saul's gonna transition
from his three-wheeled scooter to his
two-wheeled scooter and this is not
about abolishing the three-wheeled
schooler it's about some great it's
about upgrading his scooter
Simone Simone where was this incredible
beautiful extraordinary hit and
incompetents for Hillary Clinton in 2016
you could have pushed us over the top
that she could have gone we're doing so
much more this time around that you did
in 2016 Simone I also do notice that
when you did hits for me you sounded a
little bit more coherent maybe because
you wanted to offending totaled nonsense
well you weren't that great to begin
with so why did she do undercover agent
work for Hillary then as well all right
let us know charitable interpretation is
Simone Sanders Sanders cover man that's
very possibly is trying she is so
committed to the Bernie Sanders agenda
that she's willing to make an absolute
ass of herself promoting Joe Biden look
it's a job it's a hard thing to do and I
think the bottom lines let her and
or about the unten ability of joe
biden's position I mean that's what
happens that I mean that you know that I
want to be clear about this this is not
a function of Symone Sanders she's doing
her job that's her job
but his policy and the way that he's
trying to sell it is untenable it is
nonsensical and so what happens is you
take your people and they try and go out
and defend it and they get ground up
because you have given them nothing it's
not rational there's one reason why you
would promote a program like Joe Biden's
and that is because some of his
supporters a large constituency for him
are he's big money his money that comes
from insurance companies it's money that
comes from perhaps Medical Association's
or whatnot that's why you do it and I
mean the odd thing is that they're upset
about his proposal too because they're
gonna be upset about any proposal
remember when the Affordable Care Act is
being debated all we heard from the
hospitals was like we're gonna be
closing a ton of hospitals some did
closed the ones that closed had nothing
to do with the Affordable Care Act they
closed because you've got hedge funders
like the one private equity firms like
the one that's going down and destroying
this hospital in Philadelphia and you've
got it because of concentration you've
got these big companies and hedge
funders are driving this to go in cut
costs they're doing it with like
dermatologists offices it's nuts so I
mean when Joe Biden is not sincere or
does not have integrity in his
explanation for these policies it ends
up doing two Symone Sanders what just
happened yeah that's a great point but
she also really
Sam and I think it's very important that
we not lose sight of that even as we
rightly explained that Jo is an
absolutely incoherent candidate will
actually spend more money than me and
leave more people uninsured all right we
got to take oh no wait no we don't okay
so let's go to let's see a Donald Trump
yesterday so Donald Trump yesterday
after his tweets they basically came out
and confirmed hey this is how we've
decided we're gonna run in 2020 we are
going to and I'll tell you something we
are 16 months out they want to basically
start some type of race war in this
country and so Donald Trump is out there
saying that these women of color hate
America hate the Jews hate our values
don't wear lapel pins here he is
doubling down on this stuff as reporters
basically ask him whether he thought the
tweet was racist does it concern you
that many people saw that tweet as
racist and that white nationalist groups
are finding common cause with you on
that point doesn't concern me because
many people agree with me and all I'm
saying they want to leave they can leave
now
it doesn't say leave forever it says
leave if you want but what it says what
and what that John what that says is if
they're not happy with the United States
if they're doing nothing but criticizing
us all the time you see these people
walking down criticizing the United
States we just hit the highest stock
market in history all of these
incredible manufacturers that are in
these are great business people they
employ many people and we have workers
with us too they're having the best year
they've ever had can I say that is that
a correct statement
so do we have more from him we got him
going off and doubling down on they hate
America
do we have it
let's play this again because it's worth
well worth noting like what basically
he's going out there with written
statements in the US all the time very
simply you can leave if you leave right
now come back if you want don't come
back okay - so Speaker Pelosi said yeah
there you have it and he started yelling
at a lot of people I mean this is when
you come out with that you're doubling
down and and this means that not only
was he sort of on a Jag tweeting about
this but that his campaign has basically
said we are going to make this about
black people and the Democratic Party
brown people and the Democratic Party
that's basically it that's what the
election is gonna come down to they're
going to pursue this agenda they're
gonna pursue it at the border they're
gonna pursue it in this way
in Washington this is the way the Trump
campaign intends to win the election to
play on the racism the vast racism of
their of their base in their voters and
there is only one way to address this
and that is to fight there is no there
is no appeasement of these people there
is no appeasement of the Trump folks
there is only one way to deal with this
and that's head-on and aggressively
because you need to now motivate look
they're they know this is a base
election this is a base election you
need to turn out your voters and this is
what Donald Trump is attempting to do
now with all this said about Donald
Trump doubling down and people have
expressed in the past like I don't think
he's gonna leave and I've got to say
I've just poo pooed that a little bit
because Donald Trump and what army but
of course the way that you would fight
an election would be to say that it was
somehow rigged or that it would somehow
illegal or whatnot but you would need
obviously not just private attorneys you
would need some force of the US
government well yesterday for some
reason bill Barr decided to wade in on
this and by this I mean like the
president coming out and saying that
those for Congress women hate America
here's the way that bill Barr would
basically say the exact same thing
Donald Trump did which to me signifies
that the idea that this guy came in to
protect the institution of the
presidency was BS he's a movement
conservative he's there to protect
Donald Trump period end of story he
figures this is a way maybe that he'll
get super wealthy and a way that he'll
put a bunch of movement conservatives on
the court god knows what else it is play
this my concern today is that under the
banner of identity politics some
political factions are seeking to obtain
power by dividing Americans yours and
they undermine the values that draw us
together such as a shared commitment to
our country's success this is the
breeding ground for hatred and we must
reject it very surprising you talk about
Trump that way well look what what do
you think he's saying what he's talks
about identity politics right that's a
code word for it's brown people it's
black people it's women speaking out
what does he say about not sharing our
shared values of America wanting
America's success in other words they
hate America which is exactly what
Donald Trump had just said so make no
mistake about it bill Barr is Donald
Trump with a brain and they've always
had a you know I think Pompeo is is the
analog at Secretary of State they are
they actually you could look at these
guys as like the upmarket channeling of
the exact same message and they always
echo his worst statements on foreign and
domestic policy and they always do it in
a way that you know is the line designed
for the cover you're talking about but
those two I think perform a similar
public relations function it's it's
amazing but the the problem with that of
course at the end
the day is that you've got a guy who's
in charge of the the DOJ let's uh go now
and hear from members of the squad I
want to play these in reverse order
let's first hear from Rasheeda Talib
cannot allow these hateful actions by
the president to distract us from the
critical work to hold this
administration accountable to the
inhumane conditions at the border that
is separating children from their loved
ones and caging them up in illegal
horrific conditions
I represent the third poorest
congressional district in this country
one that is made of working people who
have been targeted by this
administration and their actions and
words are hurting them today I was
elected to fight for them fight for the
13 congressional district they sent me
here to Congress to fight back against
the corporate assault in the corruption
in our country this means supporting an
impeachment inquiry of this president
and his actions by the administration
and his appointees sadly this is not the
first nor will it be the last time we
hear disgusting bigoted language from
the president we know this is who he is
and we know that he and his
administration are constantly engaged in
actions that harm residents and American
people in our country many members of
Congress have called for his impeachment
because of his utter disregard and
disrespect of the United States
Constitution and despite this and other
many attempts to distract us I remain
focused we remain focused on holding him
accountable to the laws of this land and
accountable to the American people so
congressman Al Green we're sure sure
again where he's from believe he's from
South Carolina South Carolina has will
be introducing articles of impeachment
this month
a function of Trump's bigotry you'll
recall that part of me Texas Texas
Andrew Johnson's articles of impeachment
was also a non-criminal high crimes
misdemeanors outwardly being racist
towards some Congress people I think is
is up there and it's gonna be really
interesting to see what happens with
Nancy Pelosi on this one but we will get
to Nancy Pelosi in a moment here is alon
omar responding to the president this is
a president who has openly violated the
very value our country aspires to uphold
equality under the law
religious liberty equal protection and
protection from persecution and to
distract from that he's launching a
plainly racist attack on four duly
elected members of the United States of
House of Representatives all of whom are
women of color this is the agenda of
white nationalists whether it is
happening in chat rooms or it's
happening on national TV and now it's
reached the White House Garden he would
love nothing more than to divide our
country based on race religion gender
orientation or immigration status
because this is the only way he knows he
can prevent the Solidarity of us working
together across all of our differences
the only way to prevent us confronting
the problems our country's facing
whether it is health care climate change
student debt or our endless wars this is
his plan to pit us against one another
I mean what's add to that nothing to add
to that but let's hear one more member
of the so-called squad
and it's interesting to Sirte see the
way that these four operate together
they all sort of seem to pick up a baton
and continue right here's AOC weak Minds
and leaders challenged loyalty to our
country in order to avoid challenging
and debating the policy this president
does not know how to make the argument
that Americans do not deserve health
care he does not know how to defend his
policies so what he does is attack us
personally and that is what this is all
about he can't look a child in the face
and he can't look all Americans in the
face and justify why this country is
throwing them in cages so instead he
tells us that I should go back to the
great borough of the Bronx and make it
better and that's what I'm here to do I
mean I have to say that when you you
watch these three women respond to
Donald Trump with all due respect they
they may not have the parliamentary
skills the whip counting skills I don't
know about the fundraising skills cuz
AOC has raised I think more money than
any other member of Congress except for
one or two members of the leadership but
they do this much better than Nancy
Pelosi I'm sorry that's just the reality
I mean no one can look at they they take
Trump's words they turn around they put
their agenda in the forefront
they put that in the news they know how
to connect their talking points they
know how to get the media clips I mean
they do this very very well
much better than Nancy Pelosi the the
president is is a is a racist and I had
also welcomed him to text me to work
together
I'm agree I mean just across the board
regardless of like what their they just
do politics in this day and age they
understand it better now Nancy Pelosi
has been in the house for an extended
period of time which might be much more
savvy about how you can wrangle votes
and pass legislation I guess we'll see
when we're in the majority and we'll you
know time will tell the ability of the
squad to to pass legislation but now I
want to do this I want to go to a Jana
Presley
she spoke first I think if I'm not
mistaken in this press conference with
the squad and she replaced I can't even
remember his name now Capano is it Mike
Capuano cop we uh know in Massachusetts
who was a pretty progressive congressman
himself and I gotta admit that I was a
little bit like when I heard about this
race I was wondering as to you know is
this a good use of resources the upgrade
here has been enormous and a Jana
Presley may end up being the toughest
fighter of these four because I want you
to listen very very carefully to what
she says here she is speaking to Donald
Trump but she has one other person that
she's speaking to one other person is
simply a disruption and a distraction
from the
Kalas chaotic and corrupt culture of
this administration all the way down we
want to get back to the business of the
American people and while we were sent
here reducing the cost of prescription
drugs addressing the public health
crisis an epidemic that is gun violence
addressing the racial wealth gap and yes
making sure that families stay together
I also would like to just underscore the
fact that despite the occupant of the
White House attempts to marginalize us
and to silence us please know that we
are more than four people we ran on a
mandate to advocate for and to represent
those ignored left out and left behind
our Squad is big our squad includes any
person committed to building a more
equitable in just the world and that is
the work that we want to get back to and
given the size of this squad and this
great nation we cannot we will not be
silenced okay so and I like the fact
that she doesn't call him the president
she calls him the occupant of the White
House nice touch but ostensibly she's
speaking to Donald Trump and saying our
squad is big we are more than four and
here's who she's speaking to she's
speaking to Nancy Pelosi who just a week
ago started off this route by saying
there's only four of them they're not
very big they got their Twitter and
whatever he oughta Presley slid that in
there as a reminder to Nancy Pelosi that
we're not done with this and we're gonna
show you how it's done we're gonna we're
gonna take Donald Trump and we're gonna
use the aisle Trump to hammer you and
we're going to use your comments to
hammer him here it
Pelosi feels that the four of them made
themselves irrelevant by voting against
our bill as she put all these people
have their public whatever and their
Twitter will but they didn't have any
following their four people and that's
how many votes they got well to Nancy
Pelosi it's all an inside game the only
thing that matters is how many votes sit
in that institution and the myopia she's
expressing here is that she doesn't
realize at one point what happens
outside of Congress often comes into
Congress and Ayana Presley was reminding
her of that and and this is where now
these guys are going to be able to take
they now have the advantage because they
have pulled Donald Trump stepped into it
and they pulled him deeper into it
because now it's Nancy Pelosi has a
choice whose side you want to be on the
squad side our side with our bills or do
you want to be on his side and that's
what's going on and I'm not surprised
frankly that there were reports last
night that Nancy Pelosi basically told
Steve minuchin hey that that idea you
have about getting a clean debt ceiling
bill for a couple of months in the event
that we can't come to any budget
resolution yeah not gonna happen she
can't afford to now she can't afford to
do that whatsoever and I just found that
fascinating she on a Presley was talking
to Nancy Pelosi and it was pretty
impressive stuff let's just go through
here is Kevin McCarthy it's amazing to
me you had
bench bureau was tweeting last night
that Trump really stepped in it by
getting all xenophobic little little
brands monitoring's and trust me I went
oh man I had to make a whole part of my
website about the stupid mr. bad things
I said I love that hey it was a stupid
comment I said it a couple days ago you
know Senate uh-huh I can tell you that I
spent about 45 minutes looking in three
or four different dictionaries to see if
xenophobia could actually be wedged in
here and it can be it is a fear of the
unknown or the other and specifically of
course of these people are other people
so they are the other it does not mean
racism whatsoever I definitely was not
using that as a surrogate for the word
racism because I know I'm not allowed to
mean well here's Kevin McCarthy trying
to explain like this was not about
racism telling them to go home it was
about something completely different
wasn't personal even though I was saying
to them their America haters go home oh
yes
no and I do not believe the Speaker of
the House was racist last week other
when when those individuals on her side
of the aisle who are claiming the
president's races when they claimed she
was racist either I do not believe that
I believe this is about ideology this is
about socialism versus freedom and it's
very clear what the debate is happening
I understand when I listen to their
press conference yesterday they talked
more about impeachment than anything
else even one of those individuals this
wasn't the first time they talked about
impeachment on the night of being sworn
in they brought all their supporters
together and they spoke about
impeachment in words that I will not use
here this is more from their bases about
politics
and it's unfortunate we should get back
to the business of America yeah the
business of America love it or leave it
it the the Republicans don't like this
this ground incidentally I don't know if
you've noticed that and they're gonna
have a problem with this vote comes up
to condemn the president on these
grounds I mean this is it I mean it's on
folks I'm sure there'll be it will will
go into a period of latency or of
remission but this is going to keep
coming back for the next 12 16 months
and well this is his reelection campaign
this is his re-election campaign well
and we saw a little bit of this right
going to leading up to 2018 if you
remember back in January of 2018 there
was reports that he was fishing around
for more cultural stuff like Kaepernick
well he found it and lastly let's take a
visit with Kelly Anne Conway whose
husband wrote an op-ed in the Washington
Post now look I don't think that wives
are responsible for what their husbands
write
I don't think husbands are responsible
for what their
is right and I think two people can be
in a marriage and have completely
different ideas of politics and of
you're working with a fascist racist and
you're out there every day defending him
and then maybe someone says well your
job is super boring or you're overpaid
but it's an interesting dynamic and here
is Kellyanne Conway
giving her take on what the president
said we've it's now about ideology or
xenophobia
what does Kelly and Conway have to say
under fire by leaders in their own party
why get in the way of that because
effectively that's what's happened now I
disagree with that assertion
respectfully bill what the president is
doing is we are tired sick and tired of
many people this country forget these
for it they represent a dark underbelly
in this country of people who are not
respecting our troops are not giving
them the resources and the respect that
they deserve they voted against the
military aid they voted against a pay
raises they the dark underbelly
ladies and gentlemen little tea America
haters those dark underbelly America
haters they're doing socialists a lot of
favors with the whole intersectionality
issue by basically forcing anybody who's
not a racist into the socialist
communist game also doing a lot of yeah
well that's why I say that's what's
happening the the that's why the squad
went out and had a press conference on
this and basically said you're gonna
double down we're gonna double down
smart let's find very smart it's the
only way you can do it is the only way
you can do it there is no returning to
normalcy somebody on Twitter the other
day was like saying was basically my
guess was last night saying that like
you know I think your YouTube titles are
part of the problem
are you know are the problem divisive
political rhetoric there's no light
without heat folks I will definitely
definitely feel comfortable saying that
YouTube is a toxic for our politics that
is a structural problem and I am quite
sure that if we do not add our voices to
that mix it will end up being
significantly more problematic well I
don't know if significantly but it will
be more problematic I have no idea how
much difference we make marginally come
are you sure that we get the time code
for this and we send it along with
something like
Sam absolutely owns and destroys
pathetic Twitter comment maker thank you
I just wanted to note a little business
out of the way Mr crew responds but this
is not way listen easy this is the
scenario we're in we're in a very
divisive time right now and it's not
about the rhetoric is only a function of
what is actually going on it has
detrimental effects without a doubt but
Donald Trump could get up there and say
it as politely as bill Barr did today
but the fact of the matter is they're
still caging human beings they're still
separating children their stories here
of of a ten-year-old kid being told
choose which parent you want to go with
three-year-old
we still have the Department of Justice
saying yet don't worry we're not going
to look into any type of civil rights
violations by the cops we have
scientists being fired from their jobs
to protect and project out on our food
supply we have the EPA rolling back
protections for people's health
we have right-wing judges who are taking
over the judiciary who are going to
enforce more abortion bans and
reproductive rights bans today in this
country the ability of a health clinic
and a family planning clinic funded by
tax payers under Title 10 to help women
living in poverty 4 million with women a
year in this country are no longer
allowed to refer people to abortion
clinics if they need an abortion or if
they want an abortion it looks like you
may have a problem in terms of your
pregnancy we cannot we cannot refer you
you want to end your pregnancy we cannot
refer for you basically a gag order all
this is going on I Got News for you the
rhetoric is the sideshow the rhetoric
may be a tool in which you can end it
but but being nice talking nicely it's
not going to make a damn difference
Chuck Schumer got the first news worthy
soundbite that I've seen of his in
months last night
and it was just when he said to
Republicans you're making a deal with
the devil if you want to get the message
out there and you want it and because
this is ultimately going to be about and
I and and the Democratic leadership has
a problem they have a dilemma because
they don't want to get out there and say
this stuff because it's going to promote
impeachment but everybody else who wants
to defeat Donald Trump realizes that
this is what you're going to have to do
and now it looks like Al Green is going
to introduce that impeachment inquiry
legislation it's gonna be a question as
to what Pelosi is gonna do about it
she'll punt wait to go on vacation over
the summer this is what's gonna happen
folks but it's gonna be there when we
get back all right we're gonna take a
break
add in to the fun half take your phone
call six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty just a reminder this program
relies on your support
for it's very very existence you can
become a member today at joined the
majority report com join the majority
report calm don't forget just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority get 10% off
just coffee is sponsoring for the time
being the a.m. quickie and we've got
some good feedback looking for more send
us emails at majority reporters at
gmail.com you will notice changes with
it over the next couple of days because
we're responding to feedback that we get
not even five minutes that's the that is
the the I am determined to keep it under
five minutes and you just get a good
notion of what some of the top stories
that we're following are for the day and
what other people might be following
check it out it's in the feed we're
gonna move it eventually but check it
out for now today is Tuesday so Michael
is in yes indeed and tonight tonight at
six o'clock point
from your t-shirt into your usually
after the show I go back to my apartment
and freshen up all right that's it
that's exactly right
roll out of bed indeed it is like in the
mid 80s today it's pretty know what I
just realized whether I walked in with
this and I have my hard Collard shirt
and I didn't change into it if yeah it's
pretty frigging hot what is you is that
a polo from Banana Republic
where's that one from okay no secret
Jake we target Jake crew Oh target
actually is are pretty good polos I
believe you
but tonight if you get on their email
list you can go in they get like at
least 40% sales like 16 bucks really
yeah nice I got some t-shirts last night
for $8.00 hello
what you doing online shopping you
online shop as well what you do online
t-shirt shopping while you scroll
through Twitter and manage your kids I
don't do I don't I won't go to a
clothing store anymore I mean there's no
J Crew that's half a block away I don't
see it on the way to the subway Oh $15
I'm you know I'm in a sub tweet Chuck
Schumer did I'm gonna get a polo shirt
and then I'm gonna argue with my
children
that's my evening I think he's got it
reversed because the kids go to bed but
yeah you get them in all right
well well done thank you tonight at 6
o'clock we're doing a pre stream with
David dole of rational national we're
gonna be talking about the fall's
elections in Canada people demanding
Canadian political coverage will finally
get some oh my god talking about the NDP
a sell a chelate I'm a total totally
capitulating to the endless demands for
Canada coverage but I am looking forward
to talk to him the main show Daniel
Bester is gonna join us we're talking
about the really really problematic
legacy of Samantha power humanitarian
intervention what would post Empire
foreign policy look like and we're
looking at a this really disturbing Mike
Pompeo initiative to have a commission
on so-called what on redefining
inalienable rights which will obviously
be an assault
LGBTQ people and against women's health
autonomy but we don't want to just sort
of retreat to the 90s we need we need to
broaden human rights so and then of
course we're gonna be talking about Elan
and and and Rashida and Sam Harris so a
full show tonight as always patreon.com
slash t MBS michael brooks show on
youtube oh and get your tickets to a
chicago live show it's coming up soon
and tickets are starting to move fast
again August 24th Lincoln Hall with
Chuck Mertz of this is hell radio and
tickets available on the majority that
FM homepage yeah literary hangover we're
going to be moving into james fenimore
cooper's leather stocking tales soon but
in the meantime subscribe to the YouTube
channel for literary hangover the
Margaret Fuller episode is up there now
and actually 30 patrons away from the
point where I start streaming gaming
onto that and I'm looking into that
equipment right now so check that out
subscribe bye nice all right quick break
see you in the fun half and for it
alright folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are the
alpha males just want to degrade the
white man alpha males are back back I
take all of it giving alpha males are
back back back
I am a total
can we bring back DJ Tanner yeah or a
couple you put them in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough with a break I do
not have Parkinson's and the alpha males
are like
Oh
[Music]
on the back
on the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
[Music]
locked
alpha males are back
Oh
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
happy birthday to meet you boy
I haven't expanded apoyo and the alpha
males of black black alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price request
me around here I am a total wants
to pursue
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
part the fun half ladies and gentlemen
we got a pretty fun segment coming up
right now
now I want to be very careful here
because there are I've had two projects
going on simultaneously that I have been
waiting to on on unfurl for you and they
intersected at one point and I'm not
going to reveal the other project it has
been an ongoing project consistent
listeners of this program have heard me
reference it and other context --is and
we will get to that later it's always
best to roll these things out in the
fall however the other project that I
was working on seems to have basically
unfurled itself come to fruition come to
fruition now as you know or as you might
imagine very often when progressive
hosts go down to the commissary of their
YouTube channels they bump into each
other and or sometimes they just text
each other and say hey what's up with
this or are you doing this are you uh
contemplating going to politican this
year are you gonna go to that conference
hey if you go can I borrow your
microphone or your lanyard you have
chats like that well we've been going
back and forth I have been a little bit
with David Pakman
about a month or two ago I received an
email and it was an invitation to go on
to someone's YouTube show I don't know
if it's a YouTube show but it would say
it's a a video streaming show and now we
get these type of things all the time
and sometimes I got to be honest with
you when we get you know emails that
purport to be offers a lot of times I
get a little bit suspicious I'm not
quite sure about this because we have
times where you know right-wingers like
to uh you know fish around and looking
for stuff like this and well so we got
this invite and I will leave it there
for a moment well I should tell you
right now it was for the Gavin McGinnis
show and I will read from that now hold
on I'm trying to get that here we go
bear with me this is a an email that we
got and I got actually two of them I got
one email from what purported to be
shoot what is going on oh I know what it
is
 you forever that's my common quote
I say it's you forever we're done
the that was not the email but it was
from yo that was the email I would give
nothing but props to Gavin McInnes have
you guys I'm pretty close to not
ironically using that I think so pretty
good back in May we got an email hello
Sam cedar team my name is Jim and I
worked for free speech TV this is a new
network being launched on June 1st we
were wondering if Sam would accept our
invite to be on the show the show is a
panel discussion that will have a
conservative and a liberal on every show
to discuss the current events and
politics for about an hour the show is
called free speech and will be hosted by
Gavin McGinnis now what I'm about to the
line I'm about to read to you now I
don't know if you're going to appreciate
how completely nuts this is to get an
email like this we can pay for Sam's
travel and stay Plus pay him $5,000 to
be on the show we have a lot of big
names on both sides of the aisle have
agreed to be on we're hoping Sam can do
we'll be filming two episodes a month
for 12 months so we can work around Sam
schedule thank you blank or Jim what's
his call Jay now let me tell you
something about getting offered $5,000
to do a show available I went out to do
Marc Maron's TV show a couple years ago
called Maron I did not make $5,000 I
have been a paid contributor on MSNBC I
go on four to five times a month some
months six times some months three times
like that I've never made anything close
to $5,000 in one year I mean excuse me
one month on I don't know if I've made
$5,000 in six months on MSNBC so when
someone offers me $5,000 to come do a
one-hour show that's going to air on
YouTube or on some paid streaming thing
I'll tell you what I do I think
something's BS and when something's BS
around here what we do is we send it
over to Patrick he is the producer hanza
handles all the BS stuff so Patrick went
back and forth a little bit and said hey
Jim can you tell me more deets where's a
shoot how long would Sam be required to
be on location is this a cable show
YouTube show makeup etc because Sam
loves makeup oh if these makeup I'll be
there I'll pass on this I like makeup
and money hello Patrick thanks for
getting back to us the show is being
filled in a professional studio in
downtown Manhattan like a cable there
will be makeup about 30 guests in the
audience she'll be shown on free speech
TV but putting up some interesting parts
of the show on YouTube goes on to say
that I saw Sam's interview with Glenn
Greenwald the other day it was really
good and we want the viewers from the
right and left to be able to listen both
sides and not feel like they're growing
Gavin would be host of the show and the
two guests will be a liberal and a
conservative on each show and now I'll
tell you what I'm thinking at this point
I don't want to be involved in something
that is going to allow Gavin McGinnis to
have some type of re-entry into the
world of of being able to host a show
with you know people who walk amongst us
do you know what I mean like I don't
want to be involved in lending my my
credibility and just walk on a show with
him I know I'm not interested in that
then they write is there a particular
conservative guest Sam would like to be
on the panel with we could make it huh
uh-huh now we're getting interesting and
now things are getting a break up in
money
zyre izing an idiot exactly now this is
part of the second project so we're
going to skip this I was contemplating
if they could deliver this person that I
would do the show I would not take any
money for it because as Michael said the
compensation would be coming from my
being able psychic capital exactly and I
will say this the idea that I would go
from Brooklyn to Manhattan for $5,000 is
still bizarre like I no way I'm not
taking that money
not everybody Leon thinks it's bizarre I
want to be clear but I think it's pretty
interesting actually I want to be clear
about something before you start
thinking I have a tremendous amount of
integrity here I do have a price and I
said I would definitely do it for two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars and
it stands that's Dan I would do it for
two hundred fifty thousand dollars I'm
sorry if that is such a random not like
why that number that would dramatically
implicate my life okay but that's just
so like why if you're going for a
completely I would do it for 500,000 too
but I'm saying 250 or that's just such
an interesting all right so you you
what's amazing about your particular
psychosis is I feel like you actually
did like the broader point is I'm not
gonna do that you know because I don't
feel
comfortable with it doesn't feel good to
me and then you might say like yeah you
know million bucks but you actually sat
down and count yeah I said no no I say
200 I said that's it I'd do it for a
million dollars and I was like you know
what I'd do it for half a million no
actually I would do it for two hundred
fifty thousand dollars not gonna do it
for two hundred but I would do feel
literally thinking like this will go
into this account this would be spread
here there would be a little bit of
college planning action and then when
it's all said and done I would take a
vacation yeah III I just great 250 I
just want to be honest with myself so so
I I mean Patrick then basically hung
back and credible the past rest the deal
with all I know Patrick so and him unzip
recruiter divisive recruiter so then he
goes then so then he writes back I got
some news Roger stone just committed
from May 31st filming and I just don't
would you do it Nessus and and so let's
see and and then and then Patrick
responded a little bit later
hey Jim sorry to drop the threat on the
Sam was in and out over the past couple
of weeks he'd be really interested in
appearing with blankety-blank Roger
stone did not seem interesting to him
and so this isn't 80s Jim wrote back
that's awesome guys we'll get that set
up we just had an awesome shoot with dr.
Cornel West and Milo it was very civil
and enjoyable conversation I'll get some
dates to you
I believe Gavin just reached out to
blank yesterday for dates yep and blank
is on board for the show and Patrick's
amazed now be Thank You Patrick and be
in touch soon and and they say and then
Jim writes back what work what night's
work in June for Sam
and Patrick wrote back hi Jim Sam says
whatever night blank is there works for
him
Jim says awesome thank you and back to
you soon with dates and then a couple of
weeks go by and Patrick writes back to
Jim Jim Sam just asked what's up do we
have a date yet
Jim said thank you for following up I'm
sorry it's taking so long I'm working
hard on it and we're in dialogue with it
over with
blank I'll know more in coming days and
then a couple of weeks go by and Patrick
writes the gym.again hey Jim any word
jim says yeah made some progress over
the weekend hope to have an answer for
you soon I want this just as much as you
and Sam on it and then Jim call a wrote
back a week later we tried hard man but
he just won't do it with Sam
very disappointing is there this other
person is for the secret project can I
just say they're tremendous yeah is
there anyone else that Sam might want to
be on the show with just a couple ideas
we can Coulter what about Jimmy Dore
we've been talking with him and Chloe
and what does this Patrick writes back
oof oof
I'll ask him about the others what
happened with blank he won't do your
show or won't do it with Sam now he's
and why Sam's gonna be cranky with me
that was what I was gonna say is it now
Patrick knows he has to deal with yeah
 yeah seems like the one thing
that was exciting for me exactly Patrick
came on tell me that like I was livid
and so Patrick ended up writing last
night two days later hey Jim
so now Sam thinks I messed up somehow on
the blank thing and that's why it's not
happening you didn't really react what I
mentioned any of the other names I can
press him again though well I mean the
other names are not that exciting and
then Jim came back
and laid out the whole thing which were
gonna save because that has more to do
with the others but finally when I heard
that this video we're about to play went
down yesterday I told Patrick get in
touch with Jim again and he wrote hey
Jim sorry about the radio silence
that's a pun folks Sam didn't seem to
want to talk about it after I told him
about blank but this morning he came in
and it was a big but after a trip in the
first thing he asked was who else they
have and what's the best number they can
do pretty sure he meant appearance fee
friends he was on a bit of a manic tear
this morning and I generally know better
than to get in the way of that sure you
can relate let me know sign Patrick and
Jim said no worries I totally get it
and so our compensation package has a
few things a that it's going to give Sam
a bunch of exposure and a and then
secondly weird he would do that we would
offer Sam a VIP Town Car pickup I'm
gonna drop off in the venue thirdly we
can offer $5,000 and free drinks at the
bar yeah there you go
and and then oh and then he says I think
went blank sees the show with Sam he's
gonna feel quote-unquote one-upped from
Sam I think you might already feel that
yeah I think that there might already be
well all right so here we go and so it
was only 5,000 it was not $250,000 had
it been $250,000 I got to be honest with
you right now I would not have done this
video but so here's the thing what's
clearly going on is someone either gave
Gavin McGinnis a tremendous amount of
money like an extraordinary amount of
money
and didn't care what Gavin did with it
at all because to spend $5,000 on
getting me as a guest down there I've
got news for you well for Gavin it would
cost 250 but for you I will do it on the
phone more or less for free but he
desperately needs some lefties on his
show to get back into the community in
some way to get back into the YouTube
like to get back and be able to be seen
as as non-toxic the zeitgeist into the
zeitgeist he just wants to be he wants
to get normalized and so he also asked
David Pakman and had offered David
Pakman as far as I know a similar
compensation and that was it
we were just strolling along and then
all of a sudden somebody called in to
David Pakman show okay let's go next to
our caller from the two-five three area
code who's calling today from two five
three hey David it's Jim and I just
wanted to say a longtime listener
first-time caller loved ya and I just
wanted to talked about the green new
deal and just see what ideas you had
about maybe getting that pushed through
and also a guy I despise came up on my
YouTube the other day on a commercial
he's Gavin McInnes on this new show free
speech and I was trying to click out of
it right away and then all of a sudden I
saw dr. Cornel West and Mark Lamont Hill
on the show yeah and I actually checked
it out and it's a cool show in regards
to just liberals nailing Gavin and it
was so awesome watch especially Mark
Lamont Hill I cancelled my subscription
because I saw all the shows but I just
thought it'd be awesome if you could get
on his show and destroy him for so
wholly sold your subscription to what Oh
I signed up just to watch the dr. Lamott
Hill oh I see and Cornel West
I I will have something to say
personally that I'm involved with that
affects me with regard to this new Gavin
McInnes show at some point soon like I
don't I can't talk about it yet but I'm
gonna have some positive about related
to it that is Packman referring to the
fact that he had been invited on this
show and continued because I've had like
a personal run-in with this program and
I think it'll be an interesting story as
far that's it
and Pakman had that call last Friday and
over the weekend people in the reddit
threads I guess said that sounds a lot
like Gavin McInnes
certainly does and now I know Gavin
McInnes and I've watched him on YouTube
and whatnot but I've hung out with him a
couple of times years and years ago and
I have some good friends who used to be
good friends with him and I passed it on
to those people and they came back with
that sounds a lot like Gavin McGinnis
and pachtman
cut a video yesterday where he was
convinced that it was Gavin heard from
some excuse me uh David heard for some
other people too who were close in orbit
with Gavin McGinnis who said that that
sounds like Gavin McGinnis now the name
Jim that also struck me as odd what's
with all the gyms in Gavin mcginnises
world now here's one other element that
you should know apparently sometimes
when people call you they have caller ID
and these numbers sometimes if you
google them they come up with something
David Pakman told me what the number was
and I took it and I put it into the
Google machine now I'm not gonna say the
name of this guy but I will say his
first name was Jim
and it turns out that he had run for
office in 2017 he had run before what
was it a County I'm not gonna say where
the location was what was it yeah a
County Commission seat and used over a
hundred thousand dollars of his own
money he had to withdraw from that seat
because apparently he was on Twitter
writing nasty things about black people
very weird that this gym has become
liberal all of a sudden and wanted to
see Gavin bashed by Marc Lamont Hill now
I have some speculation about the
relationship between Jim because maybe
somebody wanted to use Jim's phone maybe
Jim is actually a producer who's
actually a fan of the show even though
he had that problem I mean who knows let
me just say that I'm not some you know
overfed comfortable cushy gen Xer and I
will very offended that my guy Tom has
not heard from this program and I'm
available for 50,000 oh the guy who
works for you Tom correct so there you
have it Gavin McGinnis is either getting
money from a wealthy friend I'll tell
you this Jim is only 37 right yeah to
pay people to show up and it's basically
a whitewash him or it's possible Gavin's
quite wealthy himself hi this is Jim T
what is spend money and it totally
recklessly the idea that he would call
in to Pakman show to try and convince
Pakman and that was all to convince back
when it go on right and please go on
there and handle but that was pretty
crazy let me just go to the phone's
you're calling from a three five three
area code uh hello uh uh uh where you
calling from what's your name am I on
the program yes
like I got through this is a a Bob fan
tella first time long time
Bob fan teller and where you calling
from Bob I'm coming from the West Coast
the West Coast the west coast
okay I wanted to talk about why Donald
Trump is is like a racist yeah well like
what yeah like really really bad he's a
racist right but I was on the youtubes
the other day and you know how the
algorithms are and so this guy really
hate hate him yeah
right-wing Mandela came up as a
recommended and I guess he has this new
show called total speech TV total speech
total speech TV and and I was clicking
off it so fast but then I saw that
Atlantic contributing writer Peter by
dot was odd and so I clicked on and at
Peter by not just destroyed him
oh it was Peter by dad who is a
contributor right he also edits the
forward right it's a great progressive
and then Michael Isikoff was on too and
and they just trashed them about all the
topics anyways I was wondering if you
would consider going on total speech TV
to talk about you know to show that
liberals are better and and what not
right - okay so like oh you and so you
were watching it with is a coffin Peter
by not Peter by not really he's an
intuitive writer contributing writer for
The Atlantic Peter by dot Wow and he
just and he took right wing Mandela and
he said no you're wrong about 67 borders
they're all wrong and he owned him when
you go on the program alone and dunk on
a right wing Mandela well I will I will
do that I mean I gotta say you also you
have a
you have quite a bit of an accent
yourself Bob yes well it's what it's
from where I where I grew up
I'm a person of color which I know that
you love
you're totally jazzed by that right
that's right that's true well I will
definitely put it under advisement thank
you for the call okay
looking forward because if you could -
what is a cop did then they would he
would be a heap on the floor okay
Allah Akbar Oh God there it is folks
it only gets crazier ah I will finish
you I will end up putting out those
emails together and we will go over
those in a more cohesive way when we do
the larger story here I subscribed then
cancelled it's a bit just so we did lose
that beat a watch Peter by disick off
dunk on and owned him and then and then
I clicked unsubscribe unsubscribe don't
want to watch any more of him
that's right doing that I don't like him
at all I tried to click off but the
algorithm got me
let's go to the phones you're calling
from a 787 area code who's this where
you calling from hey guys I mean yeah
who's this movie conference hey I'm
calling for the first time can I wanted
to talk about other things regarding the
Bernie Sanders primary campaign but
given the situation I want to talk about
Puerto Rico I'm actually from there San
Juan Puerto Rico thisis very specific
I'm not sure if you guys discussed it
earlier I know I saw it mentioned at the
beginning of the program but the
situation down here is getting a little
bit difficult as you guys can probably
imagine recently some leaked chats
regarding the governor and his close
team leaked but prior to that the
federal government arrested two of his
close cabinet member ex Secretary of
Education and one of the secretaries of
health after that various members of his
team resigned after the chats were
leaked to the public which called for
his immediate resignation as well the
governor's recognition right both his
opposition party and his own political
party called for his resignation
among other leaders in Puerto Rico
however 24 hours after is all transpired
it seems like his own party has
supported him hence the last three days
had inspired significant protests last
night was part of the peak of the
protests they were damaged to various
areas in San Juan including the front of
the
Executive Mansion is anticipated that
these protests will continue throughout
the week basically requesting the
governor to finally resign and just to
put things in perspective the delete
chat was mainly about the governor and
his immediate team talking about illegal
dealings inside the administration plans
to conspire against not only just the
opposition party but federal regulators
specifically the police monitor that was
basically named or put there by the
federal government during Obama yep and
homophobic comments misogynistic
comments that really just read to this
unrest in in Puerto Rico and I just want
to see if you guys have kept what's
going on and what your thoughts because
I mean well because it's a very
interesting situation sorry go ahead
well I don't know anymore really than
you've just gone through them now all
the news reports I've read have the
basically just gone over maybe even less
in some respects than what you have what
you've laid out there the the you know I
I don't know I don't I mean I don't know
why I guess the real question is like
you know what what happens if there is
any illegalities
associated with it and do you think if I
mean is there III mean how long of a
term does the governor have at this
point so right now he was elected into
office in 2016
governors are elected every four years
so there's next nice elections are in
2020 so you know he has about the same
time I hope trump has in office about a
year and a half so
said that you know he he wants to remain
in office and you know others within the
government opposition party etc have
suggested the possibilities of starting
impeachment proceedings if he does not
resign and the way the state here
structure is very similar to the u.s.
there is a process to begin impeachment
proceedings which many have called and
many have is there a recall present is
there a recall provision and I mean what
is I don't even know there is not okay
right as like in California for example
well there is a recall provision in that
state constitution in these in the
specific case of Porter because there is
not that is one of the pitfalls of
having a u.s. territory or a colony is
that it does not have the many
provisions other states have and has the
michael has discussed in his own show
and other times we don't have the
mechanism of filing for bankruptcy like
others rights ruin other cities in the
US and again there's another kind of
shortfall that we don't have that
provision so basically rely on two
things either the governor resign wait
right now and but people are calling for
or to starting impeachment proceedings
and it's in this nation that takes place
in the house
two-thirds of the house needs to vote
for hidden excusing of the governor of
elicit unethical actions and then it
goes to the Senate where 3/4 of the
Senate needs to vote in favor of
impeaching and then the ratification of
the state Supreme Court then he is
removed well but yeah that's basically
essentially process i i appreciate your
your your in you know keeping us up on
this i mean i don't know that i really
have anything else to add obviously it's
an
that situation and it's you know the
it's the last thing I would imagine that
Puerto Rico needs right now but there's
clearly a healthy dose of corruption at
the top and III mean there needs to be
just such an overhaul in terms of like
the politics of that island it seems to
me that you know I I mean I really think
that the the representation issue needs
to be needs to be resolved everybody
yeah I mean the obviously Puerto Rico
should just have a choice whether they
want to be an independent country or a
state but it's insane that that isn't at
the center of every single democratic
candidates I mean along with Guam and DC
for what it's worth I I always just like
the plug um read war against all Puerto
Ricans by Nelson Denny's that's a really
I mean you know just for people
generally watching and listening it's a
really really important book on I mean
we have neo-colonial policies across the
Caribbean and Latin America which are
incredibly serious but it is I mean
especially just being there is it is so
bizarre to you know it's a non
metaphorical colony right now
appreciate the call they let's go to the
AIIMS Lupin hey Sam I've been thinking
about Sadie Roberts Joseph the woman who
founded the African American History
Museum in Baton Rouge who was just
murdered
she was 75 years old and someone put her
body in the trunk of a car she was a
community leader and her life was ended
cruelly I think about her and the many
activists that have been killed and I
can't help but be afraid for the four
freshmen congresswoman especially Omar
party leadership is interested in truly
defending them they have been using
bizarre poles and Axios to smear them
and my representative Hakeem Jeffries
had his staff send the house dem T tweet
and Axios to smear them and my
representative okay had to smear them
Michael Hardaway Hakeem jamás and my
representative Hakeem Jeffries had his
staff send the house Democratic tweet
that helped escalate the situation
they are so visible
and such amazing women they're
surrounded by too many cowards I've
donated to all of them and message my
rep but it's scary to see the amount of
hatred target at them and I'm not sure
what else I can do
I mean I agree with you I think just you
know if use your Twitter feed amplify
what they say donate one you can these
sorts of controversies are big
networking times right like yeah like
Trump put Trump doing this puts a lot of
attention onto those women's messages
and a lot of people are gonna realize
actually liked it yeah and yeah I agree
with you it is you know that poll that
went around I'd be really curious to see
what it says about Nancy Pelosi too and
they asked you know the question of you
know what were the the voters in those
districts feelings about aoc I'm quite
sure if you asked what's their feelings
about that Nancy Pelosi would be exactly
around the same place as AOC is that the
one though that I mean at least I I'm
not as up on it as I should be but Ryan
Grimm has done a lot of picking a part
of those numbers that were given to
Axios in terms of he has a lot of
problems with that poll yeah well it's
an internal poll and there nobody's
seeing anything other than those
specific numbers well even some of the
same I think he he I think he has some
access to who they were actually talking
like more of the specifics who they were
actually talking to and he asked he did
a thread with Celinda lake as a
democratic strategist where she went
over some of the kind of methodological
problems a square Sami caller was
conservative is an assessment the story
of the Secretary of Education Keller is
worth covering as an example the
corruption in the federal administration
as well things in PR are also very bad I
sent you cliff notes in English on
leaked text from the PR governor in
Roselle and his cabinet Roselle and his
cohorts chat revealed the great contempt
they have for the people that are not
like them the deep deep entitlement they
have tomorrow much bigger protests are
planned the sad thing about all this is
the level of corruption will be used as
another excuse for physical board to
continue to execute massive social cuts
and privatization plan in the end the
governor overseers will force him to
resign as he's lost cover to do their
bidding doe the progressive real free
speech TV has no money like that
nonprofit watch Mauro's
famous most inspiring two-minute speech
about Joe McCarthy fear in his
commentary on YouTube it brought Joe
McCarthy down Louie
r.i.p Jim Boonton besides writing we're
the greatest books of the 20th century
ball four and inventing the big league
chew he was a delegate from govern in 72
in a champion a Metheny many other great
causes
after that Anthony from Baltimore he Sam
I have a little bone to pick with you
why are you trying to produce an a.m.
news brief like that like the daily do
you know your audience
the only people will be up that early
for the a.m. quickie are the dudes who
okay Fran from Philadelphia tomorrow
joined the left flank gaming twitch
channel for a history discussion in
sylco about the aboard of revolutionary
July days of 1917 Petrograd and lessons
for building left power Wednesday
starting at 8:00 p.m.
get me on Twitter hashtag no excuse me
at left flank game one ing instead of an
I left is best
join our discord psychedelic Quaker how
important in South Carolina for Sanders
in this primary cycle is it still a
bellwether II this is not a binary thing
it is contingent upon how he does in
Iowa in New Hampshire it is a function
of who wins South Carolina if I mean I
can come up with multiple scenarios but
if Kamala Harris wins South Carolina say
and Bernie is one Iowa and New Hampshire
it's largely irrelevant to his chances
though theoretically could help hers in
California but South Carolina is
important he needs to he needs to finish
in the top three I think in South
Carolina I think anybody who's gonna win
the nomination needs to finish at least
in top three in South Carolina
regardless what they've done in others
because you need to be able to show that
you have appeal to african-american
voters even if they tend to be more
conservative and older on some level you
need to be able to see some appeal
themes Darwyn
Sam I haven't lived in New York for
almost 20 years I know things have gone
up in price lately but is the toll in
the Manhattan Bridge really 5 grand now
seems like a lot you might want to try
the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel I think
that's even more frankly uh there is no
toll in the madan Manhattan Bridge
Franklin Buffalo does it help Bernie
electoral if the Supreme Court actually
strikes down the ACA I don't know how
someone like Biden could defend their
position any longer I mean III think it
would I think it would help Medicare for
all that's for sure I don't know that
the Supreme Court would allow for
Medicare for all at this point if they
were to strike down the ACA but it's
conceivable yeah
if there is no ACA it's a tough talking
point for Joe Biden that's for sure bang
Bart
bang bang Bart slightly off topic but my
la socialist comrades and I are heading
out to Tokyo this week with me to meet
the anti Olympic organizers over there
as a show of international solidarity
we'll be also be interviewing Dave Zirin
during this trip when we get back to LA
we'd love to come on MRI discuss the
impact of the Olympic Games on
gentrification yes I would love to do
that I had Dave on when he wrote his
book about the games in Rio and would
love to have you on to talk about that
send an email to majority reporters at
gmail.com and then follow that with the
advice given than that email called from
a 401 area code who's this where you
come from Tyler Tyler from Rhode Island
what's on your mind oh yeah so I wanted
to talk about a universal health care
and I guess kind of what I don't really
understand about people like Joe Biden
and how they are kind of against it by
saying that people want their private
insurance but like wouldn't
wouldn't wouldn't every doctor just take
the insurance anyway I don't really
understand that I'm not sure the way
you're characterizing it but look the
the polls on this are a little bit
confusing right and it depends on how
you ask the question people I think my
assessment of the polling is that people
are worried about getting into a worse
situation than they are now but the fact
of the matter is is that if everybody
was enrolled in Medicare all but a few
of the elite doctors would be available
to you which as you know with the
insurance that you have if you have
insurance it's not the case
some are out of plan well they put this
way all the doctors will be available to
you it's just a question of whether or
not Medicare would cover it as you know
right now you can go see a doctor out of
your plan and you can end up having to
pay 80% 70% of the cost fifty percent
forty percent thirty percent maybe if
you're lucky you got good insurance or
you can go see one in the program that
you're enrolled in it's conceivable that
your health insurance company changes
who's in and out of the program and so
suddenly your doctors out of it Joe
Biden's being disingenuous I mean you
know the only real argument it seems to
me that one could make four against
Medicare is I am a super wealthy doctor
I only treat super wealthy patients and
my reimbursement rates will go down if
you're a doctor who treats Medicaid
patients now your rates will go up if
you're a doctor who treats Medicare
patients it's conceivable they would go
up a little bit but it's more than
likely bound where where it's at
if you are on private insurance some of
your rates may go down a little bit but
you'll also be saving money because you
won't have to have a massive apparatus
in which to file insurance if you don't
take any insurance at all right now well
then you don't take insurance and you
have a you know a specific set of
patients so I think he's just being
disingenuous he's just trying to scare
people okay because I think a lot of I
don't really exactly remember who else
said it but they said that during the
debate that people like their insurance
and they like their doctors but what
what's to say that the government health
insurance isn't going to be just as good
well the government health insurance is
going to be better I mean there's just
no doubt about that the real question is
like do people want their taxes raised
to save on health insurance with a net
savings or not and how we going to fight
the insurance industry is there really
any um is there any assurance companies
can really do to kind of fight back
against that or oh yeah they can spend a
tremendous amount of money and lobby
against it and that's what they're doing
appreciate the call Tyler Thanks thank
you this thing is a little bit tricky to
top rate calling from a two one zero
area code who's this where you come from
good afternoon senators John from San
Antonio John from San Antonio what's on
your mind man yeah Bernie we'll be
streaming a medicare-for-all a live
event at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time today so
anybody want to check that out I'd
recommend that the campaign also
released a questionnaire
who's lying about medicare-for-all
within the last hour
so the question they say who said it and
then the answers are Biden Trump
McConnell and you know United Healthcare
CEO David Wickman nice name one question
they throw Obama em and it says I happen
to be a proponent of single-payer
universal health care plan I see no
reason why the US of A the wealthiest
country in the history of the world is
spending 14 percent of its GDP cannot
provide basic health insurance to
everybody okay so uh on my last call you
mentioned an interview with Isaac
shodhan there and Dave Wasserman about
the about an article that was published
right in New Yorker on July 3rd titled
the Democrats that turn leftward means
for party chances in 2020 so I'm not
really going to reference that our
aspect of the article I'm going to cite
some points of differences in some
points of agreement from the interview
so Shoni air says what lessons about
democratic electability to draw from
2018 is this the best case or someone
like Biden that the turnout was used in
2018 the highest in a century in the mid
term and so every Democrat no matter how
moderate is likely to get a strong turn
amount a Wasserman says this he says you
can easily flip the coin and make the
case that many Trump voters particularly
white men without college degrees did
not turn out in 2018 because Trump was
not on the ballot and there's a real
risk for Democrats that these voters on
the largest drop-off universe from 2016
2018 and will return in 2020 I'm not so
convinced that 2018 signals a trend
towards Democrats in 2020
especially since Trump has proven that
he's better than anyone incinerating his
opponents images so shown ER says so do
you don't think Democrats should feel
good about 2018 turnout and Wasserman
says they should feel good about it but
2018 was as much about subtract
it was addition the number of young and
non-white voters that cast ballots in
2018 were light years ahead of 2014 but
a lot of Democrats Democrats the success
had to do with a trump voters failure to
turnout which is almost a mirror image
of Obama voters failure to turnout in
2010 and look it out 2012 turned out so
now I'm going to go back to my opinion
he says that Wasserman is just factually
wrong because they Trump voters did not
turn out in the 2008 you're right I mean
they had they had the one of the highest
midterm turnouts on the Republican side
as well right it was right both the
Democrats and the Republicans broke
records the previous records was 44
million eight hundred twenty seven
thousand by the Republicans in 2010 when
they split 63 seats and so they beat
their record and just putting it in
context right now the presidential
record was a with still Obama's 2008
vote total which was 69 million four
hundred ninety eight thousand so both
the Republican and the Democrats
shattered the midterms record in 2000 in
2000 the Republicans received 50 million
eight hundred sixty one thousand or ten
percent higher than their their a record
from 2010 the Democrats received 60
million five hundred and seventy two
thousand are twenty six percent higher
than the previous record total in 2010 a
Democratic House totals were actually
lower than the 2006 Democratic totals by
three million three hundred and fifty
eight thousand or eight percent also you
know Obama was much more popular and
Trump's not going to change his a vote
racism is hurting him and the Republican
Party and I do not agree that you know I
do agree that Trump's relentless attacks
on whoever the nominee is will bring
down the nominees approval rating right
but that will not be enough for Trump to
win and Wasserman's biggest mistake is
to focus on demographics from 2016 or
Democrat spells she
and think this will be the deciding
factors you know I think the
fundamentals of Democrats turning out
their base like they did in 2006 2008
2012 and 2018 will be the biggest factor
so what do you think about that I mean I
agree with you but I think probably what
what Wasserman would say in terms of of
that dynamic he was talking about the
the subtraction is that the Republicans
did not keep pace with the Democrats in
terms of turnout in the midterms and
then undoubtedly part of that was a
function of Trump not being on the
ballot and I think that's I think that's
a legitimate statement I do think that
trumps pace and look we just don't know
where right now all he's doing is he's
firing up his base right the question is
I mean let you put it this way it's not
hard for me to imagine that would Joe
Biden on the ballot would say that there
would be a significant portion of the
African American community
there'd be a portion of young people
generally there'd be a portion of women
generally who would be less you know
jazz to vote for Biden than just about
anybody else so has a chance to win in
the election that's not hard for me to
imagine is that hard for you to imagine
no it's not hard I was just looking at
the latest being in North New Hampshire
poll that actually reflects just what
you were speaking about is they were
saying you know who would divert who is
the person that did June that decided
that you're definitely not gonna vote
for and his numbers have gone up I think
it's a will not vote for a candidate
under any circumstances now this is the
primary so in
April is that Biden was at 5% now he's
at 14% which is the highest total of
anybody that's pretty in that's tripling
in that short a period of time is is
quite impressive and so and it's not
just but you know what it's less those
people who say I would never vote for
Biden because I would vote for Biden but
you know we did a referring to the
primary they're referring to the primary
vote
all right okay I so saying well I mean
and so I guess I don't know I mean I
were we were talking about 2020 that
we're talking about the general election
right I mean that's the that's the
bottom line
I just think that like in the general
election you will you will have people
who I think will not vote for but here's
how I think it goes down right I think
there is a significant portion of the
Democratic Party I don't know what it is
5% 10% 15% 20% 22% who if you were to
ask them today maybe 25 let's call it
29% you ask them today Bernie Sanders is
your nominee gonna be your nominee will
you vote for him that I think you
probably get I don't know 15 20 percent
say no way
but that 15 20 percent are people who
I'm quite sure who gonna go to the polls
they're gonna go and vote for the
senator or they're gonna go and vote for
the person running for the house in
their district I think the people who
don't want to vote for Bernie Sanders
are engaged in politics
probably more than those who aren't and
I think the people who won't vote for
Joe Biden who will stay home I'm just
saying stay home right that's the way
I'm defining that vote the people who
don't vote for Joe Biden they're just
there I think they're removed from
politics I think they feel left behind
from politics largely and the
interesting dynamic is those people will
stay home they won't vote they'll do
say there's nothing for us right they
may be a little bit more low information
that she's made less engaged in the
system the people who won't vote for Joe
for supposedly we won't vote for Bernie
I think they're engaged in the system
and they're gonna go and vote for the
senator and they're gonna go and vote
for that over the house and when they
look at that the top-line ballot they're
gonna see Bernie Sanders name and Donald
Trump's name and I guess what they're
gonna pull that lever for for Bernie
Sanders I mean I think the question is
is like who's gonna keep people from
engaging in voting at all and I think
Joe Biden is the highest on that list
and I think that we underestimate the
extent to which there still are real
segments of people and I'm not talking
about you know the small group in the
Midwest that you need to flip back from
Trump to to a Democrat those I think
some of them are in this category but
there really are groups some people that
you know they hate Trump there they
don't like Trump they're not gonna vote
for Trump but they're still just kind of
vaguely and generally disgusted and put
off and Joe Biden is not going to talk
to those people at all appreciate the
yeah well one thing yeah can it kind of
make one point about you know you're
saying that Republican there you know
you're kind of confirming the
Wasserman's bias they didn't turn out
but they actually did turn out they set
a record by six million votes you know
and the population didn't grow by that
much that's why I made that that Obama
reference from 2008 so I think that this
is there's a lot of Mythology going on
and there's a lot of Mythology about you
know Trump also because you know all
those he's he is counting right and
maybe this is a mistake but I would
imagine what he is doing is assessing
the relative dynamic between the two
parties can I can I just
say something that's a little bit larger
than than this specific conversation
which I I don't have a strong feeling on
necessarily but I I think that there's a
fair amount of mainstream media people
for lack of a better word who ever since
they totally embarrassed themselves like
we remember that famous panel of keith
Ellison saying on one of the sunday
shows like trumps like he's in line here
he's doing well and I literally laugh in
his face and they're like alright I get
that you're making a rhetorical point
but that's not gonna happen
I think that there's a pretty healthy
contingent of people who've gone in the
opposite direction where they've gone
from totally dismissing Trump and not
seeing what what was happening but now
all of a sudden he's like a genius right
who has unparalleled political skills
and everything will always work in his
favor and I don't think that's true
either so I think that that's reflected
in some of the analysis I mean I think
we talked about Biden suppressing the
vote I mean I think he would do that but
I also don't think he would do that as
much as Hillary Clinton didn't do those
that's I also agree with that well I
also I think that you know a lot of the
people have been burned and no one's
gonna no one's but I think there was a
lot of overconfidence frankly that
helped create that environment I
appreciate the call John all right thank
you
probably good time for no none I guess
he's always no-nonsense
good time for one to clear or not so
that's today got a lot of people been
hanging on for over a half an hour
calling from a 702 area code
who's this where you come from oh my god
okay hey this is a tray from Las Vegas
all right there's our surprise they got
on okay first of all I've been listening
to the show I love it when he guys dunk
on Alex Jim hilarious I love it when
does gob prick I forgot his name the
other dude dunks on dave rubin it's
hilarious anyway now the question that i
forgot his name Mel Brooks something
Mike Michael apologize now
what I wanted to ask a question I knew
that as we know there are millions of
people today who are uninsured and with
a Medicare for All system those millions
of people would have access to health
care so the question that I have for for
you guys who are proponents of Medicare
for all and first of all one of the best
but blessings and life is to not worry
about health care costs the question I
have for you guys is is our health care
system do we have a supply of physicians
in hospitals that can meet that demand
of health care services or are people
going to be lining up in the emergency
rooms with a Medicare for All system I
mean can we can we sort of can ours how
do I explain do we have enough supply
for that demand in health care I mean I
look I I think it is it's conceivable in
certain areas there'll be more demand
than supply now there was that concern
that when people got Medicaid that that
was gonna happen and when people got
insured through the in you know
Affordable Care Act that that might
happen it's not inconceivable to me that
there might be places where we're jammed
up but here's the you know the thing is
there's such an easy fix for that that
it's almost something like I have no
problem with that problem coming because
it is the least complicated fix in the
world you want to hear it but what's the
pick we're gonna grant you death panels
oh we're gonna grant you we're gonna
grant you medical school middle school
high level Victoria Day I mean like it's
not this is I mean it's really
straightforward fix and it would also
take care of at least going forward and
maybe you could do it going backwards to
do a certain extent the the the desire
for and the need for people for there to
be
such big payoffs for doctors that's a
 good point thank you
I mean there it's such an easy fix that
I'm not worried about it and in fact it
will make medicine better I'm quite
convinced because oh sorry go ahead
well you'd have people go into medicine
that they want and not driven by like
what the what is gonna drive revenue so
that they can pay off their loans right
okay that that makes sense first time
I've heard that and sort of a sort of
lightbulb moment which actually makes
sense okay because just speaking for
personal experience the concern with
Medicaid is good luck getting a doctor's
appointment it's gonna do you make a
doctor's one there I know it's gonna
take a couple of months to get it
because the system well they're not
enough providers accepting Medicaid
independence again again that depends on
your locality but broadly speaking I
think that's the case I think broadly
speaking that's the case but whenever
when all the doctors are in the Medicare
system when everyone's in the Medicare
system everybody you know there's gonna
be a lot more doctors who are gonna
we're gonna do this insurance some are
gonna be pissed
but yeah hansel a medical school debt
for the doctors who are going to get
those pay cuts hopefully right yeah and
and plus people don't understand how
much administrative costs come with
happy you know the huge damming the
insurance companies to get them to pay
Suzanne insurance companies are greedy
as you know I don't want to swear but
but I think doctors would be very very
pleased when they don't have to deal
with yeah and rezoning patients and so
wouldn't parents who've got kids you
know who I I swear to God to you I have
a stack of bills that is like this and
it's they're all like 17 bucks or 14
bucks or 30 bucks 50 bucks I'm it adds
up but it's also just a huge pain in the
ass I'm gonna spend two hours three
hours going through this stuff and I got
to do it like at least once a quarter at
least
not to mention the dental bills that I'm
paying it's it's just and I've got
insurance a little confused by that
appreciate the call
Oh we'll wait one second one second uh
someone called about Hakeem Jeffries
yeah when when Nancy Pelosi was was
running for speaker HUD Jim Jefferies
like gave this glowing speech like oh my
god I love her and then I looked him up
and he like has no small donor
contributions it's only large
contributions he's intact money so I
guess the reason why he'd like speaker
Pelosi is because she's who gives him
all the money cuz I heard someone
reference him earlier he's like oh
you're in but yeah he's yeah yeah yeah
he's not great he's not great at all all
right thank you
you know his work I appreciate that
really appreciated his Meeks from Queens
is even worse Meeks is a long term
favorite of financial service yes all
right folks this is the final call of
the day I apologize you come from a four
one seven area code who's this where he
come from hey I'm Kate from Missouri
chase from Missouri what's on your mind
well I actually have the same thing on
my elastin cotton I was really excited I
think the Democrats have a chance to win
back the house the senate i mean they
have house but when back the Senate and
the presidency with some actually
socialist issues I've been talking to a
lot of farmers here around southern
Missouri and they kind of long for the
day they're like farmer owned coops and
they weren't big fans of like Obamacare
because it dramatically increased the
amount of money they had to pay for
insurance even though it was much better
insurance but universal health care is
something they seem to like in reminds
them of their parents who have Medicare
or their children who most of them have
Medicaid and they see that as an
acceptable thing that they would want
yeah I mean I look I mean I know some
people on Medicaid and when you live in
an area where you have access to doctors
they
of it they love it because you just
straight forward well it's very hard for
anyone that make any money at all to get
Medicaid especially if you have any sort
of property and so farmers always
getting that absolutely well yep
and that's also you know people don't
know this but about two-thirds of the
people living in nursing homes are being
paid for by Medicaid and they basically
have to get completely drawn down on
their assets I think it's two thousand
dollars is all you're allowed to own at
that point you can own a car I don't
think you can own your own home at that
point it's it's tough it's really tough
and you know III mean I think like the
the beauty of the Medicare for all is
that you get the Medicaid service and
not necess
means testing yes and our thing means
testing around around here has this been
named connotation because so many people
could get in the doughnut hole of - yeah
- rich to get the support a to port
actually for the thing you have to have
yeah and I just said I would just say
that like I said Bernie Sanders or was
it learning gets the nomination and they
come to Missouri or Arkansas or Kansas
or Oklahoma and are saying we're going
to get everyone Medicare and we're going
to keep your hospitals and your clinics
open because every bill is going to get
paid there will I don't know if you'll
turn any Republicans into Democrats but
you'll definitely turn non-voters into
Democratic voters well I think that is I
think you lost Missouri not because like
Obama lost Missouri in 2012 not because
Democrats turned to Republicans
Democrats just stayed home same well on
the classical lost hold on let me check
in with Claire McCaskill because she's
on the TV 24 hours a day telling
Democrats how to win yeah from someone
who lost had a train wreck a garbage
fire of a candidate in 2008
12 and I mean you mean we could have ran
anyone against Todd akin to beat him
yeah and she didn't even try to win I
mean I said I drove all over Missouri
and I think I saw like for signs mortar
never solid an ad heard two radio ads
she wants to be on TV she doesn't want
to be in Missouri I think you're right
about that appreciate the call Matt
what's your name bye bye I do know that
even North Dakota which i think is even
more red than Missouri maybe not I don't
know but in all these states the sort of
River area valley areas where the
farmers live are all more blue than the
rest of the state's interesting all
right oh I'm sorry that's all we have
waterways and we're gonna take some IMS
and get going here Congressional
baseball fan I made the mistake
commenting on family members Facebook
post about Trump racist tweets this
weekend a man then attempted to bully me
by calling me names turns out he was a
bully in high school with my mom who
graduated in 75 thank God for social
media so we can engage in online fights
with intergenerational bullying we live
in hell should have told the mule throws
back out brave o matic proof that we're
moving deeper into hell the AGC is
reporting that joe lieberman's son's
considering running for the Senate in
Georgia against David Purdue oh yeah I
don't even have a circus that comment
about that I got a look into that all
right after trade him I want to light
myself on fire I think we should
encourage self care and mental health
awareness really talk about suicide
prevention then watch the right cell
phone committing suicide just kidding
but ya own the libs JP Weaver any more
candidate gossip from campaign reporters
who attended Netroots enjoyed the biden
seems old man tired take you shared
yesterday what's about it Trumpy bear
there's already a network called free
speech TV it's the network that airs tom
hartman show on TV yeah i yeah i am very
aware that
brach from Virginia thanks for
recommending a Jacobin subscription
hardcopy came in yes I am stoked also
thanks for letting all the mr co-hosts
record your studio Sam so much good
content coming out of there keep it up
for 1/3 year hey Sam I saw last week you
mentioned Alex Morris was preparing to
challenge Ritchie Neil for his seat in
Massachusetts district 1 it's the first
I've heard but it's encouraging we in
the 401 3 deserve better than to be
represented by Nancy Pelosi sidekick in
office indeed Nick from Manitoba Sam
when's the last time you pooped your
pants it's been a while terney Andrews
Sam regarding last week's discussion on
birdy labeling himself socialist this is
key towards building the movement beyond
himself it's fundamental to his theory
of change policy sets are not good
policy sets without some idea to
organize them around
more over the deep history and
contemporary movement around socialism
makes it a good brand to organize around
because the values it uses to ground its
policy agendas I agree with that I also
just want to say one other thing briefly
and say last week I think when other
candidates say do the whole like west
wing like you know hey well being a
socialist means that I you know want
kids to go to school and by golly I'm a
socialist I think or you know I think
that just works differently for somebody
who's defined himself like that publicly
and in such a kind of self branded way
for decades you can't just pivot like
that you know I mean and I'm and
honestly for better for worse
like I have my ideological sympathies
clearly but I'm just saying like maybe
if you were doing it from scratch maybe
you wouldn't have that word but you
aren't and the guys you go I mean you
know he's America's socialist Maradona
you in the 80s he's got to talk about it
this is what Warren's theory of change
is lacking something beyond herself to
organize around interesting idea and the
final I am of the day
[Music]
hey Sam do you think Sanders could
replicate Warren strategy by bringing
out detailed campaign proposals on
specific issues to generate more
enthusiasm I agree bernie is superior in
terms of rhetoric and political
strategies as a candidate but seems to
be failing short the policy detail area
compared to Warren I think to a certain
extent you're overstating that deficit
they haven't done as good a job I think
is making it that his brand I think
you're gonna see more and I will give
you $5,000 to answer this I am I just
did send the check now bye
[Music]
no somehow
I just got caught
[Music]
feel any better
No clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made oh
the option when you don't get paid
pull the rubber bands with
break my love sweet ride
[Music]
Jeter takes you yeah
[Music]
