[Music]
we should just touch on this briefly I
don't want to make too much of a big
deal about this but it's important for
people to understand we have a little
bit of a clip from from patmans thing
that's all we do now is we just watch
pakman show and then we just do
everything that he's doing so I don't
spend a lot of time looking at our
statistics on YouTube because I'm just
I'm busy and I don't know what to do
with the statistics and then I feel like
I need these statistics I should know
them they should mean something to me
and I look at them and I'm like I it's
interesting to see the little bumps on
the graph but I don't really know what
that means but again I think we
mentioned this yesterday in the context
of the Gavin McGinnis scandal
McGinnis gate
where he allegedly called in to David
Pakman pretending to be just a random
caller to convince Pakman to go on his
new TV show and because I had also been
offered $5,000 to go on this show on his
show I was interested in this again I
want to reiterate if you didn't catch
that piece yesterday because it was in
the fun half that I am open to going on
Gavin McGinnis his show but it would be
have to be for 250,000 dollars and that
is my that is my pre-negotiated
rock-bottom price I want to be that's
the best I can do I would do 50k they're
putting out there
hi I'm and I would negotiate probably
rock-bottom 35 I'll just take the five
[Laughter]
I started at a million with myself but I
worked my way down to 250 because I
really would do it for 250 but but aside
from 250 35 I think Jaime texts 50 if I
had 250 I would our pocket like a buck
50 of that that's what we call when you
getting that kind of I get it I pocket
and then I'd spend a hundred thousand to
try and bury him on the SEO of it like
it'd be good to make up for it but all
right be that as it may so Pakman got in
touch with me the other day and he said
have you noticed over the past five
months I guess it was starting in March
that your suggested videos the
percentage of videos that are getting
hits from suggested videos has gone down
and it took me a while to understand
what he was talking about because like I
say I'm not terribly adept at this stuff
but I went back and I looked and it has
been the case that more the percentage
of people who are finding our videos who
are sort of like leaning into finding us
has gone up relative to suggested videos
which are a function of the topic and
here play this clip from Pakman where he
explains what this is about
dead CNN's YouTube channel Fox News's
YouTube channel MSNBC's and other legacy
corporate media channels now I don't
want to redo the whole story because
there's so much new data that I have for
you today and again I could get
destroyed by YouTube for doing this but
I have to tell you because what's going
on and what we've uncovered is is
absolutely stunning just to refresh a
little bit our channel has been getting
fewer and fewer views from YouTube's
recommended video algorithm when you
watch videos on YouTube YouTube suggests
other things to watch alongside or below
the video the idea is to keep you
watching as long as possible
okay we used to get a lot of recommended
video views from YouTube's algorithm I
told you previously I estimated that we
had lost about two million views per
month from this algorithm
recommending our videos more and more
infrequently that was a massive
underestimate there's a disturbing new
metric I looked at on YouTube some of
the people watching our videos like
anybody else's some of the people are
subscribers and some aren't okay of
course you don't have to be a subscriber
to a YouTube channel to watch the videos
on that channel we have lost millions of
non subscriber views per month over the
last several months and non-subscriber
views are determined by YouTube's
algorithm ok this graphic we're putting
up on the screen is disgusting ok
numbers of views um alright so basically
Pakman goes on to say that he has gotten
information that his show my show in
fact not even and I think Kyle kolinsky
'z but not just shows on the left all uh
top independent news shows and I don't
know how that's defined over a half a
million subscribers or what I don't know
have basically been pushed to the back
of the line
in the algorithm for the sake of pushing
the cable television news shows to the
front of the line when they cover issues
and this this dynamic between
subscribers and nonsubscribers is the
same that we've had now I will say this
because of the growth that we've had
over the past year year and a half in
January of 2018 we had one hundred and
eighty thousand subscribers on YouTube
we now have I think six hundred thousand
or we're at 590 million right now is
that right so I think we have a we're
almost at 600,000 we've had enormous
growth on the show on YouTube we have
not seen dramatic downturn in our views
because we've been growing in other ways
but and I and and frankly I'm still
working on the numbers to get them
specific
but had they not changed that algorithm
our growth would be enormous now and
look obviously YouTube has its own
business strategy and if they want to
emphasize clips from CNN put out by CNN
or MSNBC or ABC or NBC or whatever it is
it is it is there it's there it's their
right to do so
it's another reason in my mind why you
want to break up the monopoly that you
that that Google has with YouTube and
feeding this vertical integration they
have with advertising and search going
into the videos because if you had
competitors and you did not have the
competitive advantage they have and it's
beyond a competitive advantage to own
all the advertising that supports this
and to own the search of functioning
that supports this there'd be a lot more
opportunity for people to find what they
want you can't go in to YouTube and say
I want to know about this story from an
independent source from a source that is
not and you know we've talked about this
I think we talked about it quite a bit
at Netroots these these cable news
outlets they filter out folks who are
going to give a different perspective on
things and so they don't have to issue
edicts more often than not to their
hosts and whatnot because everybody's of
this of the of the same mind and it
doesn't occur them to question some of
the mainstream analyses I get a story
here from Politico about why Democrats
oversight machine is moving so slowly
against trumpet it says that they're
having trouble staffing up now I think
there's some validity to it but the
bottom line is if you dig a little bit
deeper and talk to the right people you
can find out that
like know they could have staffed up
earlier or they could take their
resources and they could hire outside
firms and these political reporters who
I think are pretty decent reporters as
far as they go
didn't ask the right people now
this story's never going to even make it
to CNN or MSNBC or certainly not Fox or
whomever but it's stories that we cover
but if you google oversight or you
search on YouTube for oversight or
whatever it is you won't get to us as
quickly you got to be looking for us and
then hear what we have to say and so
basically what YouTube is done is they
have made it harder for us to break out
of a ghetto that is defined by who we
are rather than what we're talking about
so people can't find us when they're
interested in a specific issue in the
same way they have to be interested in
sort of us and then they find out about
these issues like I say from a business
standpoint it hasn't the only effect
that it's had on us is that we're not
growing in the same way that we would
have but a the reason why we're on
YouTube is to get access and to provide
different information to people to be
honest with you I don't know what you
can do about it
other than if you have an opportunity to
go and like our YouTube stuff and
subscribe to it and upvote stuff that
may help down the road I don't know if
you know YouTube is gonna care about
what you know a small group of people
say in terms of the way they should go
about this stuff but anyway you can
support the show obviously helps but I
don't know if there's a direct way to do
this but I want to let you know this
dynamics out there cuz people have
emailed me because they've seen that you
know
Pacman's thing and I'm getting contacted
by some reporters who want to know some
information about it so I just figured I
put it out to you we get in a lot of
trouble for doing
probably not we're taking a huge risk I
would just like to say that I think
YouTube's been extremely fair and
helpful on the TPMS channel I have
criticisms of Google as a company at
YouTube but who we're taking a huge risk
can't wait from like for like eight
years from now we're like all of those
things that are almost jokes become
reality jokes and you're like well those
things well ya know it would be like
watching like with you it's like
watching like Al Pacino movie or like a
Robert De Niro where at one point like
they're just playing
themselves so exactly cool ah alright
we're gonna take quicker I think the TPP
is actually really important for the
future of the Pacific we've been trying
now we're doing a deep dive with the
head of the Carnegie Council and the
head of Asia strategy for Dow Chemical
and remembered outbreaks good things
don't remember dow brings good things to
life this is the Michael Brooks show how
do we make ourselves look like a giant
corporation to Google well I mean that's
actually a really good idea I think I
think the point is is that they should
all have like a fake like mustaches and
stuff like hold on Google let me cut you
in time well this is the head of our
marketing department let's just run like
BMW advertisements that they're not even
paying us to run today's show is brought
to you by Mercedes I think they're I
think they're struggling around to find
out what their you know their business
model is gonna be and so this is you
know who knows maybe it's also obviously
a risk but no this is I mean it's the
business model but it's also a response
to and I think some of the serious
questions that at least I have all
kidding aside about how they modulate
coming out of you know basically juicing
the algorithm in a way that is benefited
fascism and they all right right and so
now they're putting everything that's
independent in the same bucket which has
always been my concern and I think is
already a big problem particularly few
look at Facebook and this is why I will
say short of I think nationalization
monopoly busting all these really
important policy maneuvers I think the
more granular thing that we could ask
and in summary in some respects I've
actually
I think analogy I like a lot more about
what role people like us have on YouTube
is that we're we're essentially kind of
like uber drivers in a way that that's
sort of analogous in terms of if you're
a content creator on the platform
particularly if your livelihood depends
on it
you're sort of uh you're a contractor on
a platform is actually a very useful
analogy obviously it's not the same as
driving over of course it's nothing like
that in terms of difficulty or anything
like that but it's a it's a worthwhile
and dynamic - dynamic between you and
the company and the instability of it
relative to the platform and then the
notion that there's this kind of fake
independence even though the reality is
is the entire model depends on something
that is totally out of your control and
I would say that you know I would just
go back to my pitch for you got a higher
human beings to start making some of
these decisions journalistically there
needs to be a process that's actually
properly analyzed and isn't just
algorithm driven well there's also I
mean it seems to me that what YouTube
could do in this specific instance is
also allow people to sort of check off a
couple of boxes right like surprise they
don't do that already it's sort of a
surprise with their whole model what
kind of things do I want to look at I
want to look at a mixture of independent
and corporate media corporate owned
media I like stuff from the left left
for the from the right I can even get
even more granular than that in terms of
I mean I would like cats over dogs you
know no I mean that's that they should
obviously do it's funny I mean that's
actually you know I've created an
algorithm for myself that sort of looks
like that of like I do sometimes like to
watch ABC MSNBC clips to see like you
know not to be totally disconnected from
dominant news narrative obviously and
then of course I like to watch a lot of
right Al Jazeera and German television
for the global stuff and then I watch
this in this business are you right
those have no options absolutely but
that would but that would and I actually
think a lot of people would be that
would be a place that they would
naturally go to why you don't do that on
Twitter too for that matter
yeah but it's a griddle thank you you
CIM Google and Twitter all you guys
you're welcome
