[Music]
what's this Donald Trump one is this
just the fun preview of what we have in
store for the next several yeah if we
talked about Biden so maybe we want to
get into Trump all right let's do a
little bit of Trump outstanding mental
well-being right here intellectual
property theft add that to it and they
had a lot of other things do it
so somebody excuse me somebody had to do
it I am the chosen one
buddy had it do it so I'm taking on
China I'm taking on China on trade and
you know what we're winning intellectual
intellectual property king of Jerusalem
and chosen one it's the look up at the
sky guys a lot of people thought I was
just gonna double down and xenophobia
for the election but actually I'm gonna
go into Messiah Katya so Debbie I mean
we got we got a powerful guy who thinks
he's a god and a call a literal cult
that follows him via cue and on I wonder
what could go wrong there I see
a master drinking of the kool-aid coming
soon who knows I mean well I mean if
you're worse outcomes yeah there's worse
okay I was gonna say you just I think
you actually just outlined the most
optimistic one possible no I like that I
like that just them debating like I'm
the chosen one everybody loves me you're
a chosen one you're making it you're
you're the hate of America you're
tearing the fabric I remember when me
and Strom Thurmond talked about
restoring the fabric and he said yeah he
said MLK should have been a shoeshine
boy but that wasn't the point I
disagreed with him but we were both in
the Senate anyways what were we talking
about again that was my friend there
hornpub 2020 a total if you're a
reporter asked him about corn popcorn
pop couldn't swim in that pool so I said
you got to go in that pool corn pop then
I sent all of corn pops extended family
to jail when I expended the SWAT team
program
that was in 1975
