there's a coup ongoing in Venezuela I
think we outlined it with Ava Gallinger
if you didn't see that part of the show
go watch it it's really important all
conversations about the nature of the
Maduro government or secondary as soon
as the US puts a coup into motion
we need to oppose it and this is a test
of left-wing leadership so let's just
start with I mean just one of the great
mediocrities of the Senate and just bear
in mind first of all that a lot of
people in the Democratic Party are
co-signing on this coup eliot engel
susan shillelagh and many others in
Congress including actually introducing
legislation to put this forward and
again not a position which you could
track with separate from the coup the
coup needs to be opposed a hundred
percent but there's no doubt you could
follow a Mexican or even French or
Spanish model and say there needs to be
some type of negotiated settlement so
they're rejecting a moderate tract and
endorsing a trump far-right coup that's
what these Democrats are doing and dick
Durbin who you will see sanctimoniously
on TV whining about Russia I'm sure had
this to say yesterday or yeah was it I
believe this yesterday
last year in Venezuela I met with now
interim leader Juan guy Otto and many of
his talented colleagues elected to the
National Assembly during my visit they
are brave Patriots who see hopeful
Democratic future for the Brazilian
people I plan to speak with him in a few
days ahead and offer my support for his
pledge to lead a thoughtful peaceful
transition to a legitimate election that
meets international standards in the
immediate future my full statement on
today's news now look again this guy
with the backing of regional far-right
governments in Colombia and Brazil as
well as the prime corporate hegemonic
interests in the region the United
States and Canada Justin Trudeau is a
hundred percent behind this coup has
declared himself president that's not
how it works
I mean I don't really know much more
else I can spell out and thankfully
and credit due to RO Cana who really has
just been exceptional in this regard we
still need to hear something from Bernie
Sanders we still need TM certainly like
to hear something I'm look Bernie
Sanders I want to hear something from
and I will critique him if I don't but
we've already spelled out all the ways
in which Bernie has on his real
Palestine on Brazil on global fascism
Bernie's been there this would be a
great opportunity for somebody to
finally put some substance behind tulsi
gabbard supposed to the opposition to us
hegemonic interference I haven't heard
anything from her yet what I've seen is
as of this Elan Omar and Alliance Andrea
Cascio Cortes have retweeted and that's
fine I guess they've signal boosted
though they all need to be getting
together and coming up with a statement
and an action on this to stop a coup and
a potential even invasion but ROH Khanna
has taken the lead and really immense
credit to rho kona he's really
distinguishing himself here with respect
senator durbin the US should not anoint
the leader of the Opposition in
Venezuela during an internal polarized
conflict let us support our guei Mexico
and the Vatican's efforts for a
negotiated settlement and end sanctions
that are making hyperinflation words
done I mean it's really I mean we'll add
the other okay and Alexander Cassio
Cortes retweeted this so did Alon Omar
and then okay let me and roll Khanna
also said this yesterday and it's really
funny squeaking Rania Khalek so it's
injured I mean these are really
different dynamic where you could see
the types of media just even that these
you know the the comms people are
probably watching shows like this and
reading different media that's
significant Rokon oh let me get this
straight the u.s. is sanctioning
Venezuela for their lack of democracy
but not Saudi Arabia's such hypocrisy
Maduro policies are bad not helping his
people but crippling sanctions are
pushing for regime change will only make
the situation worse I mean look he
that's it one should study and explore
more deeply what's happening there but
those are the positions to have they're
the only positions to have and you
should hear that frankly not just from
progressives but really any Democrat and
I mean of course I'll just add for the
hell of it to the list I mean Ron Paul
and supposedly mister anti intervention
I'd like to hear something there all
right yes just
Trudeau does not get to be our walk Bay
anymore he's gonna support right wing
coos I don't think he ever was yeah like
well he would some people's walk Bay
right I think for the people who use
walk they have they're not gonna care
about this don't but yeah that's the
truth kara woke bay at home if you're
gonna support right-wing whose abroad
that goes for all Democrats as well
that's the shame as I feel like he I
don't know I don't know how durable he
is compared to my chrome but microns a
lot smarter
