I haven't quite figured out exactly what
the heck is going on here so he's
calling on a bluff right and it was
Trump the bluff was to the American
public right like I'm going to I'm gonna
threaten Mexico with tariffs then
they're gonna come to the White House
and we're going to basically pretend
that we're negotiating a new deal even
though the deal that we're making is one
that they already agreed to a month and
a half ago at two months taking credit
for things that are gonna happen already
is a plus move totally people do that in
politics I've heard a couple of stories
that I don't know them for sure but I've
heard a couple of stories but I mean
everybody understands the dynamic here
right it's like basically like I'm gonna
meet with Matt after the show today and
yeah I'm gonna tell him with in no
uncertain terms tomorrow better be
Wednesday cuz if it's not there's gonna
be hell to pay around here and then we
meet Matt comes out says tomorrow I
agree and will be Wednesday and there it
is that's what I thought and here is
this guy the former was he the former
ice director of the former acting ice
director a former ice director Tom
Holman if it wasn't for this terrorist
if it wasn't for the terror threat they
wouldn't be taking aliens off the train
they wouldn't be sending troops to the
southern border they won't be expanding
the migrant protection protocol they
wouldn't be talking about a third
country safe third country agreement the
tariffs worked his bluff worked so I
think once again he shows that really
black he said his bluff worked was it
really Bluff or you think he was willing
to do it no I think I think it was a
threat I need some more blood I think
there's a threat and I think he would
have follow-through and I tell you
something else if they don't follow
through on this agreement
he will impose tariffs wait a second
he that is like oh shoot maybe Trump is
watching he never wants to maybe exposed
as if he was bluffing you think I'm
bluffing what you think I'm bluffing
let's just go back let's just watch this
it's pretty amazing and I love the the
look on the face of trish regan the that
she's the journalist over there right at
fox business
you just said bluff - she couldn't bring
herself to say that guy protection
protocol they wouldn't be talking about
a third country safe third country
agreement the tariffs worked his bluff
work so I think once again what else
could he have said there his bluff work
it sounded like to me could he have been
saying his blob like the terror it's
hard for me to say tariffs and when he
says tariff threat it sounds like he
says terrorist threat right right
but bluff is fairly yeah go back just
one more time let's just hear just the
one more time just to make sure that
we're getting it a third country safe
third country agreement the tariffs
works his bluff work so I think once
again he said his bluff worked was it
really Bluff or you think he was willing
to do it no I think I think it was a
threat I'd use a bluff I think that's
right and I think if they don't follow
through on this agreement he will impose
tariffs I love the idea that he's sort
of like drifts off and he's like he's
doing the calculation in his head like
oh no a dad now Donald Trump's not gonna
be happy with that you know I didn't use
the word bluff just usually have to wait
for your intern to cut the video for you
do well that's the point yeah that was
like Jesus Christ I think Chris Hayes
made this point on Twitter which is that
if the tariffs is greatest Trump made
them sound why did we trade them for
just a few hundred more police officers
in Chiapas right because I think the
nerves are supposed to save us must be
so good for the economy but trade it
away guess what guys we got a thousand
cops in southern Mexico instead I also
just say that if that b-roll footage
scares you you've issues I mean Jesus
Christ like this is what's so terrifying
some people on the top of some flatbed
trucks well we never notice eylem
summer home in upstate Minnesota oh no I
don't want to stay in Minneapolis like
him in a deep breath of the state oh you
didn't support Trump's tariffs now I
have your house now listen when it came
out when there was a story yesterday
that the New York Times reported that
Donald Trump made a deal that had
already been made
and his bluff no Bluff worked Donald
Trump had to make up that there was a
special part of the deal that nobody
knew about and he's still got to go on
with that that special part of the deal
that nobody knew about
here he is clip number four saying that
yeah I know
Mexico is saying that there is no
special part of the deal but there is a
special part of the deal and I'll tell
you in about two weeks that's why it's a
secret Friday what do you mean your
tweet well we have something that they
will announce versus it's all done and
they have to get approval and they will
get a problem if they don't get approval
after think in terms of tariffs or
whatever but it's just another aspect of
what we've done it was all done because
of the tariffs and because of the
relationship that we have with mixing up
the exercise book with the president
yesterday and by the way I was with the
president of France here the day - he's
a great guy he manuals he's a great guy
so we had a great conversation the other
day and I think you're gonna see some
real action said that when you think of
it Mexico is doing more for the United
States as of now than Congress and then
specifically the Democrats they have to
get their act together they have to work
and get something done because
tremendous problem at the border if
people pouring in and it means crime it
means drugs have been so many other
things we're building the wall we're
gonna have close to 500 miles of wall
built by the end of next year that's a
lot and we're moving along very rapidly
we won the big court cases you know the
other day and that was a big victory for
us so a lot of good things are happening
but I want to thank Mexico and we do
have one other thing that will be
announced at the appropriate time but
they have to get approval from their
legislative body what is it it's a
secret thing that they don't want to
tell any of the legislators about what
the pass but they'll be doing it soon
it's one of those things it's just such
a little baby I'm reading a review of of
Michael Wolf's new book a siege I think
we're under siege on Trumpton and when
it comes the Trump I'm totally Pro
Michael wolf and totally support gossip
and totally support all of his
journalistic methods and apparently this
new book is just even even more
unflattering in the last one if that was
possible and in this reviewer says at
this point the books genres switches to
sci fi what if this quote-unquote
strange organism speaking of Trump with
its uncanny ability to survive every
threat is some kind of unkillable forts
like the alien and alien wounded
multiple times Trump has never
quote-unquote bled out even Bannon flees
and his quote unquote magical properties
about skipping ahead that whatever the
scenario a new bankruptcy
ultimatum dolefully given by Ivanka or
charges banned and predicts whatever the
scenario Trump won't go out classy well
that's what Trump said the other day
about Nixon he goes you know they're
talking about Nixon left I don't I'm not
gonna leave this week so you know we
live in this very strange world where we
have a Mad King who is running the
country and 50% not quite 50% but 40
some-odd percent
that control and at least in the Senate
more than fifty percent of the seats
pretend like he's not insane and there
are moments like this one the Mexico has
a secret provision to the deal that we
made that really validates the whole
deal I made that they're not telling
anybody about they're denying it of
course but they're not gonna deny it for
long cause it's true cuz they're gonna
get passed by their legislature they
keep asking this question because they
can know that he's lying and everybody
just wants to watch them squirm and they
even ask it of Sarah Sanders even at
friendly venues but she knows she
doesn't have to give a real answer here
is Fox and Friends asking White House
press secretary Sarah Sanders what's
this whole secret part of the deal and
on this the deal there's more troops at
the border we know there's going to be
money to give these would be illegals
that are trying for asylum in our
country some type of a job opportunity
they're supposed to get health care and
supposed to get shelter in Mexico I get
it now there's some talk about this
there now the idea just a day ago this
guy was railing on the fact that
immigrant children who have been living
in this country are gonna get health
care or gonna get chance to go get
schooling or get to play baseball as
some type of massive injustice but the
idea that we would threaten another
country to provide that stuff for the
same people that's a good deal it's
unbelievable how there's no semblance of
shame or just recognition as those words
are coming I remember yesterday I was
complaining this was horribly offensive
but whatever I digress beagles that are
trying for asylum in our country some
type of a job opportunity they're
supposed to get health care and supposed
to get shelter in Mexico I get it
now there's some talk about this third
country deal that could be in the works
that Mexico has to pass through their
legislature and that the president
indicated it's there nobody else says
it's really there can you tell us with
this would other side deal could be
coming our way
look I'm not gonna get ahead of
President Trump or the President of
Mexico and making further announcements
but we have had discussions and you can
see even in the joint statement that
they released where they said that
within the next 90 days further action
could be announced and that we will
continue those discussions that's
exactly what we're doing that's exactly
what we're talking about and we've
already got agreements on the way for
other action that will help again
solidify Mexico's commitment to stop
illegal immigrants for coming across our
southern border okay I have a question
in the budget is send em all back to
Africa Public Enemy in the Bush
administration would they have felt in
the Bush era would they have felt the
need if Killman was doing the same
equivalent of that reversal within 24
hours
what do you felt the need or someone
like him felt the need to say now I know
that may sound different from yesterday
but here's some BS to papered over is
part of that extremism a product of
Trump just normalizing lying to a new I
think that's I think that's part of it
but I also think part of it is like
under the Bush administration they were
much more adept at this stuff it wasn't
just you know George Bush wasn't just
like making up stuff in the moment they
would have meetings and they would
fashion a lie and then they would all be
on the same page and they would all know
how they were gonna present the lie and
then they would tell the lie and they
had people like we're in charge of this
it was like I heard Maureen Dowd drinks
we had our two eyes as opposed to mass
per day I forget who said this but like
Bush was their idiot and Trump is his
own idiot yes I think that's true I
think that's true and I would say that
short a bill Barr everyone around him it
are pretty much idiots
new wolf book apparently uh Trump is
also really upset that bear is having a
growth spurt I should be laughing
because he's gonna be taller than
[Laughter]
ferrets salad dude seriously I anybody
know people are constantly looking for
people to sympathize with in the Trump
world I have never made any sense to me
if you're an adult that's on you
but yeah it's tons of solidarity with
Baron Trump yeah right until until it
all takes hold until he's evil a dolt
Trump bear none twitch
