in Turkey in northern Syria things are
still you know taking place it's a very
fluid situation the bottom Turkey has
been using far-right groups suicide
bombers terrorist groups their
operations there's no doubt that his
mark games pointed out that there are
some people in the in the mainstream of
foreign policymaking who were excusing
groups like this before when they were
fighting Assad and who are now all of a
sudden correctly identifying them as
terrorist organizations as Turkey
deploys them in their attempt to
ethnically cleanse the Kurds in northern
Syria and then of course there's other
people that want to ignore Assad's
crimes against humanity as well as so
many people just continue to get Syria
wrong it's a horrifying disturbing
situation there is resiliency in the
road job of fighting forces however and
then as always everything overlaps with
the grotesque comedy of the Trump
administration and you know just is what
it is so we're gonna laugh at this
because this letter that Trump sent to
president air21 on October 9th is I mean
beyond laughable it's hysterical it's
bizarre what's incredible is that
probably a lot of people in the Trump
cult will actually think that this was
effective and inspired so this letter is
utterly demented and the only way to
present it is in a professional reading
by the finest Trump impersonator on the
planet Anthony Van Dyck and at worst we
sound like him impersonating Trump when
we say his last name antimanic anyways
he used to do the Trump show on Comedy
Central which was hilarious there should
have been a second season he misses him
on Twitter
reading Donald Trump's October 9th
letter to tie up air21
the White House Washington October 9th
2019 whoa
jinx his excellently recep tayyip hip
edgy gun President of the Republic of
Turkey and I can dear mr. president
let's work out a good deal you don't
want to be responsible for slaughtering
thousands of people and I don't want to
be responsible for destroying the
Turkish economy and I well I've already
given you a little sample with respect
to pastor Brunson I have worked hard to
solve some of your problems don't let
the world down you can make a great deal
general Mozilla is willing to negotiate
with you and he's willing to make
concessions that they would never have
made in the past
I am confidentially concluding a copy of
his letter to me just receive history
will look upon you favorably if you get
this done the right in your main way it
will look upon you forever as the demo
if good things don't happen don't be a
tough guy don't be a fool I'll call you
later
sincerely Donald jumble cowboy
oh Jesus Christ that guy captures the
absolute essence of this um now
Donald Trump portrayed the Kurds which
by the way multiple Republicans have
going back to Henry Kissinger in the
1970s and George HW Bush in the early
1990s and when Trump betrays people or
when Trump gets rolled by someone else
he blames and is a whiny little scumbag
here he is clip number two no I just
wanted to point out that yeah that
letter was real some people aren't
oh no that's a real letter too real what
that is not satire folks that is a
hundred percent real letter that was
Donald Trump's brilliant mind and
diplomacy in action here he hurts them
threw in the trash and literally no the
Turks
first of all they probably had to figure
out like like alright what's the best
way to translate this
it makes doesn't make any sense and they
probably sat in fired three translators
fired three translators is what it says
then they laughed and enjoyed themselves
all right here is Donald Trump blaming
the Kurt now again the Kurds are a
historically repressed group by multiple
countries including of course Turkey in
the Middle East even and in addition to
you know some incredibly successful
innovative politics in rojava
if you were even just going to take it
from a you know the supposedly this
us-centric perspective which by the way
of course this action is is freeing Isis
people and empowering those groups so
Donald Trump is also this is in fact a
huge threat to global security how he's
done this but if you were to take that
narrow view you know of like I don't
care anything else I just care about how
they fight it ice a fought Isis no one
has fought Isis more effectively than
the Kurds in northern Syria by the way
Turkish government was meeting with
forces from the YPG up until 2015 so
when they lie and say that they're
exactly the same thing as the PKK
they're lying here is Donald Trump
trashing the Kurdish people we'll see in
the meantime our soldiers are not in
harm's way as they shouldn't be as two
countries fight over land that has
nothing to do with us and the Kurds are
much safer right now but the Kurds know
how to fight and as I said they're not
angels they're not angels if you take a
look you have to go back and take a look
but they fought with us we paid a lot of
money for them to fight with us and
that's okay
they did well when they fought with us
they didn't do so well when they didn't
fight with us when I refused to allow
the Americans a year and a half ago to
fight with the Kurds against Iraq I said
wait a minute
this country stupidly just been a
fortune on fighting war with around Iraq
nobody knows how they spent it but they
spent actually we're in the Middle East
now for eight trillion dollars if you
can believe that stupidity but in Iraq
we're in for probably five and a half
trillion so they're telling me wait a
minute we just spent five and a half
trillion fighting in Iraq and with Iraq
and now we're supposed to spend money to
fight with the Kurds against Iraq I said
no thank you
no I believe he's talking I mean I
actually don't know exactly what the
hell he's talking about
either he maybe he's talking about the
Kurdish referendum in northern Iraq
obviously the Kurds ad we're trying to
gain independence formally even though
they have a very autonomous region in
northern Iraq that is a different
political faction than the ones in
northern Syria just so you know just so
you know it's crazy it's crazy but if
you look at the history there's a lot
going on today
