so Jesse in the last segment you were
basically walking us through the the the
multi-decade assault that has taken
place on the IRS thousands upon
thousands of cuts in terms of personnel
budget cuts that range in the the
billions of dollars and we're talking
about a an agency that unequivocally is
a great return on the investment
particularly when we talk about the
enforcement actions of the IRS you said
ten dollars for every one you spent on
enforcement at the IRS is the return
people would be falling all over
themselves that we're talking about like
you know tech startup sized returns on
something like that but yet the
ideological attacks over the years on
the IRS have done their job so tell us
what was the impetus for the formation
of this special team to unravel the
complex attack schemes of the wealthy
and this took place what about ten years
ago yeah it starts in 2009 and what
happened was the the decade of the 2000s
is a decade of big revelations about the
wealthy in America for the IRS they
belatedly he surprisingly come to the
revelation that the wealthy are avoiding
a lot of taxes there's a big series of
tax shelter investigations in the early
part of the decade and then later part
of the decade they discovered that there
are millions of Americans hundreds of
thousands of Americans who have accounts
abroad particularly in Switzerland
you know famously yes numbered Swiss
bank accounts that they haven't been
telling the IRS about so they realize oh
my god we've got to do something about
the wealthy and so we're going to create
this SWAT team and they're going to go
after the wealthy and the principle here
is very sound and very simple which is
that the old days when they audited a
wealthy person they would just audit say
the person's gifts or the person's
income return
or maybe the foundation the nonprofit
attached to the wealthy person and what
they realize is we have to understand
everything about a ultra-wealthy
person's empire because the foundation
and the gifts and the income and the
partnerships and the overseas operations
they all weave together to work together
for money flowing one from one thing to
the other that it lowers the effective
tax rate so we have to see it all in one
place and so they have this operating
idea and they say we're going to put
bring in a bunch of specialists from all
over the service and we're going to
attach them this team and these guys are
going to do a really thorough audit of
the top you know 0.1% or top five 0.5%
in the country to really understand how
are they allowing their taxes and is
this legal and is it against our rules
and are they pushing the edge of the
envelope and it's a great idea
it goes nowhere it's dead on arrival all
right what's awaits Oh so the idea if
I'm clear is not just a look at the
things that sort of traditionally are
considered what we contemplate as like
an individual does with their money but
rather to look at all of their business
enterprises that are set up I imagine a
lot of these are like s corpse and
limited partnerships and whatnot and
that exactly in many respects what's the
idea that they shuttled them around to
different companies lowering the basis
of what constitutes income they ship
ship things from different partnerships
where they own different pieces of it
they have anonymous LLC's and then they
move things from different entities that
they gift to and nonprofit entities like
foundations that are sheltered from
taxes so there are all sorts of
different maneuvers that you can use to
end up creating income that is tax free
you know one of the things that Fred
Trump did that the New York Times
revealed was that he managed to does
nine operations that probably were
fraudulent to gift his estate to to his
children including Donald without paying
gift tax and here without the IRS ever
even seeing that these were actually
gifts so so these are the things that
the ultra-wealthy can do that the IRS
needs to look at by looking at all the
entities that that a wealthy person has
attached to him and they're mostly men
and the revelation was these are with
the wealthy look like multinational
corporations more than the average
normally wealthy person yeah they more
resemble something like Exxon or
JPMorgan and therefore we should locate
this SWAT team within the group that
audits the giant corporations and bring
that expertise in so that we can treat
the ultra-wealthy
like we're treating you know like we're
treating goldman sachs now this idea was
it an idea that i mean i got i imagine
the mission was twofold what right one
is to look for things that are illegal
and the other is to look for things that
are legal but are not contemplated as
being loopholes in the concept and the
context of the tax code so that we could
probably give the information to law the
law makers i mean how much of this stuff
was illegal that they were looking at
and how much of it was unfortunately
legal well so the the audit process is a
civil process that looks at things from
the illegal but violation of the rules
standpoint so you're you have violated
the rules but possibly violated the
rules in a way that wasn't illegal by
the standards of you know beyond a
reasonable doubt having right you know
the intent to deceive
there's several crimes essentially these
are civil audits exactly and the vast
majority of what the IRS does is on the
civil side we're and almost all audits
are civil at least at the beginning now
these
both side can refer cases to the
criminal side and the criminal side can
then investigate for deceptive practices
that have crossed the line but the audit
side can get money out of people they
regularly request money they say we've
gone through your taxes and we think
that you've been overly aggressive and
so we're going to throw out this
interpretation and you OS X billions of
dollars and then the taxpayers argue
about it and then you either pay your
bill or you go to Tax Court and fight it
out with the IRS
now the referral to the criminal side
has completely withered so they hardly
refer any cases to the criminal side and
in fact the IRS Criminal Division only
did fewer than 800 cases in the last
year of criminal cases of people who had
legal income but then cheated on their
taxes so that kind of case tax evasion
case traditional tax evasion case the
bread and butter of what you'd think the
IRS was doing in terms of criminal
enforcement doesn't exist anymore what
they do is they attach themselves to
already existing investigations like of
Ponzi schemers or people who are crooks
already drug dealers Ponzi schemers
money launderers and then they say
you've also related taxes and working to
attach our expertise to that so the
audit side is withered and the criminal
enforcement of tax evasion has also come
almost disappeared as something that the
United States does Wow that's nuts and
that's I mean that's really and and and
here's the thing right and we just have
a minute left you tell me I imagine
every time one of these ultra wealthy or
even like moderately wealthy go in and
talked to their accountant their
accountant says like here's the risk
it's you know you can do this stuff and
if you get caught well maybe we pay a
fine but talk about it quite literally
audit auditors are not allowed they're
banned from literally saying that so
they can't say opine on the audit risk
but of course everyone knows it so
everyone knows that your chances of
winning
the audit lottery now not being audited
have doubled in the last decade if
you're ultra wealthy person and the the
point of our story is even if you are
audited you can bring so many resources
to bear and fight them on every single
front that you will probably beat the
IRS anyway even if you are audited so
your chances of auditing have plummet
you're up being audited they're
plummeted and you should not be afraid
of being audited even if you are if
you're ultra wealthy so you know 99% of
the American population is afraid of the
IRS and one 1% the IRS is afraid of Wow
Jessie thanks so much for your time
today fascinating story sad story a
little disturbing appreciate it though
