[Music]
they're back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone we should say early
this morning when I got into the office
we were doing our prep and I got tweeted
at by our next person on the phone to
the effect of will I apologize for
having Marcy wheeler on the program on
her coverage of the Muller investigation
writ large in fact let's read it right
here it's hey Sam cedar you going to
apologize for repeatedly hosting Marcy
wheeler an FBI cooperator and proven
fabulous the Judith Miller of the Trump
Russia Fiasco on your show for
uncritical interviews thereby deceiving
your audience and helping to perpetuate
a I don't know if that was spelled right
but a giant fraud and the answer is no
but I wonder perpetrate a fraud a giant
fraud and well the answer is no Michael
welcome to the show
but I am interested in talking to you
about this because I am a somewhat
baffled by some of the the critique and
the celebration or what it's about on
your part so let's just start with this
so that we have some basic sort of
understanding of where we both stand on
this do you agree that like you know
Glenn Greenwald who also is a big has a
similar critique as yours and Matt
Taibbi that there should have been an
investigation launched by with Robert
Muller
well first of all Sam I genuinely
appreciate you having you know I feel
like this is an extraordinarily
important topic and needs to be
discussed rationally by people of good
faith so thank you you know Shirley
I do want to get to that but I want to
explain that tweet first cuz I know it's
a very sorry we will get to the tweet
but let's start with just the underlying
really the whole well no the whole
impetus of the conversation is that I've
been interested in and having you know
having a broader conversation about this
and you were one of those people and it
popped up I mean to be honest you
wouldn't be the first person I would
have chosen who to represent this I'm
just to be honest but it just you know
fate would have it but before we get to
a third order or fourth order thing in
terms of like you know you want to talk
about Marcy's credibility I I just want
to know the underlying the underlying
reason for this conversation is is the
Muller investigation so let's just start
do you think because if you think there
was no reason for that investigation
then people are going to understand at
least where you're coming from here and
I'm just curious if you do if you do did
do whatever think that there was a
reason to have the the investigation of
the the Special Counsel well the Special
Counsel investigation we now know was
launched on false pretences because the
impetus for the investigation at the
time the impetus for the investigation
according to all the Democrats who
heralded Robert lower as this valiant
favor Democrats did not have any robert
muller but they heralded his appointment
okay Ben they touted him vociferously as
the person who is going to hold
accountable for his purported
conspiratorial relationship with Putin
that came to be characterized as
collusion that was the whole reason why
Democrats were so adamant that this
investigation has well we did wrong by
motive my point who appointed robert
muller rod Rosenstein i don't absolve
rod Rosenstein at all i don't absorb any
of these security state officials that
democrats and MSNBC decided that they
were in love with over the past two and
a half years because they were
convenient foils for donald trump i
think it's a total
great do you think what John Greta
Michael listen this is a very easy
question for us to have to start this
question to start this okay the question
is do you think did you think at the
time of the investigation and if it's a
different answer from dead and do you
can tell me but did you think it was
appropriate to have this investing to
launch this investigation and if you
want to say do you now in retrospect you
want to have a different opinion that's
fine too
I'm not this is not a gotcha question
this is a question I got to find out if
the underlying thing was a valid thing
to have happen sure I think the
underlying thing has now been proven to
be a fraud and it was apparent to me
from the very outset so going back to
July of 2016 that it was a fraud okay
good so okay the narrative we are not
answering the question Michael this is a
very easy question because when Glenn
was asked this question when map is
questioned they can answer it without
giving and extend it this is a very easy
question yeah but but it's a complicated
subject so I'm giving a little lead-up
before I fully answer the question which
I guarantee you I will now I always
believed that maximum government
transparency is optimal but I was never
cheerleading for robert muller because i
understood that the entire investigation
was predicated on a fraud therefore
didn't what I didn't think it would
uncover anything that related to its
core mandate which was the Trump Russian
conspiracy so no I wasn't going around
screaming and chanting and marching in
the streets like a lot of liberals and
Democrats for robert muller and like
having him as the folk hero right no I
was never advocate for the investigation
but I didn't oppose I was agnostic about
the investigation okay so I'm not asking
if you cheerleaded for the very
investigation I'm not asking if you
marched against the investigation you
are a journalist you are a person who
obviously has opinions do you think did
you think it was up
appropriate to have the investigation I
mean if you thought it was a complete
and total fraud you must have been
against the investigation from the very
beginning before it was even launched
well I wasn't against the investigation
because I always thought that it had the
potential to implicate various Trump at
athletics and you know crooks that he
surrounds himself with in crimes that
are ancillary or unrelated to the core
conspiracy charge so if somebody like
manna Ford or you know Roger stone or
somebody got wrapped up in a criminal
indictment that stemmed from the
original Special Counsel investigation I
wasn't going to complain about that I
want people who are in tradition to
power that's what hapless panel correct
right that's what that's what happened
but the investigation also sparked a
tidal wave of conspiratorial fresh okay
Michael Michael Michael you are giving
me an answer about retrospect if you
want to say in retrospect I regret that
I thought there should be an
investigation or in retrospect I was
against this from the very beginning
that's a perfectly suitable answer but
I'm just trying to get us on some type
of ground of footing I'm just basically
like are we both on the same you know
planet here because I can answer this
question regardless of what I thought
happened after the investigation I do
believe there should have been an
investigation there clearly was a an
intelligence investigation and when he
fired Comey the head of the FBI and went
on and said I fired him because of this
investigation I clearly thought there
should be an investigation now you're
telling me you had no opinion you were
agnostic as to whether the the present
United States should be investigated at
any time day you were completely
agnostic as did I wanted Trump to be
held to account and investigated for his
actual offenses and the many harms and
you knew what these offenses were you
knew his offenses worldwide Michael
listen I guess everybody knows you have
a problem with Democrats in MSNBC I have
I have some similar critiques but I'm
just trying to get out what you knew
before
do you think there's some type of
commissary I hang out at at MSNBC I
don't know you've been a contributor
haven't you yeah I show up and I don't I
go I go on these shows you're gently
with the hosts and thoughts correct I am
friendly with the host yes okay have you
pressed them on their complicity in this
overwhelmingly staggeringly
mind-bogglingly fraudulent enterprise
that they were central actors in
promulgating something I mean I don't
know that I would have put it that way
but okay but I mean listen I mean listen
I have been very vocal on this show
about the excesses of this but I'm
trying to ask you a simple question that
you seem to be reluctant to answer for
some ungodly reason for him I'm happy to
answer it what did you know about Donald
Trump's offenses before the
investigation in July what did you know
and how did you know this I knew that
there was no rational basis for even
postulating that there could have
feasibly been a Trump Russia conspiracy
which is what precipitated the
investigation again I'm not crying about
the fact that other people you know
offense has got uncovered incidental to
that but I wasn't also were you aware of
that I knew we would spawn this paranoid
frenzy that was going to overtake the
Democratic Party and lots of liberal
activists so cause real damage to the
body politic so okay so you're convinced
that there's been a real damage to the
body politic now where you were where
were you aware that the Russians were
behind the hacking into the the emails
dump and you know what they did on
social media without without any
question as to what implications had had
on the election because you and I have
no idea what that was I suspect it
wasn't a dramatic impact on the election
although obviously the emails were quite
problematic for the the the Clinton
campaign but nevertheless I happen to
think there's probably a dozen things
that were were but fours in terms of her
loss but were you aware of that and do
you acknowledge that that is the truth
well my attitude towards those emails
was that they uncovered genuine
corruption and now I understand that but
that's not what I asked you
but I asked revealed that revealed that
Bernie Sanders got screwed out that's
not what are you being so evasive why
are you being so evasive here
I'm inviting you on the show because you
wanted to malign one of my guests and
cry about my am i inviting someone on my
show and I'm asking you some basic
questions and already ten minutes into
this you won't even answer the basic
question do you believe the report that
you now tout in its saying that the
Russians were interfering in the
election by hacking into Hillary
Clinton's emails and by their
shenanigans on show social media do you
think that is true yes or no did you
know that in July I unequivocally reject
this notion that that election
interference so we're talking about
social media quotes on Facebook answer
my question not some question in your
head I agree I agree that all those
things have been alleged a carrot being
carried out by the Russian government
and I agree today do you agree bar memo
that you are saying exonerates Donald
Trump do you agree that that letter at
least says that they did that yes that
let her go say that of course okay so
you don't believe that part but you
believe the other part you you think the
bar memo you think the bar memo is
controlling on the things that you're
interested in proving but not the things
that you're not interested in proving
the thing I'm interested in illustrating
is you being so evasive here it's
pathetic you know what honestly listen
listen this is what I'm gonna do I'm
gonna invite somebody else on here who
has some integrity to talk about this
who shares very similar positions and
reader questions you're interrupting me
after thirty second because these are
simple yes-or-no questions just to fight
just it so that what can actually have a
conversation and you're you're dragging
this out by fourteen minutes
what's it looks like yes or no question
asking again Darren
the answer I've been so answered you as
on please Bob jus well the first one is
should there have been an investigation
you claim you're at you were agnostic
about that fine that's your answer if
people want to buy that that's their
your answer you did you do you believe
that the Russians hacked into the the
emails and that they had social media
BOTS and whatnot can you give me 30
seconds to answer the question I promise
I will
you got 30 2018 there was no evidence
furnished by any law enforcement
authority to the Russians hack the DNC
emails then robert muller did issue an
indictment that alleged that russian
intelligence
actors were responsible for the dnc hack
i accept that that constitutes evidence
is it dispositive a hundred percent
definitive evidence no but as evidence
that i'm willing to grant that there's a
preponderance of likelihood that yes the
russians did hack those DNC emails and
yes that they were responsible for some
social media hijinks but the idea that
those means on facebook and these
listen i don't we don't need to debate
that because i agree with you we don't
need to debate that because i agree with
you now good sir lee said this from the
day one so okay so now we we agree that
the investigation uncovered the what the
preponderance are the everett evidence
any qualification you want to do that
but the on balance the investigation
prove things to you or at least led you
to believe things that you didn't know
back in July of 2016 right so we can see
that even though in July of 2016 when
you did not believe the Russians were
involved in any of that your assessment
as to whether there could have been some
type of coordination with the Trump
campaign in that regard would have been
would have been sort of a based upon a
lack of an awareness that the Russians
had done anything so it's conceivable at
that point but you but I'm gonna grant
you that despite the
fact that you were agnostic about this
and your scrutiny so that you you were
agnostic as to whether the existence of
the investigation should have happened
and I will also add like I said some of
the biggest critics of this
investigation as to how the behavior of
the Democrats and the journalists around
it have behaved believe that the
investigation was justified so I
personally believe that the
justification was justified and now we
can at least go forward and talk about
the implications of me having somebody
on the show who is read into this stuff
and started out as a skeptic herself but
because of firsthand knowledge that she
had of one of the potential players in
this this hole that was caught up in the
investigation or at least peripheral to
it came on my show three times after
that to discuss the investigation and
you can tell me why I need to apologize
to that for my audience great here's why
so I agree 100% with Matt Taibbi when he
says in his recently published piece
which I'm sure you're aware of that the
scale of the media error as it relates
to Trump Russia matches or exceeds the
scale the media error as it relates to
Iraq / WMDs not in the sense that they
caused comparable levels of death and
destruction because obviously Iraq
cannot feasibly be surpassed in that
arena but because of the all-consuming
deluded behavior that totally overtook
huge huge swathes of the media to the
point that there's now this kind of
Russia skeptics caucus in media that
includes Agni Greenwald Tybee Arron
mafia the nation etc because there were
so few of us who are offering a
countervailing perspective and
thankfully we have gotten some
recognition over the past couple days
and I'm gratified by that I don't want
to gloat I don't want to celebrate cuz
it's actually a very depressing time I
don't even do it I despair that's all
you know well Judith and Judith Miller
is known
primarily as the New York Times reporter
who credulous Li repeated the
information that was fed to her by
government sources pertaining to
aluminum tubes remember that which was
then
Oh believe it yes I remember occasions
right yes but you got so young listeners
and viewers Sam's I'm just refreshing
the memory and that's what she's
primarily known for but she's also known
for going to prison or rather jail for
85 days because she refused to give up a
source to law enforcement authorities so
Judith Miller is not seen as a total
journalistic disgrace on reasonable
grounds but at the same time she refused
to commit the mortal sin of journalism
which is that you can't give up your
sources to the police at the cops or the
FBI
whereas Marcy wheeler who's now running
around pretending like she's a
journalist with covering the Michael
Michael Michael Michael Michael well I'm
not gonna let you sit here and and in in
malign in that way alright nobody was
gonna bring up nobody was gonna bring up
you accusing Maxine Waters an old lady
of assaulting you alright but but if you
want to play that game we can play that
game
absolutely we got her on speed dial bro
listen so so because you really catch it
we brought up something that's totally
unrelated no I thought about because of
your petulant but her deranged
conspiratorial Russia comments and in
the heat of the moment I didn't phrase a
tweet as accurately as I could have but
the idea that I alleged assault or
violence an absolutely false and I would
hope you would retract that I can show
you the initial tweets if you really
want to look at them yeah well you show
me the drew the tweets and then I'll and
then I'll retract it okay so alright so
you have an issue
you're comparing Marcy wheeler to Judith
Miller who was dating okay who was
protecting members of the Bush
administration who are perpetrated a
fraud on the United States with the
purpose of invading of getting the
country
to rally around the invading and
occupation of a country which led to the
deaths of hundreds of thousands of
people by DoD accounting millions of
people you're telling me that this is a
that she plays a similar role in this
because she not at the behest of the FBI
not at the behest of a government
official felt that she was involved in
this investigation in some way because
of information that she had received
from someone she felt was playing her
that's the acquit that's the that is the
equation you want to make now Judith
Miller no hold on wait a second was it
was not that the destruction wrought or
the death caused was comparable it was
the media error this is not tell you
this point no I'm talking about Judith
an element I'm talking about Judith
Miller's role in a and so when she lied
for Scooter Libby and for Dick Cheney
she knew that she was opening up a
portal to a war and so your suitors
you're you're suggesting which is you
don't give up your sources to the police
Marcy wheeler not only didn't give gave
up resources voluntarily so he wasn't in
some kind of court proceeding like
Judith Miller was Marcy wheeler decide
on what if Miller was protecting people
who ultimately had to be pardoned by a
president who had to be pardoned by a
president or have his his sentence
commuted by a president who perpetrated
this lie the the analogy here is so
bizarre Michael but let's get to this
but since you brought it up cuz I wasn't
going to you know have you defend this
analogy because it wasn't yours but
since you did I'm very curious as to how
you might defend this analogy because to
me this whole to the extent that there
was anything
there's there is a malfeasance by the
press it's far more like the OJ Simpson
trial to me which was completely
overblown and proceeded as if you know
every day they were camped out there a
lot of people made their careers off of
it and I found the whole thing to be a
horrible exercise on the behalf of the
media but at the end of the day what was
the stakes let me ask you this let's say
MSNBC functioned as what media outlet
would you let's say they functioned like
just they because you don't expect that
the cable news is not going to cover an
investigation of the president right you
would be security sibling John Brennan
and James clapper yeah okay all right
but you know my expectation is that they
would cover it I I have no problem but
let's do this scenario where MSNBC with
them it to be hiring John Brennan the
former director of the CIA
absolutely okay great then we agree okay
but I'm asking you I'm trying to find
out what the baseline is here and I want
to find out what the implications of
this because if you're gonna compare it
to weapons of mass destruction which led
to the deaths and destruction of
hundreds of thousands of lives because
that's the stakes right that's the
stakes because I want to know what the
stakes are here and if they're even
remotely comparable because the OJ
Simpson thing is a far more apt analogy
because the stakes at the end of the day
were you know what the the united state
politics is less informed that people
have exploited this for making a lot of
money and a name for themselves and
whatnot and so I want to know how you
can justify like what would have
happened in the world what would be
different today if if MSNBC hadn't hired
those people that we don't think they
should have hired if they had just
covered because obviously they've got a
covered a little bit it's an
investigation of the president and
they've got to cover when you know Mike
Flynn it turns out was looking to kidnap
somebody for Turkey or when
we have indictments that we both agree
seem to be valid of operatives from
Russia and I don't I have I have a
problem with the United States
interfering in elections and I have a
problem with anybody interfering with
ours and I probably talk more about the
former than I do the latter frankly but
assuming MSNBC just covered the
investigation in a completely non
cheerleading way what would be different
today the rendering of the stakes that I
agree with is the one that's been put
forward time after time by Glenn
Greenwald Matt Taibbi max Blumenthal
other principled non supporters of Trump
who have been demons what would be a
different of the joint and I'm telling
you what the stakes are now I said from
the outset that it's not comparable in
terms of the death and destruction
wrought obviously the invasion of Iraq
was one of the greatest crimes the US
government has ever committed however in
terms of media failure and the
production of an all-consuming frenzy
that totally dominated American politics
and media for approaching three years
and required all kinds of self-delusion
elevating all kinds of cranks and morons
and losers into positions of prominence
in the media and attributed them with
unearned influence yes I think that
they're influenced to do much in terms
of real-world scopes and I could tell
you the bullet on excited scientists
which has the doom fake Doomsday Clock
these familiar with that mm-hmm
minutes to midnight in terms of like
when the analyzation is going to be
destroyed you know so you have all kinds
of factors that they incorporate when
they make the judgment as to where you
know at what point the clock should be
set and in 2018 the clock was closest to
midnight as it has ever been and one of
the reasons was you know addition to
climate change others other other
contributing factors one was
geopolitical tension and this narrative
which has totally consumed American
politics for almost three years has
ratcheted up you don't think the Donald
Trump scrapping scrapping a nuclear
agreement that had been in place for
decades led to that more than what
Rachel Maddow was saying about Russia oh
of course that was a
I don't I don't I I agree with that
wholeheartedly where where this
assessment can you point a listeners to
where where can you point your listeners
power where can you point my listeners
to where they can go find out just how
much the the hyping of the investigation
not the investigation itself
right because because all those people
you cited but for you being agnostic all
thought it was perfectly legitimate to
have that investigation so where can you
point me to where these this clock and I
can tell my listeners they can go they
can go see this link where the hyping of
the investigation led to us being that
much closer to a nuclear destruction
your listeners kentuc Doomsday Clock
into google and i can find it and they
can find and the and they can assess how
much of the hyping of that investigation
led i don't know i don't know that be
process undertaken by The Bulletin of
Atomic Scientists actually typically
occupied well I mean deeply zoom that
you had okay so so the stakes are that
the Doomsday Clock may may because we
don't know as you've just said may have
been raised
maybe I just in your ledger okay and
that's it or is there more more in terms
of the stake yeah well I mean I know we
this merio is the investigation Jose
MSNBC does not hire people who I would
have preferred they did not hire and and
this is the the this is the alternate
universe and the the investigations not
hyped
there's no cheerleaders politicians
don't use this investigation as a
political cudgel in any way because we
know that politicians would never do
that and should never do that
what and so we have in your favor the
possibility
that sandwiched in between the end of a
massive nuclear proliferation agreement
being scrapped and a president who
wanted to pull out of NATO and Alliance
is changing and the scrapping of the
Iran deal that it could have been not
just the investigation but the hype of
the investigation could have led the
atomic clock to get closer to midnight
I've put that in your ledger what else
well what else is really significant
okay one stake that I think pertains
directly to this entire disgusting
ordeal is that the reputation of the
media has been obliterated Matt Taibbi
very cogently makes this point in the
piece that I hope you've read he
outlines the mountains this mountainous
pile of errors and outright fraud in
some cases retractions know it this is
your case - let's just be clear because
this is your case right this is the case
you're American right okay but but but
in that people because I'm just using
that piece as a reference point and I've
you know compiled errors of my own in
the past but the way that the media has
totally just spread itself I think it's
a danger for the country because with a
president that has authoritarian
tendencies like Donald Trump you need a
measured and rational and evidence-based
opposition a rope I wrote about this in
Fortune magazine yesterday you need an
opposition that could actually count
around the sports tendencies but what
this opposition did to Trump so this
kind of confluence between the liberal
media and Democrats touting this
conspiratorial fairy tale what they did
was encourage his worst impulses so they
wanted that they criticized him when he
engaged in diplomatic overtures with
this nuclear-armed state and said Oh any
kind of vague sign of friendliness
toward Putin is proof that he's
colluding with Putin so what a trump do
he tore up the INF treaty and which may
spur a nuclear arms race again I'm not
absolving trunk himself of any couple
baolian this he's the president and I
pin blame on him for sure
and what he bombed Russia's equine state
repeatedly in the Middle East Syria he's
attempting to overthrow the government
as well Venezuela and in part citing as
rationale the fact that Russia needs to
be driven out of Venezuela which is
their you know chief ally in the Western
Hemisphere he sent lethal arms to
Ukraine in contradiction with his own
campaign rhetoric the list goes on so
this climate that has been fostered
don't wait a second like Adam okay hold
on for one second let me just let me
just listen I know okay yes increased
geopolitical hostilities and endanger
the American public so these people who
were against him tearing up that treaty
he did it because ostensibly it was
going to look like it it was him being
tough with Russia right although I think
you'll find people who would argue that
it was probably Michael Michael I'm
going through your list I'm going
through your list okay our Syria policy
I'm sure you're aware of right that the
Obama administration was was arming
through the CIA was arming people in
Syria right and to the extent that Trump
was bombing in Syria there's no evidence
it seems to me that it was in some way
it was in some way not helpful to
maintaining Assad in power which is in
and frankly look I don't think we should
have been involved there since day one
but I think that Assad was perfectly
fine with just that airfield being
bombed yes they rebuilt it in two days
well I think things are a little more
sophisticated than that Michael but if
you want to believe that that's fine and
and it's not clear to me that the
tearing up of the nuclear proliferation
deal doesn't enhance Putin's strength to
the extent you're saying the Venezuela
thing has been on the agenda of people
like John Bolton for a long time not
just on Bolton
but has been out there in Republican
circles for a long time you may recall
Hugo Chavez was also demonized
for a long time but if you want to think
that that is somehow a function of his
his his his feeling like he needs to
stand up to Russia which I don't know
that the American public was terribly
savvy as to the Russian Venezuelan
relationship then that's certainly your
prerogative but all of those media
stories that you're talking about the
long list if you ever went to empty
wheeled net which is Marcy wheeler site
you won't see you will see that she was
way ah way out ahead of of I don't know
what you've written about it but others
on saying the steel document dossier was
more than likely a complete farce she
was way out ahead on asserting that she
possessed secret evidence that she
handed over to the FBI that was going to
prove that there was a trump Russia
conspiracy now Muller has issued his
findings and there is no such conspiracy
and Marcy still being cryptic and
evasive when asked what it was as he
actually turned over to the FBI she
still won't give a straight answer I
think that investigation there's
elements well we got to see the report
really until we assess that right
because you can say that what happened
did not reach the level of criminality
that would have afforded a an indictment
but you can't say that what she is
claiming didn't happen you can say I'm
her assessment of the level of evidence
for criminality was wrong and it might
have been and it appears to be but you
cannot say that what she said and
claimed happened didn't happen
oh I'm sure something happened to her
the the critical detail was always how
she portrayed it and what she did with
that journalistically she portrayed it
as smoking gun evidence in a bombshell
that was going to being you know the key
that opens the door to this grand Russia
collusion conspiracy
Muller totally obliterated that possibly
don't know what mothers all you've seen
is one sentence of what Muller said so
stop characterizing Muller you're
characterizing a bar which was that
there was no Trump Russia conspiracy and
that's exactly what Marci said would be
established by this evidence that she
claimed that she possessed and hand over
handed over to the FBI and this kind of
extraordinary and I think I think I
think that that that we're going to have
to get an accounting at one point as to
whet where that evidence fits in but
it's simply it's it seems far too early
before we get that and for you to claim
that she is like Judith Miller
protecting politicians who lied to us
she may have been wrong in her
assessment in the import of what she
knew as how it fit into a broader
investigation but the malign intent that
you seemed to be wanting to keep on her
as part of your what you perceive is
something that you know uh you know as
you've won some type of Academy Award or
something because we most of us not you
you were just agnostic as to whether
there should be an investigation of the
Trump administration without really
knowing any of the details like there
was evidence of Russian meddling but the
rest of us including everyone you've
cited today agree there should be an
investigation so you're going around
parading now that the investigation is
over and has done its job you're you're
walking around as if you were some type
of clairvoyant all you did is probably
critique the media for getting carried
away with a story but you've been unable
to list one concrete fact and I can list
hundreds of thousands of concrete facts
as to why the the scale of and the
implications of what the media did
running up to this is nowhere near what
happened during the Bush administration
with lies into into Iraq
and I can point to hundreds of thousands
of concrete factors here's a concrete
fact for you
Marcy wheeler was asked by Bob Wright on
blogging Katz a couple days ago about
this whole episode where she gave over
information to the FBI that she still
won't elaborate on and Marcy said yeah I
don't think it's totally panned out as
to what I handed over the FBI may well
have to study that I'm quote crazy and I
think that you know plausible because
the rationale that she gave for why she
handed this over to the FBI and I'm
going to quote you something here that's
wrote if something happens to me if
something released if someone released a
stolen information about me or knocks me
off tomorrow everyone will know why and
who likely did it says she she says she
was saying that she could have been
killed by Russian well no no no Russians
over yeah well you don't know you don't
know who she was referring to if you
think she was gonna be killed by well
listen we know that Donald Trump has had
associates who are involved in the Mafia
right was gonna be killed you're wearing
feel excited Felix aider Felix a doctor
well listen you don't know what
contributed to her fear well I don't and
that's why people have been asking for
to expound on it and she said fastly
refused and let me also give you another
quote as to what impelled her to hand
over this information to the FBI again
commit a mass of journalistic breach
that nobody really bothered to
scrutinize because she was assumed to
have credibility I should say that she
has impressive research skills and I
followed her work for many years but she
said as a rationale for why she did this
quote this investigation is not
primarily an investigation into Donald
Trump it's an investigation into the
people who attack the United States it's
time Republicans started acting like
that like that matters you know it's far
you know no I'm glad I mention that
because that board out to be absolutely
correct wasn't it excuse me Mike
we have already stipulated haven't we
that the russians hacked in to to
Clinton's emails right we have already
established that they have
attempted to alter the outcome of the
election whether they did or not we
don't know but yes you've just
appreciate you bringing that up because
I think that's about as as as
exculpatory of your charges as you would
want where she said this is not about
because theoretically right well that
could still be in play and we don't even
know do we Michael or do you now have
the same knowledge you had in July of
2016
nothing about the knowledge that I've
accumulated since then when weeds me to
believe that the quote that the
characterization of quote attacked on
the United States is accurate that's
incredibly sorry Michael are you are you
accusing somebody of being hyperbolic
like is that what you're doing are you
accusing someone of being hyperbolic in
a blog post Michael is that what this is
about you don't like her hyperbole I
don't like the fact that she was touted
as this expert on trump Russia including
on MSNBC in The New York Times on the
basis of some delusional fairytale that
she crafted for her stuff what
delusional fairytale you don't know this
Michael you talked about getting out
ahead of your skis buddy you should be
very careful it's not over yet though is
it hey guys I ask you a quick question
do you think that you know in a vacuum a
journalist
burning a source of the FBI raises
ethical concerns in a vacuum yes yeah
okay so then why didn't you probe her
more in depth about her rationale for
doing this I went back and listened to
some of that initial interview you did
with her in July of 2018 the hell she
said was you know I can't talk about
that she gave kind of cryptic hints as
to what her reasoning was and even now
after moer obliterated her reasoning for
it she still not yeah you don't know
what Muller has done you don't know what
Muller has done you tell me what you you
don't know we can tell you why Michael
because I have followed Marcy's work
for over a decade buh-bye excuse me
Michael let me finish
I followed her work and I find her to be
incredibly credible all of her reporting
in the past has panned out all right
she started off as a skeptic she has
been a critique as loud and as
significant of a critical voice on the
national security apparatus as anyone in
this country as anyone in this country
she has done far more research into this
than I know that you have and so that's
why that is why I gave her wide berth
and I trust her judgment and the reason
why Michael reason why Michael I
wouldn't help you on I wouldn't have you
on it you know since you reported on
sandy from this program frankly it's
because I don't think you have the same
level of rigor or integrity that's why
okay but I appreciate your time I think
you've had your say if you want one
final word to use your your adjectives
about how disgusting all of this is and
how angry you are at at you know various
individuals becoming stars on MSNBC
please I am angry not just about that
but because a mammoth fraud was
perpetrated on the American public and
had all kinds of deleterious
consequences that it's going to take
years if not decades the bully reckoned
with as Matt Taibbi and Glenn Greenwald
and others have the thing was yeah once
she became a collaborator with the FBI
she ceased to perform any kind of
recognizable journalistic function and
she'd been treated with extreme
skepticism after that very point but
instead she was treated to like glowing
Washington Post profiles where she was
you know it was said that you know she
burned a source because she had this you
know really revelation of conscience you
know she had all these easygoing
interviews with people like you or she
wasn't challenged on why she did this
massive breach and it turns out that
sure enough Oliver no no that's not true
last part listen I'll let you edit or
lies all you want but you can't make up
stuff all right bye Michael thank you
for
joining us I really do appreciate it
