with Sita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in
the conference rooms of an ele
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday March 11th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Jonathan H marks director of the
bioethics program at Penn State
University also an affiliate faculty
with Penn State Law and School of
International Affairs on the perils of
partnership industry influence
institutional integrity and public
health also on the program today trumps
to meta domestic slashing Pentagon
pumping budget will never be law but it
is a nice summation of his and
Republican policies meanwhile Tucker
Carlson's in the barrel and unbowed Dems
will pass legislation in the house to
make DC the 51st state and send to the
Senate where MIT I imagine McConnell
will shut it down do the same thing for
Puerto Rico or independence okay I will
day four of blackouts in Venezuela
if only were to reco had such coverage
meanwhile video released debunks the aid
convoy story
[Applause]
that even our vice president was pushing
huh in my class they don't have video in
the White House new reports on a
imminent North Korea missile launch so
much for all that and in the guise of
over of expanding overtime pay Trump
rolls backs Obama's overtime plan which
would have raised over time or given
over time to 12 million Americans new
releases show Trump's DOJ actually
contemplated launching a uranium one
investigation 157 died in an ethiopian
air crash split its bones fall piers
boeing has a problem and the Iowa
Supreme Court rules against Iowa's trans
people Medicaid ban good for that court
all this and more on today's program
ladies and gentlemen yes it is another
week we're weird we're in March we it is
getting we're now in spring daylight
savings time and apparently Donald Trump
had some comment about I don't really
care but I did find it fascinating that
my son's slept in this morning by about
15-20 minutes like he still you know
sort of on on the old time yeah I mean
same same issue the our lower it killed
me this weekend
it was not my two birthday parties it
was that one hour taken away from me
deadly he also had a birthday party so
you guys you basically living life and
we are now we are in mid-march
almost and we are only about three
months away from the first Democratic
primary debate maybe a little bit less
actually so this is where we're head
and it should be interesting and here is
an example of what won't be terribly
interesting although I think maybe this
is I mean it is I you know said this for
some time but it really is amazing and
we're gonna have to wait and see you
know what happens and hopefully after
2020 we'll be able to test this
proposition when we have a Democrats
having governmental control of both
houses and the presidency we're not
living in an era I think we're having
the house and the presidency is
necessarily going to help and we saw
this in the last term I think of Obama
where at the very least the rhetoric
changed in the Senate and in the House
caucuses to a certain extent we saw the
expansion of Social Security being voted
on in a resin on binding resolution of
course but we saw all the caucus members
in the Senate vote to expand Social
Security a dramatic turn from where we
were just seven eight years later
earlier I should say and in the
Democratic Party the rhetoric at least
like I say we've yet to see but you know
today you maybe I think it's today or
tomorrow we will see the house vote to
make DC the 51st state the rhetoric has
not only become more partisan less
deferential by Democrats not across the
board but just but broadly and also to
the left to the extent that the sort of
moderate conservative who jumps in the
race when he goes on Morning Joe John
Hickenlooper the the champion of
fracking is afraid to say he's
capitalists
here is John Hickenlooper with Joe
Scarborough this is pretty funny and it
really is getting people together
getting them to lay down their weapons
and then getting stuff done and the
locals I think most Democrats don't care
as much about the labels what would you
call yourself would you call yourself a
proud capitalist oh I don't know you
know again the labels I'm not sure any
of them fit but I do believe that you
know that ability to look at you know
climate change and figure out how are we
really going to create a sense of
urgency and get people together well we
did with methane methods one of the
worst climate pollutants that there is
and you know we're the first state and
it's so far the only state to really
address it aggressively right let me ask
you just I'll break it down even more do
you consider yourself a capitalist well
again the labels you know I have a small
business person so that'd be part of the
system that we call capitalist I get it
I understand it I worked very hard you
know when you open your own business you
know when we first signed the lease and
lower downtown Denver to build our brew
pub it was $1 per square foot per year I
mean that was you haven't ever signed
one of those leases that is a red is
almost free and it reflects how bad and
how abandoned that part of the community
was we work try 70 80 90 hours a week to
build the business and we worked with
the other business owners in lower down
to help them build their business is
that capitalism I guess I mean so in
that sense of each building community
that's one way to do it one aspect of it
it's not all that it is right I served
on 42 nonprofit boards and committees in
that same 12 year period right well so
and do you conceive yourself a
capitalist in this capitalism like
they're both so confused here they're
both like wait a second what he's gotta
ask this question three times like hey
he's literally getting like there's no
doubt in my mind that the producer is
going wait Joe asked him why won't he
answer that question that's that's
supposed to be the softball
question right well just go back a
little bit it's so funny because it
really is it is it it's almost as if
Hickenlooper was just got going like
what's the question oh I'm sorry I'm
just looking at some polling here what
he clearly has seen there has been some
internal poll where they basically just
said hey nobody's ever gonna ask you
this but don't say you're a proud
capitalist and then just coincidentally
he gets asking and they're both just
completely confused as to why they're
having this conversation continued words
and committees in that same 12 year
period right well so so and do you
conceive yourself a capitalist and diss
capitalism work well I think I I don't
look at myself with a label and I
certainly think that small business is
part of the solution I think right now
the way capitalism is working in the
United States it's not doing what it
once did it's not it was really not
providing security and opportunity for
the middle class and for poor people Wow
I just the same disingenuous this a
couple years ago that guy was talking to
a progressive audience and people are
trying to get him to commit to probably
even really minimal things because his
record as governor of Colorado is quite
conservative and he was probably like
well you know if you want to call that
progressive create an opportunity right
exactly I doubt he's doing the same god
Scarborough's capitalism again if
expanding Social Security and providing
single-payer health care insurance to
every American is capitalism sure on the
capitalist net they're tracking to
Nicaragua to have solidarity with the
Sandinistas makes me a capitalist and I
don't flinch from that label jail if
listen if nationalizing the refining
capacity the United States as well as
the banks is capitalism I'm a capitalist
Joe holding the criminal CEOs of fossil
fuel companies accountable while
nationalizing their assets makes me Pro
free-market then you know I certainly
would
flinch from that label Joe I think we
need to come together common-sense
solutions public-private partnerships
re-education camps to teaching people a
new set of a way of doing things is
capitalism dead she's ending d'Anjou you
do a little bit of manual labor because
he's part of the bougie huazi class that
is destroyed not only this planet
country but the entire planet makes me a
capitalist Joe that I sure I think we
got too fixated on labels that's just
fascinating to me but I mean you know
that is just that is polling that is
polling just like internal polling just
you know the bones are showing a little
bit too much there this does seem like a
good chance to put out some sort of PSA
to define what a capitalist actually is
which is not nearly as subjective as
they're making it out to be in this clip
right like a capitalist is a boss or a
property owner who you know makes money
off of the working class so he did
answer the question like really it's
several different ways when he's like yo
sorry well I am a small business owner
like yes so the answer is yes you are
capitalist yeah I mean I think it was
pretty obvious I mean that he is it's
just he won't he won't trying to pop to
a 3% instead of 0.5% right he's got to
get into that debate I just love the
idea of like within 10 seconds of being
asked if you're a capitalist you're
talking about controlling methane that
was all I just so hope that marianne
williamson and answering the anger on
that stage and not John Hickenlooper
folks every two seconds there is a new
victim of identity theft which means
that criminal could be spending your
money applying for loans in your name
even damaging your credit the good
credit you've worked so hard to build
unfortunately you can miss certain
threats to your identity by just
checking bank statements and monitoring
your credit good thing there's life lock
identity theft protection life lock uses
proprietary technology to detect and
alert you to a wide range of identity
threats like your social security number
for sale on the dark web for example and
if you do have an issue
involving identity theft one of life
locks identity restoration specialists
will work to fix it of course no one can
prevent all identity theft or monitor
all transactions at all businesses but
with life lek you get ID life lock you
get identity theft protection and
additional features to help protect you
your device's against cyber threats for
as low as $9.99 a month I I signed up
for some new service at National Grid
the other day or Con Ed I can't remember
which one it was and I got I got pinged
they they sent me a text just want you
to know that somebody's opened up an
account in your name I was like thank
you it was it was helpful I was
impressed by that don't waste another
second folks visit LifeLock dot-com /
majority now to save 10% on your first
year that's life lock dot-com / majority
for 10% off life lock calm / majority
also folks as you know stress is a
worldwide epidemic we're working longer
hours were inundated with the constant
news cycle were more connected than ever
before I do feel like that that notion
of stress is completely
indistinguishable from my life I would
say that's why we're partnering with
calm it's the number one app to help
reduce your anxiety and stress and help
you sleep better there are more than 40
million people around the world who have
downloaded it now if you head to calm
dot-com / majority you'll get 25% off a
comprar me absque rip ssin which
includes guided meditations on issues
like anxiety stress and focus including
a brand new meditation each day sleep
stories which are my which are I was
gonna say my bedtime stories but they
are bedtime stories for adults designed
to help you relax head to the magical
lavender fields of southern France with
Stephen Fry
I can hear about it as long as it's not
it's not like not smell it goes I can
hear about it or explore the moonlit
jungles of Africa with Leona Lewis they
also have soothing music and more right
now
majority report listeners get 25% off a
compromise RT that's calm CA LM calm /
majority get unlimited access to all of
comms content today at calm dot-com /
majority get calm and stop stressing
alright we're gonna take a quick break
when we come back we'll be talking to
Jonathan H marks about the perils of
partnership industry influence
institutional integrity and public
health
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report just a reminder you can support
this program by going to join the
majority of report.com you get to hear
all the the extra content in the fun
half in the meantime I want to welcome
to the program the author of the perils
of partnership industry influence
institutional integrity in public health
he's the director of the bioethics
program at Penn State University also
affiliate faculty with Penn State Law
and School of International Affairs
Johnathan H marks welcome to the program
thank you so much for having me so we're
talking specifically about
public-private partnerships we have
heard about these I think for you know
quite a while in the context of you know
I guess maybe most often in sort of like
localized development if you will what
when did the when did we start to see
more of this in the context of public
health so that's a great question I grew
up in Britain and we have Margaret
Thatcher to thank for PF eyes as she
called them Private Finance initiatives
which were in sort of in the
infrastructure sector but in recent
years in the last especially in the last
decade or so there have been a
proliferation of public-private
partnerships in the context of public
health and usually with corporate actors
who are responsible for either creating
or exacerbating the very public health
problem that the government's are trying
to solve so for example partnering with
the soda industry to address obesity
well let's go I want to go into some of
the the the the detail I mean some of
the specifics he's do a lot of case
studies here and ultimately you
introduce the
the principle of separation of powers in
some respects and also I guess maybe
what would contemplate in terms of like
antitrust on some level but let's let's
start with with some of the you know you
mentioned sodas and obesity but let's
let's talk about a couple of the the
case studies that you talked about the
the idea of the u.s. working with
fast-food companies to increase the
amount of cheese that they offer yeah so
that's it that's a great example and I
do want to come back to the arguments I
make about separation of powers yes and
antitrust because I think the argument
I'm making is essentially that whatever
your politics you should care about
corporate influence and I'll come back
to that but the example you give is a is
a great one this is it led to the
headline in the New York Times you know
while warning about fat us pushes cheese
sales so essentially there was a surfeit
of cheese in the market and the
government basically went to what at
that time was the least well performing
pizza chain and said hey you're not
doing very well we can help you out how
about getting some more cheese into your
pizzas and voila the stuffed cheese
crust pizza was born not because
Americans were clamoring for it but
because this was a great way of
offloading of ton of cheese that was not
being sold and that story it's just so
nuts to me but but so okay well first
off let's just back up what why was
there a surplus of cheese why is that
the business of the United States
government well so we have a US
Department of Agriculture that has what
is essentially a conflicting mission so
in the one hand it's trying to promote
the interests of agribusiness on the
other hand it's also in the business of
offering dietary guidance in
collaboration with Health and Human
Services and so these two things can
play
obviously if Americans are paying some
attention to the warnings about
consuming too much fat and they don't
buy cheese that serves the the sort of
dietary guidance aim but agribusiness is
obviously upset because it has a ton of
cheese it can't shift and so what the US
Department of Agriculture and this was
by the way under under Obama as well as
Bush what they did was they basically
signed off on these collaborative
arrangements designed to offload a bunch
of cheese on to the domestic market how
does the collaboration work is it just
sort of like we're gonna sit in a room
with you and we can we're gonna bring in
some of the greatest thinkers we're
gonna come up with a concept where we
put cheese into the dough or is it I
mean what what does what does the actual
collaboration in that context look like
so i understanding just from the
documents in the public domain i mean i
wasn't obviously in the room is that yes
it does involve people sitting around a
boardroom and trying to figure this
thing out together public and private
and in fact the sort of go-between
between the US Department of Agriculture
and food companies was Dairy Management
incorporated which is actually a
creature created by federal statute and
it sort of funded by the dairy checkoff
program so it gets money from
agribusiness and basically what they did
is they sat down and worked with these
fast-food companies and in fact they
boasted that they had worked with Taco
Bell to produce a menu item that
contained eight times as much cheese as
the average menu item that that
fast-food company was offering I mean
that just sounds like I mean they say
almost the the the problem is even
beyond right the public partner the the
public-private partnership or is it is
it because of the the the relationship
from the of the regulatory agency or I
guess I guess that's what you would call
it there's just too close of a of a
relationship or is it just simply poor
development of of bureaucratic structure
that you would have an
agency that is so conflicted so I do
think that if you were starting from
scratch you would not have an agency
like the USDA with this internally
conflicting mission I think that is a
profound problem but I also think that
this is not and I this may be a
particularly egregious example but it's
not an isolated example it's part of a
widespread and systemic practice not
just in the US but in other countries
too of governments and public health
agencies getting together with industry
to solve major public health problems
whether it be Oh bee City or the opioid
epidemic for example on the one hand or
cancer and climate change to give you
two other examples essentially this has
become the way we solve problems and as
I say in the book it's become the water
that policymakers have learned to swim
and they no longer see it anymore and
part of the challenge of the book is to
try and get people to realize that this
is problematic irrespective of where you
are in the political spectrum you
mentioned that it's an international
problem and let's talk about the United
Nations there they're partnering to deal
with sustainability they're partnering
with coca-cola when it comes to to to
India yes so they had an initiative the
UN habitat program had an initiative
called to support my school initiative
and the aims clearly are ones that most
people would endorse there's a problem
with sanitation in schools in rural
India it's a gender equity issue when
there's poor sanitation the girls drop
out before the boys so certainly you'd
want to do something about improving
sanitation but they partnered with
coca-cola in a you know a months and
years long campaign with you know
12-hour telephones with the coca-cola
logo emblazoned all over the place I
mean you couldn't pay for that kind of
advertising or indeed it would cost you
a lot more and what coca-cola got in
return for a relatively small investment
was a lot of positive
media coverage burnishing the reputation
of the company and promoting the sale of
its products including its leading
brands which play a major role in the
obesity epidemic and as I argue in the
book the UN programs mission is to
promote sustainable living but by
promoting the consumption of
sugar-sweetened beverages made from
scarce local water and sold in plastic
bottles that is neither sustainable from
an environmental nor a public health
point of view let's talk a little bit
about industry industry partnership with
with research universities and give us
an example of what what is problematic
with with with those relationships so I
think a lot of people get very anxious
when they hear about the big
high-profile partnerships involving
Novartis or Monsanto and there have been
a number of those kinds of partnerships
but I think what they fail to recognize
is that even smaller arrangements with
lots of little different corporate
actors can have a distorting effect on
research that gets done we know from a
bunch of empirical studies that industry
funded or industry sponsored research
produces not only findings that are more
favorable to the corporate sponsors but
also interpretations of those findings
that are vastly more favorable to the
corporate sponsors but the additional
point I make in the book is that we fail
to recognize the ways in which these
corporate partnerships and industry
funding more broadly shapes the kinds of
questions that get asked and answered as
well as how they get asked and answered
and if you take an example from the sort
of the cancer world everybody benefits
from doing lots of work on new cancer
therapies that may add a few months to
someone's life and I will be the last to
say we shouldn't do that research but
the kind of research that doesn't get
done because of all these corporate
partnerships or gets done to a far
lesser degree are causes and prevention
research because that kind of research
would call into question the role of a
huge number of corporations products in
cancer so for example you see makeup
companies sponsoring and supporting
charities that do work on treatment and
cancer and cure but northern causes in
prevention because then you might have
to ask the question to what extent the
makeup products contribute to cancer so
this is an important way in which
industry money works it influences
questions and not surprisingly so
corporations don't want scientists to
look at questions that might hurt their
bottom line and in India in I mean it
influences questions not necessarily by
by editorializing but by simply just
providing like you know keeping people
busy right I mean there's only so many
questions you can ask and if someone's
paying you to ask the questions they may
seem innocuous questions but they're
preventing you from examining other
questions exactly right they tend to
crowd out the other questions if you
have all this money floods in for you to
look at questions that promote the
interests of industry or are not
threatening to the interests of industry
those are the questions you'll explore
and you'll need like the other ones but
what I say in the book is if we're
really serious about addressing problems
like obesity the opioid epidemic like
cancer or climate change we have to be
able to look at all potential solutions
including those that are threatening to
the bottom line of powerful corporations
you know I mean that that dynamic just
is reminiscent I had a religious studies
professor who was always like look you
know you can read any book you want
about religion tell me what discipline
the person comes from and I will
basically tell you what the book says
because their primary question is going
to start is going to be different if
they're a sociologist versus a
psychiatrist a psychologist or you know
or a you know
a political science person they're all
going to look at it from a different
perspective and in this instance it's
just monies perspective so what I think
you're talking about respect is what I
really do want to emphasize is why
people should care about this
irrespective of where they are in the
political spectrum so I don't think
corporate influence should be thought of
as a partisan issue I think everyone
should care about it and let me tell you
why right we totally get that as between
the branches of government there should
be some separation we don't think it
would be a great idea for the White
House to sit down with the Supreme Court
and figure out the next version of
health care reform and the ways in which
it will it could be made compatible with
the Constitution why don't we think
that's a good idea because the Supreme
Court has to hold the other branches of
government accountable and it has to
interpret the Constitution and it can't
it had to interpret the laws and
determine their constitutionality it
can't do those things if it's in bed
with the other branches of government
making the laws or otherwise so we
totally get the importance of separation
of power separations between branches of
government we also totally get the
importance of separation as between
private bodies right we don't think it
would be a good idea for two major
airlines to get together and one of them
agree to take the New York DC route
while the other takes in New York Boston
routes because we'd end up paying more
because there'd be no competition it's
also why we think price fixing is
problematic so we totally get the need
for tension struggle between the
branches of government and tension or
struggle among corporations for the
market so bearing in mind we get the
importance of public public separation
and private private separation why is it
that we think public and private getting
together can solve our most pressing or
wicked public health and environmental
problems and I argue that it can't and
shouldn't all right so let me play a
little bit of devil's advocate here one
being that there are actually political
ideologies that want to promote more
corporate friendly solutions
and the and you know there there are
different there competing views on what
antitrust should actually be you know
different schools of thought in fact
that's starting to play out now in our
politics as well the the this this
concept of there being a conflict of
interest there it seems to me there's a
significant percentage of the country
that thinks that government at the very
least I mean or the most should be a
conduit to creating more opportunities
for corporate America so a couple of
things first my argument is not premised
on the notion that government is
inherently good in corporations are
inherently bad both is equally capable
of good or ill as we know in this very
moment and while I agree that there may
be disagreements about the boundaries of
antitrust disagreements about to what
extent governments should be supporting
the work of corporations governments are
primarily the guarantors of the public
good and that to me is something I think
which everyone should understand after
all Republicans and Democrats alike
breathe air drink water all those things
we should be concerned about protecting
and corporations should complain about
what regulators do just as regulators
should critique and regulate
corporations activities that should in
an ideal world be a rate a relationship
of tension and sometimes direct conflict
conflict isn't inherently bad conflict
between opposing sides in a legal case
is what should give rise to adjust
result conflict between regulators and
the regulated is what we should be
aiming for what do you say to someone
who would say well okay it may be the
case that you know some makeup companies
is funding the cancer research and
therefore in a vacuum of corporations
funding research
cancer maybe maybe these cancer
researchers would ask questions that
lead them to find that some of these
corporations products are problematic
but that presumes that there's going to
be money there like how do what do we
need to do when when we hear about
public-private partnerships isn't the
only way to ultimately get rid of this
conflict of interest is to simply have
public financing for these for these
things so I think public financing is
really important it doesn't eliminate
other concerns right so clearly one can
have politicization but yes I would
argue we need public funding and what I
would argue is before we can even have
that conversation what the leaders of
public health agencies need to do and
what the administrators of universities
need to do among others is they need to
stop touting these public-private
partnerships with great celebration and
then keeping their reservations quietly
to themselves we need to start having an
open dialogue about why partnerships
with industry and why corporate funding
is problematic it only once we've had
that discussion can we get to the next
stage of what are the solutions and is
public funding part of a solution and in
my view it is um I think what what what
the situation we're in right now is one
where we have this great public acclaim
and all the celebration and the
photographs and the holding the large
blown-up images of the checks of the
corporate donation and then people going
away and keeping their reservations to
themselves that in my view is the first
thing that has to stop how much of that
do you think is going on those like
private resignations I mean I imagine
maybe you bumped into that in the course
of doing research for this book and I'm
curious what do you think is the I mean
let's explore that a little bit because
that seems to me it's it it at that
point it's not a question of persuasion
right it's a question of something else
yes so I I have a goal in the in the
book and in my work more broadly and one
goal is to help some people who don't
see these relationship
problematic to help some people
understand why they are problematic the
others who get that they're problematic
but don't know quite how to articulate
why and my book is designed to help them
articulate why and then the third a
third audience is those who know they're
problematic but don't know where to go
next and one of the things I would say
is there is an opportunity for
collective action here if you're the
Dean of a School of Public Health why
not get together with 10 other Dean's of
the School of Public Health and write an
open letter in the New York Times saying
look you're relying on as the Academy to
provide solutions to problems like
cancer opioids and obesity but if we're
going to be able to help you we have to
be able to look everywhere at all
potential solutions not just those that
serve the interests of industry and we
can't do that with that public funding
that will be the first step I look
forward to reading such a letter in the
New York Times next week well and so but
then what happens I mean you still have
this like sort of financial dilemma
right like where is the funding aren't
the the members of those the Alumni
Association of those schools going to
come and say ok well where are you
getting the funding so there are all
sorts of potential models for funding
and you know one of them you know there
I'm not saying this is the only one or
necessarily the best one but just off
the top of my head one possibility would
be what if we created some method of
assessing the role of a corporation's
products in creating or exacerbating a
public health crisis and tax them
directly for that contribution to a
public health crisis and use that money
in order to fund research addressing the
problem that's one potential model
another potential model is if
corporations are going to require to
garner a body of evidence in order to
get FDA approval for example for their
new drugs is that they basically pay a
government body and intermediary a
licensing fee and that research gets
farmed out to other other bodies other
academic institutions there are lots of
different potential funding models some
each has its pros and cons but we will
never get to that conversation
until we start to talk about why what we
have now is problematic
do you see any I guess awareness beyond
the that that is spoken in whispers I
guess in sort of the universities how
much how much has the I guess the
environment changed in terms of how how
aware people are of help of how
problematic this is and and this runs
the gamut to write in terms of like even
on some level like a philanthropic stuff
and and and just abroad I mean you
mentioned the opioid crisis the idea
that the that Purdue would sit down
would even be invited to the table at
any point to talk about what to do with
the opioid crisis is I don't know
basically like inviting you know the the
the serial killer to ask like what's the
best way to dispose of all these bodies
so the first thing I would say in
response to your first question is are
people aware here's what people are
aware of because this gets featured in
mainstream media including the New York
Times they're aware that individual
researchers are not fully disclosing
their financial relationships with drug
companies and other major corporations
in some cases because those are high
profile cases people get named and
shamed what the general public is not
aware of is the broader systemic problem
that arises from institutional
relationships from relationships not
just involving individuals and
corporations but institutions but
relationships of the institutional level
governments universities creating
partnerships that's the first problem I
think they're they're not aware of and
you're right the opioid the opioid
situation I think is deeply deeply
problematic in 2017 when IH launched an
initiative to address the opioid crisis
it pulled together a number of
pharmaceutical companies including
Purdue Purdue by the way had pleaded
guilty in 2007 to misleading physicians
and patients about the addiction risks
of oxycontin and according to recent
filings by the Attorney General of
Massachusetts
those practices continued for another
decade so while the NIH was sitting down
and talking to Purdue among other
companies and while Purdue was running
advertisements in The Wall Street
Journal the New York Times saying we are
part of we are going to be partners in
the solution to the opioid crisis crisis
Accord at the same time as all that
according to the filings in met in the
court in Massachusetts
they were the company was also
developing plans to expand the opioid
market so again this is the model let's
partner with corporations so the model
says even though they may have had a
role in creating or exacerbating the
crisis and so they're essentially in
some respects being rewarded but I just
want to emphasize that the problem goes
beyond one individual corporation like
far like Purdue if governments partner
with pharmaceutical companies to solve
the opioid crisis then not surprisingly
the kind of solutions were going to get
are more opioids or more painkillers
more analgesics now maybe indeed we do
need more painkillers but we cannot
neglect the other potential solutions to
the opioid crisis and my fear is that
that's what will happen if partnerships
with the pharmaceutical sector become
the paradigm in that case - so so
broadly speaking you cannot sit down and
develop or even ask questions about a
problem with with entities that have in
some level a a profit motive to ask
specific questions rather than to go in
and find the answers and it seems that I
guess the other important message is
that even in certain circumstances when
there is a net positive with a specific
company overall if you open yourself up
to this dynamic it's a net negative for
society yes so the first thing is can
you sit down well there are open fora
for the for governments to interact with
the private sector think of corporations
giving evidence before Congress or
responding publicly to regulations about
how they'll impact their business
that kind of arms-length expression of
use in a public forum is not nearly as
problematic as these secret behind
closed doors partnerships but as to your
second point absolutely it is a mistake
to focus on individual partnership is
especially egregious for example using a
sort of companies logos blazoning them
all over the television screen and
promoting its products that's
problematic but it's a mistake to say as
many people say to me show me an ideal
partnership and we'll model that because
the problem with thinking about
partnerships in isolation is you miss
the cumulative and systemic distorting
effects of these kinds of relationships
as a paradigm for solving problems in
public health the perils of partnership
industry influence institutional
integrity in public health Jonathan H
marks thanks so much for your time today
really appreciate it we will put a link
to your book at majority dot F M thank
so much it's been a pleasure bye-bye all
right folks there you have it
the data is in I hope people heard
specifically that part about the
research that is paid for by
corporations we get into this a lot with
with all sorts of types of research I
don't want to bring it up and get all
the emails but the fact is is that
nobody the the real problem is it seems
to me and I think you know on a
philosophical level I think you know to
my perspective the professor might be a
little bit more a little bit less jaded
about the the chances of convincing
people of different ideologies of this
dynamic I think you have to start with
we got to provide funding in the same
way that this money crowds out other
questions you need to come in with money
that crowds out this money and and maybe
you also need to sort of create
regulations that inhibit
make this money less attractive more
restricted and then come in with with
monies I mean and there are mechanisms
in which to generate this I mean many of
the drug patents that are developed many
all happen through public research and
then end up getting privatized so how
about this we socialized the costs of
developing these things instead of
privatizing the profits we socialized
the profits and we throw those back into
more research and etc etc etc but
there's the data folks so yeah I thought
it was super interesting when he was
talking about taxing corporations for
the cost that you can calculate of the
social problems that they caused because
it's uh it's sort of an incremental
position right because on the one hand
if you have the political power to
impose those kinds of taxes it seems
like you should use that to just you
know get at the root of the problem and
expropriate those corporations on the
other hand
it definitely convinces people to think
about it in a new way then the way a lot
of people think about it now which is
that there's you know no connection and
no responsibility there may be a slight
difference between the political power
in in causing companies to assume the
responsibility for their externalities
and and being able to expropriate them
but I think there's probably a little
bit more of a leap in terms of the
politic allow our that's involved in
that but the the concept of making
corporations pay for their externalities
we talked about all the time I mean the
if you factor in never mind global
warming but the costs of pollution to
people's health to people's quality of
life to potential for brain damage for
whatever it is if you you know to in
selling products in burning coal in in
maternal --'tis would be prohibitive to
a lot of these businesses
frankly yeah I mean the problem then
becomes like it's better to ask
forgiveness than permission you know you
can't undo some of the damage that they
do to people like you can't bring back
people from the dead who have died of
opiate overdoses right you can't
you can't fix some of the damage that's
been done to the environment etc all
right we're gonna take a quick break
heading to the fun half just reminder
folks this program relies on your
support you can become a member by going
to join the majority report calm when
you do we give you extra content every
day and also we give you the free show
free of commercials and ads also don't
forget just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority get 10% off not only is a
great coffee great company great
cooperative company Michael today is
Monday that means wait what oh yeah hey
how's it going weird stop by today is
Monday obviously used and you will be
here definitely tomorrow what's
happening tomorrow what's happening
tomorrow is John Ida rolla's making his
debut on T MBS looking forward to talk
with him of the damage report and the
Young Turks and then Joshua Kahn who's a
friend of show who is the executive
director of wildfire project and a
activist who's worked everywhere from
the Philippines to our pyo's Arizona is
going to talk about the sort of ABCs of
activism and how we actually make change
on a rent strike grassroots type of
level seven o'clock tea mb/s patreon.com
slash T mb/s for the whole thing and
check us out on our YouTube channel
where we will live stream it and now
have plenty of clips make change okay
what do you say you said trains I know
I'm sorry
and I have I have my throat I thought it
was just like a hook yeah training boss
says it yeah
yes indeed boo yes indeed that's what
we're gonna be talking about with Joshua
Khan this week on the duranta fada we
have an interview with Hamilton Nolan
about labor organizing in the media and
beyond we are also releasing a bonus I
believe today wherein we talk about
electoral politics with Hamilton Nolan I
know we don't do that very often so you
got to pay to hear us talk about that
and I'm very excited to be releasing
soon some interviews that Andy did with
people from the caravan that's currently
in Tijuana to share their stories Matt
yeah literary hangover folks subscribe
to it on youtube or on your podcast feed
we're doing King Philip's War this
weekend so that quick break six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty see
you in the fun half oh wait wait wait
wait wait whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa
whoa hey I want to just thanks again to
LifeLock identity theft protection for
supporting today's show of course no one
can prevent all identity theft or
monitor all transactions at all
businesses with life lock you get
identity theft protection and additional
features to help protect your devices
against cyber threats for as low as
$9.99 a month don't waste another second
visit LifeLock comm slash majority now
to save 10% on your first year that's
LifeLock comm slash majority for 10% off
LifeLock dot-com slash majority
[Music]
you
that map that was someone called grat
Dilip at Grant Dilip at of course that
was a I like that version yes good we've
had some good versions lately are people
making new ones I don't think so I think
we're still call from a 702 area code
who's this where he come from
hey man this bro Flamengo from Las Vegas
bro Flamengo from Las Vegas how are you
sir hey how you doing today sir
I'm doing alright excellent got a couple
things I want to talk about one thing is
the mana Ford case yeah the first time
thing saying this is just a perfect
example of the color coded justice
system working the way to tended to an
arm you know and I really got to give
you credit because you really let me
think about when you vote you know
elections have consequences and you got
judges like this let me moral support
the criminals and white collar thugs
like manna Ford literally just let them
escape by yeah I mean it's disgusting
okay at the end of the day she's
disgusting you know he's he's learning
moral support to trump and man afford
you know it's just like any beasts you
see this all over the country like in
like in the van Dijk case you know that
Kapil got armed prosecuted in Chicago
for killing laQuan McDonald this is the
other fellow officers who covered it who
covered it up
you know I believe the judge name was
either Vincent garner dominica Stevenson
she's making London a moral support -
you know these are fine and X Y &
Z it's just you know we really need to
clean up like these uh feeling -
judicial system in my opinion well
there's a change there's there's there's
there's two different there's there's a
couple of different things going on at
the same time one is on one level I
think that like broadly speaking I think
our criminal justice system is too
punitive okay on another level despite
that fact we see we're able to see these
type of disparities where you know
cheating the American public out of
millions and millions of dollars of tax
revenue and probably doing you know
assisting others by certainly by the
the the lobbying he worked you know he
did that was semi illicit during that
time as well is not considered to be a
serious crime right according to this
judge I mean so I think you know I don't
know if this guy should be spending
nineteen years in prison at age 76 for
those for the for the for his cheating
on the taxes and its foreign lobbying
but well I don't I don't know I mean
because I don't but I certainly know
that you know someone who votes by
mistake when she has a felony conviction
shouldn't be getting more time I mean
well she shouldn't beginning and yes
exactly I mean so so we have we have
she's beginning anytime we should get in
five years I mean so you have one person
who's trying to do their civic duty and
mistakenly did it wrong and another
person who's specifically trying to
screw over the Civic the the civic
comments so right I mean so I think you
know rather than call for him to get
more time I'm more comfortable in saying
like we have some problems with the
disparities and we're just being overly
punitive you know to the lens of the
color code of justice system because the
judge is our conservative so you look at
you look at this guy's well calm and
she's basically learning we're all
support to this guy you know it's a
white collar promotes a white guy he's
wear them all it means where the mall
because if you one hand you're
absolutely right I completely agree with
you but on the other hand when you add
the layer of color to it it's just so
come on yeah nice all right guys
blameless life and there's one other
thing I want to say before I got job um
the talk of reparations has come up a
lot yeah and um and uh in I feel you
know nobody well let me say this I think
Bernie I think Bernie ALC and Liz Warren
you know all the guys who did it even
matter nothing irrelevant
but um they really see the dodge around
the topic especially when it was about
the America descendants of slaves and I
was like your paint on that and one more
thing before a jumper by the way also
you should have Abram X candy on the guy
you made your order excellent book
called just right here yeah I'm sorry on
the blank it calls stamp from the
beginning stay in the beginning the
definitive history of British ideas in
America it's a really good book you
should have that also on you know it's a
really good look at oh boy yeah we had
him on pseudo poison a podcast then yeah
he should be in the list there alright
appreciate the call well let me I'll
answer the question about the
reparations I mean because from my
perspective I I think the the the term
itself is obviously a little bit loaded
in the context of of American politics
and I can understand why people in the
Democratic primary want to avoid using
that term I think that's why you know
Bernie doesn't want to use I don't know
to what extent any of the other
candidates want to use it i I do think
that there are specific proposals though
that I think you could support and talk
about them I mean I guess you know I
don't know it's a good question because
I think on some level you could have
proposals that would address the need
for reparations there's also perhaps
maybe a a more sort of like I don't
wanna say psychological but sociological
need to indicate that we are that that
that reparations are due but certainly
at the end of the day I am more you know
sort of I think the idea of specific
proposals that address things like
wealth disparity and let's face it these
are there are reparations for slavery
but there should also be reparations for
things like redlining
I mean anyone also yeah and frankly
maybe the native
and genocide as well well yeah yeah but
yet I brought my point being my point
being is that we're not just talking
about things that happened 250 years ago
or a hundred and fifty years ago we're
talking about things that happened fifty
years ago 30 years ago I mean these are
we've had a systemic disenfranchising of
political power in this country
particularly of black Americans and
obviously a Native Americans but also an
economic one and and not not just a
function of discrimination as we
experience as socially but in terms of
just plain old finances homeownership is
the primary driver of wealth in this
country and time and time again the
ability of African Americans to develop
wealth through their homes has been
limited actively limited not just by by
the private sector but by by by
government by by the government I think
I just can I just I agree with
everything I just want to throw a few
other important things about this and
really quickly so one everybody
basically like Bernie can and should
improve his answer but he's actually
being relatively honest about this
people like Castro and Harris and Warren
are just lying they don't like
reparations politically means I think
it's HR 40 which tulsi gabbard is a
co-sponsor of and it's a specific piece
of legislation in the house to establish
a commission and a process by which that
can happen so there's one candidate that
supports that everybody else is being
totally disingenuous or outright
dishonest and I think the really big
problem too is that like if you go back
to Barack Obama in like 2015 he
dismissed reparations like totally
outright right and then he pivoted too
well but if you deal with these systems
problems they'll have a disproportionate
effect on race which is actually what
Bernie said in 2006
which was insufficient and an
insufficient now but the incredible
thing is that that's literally what
Harris and Warren and Castro are doing
is they say they're getting the exact
same answer that Obama gave but then
saying they support reparations so my
actual real irritation here in addition
to the disingenuous nosov the politics
towards bernie is i think you're
undermining both arguments because you
do not want to create a frame around
programs like medicare for all that
they're a form of reparations because
they are not they are universal programs
period and then on the other hand you
don't want to undermine a very specific
case about historical injustice of
african-americans as a universal program
so that's a and the last thing I'll add
is I think David Brooks coming out and
supporting reparations as a form of
collective psychological acceptance is
an indication of how D materialized
these conversations can get that we
should be aware of yeah I I mean my my
comp I feel conflicted about this myself
and think my issue with it is that it
doesn't go far enough
necessarily because on the one hand
slavery was an economic arrangement and
leads to economic led to economic
disparities that still persist as as
well as you know colonialism and all
kinds of other practices so it makes
sense to have an economic solution to
that but there it's so hard to confront
the harm done by systems like slavery
without confronting capitalism as well
right because slavery was a form of
primitive accumulation at some point in
time in the development of capitalism
some people came along and took some
 that wasn't theirs in this case
human beings also the landmass that
became the United States also you know
back in Europe the enclosure of common
lands so if you're going to start trying
to undo all of the harm that those
things have done up to and including you
know oh you don't have land anymore all
you have to sell is your labor power
you're gonna be exploited or hyper
exploited in in ways that intersect with
racial identity
you just you gotta keep going I don't
know I feel I feel conflicted about this
for many different reasons I'll leave it
at that for now okay called from an
eight six zero
area code who's this where he come from
hey yeah this is Anthony from
Connecticut Anthony from Connecticut
what's on your mind Anthony uh I was
just calling because I think last week
it was uh when Michael was hosting the
show he was speaking with a woman about
the power of getting involved and I
don't use social media so I was hoping
you guys could help direct me and the
rest of us in ways to get involved oh
well do you do I mean do you have
internet do you have the Internet oh
yeah oh well I mean I you know you could
you could look for your local DSA or you
could look look for your local
indivisible group or you could find a
candidate you like and go ask the
volunteer you could sign up for alerts
from move on there's there's a myriad of
different ways that you could and I
would just I would you know try all of
them see you know which organization
seems to fit your you know your
perspective and what kind of stuff
they're doing that you'd like to do I
mean you can join the local Democratic
Party run for you know some type of
office I mean you know would not
necessarily you know like the one to
become an official in the Democratic
Party you have you find that you'll have
probably outsized power that you're
shocked that you're gonna have I mean
that's been the experience of like a lot
of the people who have gotten involved
in that stuff as of late so I would try
all of that or you know I mean in terms
of politics go look up by not sure where
in Connecticut you live but there are
community organizations that are always
you know looking for help and the
agitate in terms of politics so
trying to appreciate the call let's go
to the IMS for a moment water boat from
Kashmir morning Joe SR you caplets
Hickenlooper responds I would attend a
gay wedding so I'm not a homophobe west
coast comrade hey Sam did you pay up
after losing your will Bernie run bet I
got your back Michael how much did I bet
you five bucks yeah you did but wasn't
there I thought there was something
might be a little bit more because it
was also with Kareem but yeah at least
five but I don't really remember that
night public private was very lubricated
Sam I'm begging to wonder if Jimmy
reefer cake is collaborating with the
FDA cuz his stuff is so damn cheesy what
do you think mmm retcon whoa whoa
critical support for Jimmy refocus a
retcon I wanted to share with your
viewers listeners that I that Stop &
Shop employees are about to strike
I wanted to send solidarity in a call
maybe get your thoughts are heard to
their corporate offices they want to
take away their health care or make it
incredibly expensive no more time and a
half etcetera terrible company work for
22 hours a week or less for most
employees they have made billions for
their shareholders this year I don't
work there anymore my comrades do punch
a scab shop and stop stop and chop folks
do not cross a picket line when people
are are picketing when when labor
strikes particularly at a supermarket I
know it's a pain in the butt but talk
about just like sort of paying it
forward that's your small investment
right now contemplate like if you shop
at Stop & Shop where you would go just
to make it convenient for yourself
calling from Nebraska hey I'm our crew
my roommates supported Bernie in the
2016 election but does not now because
says Bernie owning more than one home is
hypocritical to his message any comments
FYI listens to Rogen and Shapiro oh oh
so he's just becoming well I mean the I
don't think the the the problem that
Bernie has with our government is that
people who who are
successful can't own more than one home
I think that the issue is is that they
should do so after they have contributed
enough money to society to make sure
that everyone has access to some
fundamental quality things that that
fundamentally determine quality of life
so that being things like health care
that being things like access to early
education into higher education not just
access but literally like free access
genuine access that money is not an
obstacle to attending these things and
to getting these things that we do not
need such massive concentrations of
wealth I don't know how much is house
are valued at and I don't think that's
terribly relevant any more so than
someone who wants to end climate change
and flies an airplane yeah I would ask
your friends I mean I think it's just
such an irrelevant conversation but if
you know is it if it's all just a
question of like hypocrisy or not is he
saying that if somebody promotes
corruption and inequality that then
that's great and perfectly in keeping
with their own personal corruption and
like bad personal you know practices or
you know is is cuz I've had a little bit
of luck with that in a few conversations
it's like right worried about hypocrisy
then you want yeah it's like every come
out and just promote I guess they should
just all be talking about getting bribed
by Oh companies and and and it's
ridiculous and I just think like you
know if if Bernie actually did wear like
five thousand dollar Brioni suits
awesome that would be great like
gangster Bernie I don't care it's all
about the policy this is not the guy to
really like
a couple houses in Vermont with like a
big family this is not this is not like
a home in Sardinia and an apartment on
the Upper West like it's ridiculous
contagious chameleon have you guys seen
max Blumenthal's coverage on Venezuela
the US government is really exaggerating
the state of the country for their own
Imperial interest which leads me to a
question do you think Bernie's foreign
policy is viewed more dangerous by the
establishment than its domestic policy I
don't know if his foreign policy is
viewed more dangerous by the
establishment maybe maybe maybe in some
respects probably not because I think
money is you know the the moneyed
interests are much sort of clearer and I
think there's always a feeling that like
the foreign policy apparatus is much
more sclerotic and sort of edified I
think in some respects and I don't think
they have the same measure of fear that
sort of people do about domestic
politics because that's much more
malleable but but on the other hand this
is the next area of cliche debunking
like people were so freaked out when
Bernie Sanders was talking about
Medicare for all a couple years ago and
that's just been kind of like through
his leadership and kind of put into the
mainstream and we're in the middle of
can we have an actual debate about
Israel we're in the middle of can we
oppose a coup in Venezuela and so I
think there's actually a huge amount of
fear and resistance speaking of
Venezuela earlier we played a clip of
John Hickam Hickenlooper for whatever
reason unable to say that to answer the
question that he was a capitalist I mean
I think he's self-evidently is I mean I
I I don't have much of a problem saying
that I am a capitalist I mean I sit here
and run a business and still have a
fairly robust critique of capital
capitalism I would say probably more so
than John Hickenlooper angles and
William Morris were also technically
capitalists yeah I would imagine the
word somebody if I was being
dan tik earlier I just think it's
important to make the distinction
between yes I uphold the system of
capitalism and yes I have the class
position of capitalists within
capitalism I live like a capitalist
every day John all right well that being
the case so Howard Schultz having seen
John Hickenlooper I guess basically come
out of some type of strategy session
where he's like why can't I get any
attention from anybody except for Joe
Scarborough and his advisors going John
just listen it probably won't come up
just don't say that you're a huge
capitalist I mean ironically that'll
probably be his most popular media clip
of his entire campaign manure will be
and and I'm sure the guys who were
basically on his payroll of going that's
the way we want you to play it John we
set you up for that perfectly that's we
got you super viral clip and nail to it
so Hickenlooper is afraid to say that
he's a capitalist for whatever reason
because I honestly don't know what he
what Lane he thinks he's running in in
the Democratic Party but Howard Schultz
weighs in I guess the self-proclaimed
not the brightest guy in the room Howard
Schultz ways and by saying even if even
a successful businessman an entrepreneur
like government governor Hickenlooper
can't openly support capitalism in the
Democratic primary it's clear this is
senator Sanders party now and I would
say from your mouth to to charge of the
Democratic Party's years but let's
listen to Howard Schultz pretend like he
knows what's going on in Venezuela
because that's the talking point du jour
you define socialism can i define
socialism yeah
well interestingly enough
no I cannot
it's interesting that you would laugh at
that I think they might be laughing
because the person asked the question is
listed as a German I was in her I was in
German just a German oh pause it
incidentally you know as someone who is
a performer and has been in situations
where you have to think on your feet and
whatnot what you're witnessing is
someone who doesn't know how to answer
this question and he can't I mean this
is what's fascinating to me like you're
going out you've been on sixty minutes
you've been on The Today Show
you've been on yeah like every single
possible there is probably no one in the
country who has bought his way on to
more media over the past month and a
half let's say whose whole agenda is to
say the Democratic Party has gone
socialist so they can't possibly
represent you know the members of the
Democratic Party and you jut you haven't
even come nevermind the right one or the
wrong one you haven't even come up with
your line about what is socialism like
how do you like this is a guy that we're
supposed to entrust with the with the
country and he doesn't even have the
forethought to go out there and say like
oh I'm critiquing the whole basis of the
critique of the Democratic Party is
they've gone socialist I haven't figured
out how to define it yet I haven't even
thought about it long enough to
literally like you can come up with any
definition of socialism you want and
present it you could be wrong but at
least you'd have an answer and this guy
stalling go back it's just unbelievable
this is exactly what like this is this
is what happens like if you ask you're
like a teenager like what whoa what's
going on in this room uh-oh
hey I forgot to tell you I need that
money for for the field trip
no no I asked you what's going on this
room oh did I tell you uh did you see
that car accident dawned on flat but you
know this is what all right so good
because the person asked the question is
listed as a German Oh in here who's in
German just a German
well if you if you want a good
description for socialism I think just
look at Venezuela posit incidentally
aside from that not being a good
description but that was not the cut the
question wasn't what's a good
description of socialism it's what is
the definition of socialism what is like
this is the worst example of some like
like like literally junior high kid who
doesn't done his homework soon as you'll
assume you asked yeah that's a good
Roger and I will find you I answer for
Betty but this is what this is my
Thatcher has the whole that's when you
run out of other people's money right
like you developed something like that
please come up with some type of like
dumb catchphrase instead of like I'm
gonna fish around and the oh I remember
hearing Venezuela on the car radio see
what did Charlie Kirk say yeah exactly
he should hire some highly paid
consultants to help him with his
campaign yeah no kidding I think just
look at Venezuela it's a you don't like
that yeah cuz at all buying buying time
we do not we we don't want a government
takeover of our lives we want the
freedom of being able to pursue
happiness in America the pursuit of
happiness we want our independence we
want our free enterprise independence
we're in sustainable capitalism has
created more jobs has moved more people
out of poverty and created the greatest
system in the world which is America
what none of this makes any sense
America is not a system it's a country
capitalism is the system this is just it
is stunning you know what it really does
show you honestly you can make a lot of
money in fact it may even help you to be
a si student Howard Schultz is the
biggest C student I mean
and you talk slowly it's like you en
like you're thinking about things he
reads to digest versions of like Malcolm
Gladwell books it's on yeah that's his
reading if anything he shows the flaws
in a system that will let you become so
wildly successful while being so
intellectually and curious that being
said most see students I've met are a
lot cooler yeah I don't mind I don't
mind you know not very bright people
making money I don't that in and of
itself is not I don't mind success by
not very bright people that's fine it's
just that this guy's not capable I
wouldn't trust him honestly to lead me
out of like a like a brothers and
sisters will restore the Queen will get
rid of the pursuit of happiness
it's a goddamn perfect no does it need
to be refined yes do businesses have a
moral obligation in addition to making
money yes but stop absolutely
fundamentally wrong there is nothing
nothing that obligates a business to do
anything on any moral standards nowhere
nowhere in the existence of any business
is it written into their charter I mean
they can claim that it is but they have
no obligation
obligation is something that is imposed
upon you from outside of you there is no
obligation on any business to do that
you can get a special thing that says
I'm a c-corp or whatever it is like I'm
a you know a G Corp I do good things but
that's just a voluntary that's just the
way that you want to organize it most
corporations including Starbucks have
one one obligation and that is to their
shareholders which is exactly why you
need extensive government regulation as
to what they can do because otherwise
they will only fulfill their primary
object their their primary objective
any business today that is in business
just to make money is going to be
shallow it's not enduring you're not
going to attract and retain great people
but those businesses that achieve the
fragile balance between profit and
humanity and understand that's the gifts
of business is to lift people up and
create opportunity for everyone that is
a system that I embrace that is a system
that I'm for and anything that has to do
with things that suggests that
everything is going to be free and we're
gonna live in a world that is considered
is inconsistent with the heritage of the
country is wrong it's not going to be
finished it's an extreme position and
it's just not who we are
it's not who we have that is the longest
non-answer me like I think I've ever
witnessed
you know from a guy who is should have
no problems just saying socialism is
this and that's why it's bad well it's
interesting because even he admits that
profits and humanity exist in some kind
of opposition to one another right right
cuz it does I mean that is that is also
like great school obvious Ness there's
there's nothing in the Charter when you
get when you sign up to become a
corporation there's nothing in there
that says incidentally you have a moral
obligation to do well by your community
if you did have half the things we
talked about in this program will be
completely irrelevant I'm just you know
it's great yes there's a little bit of a
rocky start and for some reason these
idiots didn't get Venezuela but when I
really started talking about who our
country was another thing he did there
is and I'll keep noting this is that
mister like we can't be polarized we all
need to come together and of course
there's no moral difference between
supporting medicare-for-all and
kidnapping children is still base for
everything he said is predicated on D
legitimizing assent like the citizenship
and patriotism status of anybody
to even like the marginal left of him
this isn't our country this isn't who we
are like I don't necessarily think that
he's stupid right I don't want to be
making like so kind of ablest IQ based
argument I think he's lazy and that's
different I don't want to make an IQ
he's definitely he's so self-satisfied
and so lazy it to not even come up with
that answer right like he might have an
IQ might have a good IQ but he's stupid
is how I'll put it um let's go skip
Varney for a second I want to go that
this is um this is sort of a little bit
a little bit poor timing when did Debbie
wasserman-schultz and Donna shillelagh
put this out now look I want to just be
I feel like you know we need one of
these disclaimers before and we ever
talk about Venezuela I am NOT I have
watched the videos purporting to show
that there's no problems whatsoever in
Venezuela I have dug into the claims of
how many you know hundreds of thousands
if not millions of people who have left
because of things there I've read on
both sides of this issue I don't claim
to know the reality the lived reality of
25 percent of Venezuelans or 51 percent
of Venezuelans or 75% of Venezuelans or
Venezuelans who live above a certain
income level or below a certain income
level none of that is relevant in terms
of the question as to whether we should
be intervening certainly not militarily
but in any fashion beyond the most I
think you know soft diplomacy so when
we're doing things like embargoes and
shutting off
ability to get funds we're just
punishing the Venezuelan people to the
extent that there's any efficacy it is
doing stuff like that is predicated on
the suffering of the people there so
that they
depose their their their leadership now
with that said we do know the reality of
the story that we were told from US
officials from the vice president on
down about the humanitarian aid that was
brought to Venezuela
on a bridge but before we get to that
reality let's go to this reality with
debbie Wasserman Schultz and Donna
shillelagh who find themselves I guess
on one end of that bridge is this the
same bridge trying to make an argument
well let's listen the humanitarian aid
is just a little ways away
Maduro could let it in and save his
people but of course he will not the
container that he put on this bridge the
block 'it says peace there is no peace
here there are only on the other side of
this bridge hungry people starving
children children who are dying
we have medicines the community the
Latin American community Colombia 50
different countries have contributed to
make sure we can save the Venezuelan
people
Maduro must go we came here today to
support the people of Venezuela and to
thank the people of Colombia and
together we say Viva Venezuela Viva
Venezuela yeah I'm glad folks are so
concerned about Venezuela in in the US
Congress it's nice I remember them being
long time concerned about Venezuela here
is how that aid got destroyed now we
know it was not a function of Maduro as
people putting the aid
you know burning the the aid it was it
turns out according to a New York Times
source video a protester who was
protesting alongside
the aid trucks throwing Molotov
cocktails at the at the the Maduro
police forces and accidentally lighting
one of the trucks on fire here show it
again you can see there's the Molotov
cocktail throwing it and the second one
the rag leaves the Molotov cocktail
lands on the on the truck I mean I'm
just shocked to hear that there was
Molotov cocktails my understanding is it
like you know Molotov cocktails I
remember when those Palestinians had the
kites that they would let up that the
that were on fire I mean and how its
horrific that was and called for snipers
to be shooting at the kite kite flyers I
also just love that they specifically
mentioned the role of Columbia which
like of course they play a role but like
the Colombian government very much what
give the Venezuelan government a run for
its money and exceed it in many ways in
terms of what they do in areas where
there's an insurgency and this
government came into power cancelling a
peace deal with the FARC under the
umbrella of a former President Alvaro
Uribe where there's at least some
WikiLeaks cables indicated that he had
like relationships with Pablo Escobar
going back to the 80s
so that's who like this democratic
school caucus well he has a small
businessman who who built an enterprise
committed to the types of values that
Howard Schultz is trying to put across I
mean it's just the the hypocrisy is
astounding but and you know people want
to go down there and say that you should
let in humanitarian aid that's all well
and good but the United States has a
horrible record of intervening like
there's it's it is very difficult to
come up with an example of when this
worked out well well they're politicize
I mean they're they're this I mentioned
this
last week but I want to keep hitting the
CIA program in Pakistan would fake
vaccines where they used to collect DNA
for the bin Laden operation this and and
somebody pointed out to me not only was
that an important point to make but that
I talked about consequences
you know theoretical consequences there
were real ones doctors were killed oh
yeah people stopped taking backs and
people stopped thinking go has brought
to Nigeria yeah so what you're doing
with this is you're not you're you're
actually handing if you opposed the
Maduro government you're handing them a
correct political talking point and
you're undermining every single
organization that might legitimately be
trying to get you know ease the
situation right oh and here's the secret
is that it did work out well for some
people right well sure the oil companies
and the ruling class of those countries
and the US government in its attempts to
impose a certain economic program on the
world I would say a narrow a narrow
slice of the US government in many
respects but but yes of course there
there's definitely there were even
winners in Iraq it's just not the Iraqi
people but one thing ken Silverstein
pointed out in his report that from
there which is interesting that it
doesn't seem one of the kind of funny
dynamics of this for like the coup
mongers the United States and then also
the Maduro government is like the oil
flow and the relationship is is working
so the oil companies aren't necessarily
that excited one way or another about
this because they're getting their
revenue and that trade is happening
regardless either way yeah um sure they
don't you know it's not like they care
or oppose it but they're not like
gunning for it cuz it doesn't really
implicate their revenue right now this
is pretty awesome
let's let's play this clip of oh well
let's talk about Tucker Carlson alright
kids I've got a I've got to leave in
about five or ten minutes so listen I
have been the subject of somebody
digging through my tweets finding a
tweet that
was that used satire as making a point
that roman polanski i'll get very
specific about it because it was very
specific tweet that roman polanski
should not be forgiven for skipping the
country after being convicted of
statutory rape skipping his sentencing
hearing because he was a good filmmaker
there were people at the time who were
circulating a petition is about ten
years ago now and i was responding to it
now to be fair I was satirical in the
way that I responded to that so I made a
satirical comment which was don't care
about Polanski but if my a Polanski I'd
but if my daughter is ever raped
I hope it's by a much older man who has
a great sense of meson sin now most
people I would say I want to say who are
English speakers but I would think even
people who speak English as a second or
third language and have any sense of of
the way that language is spoken and have
met no normal people even if they had
never met me or heard me would know that
that's a that's very hard to believe
that someone meant that literally that
they want someone who has a an ability
to create a good scene in in the context
of directing a movie would want that
would be a requisite to want their child
rape that would be a weird thing for
people to assume and certainly if people
knew me they would know that that was a
satirical remark and it's not like I
don't have literally thousands of hours
of on-air talking that that would
reinforce that point who's laughing now
Sam which is why ultimately even though
certain got me fired initially
ultimately I was hired back now Tucker
Carlson has a little bit of problem with
audio that is surfaced of his
and that is because it's not
inconsistent it's not it's not let's the
other it is not a shock to the system to
imagine that Tucker Carlson is
misogynist that Tucker Carlson is
dismissive of the ability to be raped if
you're in a marriage that's the thing I
find most disturbing there's a bunch of
stuff that's come out where he said you
know nasty thing and derogatory things
about women that you know shock-jock
stuff and you know but but we're not
talking about well you know back in the
50s 1950s people had a very weird notion
of like if you were married that you
were sort of the chattel of your husband
this is in 2006 2009 where Tucker
Carlson is talking about a guy who was a
cult leader who would arrange marriages
between people in their late 20s and
women below the age of 17 and Tucker
Carlson is saying that guy should have
gone to jail the guy who actually
married her should go to jail but then
he says something about sort of excusing
a rapist that I find really problematic
this is the most problematic of all the
stuff that he says here let's play let's
play this he didn't marry underage girls
he's a facilitation of child he's in
prison because he's weird and unpopular
and he has a different lifestyle that
other people find he's an accessory to
the rape of children that is a felony
and a serious one at that what do you
mean an accessory he's like got some
weird religious cult where he thinks
it's okay to you know marry underage
girls but he didn't do it
why wouldn't the guy who actually did it
it's excellent
it's bro he should be the one who's
doing life the right look the rapist in
this case has made a lifelong commitment
to women take care of the person so
here's a little differently no speak
that's the part that I find the most
disturbing of all the things and I'm not
gonna harp on the other stuff but the
idea the rapist in this case has made a
lifelong commitment to live and take
care of the person so it's a little
different
the idea that rape cannot exist in the
context of a marriage in 2009 is is sick
never mind the fact that you're talking
about a 16 year old girl who may not you
know we don't let them vote some states
you have to be 16 and have to drive you
can't you can't work I think a certain
amount of hours I mean there's a whole
host of things that we don't let 16
year-olds do because we agree that they
don't necessarily have broadly speaking
as a default enough life experience to
make reasoned decisions on this we don't
allow them to drink alcohol in states
that pot is legal we don't allow them to
smoke pot the idea that we would allow
them to say you know it's okay to a rape
as long as you gonna take care of me or
whatever it is I mean this is just sort
of sick stuff yeah there's an extremely
high bar for them to be even emancipated
from their parents and what's even worse
is that Tucker is sort of pooh-poohing
this stuff instead of just coming out
and saying I was wrong he's actually
sort of I think some way defending his
comments as being a a long time ago is
that where is he here is he's tweeting
out oh these here just received the
following come okay so here it is all
must be attributed to tuck
Karlsson is a statement that he made to
report a media matters caught me saying
something naughty some things some
things he shoulda said something
something naughty on a radio show more
than a decade ago rather than Express
the usual ritual contrition how about
this I'm on television every weeknight
for live for an hour if you want to know
what I think you can watch anyone who
disagrees with my views is welcome to
come on and explain why I'll be happy to
go on Tucker Carlson show and discuss on
why I think it's disgusting the idea
that he is excusing what we have decided
is rape in this country based upon the
rapists willingness to take care of that
person for the rest of their life or a
promise at the very least that I'll take
care of you but what's really funny is
that Tucker Carlson the idea that uh
something that happened more than a
decade ago and I think 2009 was not
really more than a decade ago but maybe
a month or two he also seems to think
that it's problematic in terms of Joe
Biden with Joe Biden's comments from
decades ago here it is it's uh a Biden's
past comes back to haunt him and finding
himself with his own logic here now I
person I personally have an issue with
what Biden has said in the past in terms
of policies in terms of some of his
rhetoric and particularly in terms of
women him but also in terms of banking
and in terms of antitrust civil rights
civil rights and whatnot but I'm at
least my defense for that tweet was not
that it was nine or ten years ago my
defense was it's piece of satire it's
quite obvious that I am against people
apologizing for rape and he's not even
bothering to make that comment because
he can't I'm perfectly happy to go on
Tucker Carlson's show and explain to him
that peach the gate was apparently a
giant act of projection right and I will
also say this that I don't know if Fox
should fire him because I think it's
perfectly consistent with Fox News to
have that type of attitude towards women
they it was basically their business
practices as far as I can tell and
there's no reason to believe
that they've made any change in their
perspective towards women and so you
know Fox News can take care of their own
it's weird there's a couple times in
these clips two different times where he
mentions like this rape isn't like a
woman being pulled off a housewife being
pulled from the street like there's one
where he's talking about sex workers how
it's like it's different if you rape a
sex worker because he says it's a little
more complicated than if some you know
housewife claims she was pulled off the
street and raped and then he also said
this about the jeff's thing is like the
one thing about the warren jeffs this
this guy who is with the child the
children marriages he's like I'm just
telling you that arranging a marriage
between a 16 year old but 27 year old is
not the same as pulling a stranger off
the street and raping her right this is
this is the attitude that has permeated
the right the notion of actual rape the
idea that there are relationships that a
man and a woman can have where the man
is incapable of committing rape because
of their relationship the woman has
tacitly given preemptive an okay to have
sex with me whenever you want under any
conditions because I've agreed to X Y or
Z because I've agreed that you can pay
me for sex or because I've agreed to be
your wife there the man has total
licence that person becomes their
channel and by the way like this problem
is not exclusive to creepy sex cults
like there are plenty of states that
will make an exception to the minimum
age of marriage or even consent if the
girl in question is pregnant and the
parents sign off on it so you know
depending what kind of parents you get
either this is prosecuted as a crime or
you are just legally signed over to your
abuser all right I got to take a quick
break
Michael is going to step in for the
arrest of the show put a little music on
music
our interlude but don't put it on the
the Michel music this is Dan our key
[Music]
[Music]
welcome back to the majority report I
was warming up in the bullpen loosening
my arm uh and then I just got a little
bit nauseous last segment so this is an
awkward transition but it is what it is
Donald Trump CPAC speech from last week
was a reminder that he still can be
funny and he is I you know I don't know
people always say he's losing it I don't
I mean did he ever have it you never had
it yeah one of my favorite moments in
this speech was a pretty dead-on
impersonation of Jeff set it was it was
sort of 50% good personation
impersonation and 50% like what every
schmuck from like New York or
Massachusetts thinks all southerners
sound like it's funny in its own way so
but it's especially funny given some
history we'll get yeah we're gonna get
it right so this is not just funny in
and of itself there's a there's a little
bit of a a little bit history to this
note I myself with this man tonight
I might be telling you how myself all
right check it out the Attorney General
says I'm gonna recuse myself and I said
why the hell didn't he tell me that
before I put him in please I was crying
in the office this morning the Attorney
General says I'm gonna recuse myself and
I said why the hell didn't he tell me
that before I put him in how do you
reduce yourself I love how it's Trump
this is how this is how people this is
how toxic personalities set the stage
for themselves right because we're gonna
get into how he told on himself in a
second but like it's just skirted over
at this point because we've already
heard Trump say like so many things like
this that it's like his actual complaint
there
is he should have told me that he wasn't
gonna cover criminal investigations
against me he didn't promise complete
immunity and he would have my back in
cover-ups I would have never given him
that job I thought it was understood yes
yeah this is definitely a moment for an
Obama like of Eric Holder didn't say
that it was gonna cover my back and
every goddamn thing incidentally that's
exactly how Michael Cohen describes how
the Trump org operates like you don't
explicitly ask for things he just like
hires you with the expectation that you
know what his expectations are it's the
expectation so if you recall Jeff Bob
Woodward put out a book I don't remember
the name of it
several months ago whatever it wasn't it
wasn't yet don't buy it and if you're
and still Michael Wolfe if you're
looking for like the trashy dishy Trump
gossip book Michael Wolfe that book is
great but apparently part of this
Woodward book was a lot of reporting
that Trump called like Jeff Sessions an
idiot or something like that and mocked
his intelligence and blah blah blah all
stuff that sounded like not only
believable but just like sort of like
sky is blue type of statements and Trump
tweeted this out
September 4th 2018 I thought I already
credited I already described the
Woodward book so many lies and phony
sources has me calling Jeff Sessions
quote-unquote mentally and
quote-unquote a dumb southerner I said
neither never used those terms on anyone
including Jeff being a southerner is and
if you're listening to this great all
the gaps it's a great thing he made this
up to divide maybe we should play that
impression one more time or did or did
he read the Woodward lies about him and
think to himself you know what maybe I
should do a Jeff Sessions impression I
didn't say that but it is a good I
didn't say that down but that is a good
premise the Attorney General says I'm
gonna recuse myself
and I said why the hell didn't he tell
me that before I put him in what hell
did he tell him that before but a man
Barack Obama in one week David Axelrod
went to jail for tax evasion his lead
counsel is testifying to Congress about
perjuring himself on his behalf before
going to jail and then he had photos
taken with a woman who probably wants
you've been trafficking right that's how
that that of course the primary
narrative there is the racial difference
in the time' he see Coates essay on the
first white president with donald trump
is worth reading but there's also just
like how totally toxic personalities
reset the boundaries for themselves like
that's the thing well of course I did
that so makes endearing yeah of course
he likes ending what's oh because she's
an agent business woman we can't do work
with her totally unfair and Donald Trump
amongst white evangelicals not
evangelicals of other backgrounds but
white evangelicals he maintains high
popularity with and he's rewarding the
popularity of the Christian King of the
evangelical community with exactly the
type of class and respect that you'd
expect from Donald Trump I am NOT a
Christian and I'm not a particularly or
maybe not even at all a religious person
but this struck me as a little bit
disrespectful and this is according to a
reporter Rachel Scott these are photos
of signed Bibles today
president Trump signed Bibles while
visiting visiting Beauregard Alabama
that's a nice level back there Jeff
Beauregard sessions to sign it
a community devastated by two deadly
hurricanes tornadoes rather excuse me so
there you have it we're gonna need more
sharpies down we're gonna need a lot
more sharpies has anybody got an extra
King James and a sharpie yeah can
someone find me two Corinthians I just
get such
contentment from that passage you know
it serves the evangelicals right
forgetting behind him in the first place
like they deserve every ounce of
degradation he dishes out I wish I had I
can't find the ben shapiro quip ad cuz
these guys are really doing a lot for
religious expression and cover and
commerce yeah they're there right
stewart vlad he continues to be
immensely upset elizabeth warren i don't
know specifically what policy they're
dealing with here i know that elizabeth
warren is of course put put forward a
really important anti-monopoly planned
but i think with regards to amazon
google facebook but this is just a kind
of broader obvious comment about how
taxpayers and broad public investment
had allowed wealth to be created you
know in this flow of arguments there's
the classical trickle-down fantasy that
wealth is created by a handful of
magical rich people like some type of an
EIN rant or the Lords of creation right
and they just sort of id8 great ideas
and then it just happens and everybody
all of a sudden magically gets phones
and TV dinners whatever the hell else
the iphone you can't be oppressed can't
be pissed
who lets fly them to venezuela then
there's the you know obviously socialist
argument of we need a broader
democratization of the economy and that
in fact not only is it not a
anti-enlightenment project it's a
fulfillment of the Enlightenment because
you're saying that human ability to
reason and collaborate doesn't stop when
you enter into the economic arena and
then in the middle ground there's all
these different versions of basically i
would just say a Kensie an argument i
think mmm tea is somewhere in there as
well which is the reality is is that
there's a dynamic interdependent system
so that even if you have somebody who
has a business or a service or creative
ideas that
might be true there is ingenuity there
are ideas there are innovations all
those things are real in a marketplace
and none of them would exist in any way
shape or form without broad-based social
infrastructures so both as a combination
of basic ethics and providing basic
decent life for people as well as in a
broader case about investment you have a
collaborative economy between the public
private and civic sectors and while
maybe policy-wise Bernese you know to
the left of warren and there's real
differences but there is an actual
ideological gulf there because I do
think he has a bit more of a real
class-based analysis of politics and I
think that she is the perfect messenger
of this sort of more progressive
argument that setup is relevant for
understanding Stuart Varney's breakdown
in response to her eminently sensible
comments have to pay to help create some
opportunities because after all those
great fortunes in America that people
built worked hard had great ideas or
inherited those great fortunes were
built here in America with workers that
all of us paid to educate with their
goods got to market on roads and bridges
that all of us helped to build so what
we're really saying is look just put a
little bit back in the kitty this is
what we're asking for pay a fair share
so the next kid has a chance to build
something great and the kid after that
and the kid after that that is pure
socialism that's what it is put a little
bit back in the car are you kidding me
you live in New York City and you make a
good deal of money your tax rate is
approaching 60% in other words the
government of New York said in New York
State and the feds collectively together
they're going to take 60 cents on every
dollar you make and it's very similar in
California New Jersey and other states
so of course he's distorting the tax
story there as well
with regards to federal because the
rates go up not for every dollar you
make but after certain dollars you make
so even under a OCS 70% plan the first
what is it when did she kick in and a
million a year I don't know actually
when she kicks in the 70 percent rate
but the point is you could make anywhere
from a half a million a year to maybe
even a million a year and until you get
to that post number where you've already
incredibly affluent then the 70% rate
kicks in I mean look obviously this is
all propaganda and it's funny to watch
him have a tantrum but like it is
actually in fact not socialism they're
having a tantrum and a conniption about
the whole way that the modern United
States and modern Europe were built
which is a combination of public
investment and private activity that's
the way every society on earth works and
even Stuart Varney is not calling for
some type of libertarian utopia so he's
just tantrum inge and being an idiot but
I love watching the cortisol shoot
through all these people's bodies
certainly it's like I also love the
editorial Bret Stevens published a few
days ago there was just like a perfect
encapsulation of the ruling classes
anxiety about the questions people are
asking right now about the capitalist
system but these these people have like
a willful myopia right oh definitely
like no doubt like I think you hit the
nail on the head when you said you know
they believe that value is created by
magic in the minds of the wealthy and
that's where it comes from so in their
minds it's you know it's taking
something away from them that you don't
have the right to take if you tax it
whereas you know if you believe in the
labor theory of value you understand
that all value is created by workers
combining their labor with resources but
you don't even have to go to Marx to
like understand where Elizabeth Warren's
coming from right because not at all the
government gives your money value they
build the roads etc litter
I mean this is going and this even goes
back to I mean that was a major part of
2008 with that Joe the Plumber schmuck
you know who was another like little
conservative novelty act for a minute
and Obama you know running an incredibly
moderate policy campaign just said the
obvious fact that everybody knows hey if
you want to get your plumbing business
kick-started we're gonna need to invest
in things and that was a big pinch from
then two people are having a big tantrum
about this this is AOC at South by
Southwest with the senior politics
editor at the intercept as well as T
mb/s regular do you know you don't have
it t mb s regular Briana Joy gray you
could see her I mean she's been on
Michael Brooks show I mean maybe ten
times
she's regularly on and what's so
interesting about this is really the
fact that of course the right is having
a tantrum about this but a certain type
of pundit that is attached to the old
make-believe system of let's pretend you
know let's sit down with somebody like
Howard Schultz who has absolutely no
political information or understanding
let's allow him to draw a moral
equivalency between Medicare for all and
kidnapping children and ripping them out
of their out of their arms this is the
you know the the full pathology of the
he shet you know he said she said one
side you know says that two plus two
equals five maybe I'll even give you
let's say it's one off it's a little bit
of a massage and the other side says two
plus two equals four hundred and fifty
five thousand right but they're both
they both have perspectives so AOC is
going to give a little historical
breakdown about Ronald Reagan that is
just this this isn't a polemic this is a
objective description of the
Southern Strategy and the Reaganite
political projects and one perfect
example I think a perfect example of how
special interests and the powerful have
pitted white working-class Americans
against brown and black working-class
Americans in order to just screw over
all working-class Americans is is
reaganism in the 80s when he started
talking about welfare queens so you
think about this image welfare queens
and what he was really trying to talk
about was this who's painting this photo
he's painting this like really resentful
vision of essentially black women who
were doing nothing that were sucks on
our country right and it's this whole
tragedy of the commons type of thinking
thinking where it's like because these
one this one specific group of people
that you are already kind of
subconsciously primed to resent you give
them a different reason
that's not explicit racism but still
rooted in a racist caricature it gives
people a logical realisable reason to
say oh ya know toss out the whole social
safety net yeah and also a Reagan talked
about the young bucks as well who were
were benefiting from government um Matt
you do a historically focused podcast
where did Ronald Reagan announced he was
running for president in 1980 where did
he choose his launch campaign oh the
Neshoba County County Fair and I'm
blanking on the name of the Philadelphia
mrs. Olivia Mississippi which was of
course a place where for civil rights
workers people who I had come from the
north to help register African American
voters and work for the civil rights
movement were murdered at the time
states rights and particularly in 1980
were a a bear I mean did the barely a
dog whistle every single person knew
what you were talking about when you
said states rights because even arch
segregationist like Strom Thurmond
that's what they said it was actually
quite rare Jesse Helms or George Wallace
being more at the other end of really
coming out and just straight up saying
what these people thought in this
straight-up grotesque bigoted comments
but a lot of the other prime opponents
of preserving apartheid in the United
States wanted to couch it in genteel
rhetoric and a core part of that genteel
rhetoric was states rights so Ronald
Reagan in 1980 announced he was running
for president in a town where civil
rights workers were murdered in
Mississippi and spoke on states rights
again that this is an objective comment
you know like it was President Obama a
senator from Illinois before he got
elected president yes did Ronald Reagan
run a white supremacy based campaign yes
and in fact if you go and look in the
1980s with some differences because
there was maybe a little bit more at all
though in a much more overall regressive
time there might have been a slight more
attempt at plausible deniability when he
was in the White House but just like
under Trump you actually saw a
significant increases in hate group
activity and groups like the Klan
running sort of in tandem with the
Republican Party and of course he would
go on in addition to using race to
divide the electorate and attacking
african-americans in every way possible
including gutting communities and crime
legislation and so on he also would veto
a sanctions package targeted at
apartheid South Africa which by the time
late in his administration was so
controversial that the Senate overrode
the veto and that actually included a
handful a chunk of Republicans of course
nothing like that would happen
today's world so Ronald Reagan is a
racist and what aoc said there should be
looked at as you know the equivalent of
any other politician just having a sort
of good basic understanding of modern US
political history and anybody would tell
you otherwise is either living in a
fantasy world or is a active agent of
racism themselves 100% and also this
goes back to some of my issues with
means testing or even sliding scale
right because one of the things that
enabled Ronald Reagan to exploit these
resentments and the divisions within the
working class was that the the Great
Society programs were largely
means-tested and they were not universal
so I think if we're looking to rebuild
some sort of social democratic welfare
state we want to avoid repeating some of
the mistakes of the past especially
considering we can certainly afford to
fund universal programs
definitely I found this anonymous quote
about this this is a anonymous Reagan
campaign official to the Washington Post
expression discomfort with the choice of
the location says quote it would have
been like we were coming to Mississippi
and winking at the folks here saying we
really don't mean to be talking to them
urban league folk yeah you're calling
from a eight for seven area code who
already where you're coming from
oh and apparently it was the first
campaign stop in the general election
not where he announced right but okay I
mean this is not a in some respects is
it makes it even worse but I
okay we have that small correction
you're coming from an eight four seven
area code who are you where you're
coming from Josh Josh from Chicago
what's up what's on your mind
uh first of all in the Julian Castro
thing he actually does support something
close to HR 40 well no this I support HR
40 itself does he support that bill if
he doesn't he's being dishonest period
okay I I think his definition of
reparations is closer than what Kamala
Harris is a little bit torn look I'm not
gonna do work for this guy
sky has by the way an arleigh not only
that if you look at his record in HUD it
was a small story in 2016 because there
was a lot of other stuff going on
obviously and he didn't end up being the
pick but progressive groups across the
country we're working to coordinate to
make sure that Hillary Clinton did not
pick him as a VP because of his
atrocious policies at HUD which
absolutely particularly dealing with
housing obviously played a huge role on
in the internal racial disparity so
Julian Castro is totally full of
and I'm not doing any work for him if he
comes out and he supports HR 40 that's
fine but he doesn't and I don't care
what his spin is okay so I either should
talk about
Elizabeth Warren cuz I saw her speak or
the Illinois Ammar is no fluff well
we've covered the I mean we Elan Omar's
great so how was Elizabeth Warren so I
saw her so I got a text I donated to her
campaign when she announced I didn't
know what was going on with whether
Bernie was gonna run yet or not
and I I do think it's important to have
at least if the person Bernie's
competing would be a progressive um and
I got a text thing she there was a
meet-and-greet that she was doing and
she wanted to come and so I went and I
met her and she's honestly one of the
most like the nicest ingenuine most
genuine politicians I've ever met and
I've met a fair amount of elected
officials and I ended up talking with
her about our love of the rockness a
satirist
some but she did say and this was a
thing that she come across was so
genuine and then someone asked her about
medicare-for-all at this thing I I can't
remember the specifics it was like it
was a woman who couldn't afford health
care she she had helped her she couldn't
afford the other doctor and she's like I
can't keep on going to the doctor even
though I have like healthcare these
bills are too much like you know what
would cost me just for co-pays she's
like do you see
or medicare-for-all and she said yes and
then she did the thing that drove me
that she equivocated and started talking
about defending obamacare i think that
and daddy you know yeah why does she do
that like because she doesn't have you
know megan day said this when i had her
on and i think it's important you know
i'm trying to be as ecumenical as
possible i think it's obvious that of
course i'm a hundred percent on board
for Bernie but I like Tom I respect
Elizabeth Warren and I'm glad she's in
the race and I think she's putting
forward great policies and Bernie's by
the way gonna you know need to to get it
rid of you know get on board getting rid
of the filibuster but it it it is not
but put it this way to even fulfill a
more um technocratic progressive agenda
like Elizabeth Warren has will take
actually the same types of bottom-up
mobilization that Bernie talks about and
Bernie's the only candidate in the race
that seems to understand that if you're
gonna take on these interests you need
to have a active relentless and
committed population and that's another
reason why you know for me I'm arguments
to do with how well somebody administers
or understands the bureaucracy are just
they couldn't matter less to me because
I think that I mean obviously within
bounds and I think it goes without
saying that Bernie can because he's been
a mayor a congressman and a senator so
that's you know there's obviously a huge
amount of basic competence here but
beyond that there is a training to play
a certain game that were not in anymore
and I think that that it manifests when
she you know doesn't stay clear and firm
on something like Medicare for all I
think that she obviously is great policy
great values and is a great candidate in
many respects but I don't think she
thinks of or understands the dynamic of
there needs to be a movement and a
context and a relentlessness to achieve
the types of things she's talking about
yeah also she is a liberal she's a good
left liberal but at the end of the day
she's a liberal and she doesn't
understand that these are not different
versions of the same thing like one
requires a like a real class
confrontation and basically the
expropriation you know explicitly or
implicitly of a large sector of the
economy and will be stronger for it and
the other one doesn't it doesn't do
those things and it's gonna be weaker
for it and yeah she she still doesn't
get that despite the fact that she shows
some signs of getting like the immense
grassroots power that's going to be
required to get either of them but she
doesn't and but I don't know but it's
disturbing to me frankly just even what
she's the thought process on that
because the truth of the matter it has
the lane that she's trying to get you
know she's competing yeah I'll just look
let's just be in political reality here
and 2016 Bernie Sanders waited for
Elizabeth Warren to run and was not only
willing to bow out in fact all reporting
suggests that he won he thought she was
the better one to go up against Hillary
Clinton she made the decision not to run
and Bernie ran and now Bernie and and
it's actually frankly surprised me that
it surprised this many people I think
that some people particularly you know
if they spend too much time online or
too much time listening to kind of like
a handful of insular pundits they sort
of thought you know that there was all
these you know problems but the reality
is is that he comes out of the he is the
leader he is the prime politician in
America of progressive politics and he's
taken that position he's surpassed her
with that run so the only way you know
or not the only way but a major part of
how she could compete with him in that
lane is by not being equivocal about
things like medicare-for-all so even
just her strategic sense like is she if
she actually is thinking I can be a sort
of not clear on that because she's
already anticipating ahead and again I
don't know if this is what she's doing
but if she's already anticipating
either watering down a message for a
general election or even or even or my
god like being in Congress and coming up
with some technocratic fix that's just
not the mentality that we need right now
things are too serious and too critical
and and again Bernie
sorry he's the one who gets that and he
demonstrated like every single day you
know but anyways she also I know she
missed her chance to run in 2016 this
was a thing at all not all the Bernie
people were organized organized for her
definite she never showed up and all
these videos in 2015 and 16 that that
this show did me and Sam and everybody
about Bernie Sanders would be the same
videos except it would be Elizabeth
Warren in the title absolutely yep uh
thanks so much for the call I appreciate
it
did you want to break this down man well
no it just kind of goes to what you're
talking about about the Matt iglesias
said there's so much I agree with Bernie
on but the eschatology which I don't
think he's using that word I don't think
so I can look it up I forget what it
actually means but eschatology of the
political revolution really rubs me the
wrong way at the end of the world
there's something yeah it's something
like that
Iglesias isn't using it right but it's
weird to not get that at this point to
get what Bernie's talking about with the
political revolution it is very weird
and it's very weird soup by the way for
glacis is trying to be a Bernie bro he's
trying to be a Bernie bro and he's also
somebody who came up under Obama and
Obama absolutely in a you know in a
minute obviously with totally different
politics um you know we emphasize
correctly the amount of you know
corporate money and so on that Obama got
but part of his insurgency against
Hillary Clinton was having people like
Marshall Ganz who organized what Cesar
Chavez teach people how to go
door-to-door and community organized
like that was a major part of what Obama
did yes otology is the part of Theology
concerned with death judgment and the
final destiny of the soul and of he
in kind well you know higher healthcare
sounds about right or if he means that
he specifically names like the CEO
United Health I totally disagree I think
that's great that Bernie does that well
it is true that revolution has a certain
very very I don't know it's it's a very
big word it's got a certain ring to it
that not everybody is on board with but
that's why it's a political revolution
right he's a Democratic Socialist I
think someone needs to teach Matt
Glacius the difference between a
political revolution and a social
revolution yep exactly
listen up Mattie boy you're calling from
a to one for area code who are you where
you calling from - one for you there
nope you're you're calling from a knight
and one I am trying 911 for now that was
- one for but you're not one for what's
on your mind what's your name oh I think
you got Grimlock right here and my
question is simple what did that take
for us to have general strikes in this
country um because that seems to me be
the only thing that'll really bring
about change is shutting the whole
system down well I don't agree with I
think getting somebody like Bernie I
think first of all I think even smaller
scale strikes are already having huge
effects on the country like the teacher
strikes and I think you getting huge
getting somebody like Bernie elected or
getting specifically Bernie elected
would have very big effects but I would
love to see a general strike and I have
no idea how that happens or what that
say or what takes place I mean again I'm
not at all interested in valorising the
French and the yellow dust movement is
similar but it's super complicated and
I've covered it and it's great and
there's problematic tendencies blah blah
blah but on a super basic level I mean
it's amazing that they pretty much are
just like new secondly and I don't know
why Americans don't have that you know
we could use a hell
more of it I think I'm starting to
relearn actually call a little bit
we saw the strike that ended the
government shutdown or helped to end it
I hope it doesn't take as long as it did
last time the next time also the hope is
for leftists who support Bernie that
even just having a president in office
who doesn't oppose things like strikes
will empower the working class to
recognize their power and like do those
kinds of actions more and more well and
also thinking you have something like
Bernie Bernie in office it's an
offensive strike it's pretty wild and I
just like ya to think about like even
you know they're striking like like but
he's gonna feel pressured to accede to
their demands way more like it's almost
to a wild degree more than any previous
president like it's almost heart rate
argue well on the one hand like Meghan
day said in order to get anything done
in office he's gonna have to rely on
bottom of movements because she doesn't
have a whole lot of allies do these
kinds of programs on the other hand you
know he is in charge of a very
essentially conservative system he's in
chart he's the head of US empire and he
might be forced in some instances to try
to restore order when it threatens the
foundations of you know the system and
we have seen that a little bit with aam
low in Mexico unfortunately engaging in
some strikebreaking activities down
there despite the fact that some of
these strikes may have been empowered by
having a less corrupt more sock tempt
kind of president so it's like a bit of
a double-edged sword it's definitely a
double-edged sword it was heightened the
contradiction heightens the
contradictions but I mean that's that's
the other point to is it's like you're
much less likely if the situation in
Mexico breaks to the significant left
and outpaces on low it's because I'm
Lowe's president that could not happen
in the previous leadership and that and
that's where my arguments you know come
in when people from the left sometimes
miss Reid where I'm coming from it's not
that I'm like oh well that's the
be-all-end-all top-down
you need to understand the context in
which there's a much greater likelihood
so as that because like I just said I
want to see people strike in the United
States like yes it's amazing and of
course the strike was a major reason
that we cancelled the government
shutdown and teachers are winning some
concessions but I want to see his strike
that's like on offense I want to see a
strike that's like well this is the
medicare-for-all strike and we're doing
this because we want a clean no
bill the Jay Paul bill is great in the
house we want that voted in the Senate
and then we want it on the president
Sanders desk now that's it done done
done that's what I'm saying oh yeah
let's let's actually play one more clip
I want to play this Mehdi Hasan with
Erik Prince clip you know I've said a
lot we've all said a lot that it's much
more profitable to look at don't get
fixated with Russia don't not
acknowledge you know Russian oligarchs
either obviously people are way too
fixated on Russia don't nationalize it -
Russia
yeah don't yeah this is an oligarch
problem this is a corruption problem
this is a global influence peddling
problem and one of the most disturbing
and sick parts of the Trump relationship
is a resurrection of a bush-era figure
Eric Prince this is somebody you know
Jeremy Scahill wrote Blackwater that's a
great book horrifying great book about
this global mercenary firm which should
be illegal and their conduct in
Afghanistan and Iraq their private
element of the u.s. Empire and murder of
civilians across the globe and Eric
Prince is connected to Bannen to trump
he's the brother of Betsy DeVos that
horrorshow in charge of our education
department and in charge of 10 yachts
and right exactly and for some reason he
agreed to sit down with Mehdi Hassan
Mehdi Hassan is a very good interview
and whether he just is I'll plug it
again you gotta listen to interview he
just did with Cornel West Cornel West is
absolutely I don't think I've ever said
it this unequivocally before Cornel West
is absolutely the best public
intellectual in America high period I no
one is in that realm so please listen
interview
here's Mehdi Hasan grilling the absolute
opposite of moral of Cornel West just
the complete moral dregs of civilization
Erick prints on whether or not he lied
in congressional testimony about a
trumped our meeting in 2016 I certainly
disclosed any any meetings the very very
new I don't in the congressional
testimony you gave to the house we went
through it you didn't mention anything
about August 2016 meeting in Trump Tower
they specifically asked you what context
do you ever knew didn't answer that I
don't believe I was asked that question
you were asked whether any communica
formal communications or contact with
the campaign you said apart from writing
papers putting up yard signs no that's
what you said I've got the transcript of
the conversation here sure I mean I
might have been I think I was at Trump
headquarters or the campaign
headquarters probably August 3rd 2016
usable and Israeli dude a back channel
to the Emiratis and the Saudis Don
junior Steve Millen were there to talk
about Iran policy heard sorry mister by
Iran policy no I think that something
important to disclose to house antennas
committee while you're under oath he did
you didn't we just went through the
testimony there's no mention of the
Trump Tower meeting August 2016 why not
I don't know if they got the transcript
wrong they got the transcript once if we
could I don't know I remembered I
remember certainly just mean this is the
problem do you because we know that
Robert Muller he hasn't been able to
establish collusion yet but he has got a
lot of guys for lying to the authorities
and not telling the whole truth is that
a problem now even if you accidentally
didn't tell them that could come back
and haunt you I fully cooperated I
haven't heard anybody I haven't heard
from anybody in more than nine months
pray to God I'm I'm not I am so it's
funny because sometimes I I have desires
that certain things happen to certain
people that I will not say publicly on
air but in general I am NOT I'm really
not a punitive guy but I'm very much
like a removed from society because of
danger they pose and if ever there
was a person that needed to just be I
mean taken off of the playing field
because of just the fundamentally
dangerous and unacceptable world they
play from here to the Emirates that
goddess then to Iraq to new business in
China it would be Eric Prince and if we
don't get this global system under
control if we don't come to a new way of
doing things he is a prototype of the
future yeah there's something very
chilling about a guy would just say yeah
the transcripts probably wrong
that's like--that's I can fake news to
an entirely another level it's like
truth is just a function of your
alliances basically 100 power Brooklyn
bartender my Bill Maher said on his show
that Palestinians are indeed the victims
of Palestine not Israel thoughts how to
respond to this dude I mean look
Bill Maher has been saying dumb nonsense
about the Middle East this whole career
he has no idea what he's talking about I
think okay I think that he to the extent
I have any sympathy and I always say
this he's in his sixties and it's like
the same reason he still thinks that
like smoking pot makes him edgy and you
know he but but no in all seriousness
like look if you grew up if you were
born in the 50s or late 40s the
Holocaust is a couple years out so I
understand on the emotional trigger his
political and historical and moral
understanding is less than nothing and
this is an old you know Bally wick which
is like the Palestinians are oppressed
by Palestine so first you can answer it
like well who kills the vast
preponderance of Palestinians it's
obviously the Israeli government with
white phosphorus and drones and shelling
and all sorts of indiscriminate civilian
killings then you could say in the West
Bank in fact the West Bank Palestinian
leadership is certainly you know they're
repressive if you criticize the
leadership as an example but they're
essentially just subcontractors for the
Israelis the Israelis controlled
spanked in every real substantive way
and then in Gaza
yeah they elected Hamas and you know if
you speak to a Palestinian including
Palestinians who loathe Hamas or the
Palestinian Authority they will always
say to you nothing can be done or even
thought about until you end the Israeli
blockade and the Israeli occupation so
that and in the positive sense that's
the type of comment that like it's very
interesting to me because I particularly
with this issue like people would say
stuff like that several years ago and it
wouldn't have any controversy and now
it's almost like we skipped a step and
people like can you believe Bill Maher
has been saying this and it's like yeah
he said thousands of things like this
it's just now people are getting more
you know just less ridiculous and
delusional about the issue will play it
on TPMS tomorrow night but I I actually
had a real debate on Israeli TV in the
sense that I was up against like an
actual guy with chops not like you know
usually they're like Michael you're up
against a ham radio operator in Missouri
who likes Trump but this guy you know
edits the news some some Zionist
oriented newspaper he's got an accent he
knows what he's doing but it's all just
cliches it's all smears it's all cliches
it's all appeals to Authority they don't
have any answer and funnily enough the
old chestnut that they would do like
well why don't you you know criticize
the Saudis or the Emiratis the answer is
really funny because it's like well
first of all we do anybody who is gonna
be critical of Israel is the most likely
person to criticize the u.s.
relationship with the Saudi regime and
then secondly like I said in this
interview I was like I thought you
wanted to be held to a higher standard I
mean very few people have any
pretensions of what Saudi Arabia Saudi
Arabia is a brutal monarchy and
theocracy Israel is an apartheid state
posing as a democracy and that's the
problem but uh okay you're calling from
an eight one four area code who are you
where you're calling from
hey guys my name is AJ I'm from Erie PA
but I'm actually calling
hey AJ well that sounds fun what's on
your mind man how much I'm actually I
hope this isn't a to big problem College
the feeling's basic all matter of fact
baseball okay I'm but that's what we
occurred I thought you'd mentioned the
projection Sandy Hook projection on the
Republican thing and that kind of struck
a chord with me just because I'm from
Erie and if you remember the Catholic
priest bus that happened a couple months
ago the priesthood actually with the
whistle blower was from my old church up
there any rapa okay I don't I don't know
this story at all sadly to be honest
with you but oh it was just like a whole
like leak of a whole bunch of Catholic
priests you know molesting children okay
boys and it was right totally married
yeah and I can I could only do the
projection Sandy Hook thing because uh
and the feeling snake has all my old
eerie friends the reason why I moved
away are still so locked into like the
same to have conspiracy or anything
Gavin McGinnis or Alex Jones would say
and yesterday one of them posted a
picture on their Instagram just as a gun
on his floor talking about the upcoming
war and it's just the scariest time so I
guess in a chat as a way of a productive
question how do you talk to old friends
do you're not I know kind of a mode
right now is just these people are not
like this real quick I don't when I joke
about yeah oh don't talk to your friends
like your friends are your friends so I
I it's very I find it it's kind of
awkward to be honest because I have no
you choose who you want to be friends
with and what you know like there's no
answer to that all I'm saying to you I
don't think you know so I think you be
friends with whoever the hell you want
to be friends with and there's and
that's a common thing but in terms of
like in terms of like how you persuade
somebody who is sharing like a photo
like that that's not going to happen to
rational persuasion it's not
and yeah sometimes you know you can give
it a shot other times I you know I look
I'm at a loss I don't know that that's I
and because also that type of extreme is
not something I'll be blunt
I mean I'm expose there's some things
that are that are complicated but I'm
not exposed to that man oh yeah I don't
know any I don't know people I yeah I
definitely listen to you guys for like
policy and awesome stuff not for you
know what to do with my friendship stuff
and that's why I said this is feelings
you guys are great
sorry a lot for real thanks brother
appreciate the call they were talking
about that on chapo recently too like
you cutting someone off is not gonna
change their politics no um it's like I
guess it's a matter of you know your
preference but you want to deal with in
your life which is totally a personal
choice which I respect
either way you make it but yeah I think
a lot of us probably have either family
members or friends from an earlier time
in our lives whose politics are pretty
bad I know I've got one Sean's got one
who supports Trump and like it's totally
a personal choice I'm not I'm not gonna
make any more friends like that but I'm
not going to cut someone off who's
otherwise still a good friend or
valuable relationship because they've
got the wrong politics right and I mean
and you know there's a lot of ways to to
to judge people in other ways that's
different yeah alright we should end it
sounds kind of bad alright we're gonna
take a final call then a few more IMS
then we're out of here your calling
sorry see
sorry I know it sorry I hung up on
somebody I apologize call back tomorrow
I'm sorry you're calling from a plus
four nine one area code who are you
where he calling from hello hello hello
hello you're on what's up like a bunny
okay great she's a great candidate I I
would either her I actually I gotta
admit from being reminded of Nina Turner
just in terms of like Nina Turner's an
incredibly gifted campaigner but Stacey
Abrams would be up there for me too no
doubt especially thank you from the
Democrat all right thanks for the call
man
sorry I thought that was what you had I
apologize manner you are right yeah I
just getting over a cold okay
all right let's do a few I am and then
we got to go David Cotter I don't you
got a I don't know the first four digits
of your number I don't understand that I
can't take your call if I don't know the
first four digits of your number
doctor chaos MD back from vacation that
included a political break but one of
the places I went was a civil rights
museum in Greensboro North Carolinians
borough in North Carolina that was very
powerful and being from a state like
Oregon we don't have a history that
exists on the East Coast and the south
don't get me wrong we have our own
racist best to deal with here oh you
sure do but to learn about the history
and some of these pivotal locations for
civil rights very eye-opening definitely
recommend that people go to these places
learn about troubling inspiring history
of this country also the amount of
intergenerational wealth deny insulin
from African Americans is something that
this country needs to address without a
doubt there should be more of that if
you're thinking about what to do this
summer you want to plan some sort of
trip go to some sort of historical site
that you should be at right they go to
that stuff right htx farmer or thank you
amazing I'm our crew any reparations
really
need to be accompanied by some form of
Truth and Reconciliation Commission
which publicly lays out the horrors of
indigenous genocide slavery I I really
agree with that night because I think
that on some level yeah I agree with
that I think that some part of that
whole it's that type of cultural process
is really important to now it's
dangerous because that's how David
Brooks is coming out for it while still
being somebody who wants to do nothing
in terms of a real policy for America so
it's a dialectic but I do think that
things like Truth and Reconciliation
commissions actually are very important
um let me take one final call you're
calling from a 2 for 8 area code who are
you worried calling from yeah it's you
what's up oh hey did you see closely
gabbard's um town hall yesterday oh no
really disappointed she didn't really
give direct answers to a lot of things
um I think she gave a good
medicare-for-all answer if I remember I
thought that the host was really
confrontational also I want to just say
I will say this and I think my
criticisms of tulsi gabbard are very
well-established and some things like
you know the connections to the extreme
far-right government in India are just a
fundamental problem to me in the same
way that you know Kamala Harris is
criminal record is a fundamental problem
or Joe Biden's everything record is a
fundamental problem but I will say that
I the double standard applied to Tulsi
Gabbard is really starting to annoy me
because yeah I see candidates who it
it's a good test case and what isn't
isn't acceptable so even like the Assad
thing which is absolutely not acceptable
to me it's a very problematic and really
disturbing but like you know politicians
have taken junkets from all sorts of
governments now again not ones
committing the crimes Assad is
committing but also not ones in the same
sort of you know dynamic and
you know I I don't know I just I find
when she's been right on Venezuela she's
right on medicare-for-all she's right on
marijuana she's right on you know any
number of issues now I will not be
supporting her I will not be voting for
her and and I find people who brush the
incredibly disturbing things about her
record and things terms of refugees and
Assad and in India height I
fundamentally disagree with and at the
same time there's name there is clearly
a big double standard applied to her
which is starting to annoy me
yeah I mean with the Hindu nationalist
thing that annoyed me last night is
she's just so disingenuous she said that
it was because of like racism and
bigotry against Hindi's which is I mean
this is obviously a lot she knows that's
not true well I don't know I don't know
if that's not I mean again I don't
that's but that's the tricky thing right
like is it well I mean do some know I of
course I don't but it's like the same
thing with Israel right like is there a
huge problem with support of a regime in
Israel of course and is there I mean and
obviously not in Alon Omar's case and
and certainly not in my case but there
is also anti-semitism so there's
definitely some element where her well
that's a good example right her
connections with the Hindu far-right
should not be considered I mean they
should be considered fundamentally
disqualifying and problematic but as
hood should all the candidates including
Warren and Harris other than Bernie
frankly and frankly including Gabbard
herself mostly going to AIPAC and saying
you guys can do whatever the hell you
want is disqualifying so again I'm not
saying it because there's real innate
problems with her but the double
standards are a bit much that that's
where I'm kind of coming in on but I
mean I you know there's a reason I
didn't watch the townhall right but
frankly I didn't watch any of them I'm
not particularly you know I don't
you I don't need to see Buddha Jack or
whatever and I my god I do not need to
see whatever that third guy was I don't
even remember his name I mean that's
just like ridiculous and and
it's all so ridiculous frankly though
that all three of them had to share one
night when Howard Schultz got his own
thing
tulsi gabbard Peter Budaj egg and
whoever that congressman whose name I'm
forgetting in all our morning yeah Tim
they're all more important than Howard
Schultz so anyways but right yeah more
political know I appreciate it man
thanks a lot
I appreciate it look I'm still still not
sporter I'm still gonna maintain the
critique but I just think it's for
certain issues it's nice to have
somebody in there say and the right
things about out of the head on
Venezuela if she's out of the head on on
drugs she's out ahead on sex work she's
good on you know medicare for all she's
good on certain environmental things
about the ideas and right and then when
you start to sort of say like well here
the areas where she's really
fundamentally problematic well that same
metric would apply to almost all the
other candidates and then there's this
huge you know disparity and how she's
talked about so I'm not you know I'm not
and then of course you know there's a
weird sort of sub pocket cult about her
so it's hard to cover but I've adjusted
accordingly because she's mostly been
saying good things she's continues to
maintain some ridiculous positions but
she's also said some very good things
and she's definitely getting you know
when she was on the view I thought some
of what she said about Syria and Assad
is absolutely wrong and disturbing to me
but the broader context of that clip is
basically her saying we don't need to be
constantly intervening and interfering
with other governments and and the woman
in the view looking at her like that was
a crackpot statement it's not she's a
hundred percent right and why
incidentally is she drilled on every
little thing we have photos of John
McCain hanging out with people
affiliated with Nazis and he's called
for supporting every type of regime
imaginable and bombing everywhere
imaginable so I'm tired of the double
standard
keep it simple I'm sure that will
satisfy 100% of the tulsi stance who
constantly accused us of being unfair
it will not satisfy them and it will
piss a whole bunch of other people off
but welcome back into the fold those of
you who are satisfied with that you
should I mean honestly if your that's it
that's the best you're gonna get because
I'm not gonna overlook the stuff that
really is a problem Michael bend the
knee right toe see if you get me in a in
a in a crazy hypothetical which I don't
do because I'm not Harris but when you
the real question would be like the who
do you break for it's you know Tulsi
versus uh well actually frankly I could
tell you Tulsi versus Biden Tulsi
definitely so maybe I didn't even that
hard but that's a sheath don't speak
that into being birdies the frontrunners
don't worry about it bernie is the
front-runner
we have some we have a correction to
make okay so I'm gonna play the audio
that we have to wear that we commented
on first just so you get idea all right
I used to say Tim you gotta start doing
it over here and you really have Evan
you've really put a big investment in
our country we appreciate it very much
Tim Apple okay Tim Apple now Trump has
since tweeted about this incident he
said let's see if I can find the actual
one oh yeah here does he says pulling it
up here
at a recent roundtable meeting of
business executives and long after
formally introducing Tim Cook of Apple
I quickly referred to Tim Plus Apple as
Tim slash Apple that's an easy way to
save time in words the fake news was
disparagingly all over this and it
became yet another bad Trump story
conserve your energy
Wow well I guess we stand corrected
thank you very much Michael majority
Michael majority Michael Ameri thank you
Michael Emma thank you well that's why I
named my show after myself so Michael
podcast I never got it
Michel YouTube Thank You thanks for the
correction john mccain's ghost is a
former senator from arizona you think
I'd be used to dry heat I mean this
place is hotter than all right
and the final final I am of the day this
kind of trick kind of no not in a bad
way Jay cool have you heard about the
power outages going on a bed as well I'm
not as conspiratorial as Matt but it
seems very clean so mentally based on
the timing I will say that I know that
Venezuela has been dealing with power
shortages for quite some time and then
again there's self-generate dot they
existed before it does strike me as
weird timing and also the idea of Marco
Rubio tweeting about it when he didn't
do a goddamn thing for Puerto Rico I was
out of power for 11 months is
mind-blowing where Rico's the key word
that keep it simple all right we'll see
you tomorrow
to get to where I want
no sir
I'm gonna get
I was I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made oh
the option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Hey
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you
