the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any elite
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday October 28th to 29th
een my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
you're broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Matt
Stoller follow at the open market
Institute author of Goliath the 100-year
war between monopoly power and democracy
[Music]
also on the program today Spike Donald
Trump military kills the Isis leader al
Baghdadi meanwhile if Bolton deputy
slated to testify today instead seeks a
court ruling which is either a slow walk
tactic or could be big problems for
other members of the Trump
administration meanwhile the EU agrees
to another brexit extension a new
English election in the offing just the
rolling cluster of stuff
200,000 people evacuate in California
fleeing wildfires people debate what to
do with PG&E Pacific Gas and Energy
Company those black jewel coal miners in
Kentucky they have won their fight for
back pay after almost two months of
literally putting their bodies in front
of trains with coals
speaking of which massive protests in
Chile force the President to replace his
entire cabinet unlikely to be enough 1
million of the 18 million Chileans hit
the streets I think this weekend seven
eight percent of the entire country the
equivalent of that would be 25 million
people in one place in this country
meanwhile California congresswoman Katie
Hill to resign in the wake of a revenge
porn play by ex-husband
she had Talib endorses Bernie Sanders
Exxon sued by the Massachusetts AG for
hiding knowledge of climate change from
consumers and investors and rest in
peace John Conyers former congressman
how stood because of sexual harassment
claims dead at age 90 all this and more
on today's program ladies and gentlemen
welcome I am back from Las Vegas my
voice is almost recovered I tend to dull
djal ittle bit too much while I'm there
and so that impacts my ability to speak
let's meet up with the guys from the
other tour table
go tear it up it's exactly right it's
exactly right the guys which is bestest
case have the hook up let's go
it is it is sort of like crazy the
conversations I'll have at like 1:00 in
the morning about going after this hotel
chain regarding trafficking or you know
sort of like the horrible stuff that
this attorney found in Discovery about
you know X Y or Z drug or it is pretty
stunning you just drink copious amounts
of alcohol and then talk about the worst
human beings in the world but it's fun
to do a couple of times a year for me I
hope you enjoyed those interviews that
we we had this this go-round sometimes
you just don't know what you're gonna
get down there but I thought those
interviews were quite interesting some
housecleaning we are several hundred
people away from 10,000 followers on
Instagram if you have an Instagram
account by by all means you should be
following us and spreading it around to
your friends because the stuff that our
artificial intelligence bot is posting
up there is fantastic so check it out I
think the latest thing is a Andrew yang
karaoke that really you really need to
see to believe
also our apps are up we're going to be
shooting a video in the next couple of
days on how to use it but it's quite
simple both iOS and Android you can get
it at majority app comm or just get it
on wherever you get your apps not only
can you login as a member not only can
you search the archives not only do you
get links for stuff and listen live or
watch the YouTube or I am the show or
call the show all within the app you
also get the a.m. quickie and if you
have not signed up for the AM quickie we
need your help
go do it try it out people seem to love
the show
has actually 90 what did I say 94
reviews on iTunes at this point and all
the reviews help because now iTunes is
back up and so you know getting reviews
for it is really gonna make a big
difference has 94 reviews on iTunes
three of them are four star in 91 our
five-star so head over there and review
the app the am quickie and check it out
just gives you the headlines you need
every morning less than five minutes and
gives you a slight preview of what we're
gonna be talking about on the show so
check that out and lastly I just want to
say thank you to Ronald Reagan who sent
me a fan house collector's item action
figure I don't know if it's collection
item but he just wrote Wow Sam this is
basically you makes you effing think and
there it is Dan us alright let's get
into this we're going to be starting off
today's program with something that is
probably largely irrelevant in the great
scheme of things although it does give
you a certain amount of hope later in
the fun half we will discuss how some
people are reacting to it and why it's
ridiculous their reaction but as you
know or may not know the world series is
now we're on game six now right and
Houston Astros and Washington Nationals
Astros are up now for two and and
because the game was played in
Washington DC
they my understanding is that the owners
the Nationals were sort of hoping that
the president wouldn't ask to sit with
them I which I can understand
and as is customary the presence of the
president in the United States is
announced to everyone in the ball field
and well people were
so psyched to see them here it is and
they have a picture of some marines on
the big Jumbotron everybody's cheering
they're Marines
of course military
that's what sporting events are all
about
United States
when they cut back to the Marines yeah
just for the juxtaposition yeah here is
here's Donald Trump's perspective on it
as he's getting booed he is it's a
little hurtful to him so if you if you
have problems seeing someone as feelings
get hurt you might want to look away
from from Donald Trump's expression
clapping there's booing and he just
waits quickly and then he's so mad and I
gotta say it's it's like one of those
things that's like where like he looks
like a freshman in high schools walking
down the hallway and he sees somebody
wave and you're like hey and you realize
they're not waving at you and you just
sort of like take your hand and just go
oh hey that's AJ he's really cool hey
what's up oh I was oh my god I can't
believe it's seniors away I don't even
know them anyway stupid I hate all of
those people hate Washington DC I hate
everybody and then sadly and we will
talk about this more in our analysis
later in the program of just what has
happened to this country but the
audience at the Washington Nationals
World Series game came up with a plan in
which to salute their president and here
is what they came up with
[Applause]
yeah I came up lock him up
finally yeah I wonder it right notice
like Democrats follow the lead of your
people it starts on the streets don't be
like I wonder if the higher up you are
in the stadium the more likely you are
to chant lock him up because that's the
upper deck rhythm interesting
interesting theory but we will get to
more of the reaction to that which is
actually almost as ridiculous as just
it's it's as ridiculous as anything I've
seen but we will check that out later
hey folks Babel will get you speaking a
new language quickly and with confidence
you can choose from 14 different
languages Spanish French Italian
Portuguese Russian there was a whole
mess of them speak your new language
within weeks babbles teaching method and
speech recognition technology has been
proven effective across multiple studies
babbles lessons they're not created by
algorithms they're not created by
artificial intelligence they're created
by a hundred language experts
those are real human beings people and
they are convenient they're engaging
they last 10 to 15 minutes so you don't
get overwhelmed you learn through
interactive dialogues so you can perfect
the way that you your accent and your
pronunciation it's available as an app
on your phone your iPad your tablet I
don't know maybe your watch probably or
online progress syncs across all the
devices we are super psyched to get the
the majority report Babel challenge
going wonder if we could actually we
should actually talk to him about that I
don't know if they know that we're doing
that but Jamie's sick today so we
couldn't we couldn't get it we couldn't
launch it we gotta launch it in the next
couple of days we're all gonna get
babbled as it were and speak Spanish I
take my kids on a trip I take them down
to Mexico or something and actually show
them my daughter's doing something
Italian I'm gonna get her a baby on this
to see if that helps her because you
listen to this show babble has a very
special offer for you go to babble
select the language of your choice once
you try it for free and you're ready to
sign up select the three month three
month option and Babel will give you an
additional three months for free the
promo code majority that's six months
for the cost of three with promo code
majority go to babble ba BB e el ba BB
al.com
enter promo code majority you get that
extra three months babble speak a new
language with confidence as you know I
am constantly seeking away of both
having a convenience and to stay fit I
think I've been doing a fairly decent
job I have been trying certain sense cat
about kettle bell kettle bell yeah dare
you wear this I'm aware this is the
easiest way to eat healthy amount of
eggs actionable exactly they deliver it
right to your door I can't even mention
this without thinking about that
shepherd's pie with sweet potato mash or
whatever they call that it's delicious
but that's the the hardest part for me
anyways is how to eat healthily how much
to eat
I have no portion control I have no idea
honestly they got you hooked up on that
well the thing is exactly and it's
actually it's I'm finding it not only is
do I love the food but I'm learning how
to proportion like how much it I should
be eating I just don't have like like I
can go all day without eating and then I
can eat everything in sight that's not a
great way to eat but kettle bell offers
the nutrition you need without any of
the hassle their goal is to help you
achieve yours they got meal plans that
are tailored to your needs you can sign
up for a plan or order or order all a
cart there's no long term contracts
required meals get delivered to your
door twice a week
optimal freshness you don't need to
worry about sourcing ingredients or
fretting over the the macros you just
heat serve and get the food you need for
real sustainable change
they have like multiple different
programs you can get vegetarian you can
go keto which has like low carb or at
least low starchy carb whole 30 and
paleo options available I may try out
the paleo check it out
I they got stuff like they had the wild
salmon cakes fantastic I had pulled pork
with roasted carrots over rice I tried
like one from the keto one from the
regular I can't remember where the wild
salmon cakes were from but was all
delicious and the portion size is super
helpful because he gives me a sense of
like this is how much a normal human
being eats the something I do have some
type of brain problem feed the champion
interview with kettle bell kitchen go to
kettle bell kitchen calm kettle bell
kitchen calm enter the code majority for
25 bucks off your first two orders for
that's if you're a new customer that's
$25 off of each of your first two orders
at kettle bell kitchen comm code is
majority and we got a couple more here
folks I'm on the road it used to be when
I went on the road my dental hygiene
would go out the window because I had to
bring my mine on electric toothbrush
because I'm not gonna take one of those
huge bulky things with the charger and
that it's not gonna happen and if you
get the old-time old-timey portable ones
those things like the size of a small
chainsaw what is it that makes a better
toothbrush if you ask your dentist they
will tell you because I have it's less
about the brush it's more about how you
use it building a habit and that is what
quip is that's what I love the most
about quit it has like the sensitive
vibrations has a built-in timer it a
timer tells you you get to do it for two
minutes sometimes I'll go I'll go for
but the point is is that it and then it
gives you like a pulse every 30 seconds
to tell you when to switch they send you
a new brush head every three months has
clean new bristles right on schedule the
beauty for me is the design of the brush
it is it is basically the size of a
regular toothbrush
it's beautiful looking and stylish but
it's super convenient and the bottom
line is it doesn't matter what brush you
have if you do not use it and use it
properly it's useless
quip makes brushing something you want
to do twice a day at least the bottom
line is quip is how you maintain and
develop I should say develop and
maintain a good brushing habit quip
starts at just 25 dollars and you'll get
your first refill free at get quip
dot-com slash majority there's a simple
way to get the to support the show and
start brushing better be like my sister
get the quip as a gift well I guess I
gotta here for her gift have your
dentist compliment you it's pretty crazy
get quip comm slash majority for your
first refill free all right we're gonna
take a quick break when we come back
we'll be talking to Matt Stoller about
his new book Goliath the hundred year
war between monopoly power and democracy
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program fellow at
the open markets Institute and author of
Goliath the 100-year war between
monopoly power and democracy Matt
Stoller welcome back to the program hey
thanks for having me so alright let's
let's start and basically the overview
of this is is the sort of I guess the
the sad tale of how the Democratic Party
in particular I mean brought more
broadly our society lost sight of some
very important principles that made our
system work let me let's start just with
the general problem that we're facing
now and then I want to go back and
follow Wright Patman who is essentially
the I guess the protagonists of your
story whose basically almost in some
ways acts as like a narrator and maybe
that's a just a a guide if you will
through that history but just let's
start with just sort of the problem as
you see it yes
spirit animal maybe not you know that
might be a good for Patman yeah so first
of all I I thanks for having me I think
you know I started writing this book
because I was a staffer during the
financial crisis and I'm Democrat and I
was like why did we screw everything up
so badly right why did we allow a
foreclosure crisis why did we bail out
the banks and enable Wall Street
executives to get bonuses instead of
jail time what did we do wrong and it
cuz I I saw you know what the Obama
administration did I saw what people in
Congress did and I it was not corrupt
it's not like they were getting bribed
for what they were doing and I was like
what happened why did we just
systematically promote injustice and so
I looked back over the last
century this kind of led me on a long
research project which ended up in this
in this book and I what I figured out is
that there used to be this whole
tradition of attacking and fighting
concentrated power and that's a
tradition that has largely been hidden
was at least hidden for me but he was
embedded in these kind of rural populace
politicians and Wright Patman is one of
them's from from Texarkana who opposed
big banks they opposed monopolies and
they opposed them because of for
political reasons they thought that they
were autocrats that they were sort of
going to be the analogues to fascists in
in Europe and and they won in the first
half of the century and then in the
second half of this century although
really kind of getting a starting more
on that in the 1970s we allowed our
robber barons to return and you spin
that forward 40 years and today you have
you know not just the financial crisis
caused by too big to fail banks but also
monopolies in every sector of our
economy you know everything from search
and social which are the big tripping
markets and cable and airlines to things
like peanut butter or or bank management
software or syringes you know munitions
and missiles just kind of everywhere
monopolization is a systemic feature of
the American economy
monopoly is what they do this is the
physical manifestation of inequality
right they increase wage inequality
wealth inequality regional inequality
they reduce business innovation they
reduce productivity they're bad for
workers they prevent they corrupt our
society and our politics so you can't
deal with problems like climate change
you know and this is it was a
philosophical change in the 1970s but
led us to think to transform ourselves
from citizens to consumers and led us to
think oh well if we just allow the
concentration of capital but that would
be more efficient and that was the
philosophy in 2008 that Obama and
company and the you know the Democrats
in general kind of took with them in
trying to address a political crisis
they just thought well we
to concentrate power and wealth just to
end the hands of economists and
technocratic experts to fix problems so
wow we have a really big problem now
this is a huge crisis so what we really
need to do is concentrate wealth and
power further to fix that problem and I
know it sounds kind of counterintuitive
but that is that was the philosophy
those were the lessons that people
learned in the 1970s and to really
understand that gift to get back to the
the fight sir but the New Deal fights
over corporate power and then how those
fights manifested in the 1970s and then
in 80s 90s 2000s all right well let's
let's let's let's do that
and and and it goes back well I mean it
goes back a hundred years or so and so
just I mean let's take us from the sort
of the the I guess the the the nascent
era of of anti-monopoly ISM and what and
where did that sentiment I mean to a
certain extent that sentiment was was at
the founding of the country no I mean on
some level or was it was it really was
that not the case no it was you know the
Boston Tea Party is not just a revolt
against taxes it was in fact a revolt
because what the Boston Tea the East
India Company was was trying to do is
they were trying to ship in cheap tea
with tax concessions so in fact the
Boston Tea Party was a was a rebellion
against lower taxes because those lower
taxes were enabling the the East India
Company to monopolize the tea trade
essentially to drive out of business all
of the the middleman merchants in the
colonies people like John Hancock this
kind of it was like a like a colonial
Walmart that's what the East India
Company was in the Boston Tea Party and
Menma tea boycotts were opposition to
monopolization they weren't really
opposition to the levying of taxes they
were opposition to the use of tax system
to structure markets in a way that we
take power from the colonists and move
that power to a monopoly corporation
headquartered far away in England on
someone that now the the analog the
modern-day analog
would have been Amazon not having to pay
sales tax for four years yeah I think
that's right and and you know what you
see is is there was there were a lot of
fears at the time in the 17 I guess it
was the 1770s you know the the East
India Company had just they were allowed
to occupy territory so they had just
induced a famine in in the Bengal
province in India about a million people
died and in the kind of North American
colonies of the British Empire of Bengal
was part of the British Empire they were
worried that you know these India
Company could do the same thing here if
they were able to monopolize the
necessities of life so there was a
national security element to it but it's
always about political power and today
you see the same fight with Amazon
Facebook and Google who are a governing
they are they are private governments
that is what a monopoly is they are
governing our information in our society
and in many ways they are governing our
politics and they are we have not seen
anything like them maybe ever but maybe
since the the East India Company maybe
since the robber barons in the late 19th
century it's always hard to draw
specific analogies but this was that
this is a political problem and my book
doesn't start with the East India
Company I thought about starting it
there but you know you kind of it's
always hard to figure out where to start
a history book but but you know I start
in 1910 with Teddy Roosevelt giving a
speech at awesome itami Kansas it was a
hundred years later Obama actually gave
a speech a toss with Tom in Kansas to
honor that speech was known as the new
nationalism speech and it's because the
election of 1912 was the election when
we determined what corporate America
would look like so corporate America
really got its start in rough like
1894-95 when JP Morgan engineered of
giant merger wave and created companies
when General Electric International
Harvester
US Steel these were giant rollouts of
the technologically advanced
organizations of the day and by 1910
there was sort of this crisis because
you had you know massive train accidents
you had huge inequality you had
corruption it's pretty similar to today
and there had been attempts to deal with
it but the election of 1912 was
when you saw a real battle over
corporate power and there were there was
Teddy Roosevelt who's you ain't thought
of today is a great trust buster but in
fact he didn't like the antitrust laws
he was more he wanted to actually have
monopolies running the country who just
wanted the state to run them it was it's
almost a kind of proto-fascist view
although fascism hadn't been created yet
so but it was just kind of how do we
contain industrial power his view was
well I'll run it I'll run it out of the
White House and then you had William
Howard Taft who basically didn't want to
do much about the monopolies he just
kind of wanted to let private masters
run thing run things and Teddy Roosevelt
wanted public masters to run things
aka Teddy Roosevelt and then you had
Eugene Debs who in many ways agreed with
Teddy Roosevelt although he wanted to
nationalize these monopolies and then
you had Woodrow Wilson who was advised
by Louis Brandeis and he ran on
something called the new freedom and he
ended up winning and Brandeis is view
was we need not just we don't want
public masters or private masters we
want no masters we want to break up
these companies not you know not so that
there are no economies of scale but
break them up so that you have a
competitive marketplace and then
regulate business practices so that the
markets stay open and competitive and so
that competition leads to things that we
think are socially beneficial as opposed
to you know competing based on fraud or
harmful activities so and that was that
was sort of the fight okay
so and and we've just sort of laid out
the difference I guess responses that
one could have I mean for the most part
at least those who want to tackle these
monopolies so just in terms of of
Roosevelt and Debs in terms of their
different perspective on this what was
the so from from from Deb's perspective
the ideas right we're going to
democratize the means of production in
that the state is a reflection of all
the people I guess right I mean dad
wanted to nationalize the means of
production and he also believed like
Roosevelt
that matter hold on Matt would you you
walking away from your phone no okay
sorry right so he wanted to use Marcus
he wanted to nationalize the means of
production how is that different from
what Roosevelt wanted to do like where
is the the difference there and what in
terms of sort of the philosophical
difference it wasn't really that
different I mean that's the things that
the Roosevelt had a kind of you know
Roosevelt was was probably kind of had a
power-sharing arrangement with the with
the JP Morgan's of the day whereas DAB's
I suspect wanted to just displace them
entirely but philosophically they
weren't that different in fact Deb's
kind of accused Teddy Roosevelt of
stealing his platform okay
fair enough so there it's a it's a
difference you're saying in degree as
opposed to kind
yeah and I mean you know Roosevelt was I
mean they were just different
they were different characters and
Roosevelt was much more into warfare
whereas Deb's had had a kind of
international solidarity framework but
in general you know the underlying
philosophy was basically the same okay
and so those are the ways that one would
address this and brand Isis
version wins out which is this idea that
no one's going to have a concentration
of power that's right you're gonna have
you're gonna have like we're gonna
contain industrial power through through
into what he called industrial democracy
right and just to give you a sense for
why I know it seems crazy to say Eugene
Debs and Teddy Roosevelt were basically
the same but think about it you know
this debate continued into the 1920s and
30s and what you saw in the 1930s was
you saw the you basically saw new
dealers who were the ideological
descendants of Brandeis and and Wilson
they looked at at Europe and they said
well fascism in Germany or communism in
the Soviet Union these are both
totalitarian systems right so they they
saw them as basically equivalent one of
which was the state taking over the
government and the other one was the
government taking
over the state and where would and maybe
this is maybe we're leaping ahead a
little bit but but let's have it in this
context because we could have this
similar argument I guess or a
conversation about in terms of Bernie
and Warren on some level and some people
are certainly having that where would
the idea of like of worker owned workers
owning the means of production largely I
mean where where would that fit within
that or is that largely a just a
different way of a or is that that
that's something that can co-exist and
really doesn't have any implications
necessarily for antitrust well so
Brandeis was a big fan of worker coops
it's really just about it's more about
centralization versus decentralization
than you know the specific ownership
models so sodads who wanted federal
government to own you know most of the
means of production he wasn't totally
clear about everything that he wanted
but that's that that was sort of the
gist of it whereas Brandeis and I guess
later teens and new dealers were worth
we're interested in owner and workers
having ownership co-ops were always a
big part of that you know of that
framework credit unions associations
things that allowed people to you know
essentially it was a sort of form of
producer ISM and producer ISM says that
the the people that do the work that
produce the goods or services should be
the ones to benefit from that versus the
middlemen whether those are financiers
or whether those are kind of corrupt
public servants and so it was really the
real question was do you want to
centralize production or do you not want
to or do you want to decentralize
production and and Deb's and Roosevelt
believed that you know monopolies are
natural that you you know it's just a
centralization is just a way of the
world very similar to the neoliberal
framework and and Brandeis did not think
that Wilson did not think that and they
believed that there was a political
agency and how we
structure our corporations they were but
they were in favor of coops Taft was not
really I don't think he was a huge fan
of coops but the actual ability to own
the means of production was not I mean
that was really the question was really
about whether that would be done
centrally or whether you would have
decentralized decentralized kind of
conglomerations of capital competing in
markets okay and and and I think that's
just important for people to understand
because there's almost it's like a
slightly different plane of an argument
right where where we're looking at just
like a slightly different because and
when we talk about producer ISM that
takes us up to Patman but but explain
how produces 'm producer ism is a
different is different in terms of its
conceit of of a a Marxist perspective on
what happens with you know relationship
between labor and capital yes oh so
producer ISM you go go back to you know
Thomas Jefferson or Thomas Paine you
know the yeoman farmer model yeah
whatever he who shall not work shall not
eat which you go back to even earlier
British the Levellers in the 1600s you
know just this idea that if you are
somebody who produces your worker you're
an engineer you're a businessman a
businesswoman you should gain the fruits
of that of that labor and if you are a
middleman or financier that you should
not gain the fruits of other people's
labor right that was the bait that's the
basic idea and the division there is
structure markets and structure
corporations and structure how human
society to enable that and decentralized
ownership of property to enable that and
I think the marshes perspective and I
I'm not I'm you know I'm there lots of
different ways to talk about mark so I'm
sure there's a bunch of Marxist
perspectives which would would say oh
what we totally agree with that what I
just said about Brandeis but from my
understanding and sort of from what the
the Deb's and play the Communists the
pre-soviet communists spot is their view
was look property itself is the problem
private property itself is the problem
therefore what you really should do is
just get rid of private property and
have everything done communally and
collectively through you know the
centralized state government and and you
know that's just that that's just a
different vision i mean you see that
today with sort of some people like matt
bruenig who believes that but
essentially that would be everybody owns
kind of a share of society and then you
collectively vote over what the kind of
large decision-maker does in that giant
corporation and that that that's i guess
the kind of division versus the other
vision which is actually everybody needs
to have a little bit little piece of
land instead of everybody working on a
collective giant farm
ok so now we get up to the to the new
deal brand isis of vision wins the day
to some extent i mean obviously you know
investment in a lot of the new deal also
involved investing in public works and
how do that's not that's not a communist
framework i mean there have been you
know investment in public works has been
something that you know that's that's
500 years old right years old it's
that's not a the idea that the
government creates roads or the
government creates you know
infrastructure that it has collective
obligations is not a that's not
something that like is a you know yes
there's there some centralization
involved there but it's you know we had
the post office in 1792 this is not a
part of that that doesn't belong to this
they say the Marxist tradition right and
but yet it i mean theoretically one
could imagine a situation where it's
like we don't want to give the federal
government and I guess maybe there's
competition in terms of you know
municipal governments and state
governments all have a different role in
terms of of dealing with roads let's say
and maybe there's a
no I mean I'm just trying to the the the
the gist of the New Deal was not just a
function of antitrust that was just a
big part of of how to deal with the
problems that had come out of the
depression well so okay so it's not just
the antitrust if there is a specific
type of law that's fairly narrow to deal
with industrial industrial companies
anti-monopoly is you know what no no no
anti man yes part of it was the anti
monopolization put but the anti-monopoly
tradition is much bigger than just
antitrust right so antitrust goes after
specific industrial companies what
happened in the nineteen twenty as you
saw this decade of corporatism where
people lost faith and democracy and that
and I go into Andrew Mellon who's this
like fascinating evil character or he's
sort of a villain and his sections
Treasury like does all sorts of self
dealing it's like it's a very corrupt in
fascinating decade the KKK descended
everybody demoralized who cares about
democracy and then in the 1930s the
people who were essentially governing in
that era are large financial holding
companies namely the Rockefellers the
DuPont's the melons and and the
Rockefellers DuPont's the melons and and
JP Morgan the bank right those guys are
struttin Anne Shiell it's effectively
informal financial empires and they
control most of the business and
political assets of the United States
now the New Deal was about attacking and
destroying the power that those four
families had over the American political
economy and he did that through the
whole set of different policy choices
and protests including fiscal policy so
like breaking the control of that the
bankers had over the Federal Reserve yes
there was antitrust labor policy like so
unionization social welfare and then
financial policy but also things like
breaking up the electric utilities which
we also did or breaking up aerospace
companies which we also did or breaking
up banks which we also did and then
there was a whole bunch of fights over
you know and this disappears this took
you know five to ten years it was like
imagine everything that Elizabeth Warren
or Bernie Sanders
proposing and like 75% of that stuff
gets done in five to ten years I mean
that's what the New Deal was actually
about and it was basically the only
experiment that showed that democracy
could work in the 1930s other than that
you had a bunch of weak democracies that
were kind of flailing around and people
were very unhappy France and England and
then you had the you had fascism which
for a lot of people seemed to kind of
deliver what the democracies could not
and then you had the Soviet Union which
again I mean this was all PR but it's
high and people were like oh this they
there actually seem to be delivering
kind of lifting people out of poverty
it's very much the way that like people
will often look at China today they have
something that's kind of working and so
the New Deal was so important because it
did show that you could have a
government and that was governed by its
people that we did not have to knuckle
under to these private financial
autocrats who were running things and so
you know today you see mark zuckerberg
right he's kind of testifying before
Congress as a business leader but really
not as a business leader more as a
political leader who's making choices
about what we as society gets to see
right and and that's the level of and
the real debate today is between
Elizabeth Warren and Mark Zuckerberg
it's not between any of the candidates
that's the level of a political fight
that we're dealing with today and that's
the level of political fight that we
were dealing with from the 19-teens
until the 1930s was a fight between it
was a fight over who governs the people
through their democratic institutions or
autocrats through financial holding
companies and industrial monopolies and
okay so let's let's go into just tell us
about Wright Patman and we will we will
you know sort of I guess work our way
through most of the 20th century till we
get to the to the 70s where this sort of
falls apart but tell us who right Papen
was yes so right Patman is this cotton
tenant farmer from Texarkana which is
this or the border of Texas Arkansas
Oklahoma Louisiana and he he gets
elected
to Congress in 1928 takes office in 29
and he starts attacking Andrew Mellon
and supporting trying to get World War
one veteran's money that they were that
they hadn't been paid during the war he
was he was like they should be paid
basically their pension should be
accelerated and this is not a big fight
until the depression when everything
kind of collapses and the veterans
themselves start marching to DC is very
much like Occupy Wall Street and they
say hey we're poor we fought for this
country you should you know help us the
government should help us and out of
that
Patman ended up filing articles of
impeachment against Andrew Mellon who
was blocking the payment to these
veterans and then Herbert Hoover tear
gassed them and that was you know and
got rid of you know push them out of DC
and it was the army he ordered the army
to do it the army was led by Douglas
MacArthur to ID Eisenhower like sort of
later heroes and and that was kind of
laid the foundation this was called the
bonus march that that laid the
foundation for the New Deal because it
showed how corrupt and callous the old
order was and then I go into how FDR
ended up outmaneuvering the monopolists
in the Democratic Party in the 1932
primary who wanted to run on social
issues and not the economy and then he
ended up defeating Hoover and had this
kind of gang fight between you know put
Mellon on trial for tax fraud you know
this is the Secretary of Treasury the
third richest guy in the country and he
goes on trial for tax fraud you know he
breaks their power kind of
systematically and it's it's not just
FDR but these these uh you know Wright
Patman is hugely involved in this
fighting against corruption both in the
corporate state and the banking world
also in the judiciary there's the
massive fights within the judiciary and
kottmann is also fights against chain
stores so they had their Walmart's in
the 1920s and 30s it was called a and P
which today we know of as a sort of a
harmless store that went bankrupt a
couple years ago but in the 1920s and
30s it was the predatory Walmart of its
day and Patman led the fight to impose
pricing laws to prevent them from
driving their competitors out of
business and so
over the course of the 19 like the sort
of the late 1920s all the way into the
1970s because Patman lasted you know he
lived until 1976 and he eventually
became the chair of the banking
committee in the 60s 48 years in
Congress 40 46 years 46 46 years and
then I think 15 years or 14 years as the
head of the banking committee he fought
against concentration of the power he
fought against banking deregulation and
in you know in some cases he fought
against his own party to impose that and
he was he lost a lot of battles but he
also won a lot of battles and then in
1976 and this is for kind of a lot of
different reasons but but mainly it was
that a new generation of Democrats came
into office in 1974 observers reaction
to Watergate now ironically Patman as a
head of the Banking Committee had
actually been the first Democrat to
investigate Watergate in 1972 before the
election and he fought with with Nixon
and ultimately in his own party who
refused to allow him to get a subpoena
into the Nixon White House and so this
new generation gets elected in 74 but
this generation and this is Bill
Clinton's generation they don't care
about what Democrats have traditionally
cared about which is banking power and
corporate power and monopolies instead
they're thinking about the Pentagon
right they're thinking about
environmentalism they're thinking about
a whole bunch of kind of a different
vision of social justice that was
created in the 1950s that airbrushed all
of the fights that we used to have about
corporate power out of our collective
memory and this is the Watergate baby
generation and then behind the scenes
that one of the first things they that
happen is the bankers manipulated them
into voting Patman out of his committee
assignments sharing the banking
committee and so they got a the bankers
managed to find the in the end get rid
of Wright Patman and then later a few
few months later he ended up he died but
that was the moment 1975 when they got
rid of patent in which the Democratic
Party adopted a new philosophy of
cooperating with concentrated capital
and that same Congress they got rid of
the laws that were protecting the
American independent retailer and
manufacturer from chain stores and so in
1970 Walmart has thirty million dollars
forty million dollars of revenue by 1980
it has a billion dollars of revenue and
this is because in 1975 Congress this
Democratic Congress this Watergate baby
Congress gets rid of some of the pricing
rules that have constrained change
stores and then dreg you know late and
they start doing deregulation and this
is the Democrats who are doing it
because they believe in it right and
Ralph Nader is actually pushing
deregulation I hold on one second I want
to get into Ralph Nader but I just want
to like just sort of a you know a plan
to flag here and just say I think in the
past I think we've talked to you about
this about the atari democrats we've
done a couple interviews with lily
Geismar
this era there was a lot of things going
on within the democratic party this was
almost one feature of it but it was all
sort of emanating around this a similar
push right where the the Democrats
largely I mean abandoned labor
maybe that's - or I should say unions in
particular on some level - to make
ostensibly the primary purpose at the
primaries more democratic in some ways
and we also see the sort of the adoption
of you call social justice or maybe
emancipation movements or
environmentalism other other issues
become to the for how much though we
should say at this point like when
Patman is jettisoned we should also say
that that he was part of his coalition
was built on a certain amount of of
racism yes I'm is that fair to say
yeah so yes that's right he had vote so
Patman has an interesting relationship
with race this is very complicated but
in its in the nineteen twenty teeth
fought against the Klan right in rural
Texas team is the DP a very op opposed
to the Klan and we should
this is when the clan had was basically
I think there was six million
card-carrying members in 1920 out of a
population of a hundred million that's a
lot of people to be proud clan members
right I mean you know who knows if there
was any ashamed ones but that's a lot
that's a huge portion of the population
yeah the mayor of Portland Oregon in
Portland Maine were both claimed in 1922
I mean it was it was a mainstream
movement that was based on you know
there's it's fascinating but but tom was
opposed to the clan and having also did
a bunch of things that were like he he
made sure that economic power he tried
to distribute economic power regardless
of race he got the first black member of
the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve on the board in the 1960s he
passed the Fair Credit Reporting Act
which is an anti-discrimination statute
in I guess 69 or 70 actually I'm going
around his own committee but he also
voted for segregation in the early 50s
and was a signer of this of the southern
manifesto and and he said very
explicitly in the 70s why he did that
which is I would have lost my seat in
rural Texas if I hadn't and he was also
he was getting you know there were
always primary candidates that the the
far right wing was putting up against
him saying he was insufficiently
dedicated to the cause of segregation um
but what happened by 1975 not that there
was like nobody in 75 really pushed
Patman out because of race so that
wasn't the issue and and he had
defenders in Congress who were who were
black and he had people in Congress who
were black who opposed him you know the
issue was just and I talked to a bunch
of the Watergate Baby members they were
just like ah he was he was too old and
that the neoliberal generation that
emerged in 1975 it's not that they were
like they were like oh race is actually
what matters versus the the old you know
the older generation who were saying you
know oh no actually race doesn't matter
it's all about economic art that's not
what the debate was the debate were two
different visions of racial justice and
one of the visions of racial justice
which was also about economic justice
was we need to have a democracy and undo
the undo the institutional
concentrations of power that enabled
discrimination of both against
african-americans and women and the
small shopkeeper and the other and this
was the neoliberal framework was
basically we need to have we need to
allow discrimination against the small
shopkeeper and against the little guy
but we need to make sure that you know
in this kind of greed is good paradigm
that nobody exploits gender or racial
identity to advantage themselves they
can do other things they can think it
exploit fraud they can exploit
corruption but that that is a no-no so
now both of these visions of a kind of
multicultural oligarchy and a
multicultural democracy have embedded in
them a vision of social justice and a
vision of racial justice but they are
different I wouldn't say that the Patman
vision which really comes back from
Brandeis you know you could go back and
you know Frederick Douglass hated
monopoly there's a whole you know sort
of interesting racial dynamic here that
one it's not I don't think it's as
simple as saying oh Patton was racist in
this new generation was it I think you'd
you know anyway so that's just a well I
mean put aside different bit right but
and put aside put aside whatever you
know whatever patmans actual feelings
were right I mean clearly he was
constrained by a racist consistent
constituency and I guess really in terms
of because ultimately what you're
writing about is power right and and at
the end of the day like it's a you know
what was in his heart or even what you
know what was really relevant is there
like to what extent he could push the
limits of his constituencies patience
and to what extent I'm saying that that
the laws that we don't think of as
anti-discrimination measures like anti
chain-store laws or laws that prevent
you know monopolization that those are
actually also very important civil
rights laws that we just don't think
as such and those are the laws that
Patman was protecting in that Brandeis
was protecting and that you know those
the first laws that Bork attacked and
those are the laws that the Watergate
baby generation got rid of so so that
that's what I'm saying it's not that
that it's not that like Pavan couldn't
yeah I mean he he voted for segregation
there's there's no there's no getting
around that
and I was it was you know that's that's
it anymore and the immoral thing to do
what I'm saying is that the neoliberal
generation the deal that was cut in 1975
and 76 was a deal to entrench a
different form and much more pernicious
form of racism than the one that came
out of the New Deal I'm yeah that's that
that's all this is about you destroy
black banks you destroy you destroy
black stores you know you destroy black
economic power that is the form of
racism that is extremely vicious
it just happens through a monopolization
and predatory pricing and we don't sort
of see it as kind of a civil rights
problem but we should and that is an
ideological flaw in the way that the
civil rights movement has kind of
thought about the world since the 1975
or so I mean neoliberalism is everywhere
it is in the civil rights movement today
it is in the way that we think about
race today and that's a problem right
right and I guess that's where I'm
trying to get at is just sort of examine
like the difficulty it seems to be is
that the in you know and and stipulating
that I I think you're right like this
sort of the the the material
implications in terms of how it impacts
a race of neoliberal policies in many
ways are more dramatic than you know
long term at least in terms of like
accruing power for these communities
then the nobody let me put it let me put
it in a more stark way Obama is a black
president right he oversaw the largest
theft of black wealth in our lifetimes
and maybe in 80 years okay we have no
way to talk about that because Neil does
the neoliberal just framework of race is
designed to obscure power and it's a
racist train
it is it is a it's not as bad as Jim
Crow but it was a reactionary turn in
1975 and 1976 so that we cannot honestly
talk about race nobody can honestly talk
about race because that is what happened
that's what happened in 2008 to 2014 and
I brought this up over and over and over
and Democrats cannot come to grips with
it they can't handle it because they are
in thrall to them to the neoliberal
framer on power and money and business
and race and everything else and I wrote
this book to explain what happened to
explain why we're in this framework but
I don't accept I just the framing of the
way that we talk about race it's
fundamentally dishonest today yeah I
mean I and I think you know you and I
had that conversation I think in the
lead-up to the 2012 election actually
but and and and and I I'm not I'm not
disagreeing with with with that
assessment but I'm but it's it doesn't
tell you no I'm saying I'm also
suggesting that there's another half of
that story which is that it doesn't
strike me as a coincidence that
Patman came from a background that you
know and I'm not talking about him
personally but but his constituency was
also happened to be racist and and and
you know you and I may may or may not
agree or disagree I don't know on the
implications of their racism as terms of
it how it materially impacts you know
black people let's say and and I'm not
even sure that you know viewer and I can
assess like what's the most important
thing there and it's not it's not really
relevant to the point on the 1920s for a
fascist era I mean you're let's just
call Jim Crow what it was in the south
it was fascism like that's what what and
it was it was sustained terrorist
violence against against particularly
against black people it was not as bad
against poor white people but it did
disenfranchise poor white people and it
particularly singled out black people
with economic power those were the
people who are often the targets of link
those are the people it's why they
burned down you know black Wall Street
in Tulsa this was a Jim Crow was a
system that was designed to keep black
people in servitude by attacking the
economic divide the foundations of their
economic power now pavment broke from
that somewhat because he was trying to
deal with breaking the hold that
concentrated northern capital which was
an important part of Jim Crow by the way
he was trying to say you know we're
gonna break from that and then the civil
rights movement in the 50s and 60s built
on top of the New Deal and said no we're
actually now that we've kind of shown
that there can be an imperfect democracy
we're going to try to let all people
black and white and women in gay we're
going to try to let them all into this
democracy the whole point is that in
1975 the Watergate babies and then they
got much they got corrupted in the 1980s
but the Watergate babies decided that
democracy did not incorporate economic
power right and that is a deeply deeply
reactionary thing to do you can go back
and say oh you know Commons constituents
were racist absolutely and you can go
back to you know the 1870s and discover
kind of why that racism was created why
that was engendered right now it was a
propaganda campaign after the Civil War
put forward actually after the financial
crisis of 1873 it was put forward by
northern capital so the the fight here
is complicated and always has to do with
with political and economic power and it
manifests itself through racial
terrorism but but to just kind of like
the way that we talk about the problem
today ear brushes out all of those
questions of power so that we can get to
this libertarian framework of saying and
another thing you're saying something
that this is kind of the way that I hear
the racial discussion today it's always
just what is in your heart as an
individual right are you do you believe
in equality as an individual or not and
it's like that doesn't matter what
matters is whether equality is embedded
in our institutions of power because
there are always going to be jerks there
are always going to be people that want
to bully others the question in a
democracy is whether you can make sure
that everybody has
right and that no one can use power to
bully other people that's that's kind of
where we have to go and that is the that
is a populace more democratic approach
to addressing the problem of
discrimination against the powerful
versus the powerless all right and and
and and just and just to be clear like I
I agree with that perspective all I'm
suggesting two things one is is that I
think there has to be some sensitivity
to the lived experience of people who
are subjected to racism in a you know in
a on an individual level Hey
but that that's a you know I think
that's an important thing to say but I'm
also suggesting that there's a
relationship between the largely poor
white constituency and their
relationship to racism that allowed a
guy like Patman to function in the way
that he was functioning and I'm just
saying that that's the other half of
that you know there are the forces that
took Patman out but there were also the
forces that that maintained him and I'm
just suggesting that that is also you
know a good important part of the story
but Patman was was commons political
power actually came through postal rural
post masters so before you know he had
yet the postmasters essentially
delivering his direct mail and talking
to people and his you know the reason
people voted for him is because he
delivered roads and and and farm
supports and Social Security and rural
electrification that that's you know
that's why he had a whole bunch of
people I mean if his constituents were
just into white supremacy they wouldn't
know and pick Patton because he there
were always people there often people
running against the work or more white
supremacists and he was it was actually
was just about delivering the things
that that they
they wanted and needed on a material
basis and then when you know the Civil
Rights Act passed and and there was a
black people as District got the right
to vote they they tended to vote from
happened
so is it was that his his political
support came from the thing that that
Democrats in 1975 when they transitioned
to this kind of concentrated capital
tv-friendly
politics they started losing that
immediately and and his supporters a lot
of his supporters were in credit unions
and and pharmacists and small
businesspeople right and those people
supported Patman and they supported
Democrats largely because the FTC
protected small business from chain
stores and protected small business from
monopolists and almost immediately in
the late 1970s when Jimmy Carter you
know under the influence of Ralph Nader
turned the FTC against small business
under the grounds that they needed to
protect consumers and it didn't matter
whether big whether it were big or small
businesses we just have to go after and
protect consumers and not care about
business at all almost immediately the
FTC was pushed back aggressively they
lost their constituency base and then
when Reagan came into office in 1981 he
effectively just turned out the lights
at the FTC
and nobody cared because the small
business constituency said had had lost
faith in the in the FTC and the
Democratic Party to do anything so the
loss of that income monopoly sentiment
that battle against concentrated power
had really significant impacts and then
when Walmart came in and just chewed up
the entire small business constituency
in the south and in the Rust Belt all of
those civic leaders who had been the
Civic leadership for the Democratic
Party
disappeared right and that's the
creation of a red and blue America right
there all right and let's let's get
explicit about the sort of three
projects that came together because one
of them was that that consumer movement
and I think people's that's a little bit
counterintuitive for people the to sort
of see like the consumer movement being
one of the the pillars of what has
happened with our anti-monopoly ISM in
this country financialization and then
the Chicago School which is you know
all three are related but but just walk
us through those three projects yes so
so the the Chicago School the law and
economics movement I've a chapter in my
book about this they were created in the
late nineteen late 1940s early 50s and
they this was a kind of reconstruction
of robber baron capitalism and so it was
a very cynical guiding aaron director to
trained Milton Friedman George Stigler
Robert Bork and he he was actually the
brother-in-law of Milton Friedman and he
I he grew up in Portland Oregon in the
20s she's Jewish
Russian immigrant and so he was very
cynical about democracy because the
people around him were you know
anti-semitic and in the KKK and so he
took this a very elitist attitude first
he became a socialist and then
eventually he went to the University of
Chicago and was funded by this
right-wing lunatic named Harold low now
and and he created neoliberalism
he broke conservatism away from
anti-monopoly thinking a lot of
conservatives had hated the government
and labor but they also hated monopolies
errand directors the guy who said no no
we're gonna hate government we're gonna
hate labor but we're gonna support
monopolies and support concentrated
capital and he built a whole you cannot
let an intellectual project it centered
the University of Chicago to create the
tools the legal tools to unleash
concentrated capital and to undo the New
Deal but he wouldn't been successful
unless the second trend financialization
had had not occurred and this was this
was done by a guy named Walter Wriston
at National City or for Citibank so
Walter Wriston again same thing got his
start in the late 40s early 50s at
National City the banking system was
really heavily controlled and he's the
most important banker since JP Morgan
and he's a guy who really led early
deregulation had theater fights with
Wright Patman in the 1960s over undoing
the the New Deal financial controls
particularly around where banks could
get deposits and and when he undid the
he undid those New Deal controls in 1961
was something called the certificate
negotiable certificate of deposit all of
a sudden you saw man
if increases in capitalization in stock
market you saw I was called the go-go
years and and conglomerates which were
an early prelude to mutual funds the
early prelude to the 1980s and financial
power and that started slamming into the
real economy in the late 1960s and
particularly in 1970 when in the train
system Penn Central much of the train
system in Northeast went bankrupt it was
the largest bankruptcy in American
history was sort of the Enron at its day
and that's what actually led to the
Conservatives deciding business elite
can deciding to organize politically so
that's why they wrote the Powell memo
that's why they did a bunch of the kind
of things that we just think oh they got
greedy in the early seventies it's like
no no what happened is the financial
system was in crisis corporate America
was in crisis and they they started to
have a political debate about what to do
and it was because financialization had
slammed into the real economy had
bankrupted the train system and it's
because of the forces that Walter
Wriston
had let loose Pavin had been fighting
him but he wasn't able to totally stop
it although he did stop a bailout at
Penn Central and then the third force is
the consumer rights movement and this is
really John Kenneth Galbraith and
Richard Hofstadter again late 1940s
early 50s all of this is in the specter
of the McCarthy reactionary movement who
some of the funders of McCarthy Red
Scare were also behind the law and
economics movement so these guys were
corporate liberals and they rewrote the
history they were very important so
Galbraith and Hofstetter rewrote our
history and they got rid of the idea
that fights happened in the late 19th
century around the money trust in
corporate power they said that's all
fake in fact what's happening is these
farmers who are fighting the bankers and
railroads they weren't really fighting
them they were actually just
anglo-saxons who were afraid losing
their their wasp privileged it was a
fight over was called status anxiety and
then with that new framework they
developed Galbreath developed this
something called affluence which was
this notion that America was just this
endlessly affluent society and we didn't
need to fight over corporate power
anymore we had figured that out there
was no inequality or any quality was not
important monopolies were progressive
all this stuff that he kind of framed
and he taught me in
haier counterculture because he was very
opposed to the war in vietnam and in
many ways was heroic but his ideas were
catastrophic
and the counterculture in the 1960s and
learned from Galbreath and Hofstetter
and see right mills and a whole bunch of
people who hated small business and and
didn't didn't want to have debates over
core power or they were just socialists
they learned to not care about
monopolies and then in the 1970s they
became this consumer rights movement led
by Ralph Nader who said it's very
similar to what consumer rights people
said in the nineteen teens and 20s that
production doesn't matter the only thing
that matters is consumers and so chain
stores can be good and the only thing
that matters is sort of price and safety
and quality workers didn't matter unions
doesn't matter big business big unions
both corrupts big government corrupt the
only thing that matters is consumerism
and then they got fooled in the nineteen
seventies you have this crisis in
corporate America caused by
financialization and then you have a law
and economics movement and you have the
last of the populace like so hard to
Bert Humphrey and Wright Patman saying
save the shopkeeper break up big
business and then you have this consumer
rights movement that sitting in the
middle and they end up mostly aligning
with the law and economics guys and
pushing for deregulation and pushing for
financialization and they didn't know
what they were doing Nader didn't know
what he was doing
but he does things like he creates the
corporate rights of free speech he
pushes for banking deregulation and
airline deregulation and trucking
deregulation and and that's that's what
kind of that's why the Carter
Administration is a catastrophe and then
Reagan gets into office by the time
Reagan gets into office there is no more
debate right the left patents died still
hearts died Humphries died and there's
no one to carry the torch and so this
new generation of Watergate babies is in
charge and they basically agree with
Reagan that corporate concentration is
inevitable it's progressive is and it is
naturally scientific and just to explain
to people like why they felt that way
and this is how we got the sort of the
Bork Ian version of
of antitrust is that these this
concentration leads to cheaper products
maybe you know theoretically maybe like
you know well we can get it overnight
delivered to us now I mean it's all
based upon a looking at the world
through the lens exclusively of how much
stuff can I consume and in its most
convenient way that's right and and our
legal framework was structured so that
we stopped caring about competitive
processing concentrations of power
essentially a biggest bad skepticism and
move towards as you put a consumer price
and so something like Google or Facebook
they both offer free they're free
they're you don't have to pay for them
with money
obviously you pay with other things but
it's very hard for the way that we
interpret antitrust laws today to see
the concentration of power in the hands
of Google or Facebook or Amazon it's not
impossible it's just that that you know
there there are other things going on
these are like externalities right I
mean this is sort of a classic case of
some externalities insofar as that we
don't realize where we're paying for
these free services or these
reduced-price services in the continent
show up necessarily as as dollars as
much as it does I mean ultimately it
might but it shows up in the context of
political power and a sort of I guess
things that are a little bit less
tangible in the context of society well
it's just that it's just that we as
consumers aren't the ones paying the
price the people that are paying the
price are the publishers and the sellers
through Amazon right so traditionally
you would have like a seller throwing
through a through an Amazon or stuff
like the standard low fight was between
wildcatters and Standard Oil as the
distributor of the oil it wasn't
necessarily about consumer prices all
there was there were some of that and so
it's like if you're looking at at
Walmart
looking at Amazon or you're looking at
Google you don't don't look on the
consumer side for the for the problem
you look on the producer side it's the
workers it's the suppliers it's the
manufacturers getting screwed so if we
wanted to apply the law like we used to
it'd be easy to find the harm it's just
that the harm is not necessarily when
you log into your Facebook account it's
the death it's the fact that Facebook is
appropriating the revenue the
advertising revenue that used to go to
the New York Times Facebook is now
getting it because they're able to take
the data effectively from every every
publisher on the internet they're able
to coercively take that data and then
out-compete them because data is really
important in terms of selling
advertising so it's like it's not hard
to figure out how to use the law to
attack the concentration of power it's
just that if you're seeing things from
the consumer standpoint instead of from
a citizen standpoint or a producer
standpoint then you don't see the power
right that's my point is that these
externalities are in a different
currency if you will or just a different
silo of our existence which has been
largely devalued I mean I think at least
in the popular culture I mean I've heard
you you know talk about the you know
just the implications of the blogs when
Google basically came in and big-footed
everybody and dried up all the
advertising Avenue and in the
implications of that just in terms of
like the different voices we hear yeah
that's right I mean it's we we are we
are increasingly living in an autocracy
in the commercial side of our lives
right so we get bossed around you know
whether you're a chicken farmer you're
an uber driver or you're an engineer at
Boeing like you increasingly have less
and less agency you might have a nicer
servitude depending on where you are but
it's no surprise that is people get used
to being bossed around in the commercial
sector in the trade that they do that
they increasingly get used to being
bossed around in the political sector
and that's why you see rising autocracy
that's what Trump is but that that's
also what you see all over the world
monopolization is a form of autocracy
it's a private government that's what's
going on
having these many private governments
linked together by Wall Street
organizing our society so so how do well
I mean I I still have a lot I wanted to
get to but and I guess the question is
is sort of how do you what's the best
way to tackle this but how do you get
people to care you know I mean like I
you know I mean how do you say what's
that
they took angle I if I go into this it's
it they do care I think people people
just don't have the language to
understand that like what and what to do
and they don't have the language to
think of themselves as citizens so in
Goliath you know I talk about what I
mean the process is about how how we
just didn't know that this was our
heritage right and I wrote this book so
that people would understand that the
history of America in the 20th century
which is really the history that's like
the America was kind of a central area
of debate in the world at that for most
of the 20th century
that history is about the heritage
that's our heritage and the suspicion
that we feel towards concentration
concentrated power which we all feel is
very American right the idea that we
want fair markets that we want we want
to get rid of the financier manipulating
us as a political matter that is deeply
embedded in the American experiment and
we have to know that in order to reclaim
our liberties as a free people I mean
but what if somebody says like you know
all that sounds great but I I like you
know I like just being able to go on my
computer and I want a pair of sneakers
and it comes here in two days look I
mean you're gonna it's ultimately we're
gonna have to make the argument for
freedom right I mean that's that's just
that's just the reality it's like if
somebody really wants to day shipping
and they're willing to give up their
liberty for two day shipping then and
that's the thing that they care about
most in the world we're going to lose
that we're going to lose we lose our
freedom we lose our democracy the
reality is you can have two day shipping
with
out without losing your democracy like
none of these you can have light without
having American Airlines charge you
baggage fees there's nothing inherent
about the technology that commands a
certain political regulatory schema
however ultimately this is a question of
values and it is a question of whether
we want to be a free people or whether
we don't and that's the debate that
we're having that's the debate that
Bernie that warrant that that Trump that
Buddha judge that they're they're all
articulating their position on that
question and some people are saying yeah
you know what I am willing to sell my
heritage as British put it for a mess of
pottage right Keith as a consumer you're
willing to do anything for that two-day
shipping and there are others who are
saying no I want to live in a society
where I am NOT in servitude to others
and I add there I mean there's also you
know there are broader implications in
terms of what we're doing we pay that
price in other political decisions and
Men arguably things like wigs that wage
stagnation and etc when we are you know
signing up for for that type of monopoly
alright so last night I mean it's not
like we're living in an economic
paradise right it's like the whole
framework is ridiculous but like even
accepting that all right so lastly
Warren and Bernie what from your
perspective because I think they're you
know folks in these parts who would
argue that it's not the difference
between them is not of a matter of
degree but rather of a kind what's your
perspective on that I don't think they
had really I don't think there's really
much difference ideologically I think
they're different they have different
political priorities different political
styles but you know what Bernie used to
carry around Wright Patman reports when
he would walk around Vermont in the 70s
from the Banking Committee talked about
chain banking Elizabeth Warren you know
she knows Padma and she very much is
like comes out of that happen style
opposition to concentrated power the
hearings the you know the rigor the
entire monopolize 'im it's it's both you
know both of them
effectively want to want to distribute a
little bit of property to everybody they
both kind of have a brand I see in frame
they both are essentially New Deal
Democrats it's the same tradition they
obviously have a different like kind of
different styles maybe different
approaches to gaining political power a
lot of the like attempts to explain you
know to explain one of them is kind of
inherently more you know better or
whatever it's just like it's kind of
annoying worrying is a much stronger
bureaucratic leader she will ride a
bureaucracy to do things bernie is much
more he's a he's a more capable
communicator to the broad public I don't
think that you can say that one of them
is it's kind of better they are
different I am not convinced that either
one of them is perfect I think there are
problems with both I think there are
benefits to both but by and large the
disagreement over Bernie and Warren
comes from the basic fact that Obama was
a terrible president and neither side
can admit it
and so when Warren a lot of Warren's
accomplishments are in preventing Obama
from doing the horrible things that he
really wanted to do and she can't brag
about that because Democrats love Obama
and she has to get their votes and I
think what Bernie was really doing in
2016 was running against the shitty
legacy of Obama but he can't brag about
that because Democrats like Obama so
that's really the subtext for all of
this and I I don't you know I think
there are legitimate grounds for
criticism of both of them but I just
don't think that philosophically they
really disagree and you don't think
there is a the relevance of some
programs being means-tested versus
universality that doesn't as a as a
political tactic or mechanism in which
to sort of you know raise an awareness
of people's role beyond a consumer the
none of that moves you know I don't
think so I mean you could you could just
as easily say you know Warren says she
wants to break up big tech and Bernie
just doesn't Bernie wants to say oh we
need an antitrust attorney general who
will enforce the antitrust laws which is
a you know that's a subtle way of not
calling for breaking up big
but I don't think that like Bernie is
not going to be aggressive on you know
I'm dealing with big tech I think that
like Warren certainly has a more
aggressive plan but I'm not going to
like I mean I think we all know where
bernie is coming from in the same way I
think we all know where Warren is coming
from or at least you know so I'm not I
don't know parsing those kind of small
distinctions on on kind of these plans
it's just it's just kind of it's like
it's sort of silly and I mean I think
you can you could definitely make the
argument that like Bernie and his plans
on social welfare have been a little bit
more left-wing and you know Warren
aren't her plan on you know AG and and
tech have been more more populous than
more awful to concentrated power and I
think those are fine debates to have I
think there's legitimate grounds for
criticizing the CFPB for your not being
particularly effective I think there's
legitimate grounds for criticizing
Bernie for not really doing much on the
foreclosure crisis there's legitimate
grounds for going after you know for
putting sort of both of them through the
wringer and we should do that but the
basic problem is Democrats have been
terrible and Democrats particularly
Obama was terrible and we have to reckon
with that in both Warren and Bernie have
can't fully reckon with it because the
Democratic base including the left by
the way and we had that debate in 2012
and and I remember you know like I was
the only one out there saying that this
guy's no good right and I'm still pretty
much one of the only people saying he
did a bad job and we have to reckon with
that like that's the fundamental problem
here and that's why I like this kind of
shadowboxing over Warren and Bernie is
kind of beside the point
fair enough and people can go back and
listen to that conversation that we had
must have been pre 2012 right yeah
that's right I think I got on a couple
of times since then but and and to be
fair we also did have there was I can't
remember his name off the top my head
but from the black agenda report it was
gone forward actually I think we had on
making a similar argument
maybe not necessarily the exact same
terms that that you were arguing at that
time yeah I was arguing for boating for
third party in 2012 or not voting for
Obama even in swing states and like the
guy who was opposed to us as was was
Mitt Romney I remember at the time
people were like oh my gosh she's the
worst I can't believe Mitt Romney you
know how dare you
and it's like today Mitt Romney is like
a hero of the resistance like it was
embarrassing Bera Singh people should be
embarrassed about their political
judgment it was really bad well I mean
if it makes any difference I am NOT a
fan of Mitt Romney's today but I'm not
about Rob right I mean like all right
it's a relative market well nevertheless
Goliath the hundred year war between
monopoly power and democracy Matt
Stoller really appreciate you coming on
today and I think the book is fantastic
thanks so much for coming on hey thanks
for having me talk to you later bye-bye
all right we will put a link folks to
Goliath on the in the podcast
description and on the and on the the
blog and check it out it's a really
important history to understand and you
will enjoy it it's actually a fun thing
to read in tandem with we got people
some of the histories bump up against
each other a little bit fun read as we
say around the cedar house folks we're
gonna take quick break we went a little
long today just a reminder it's your
support that makes this show possible we
can't do it without you and I so you're
one of those people listen to the show
on a regular basis want to support the
program join the majority report calm
when you do not only do you get this
show commercial free but you also get
extra content every day
you get the self satisfaction of knowing
that you are a supporter of the majority
report and that that feels so good
and apparently I've been remiss in in in
mentioning this and again you got to
have patience for us but if you if you
want the fun half but do not have the
financial resources send us an email at
majority reporters at gmail.com and
maybe put in the subject line want the
fun half send us an email we don't turn
anybody away for financial reasons if
you got a bad attitude or maybe you and
I had a run-in somewhere and we had some
type of problem yeah
we'll turn you away but if but we don't
do it for financial reasons final like
your writing style but at majority
reporters at gmail.com don't forget to
sign up for the a.m. quickie and today
is Monday tomorrow is Tuesday Michael
what will be happening on your show
crystal ball will be joining us our VK
will be joining us every K whole
doubleheader Harvey can be here all day
and I believe and and no doubt he would
be ready to do a third show afternoon
both of those very energetic gentlemen
we're gonna be talking about the global
I mean really global ante up
austerity uprisings from Lebanon to
Chile to Haiti and why do they get so
little press coverage here does it fit
into the Chomsky model and a whole bunch
of other things also an interview
different from the hottest spring the
Arab Spring it was very different and I
mean and and the Arab Spring had a
bigger economic component than was
acknowledged at the time to but uh very
excited to get into that Plus you know
some of the election results out of
Argentina and Uruguay a whole bunch of
other things and also a little bit off
format just in an interview with Kshama
Sawant which will be playing on tomorrow
show her election in 2013 I believe it
was to the Seattle City Council was one
these these moments that we talk about
you know the Chicago teacher strikes
black lives matter the Sanders campaign
and she's running for a third term and
Amazon alone has dumped a million
dollars into beating her so and actually
I'll just say now you can vote now in
Seattle the election is on November 5th
but they have a mail-in voting system so
this is definitely the time to you know
pull rank for her and also I guess
actually some progressive Democrats as
well we're also being a target in
Seattle so that was a really important
conversation tomorrow 7 o'clock there's
a pre stream at 6:00 as well patreon.com
slash TMDs michael brooks show on
youtube and snag your tickets to philly
they're over two thirds sold-out with
four weeks to go
jamie is not here you can check out the
anti Fattah at patreon.com slash the
anti Fattah
matt my salem witch trials episode for
literary hangover is finally up where we
talk about among other things how it
represented the final gasp of the
theocratic Puritan agricultural
community versus the mercantile
capitalists so for instance before 1665
two to one farmers outnumbered merchants
they're sort of Selectmen their
governing body and then between 1665 to
1700 merchants without number them six
to one and actually the agricultural
people got their revenge by hanging
nineteen people and throwing hundreds in
prison there you go so people talk about
the rancor in our politics today oh this
is exciting for me because we just my
land I just got our red string that
we're now using for hunt a killer and
hunt a killer is the murder mystery
subscription box that immerses you in an
ongoing detective experience does not
include red string but you can get it
anywhere with every delivery you sift
through elaborate case files and
evidence eliminating suspects until you
crack the case and catch the killer
right now we're doing one there was a
was a problem with a class reunion so
and right now just for our listeners you
can go to Hunter Killer dot-com slash
majority for twenty percent off your
first box hurry to take advantage this
off
embrace your inner detective folks this
is super fun I don't know I don't know
if people do with their kids but I'm
doing with my daughter and it's the only
time that we actually talked to each
other now hunt a killer dot-com /
majority 20% off your first box hunt a
killer dot-com / majority we of course
will put a link in the podcast and
YouTube description see you in the fun
half alright folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
this alpha males and the alpha males are
back back just
the males are back back back back back
back
and the alpha males are back back back
just want to degrade the white man alpha
males are back back I love it
alpha males are back back back
almost has one
and the alpha males are back back
I am a total John can we bring back DJ
Tanner yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation DJ dance well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough with a
break that's
reminder I do dogs have more concerns
and the alpha males are like
almost says what
[Music]
back
on the back
on the back
back
all lives
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
alpha males
black doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100
for the bigger game plan
it's my birthday
birthday to me Jew boy
I haven't thought expanded to foil and
the alpha males are black alpha males
are
somebody needs to pay the price request
we around here I am a total
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report Oh folks it's like the today's
like the the Empire Strikes Back today
like in terms of the clips that we have
like there's some real concern and and
and you know the the arguments about the
differences between Warren and Sanders
notwithstanding and obviously you know a
lot of time spent on differences in
terms of foreign policy I think where
their differences are most stark and
various people have different
perspectives on whether the difference
between Bernie and Warren are of kind
and of or degree or whether the
constraints of our current political
environment diminish those differences
or whether the way in which Bernie
Sanders is looking to win will
fundamentally alter the calculation of
those constraints all of these are
conversations that I think we've had and
they're worth continuing to have but one
thing is clear there's a whole mess of
people don't want either one of them and
let's look at let's go to Donny Deutsch
first bar millionaires parade today
Donny Deutsch has a real problem with
Medicare fraud now remember he had said
in the past that if Bernie Sanders is
the nominee he will vote for Donald
Trump and that for a branding guy did he
did not appreciate that
Morning Joe is trying to pretend like
they actually there they're just just
watching all this stuff happened from
from afar and you're not supposed to say
that you would support Donald Trump even
though I think there's a lot of those
people who at the very least argue they
will now buy a lot I'm
tens of thousands in places like New
York in California or Florida to be fair
Florida they might have a little more
implications there allow those people go
down there they oddly spend six months
out of the year six months in a day out
of the year because of the the Sun gives
you vitamin D and helps you fight off
certain cancers and also it allows you
to escape income tax state income tax
vitamin D means decreased ex-exactly
vitamin decrease taxes but here is Donny
Deutsch on the Real Time with Bill Maher
program talking about something he
doesn't seem to have any clue about
might be seen as a way to help more
Americans that they can't have their
choose their private insurance you're
gonna lose an election right and these
people are smoking crack you know forget
about not even not even paint being able
to pay for a 34 trillion dollars my
grandfather was a cop okay
and my mother was a schoolteacher and
they worked really hard to put me in a
position where I can buy the kind of
insurance I want and if I can't or the
people on this panel I can't buy for my
children we are going backwards we're
 Denmark okay but remember the
problem okay pause it for one second
first off there is the best
health care in the world of it is not
there is not a policy expert that you
could find that wouldn't say well
Denmark actually has I think objectively
speaking far better a health care
situation that we do a big you know for
all of Donny Deutsch is toughness with
his his dad it was a cop my
understanding is do they also by the
time that he ended was left at Donny
Deutsch millions of dollars in its
upholstery stuff
he started to kompis now were you
finished necessarily and I will also
tell him that guess what your father
when he was a cop guess what he didn't
have private health insurance
let's give it throw his Union and his
mom who was a teacher that his teacher
right okay both of them making money off
of the public dole well whatever
it's good I'm glad they were you have to
be so out of touch to think that that
hundred and sixty million people are
gonna be upset because they're not gonna
have their private insurance I I mean I
have a buddy who is a drug counselor and
he sees that on both ends he sees it
with his patients and he sees his home
family he's like I've heard you talk
about private health insurance saying
it's horrible and this and that you're
underselling it it's he says he sees so
many people turned away who desperately
need the treatment and he also in his
position where his private employer only
pays his health insurance so he's gonna
pay for the rest of family out of his
pocket
nobody likes well-nigh shouldn't say
that I am a 100% sure that the vast
majority of that hundred and sixty
million people could give two F's if
they don't have private health insurance
they just want health insurance in fact
they probably don't even want health
insurance these won't be able to go to
the doctor and see the doctor and not
have to deal with the tremendous amount
of hassle that's involved and the
expense that's involved deal you know
questioning whether they're gonna get
their health care it's absurd and
Denmark yes fantastic health insurance
so including steadily increasing life
expectancy
I think woman's a life expectancy is 82
years old as of 2015 in Denmark yes yes
I wouldn't want to live in that
situation if those broads could have the
same health care that my dad worked so
hard to bequeath me yes trust one baby
right exactly like like like we should
have you know it's one thing to say like
my dad worked very hard for that castle
and he wanted to pass it down and keep
it in the
family but the idea that like your
legacy is being able to provide health
care for your kid
what kind of effed up society we living
in like that's like put like I give you
the family coat of arms you're gonna be
able to get 85% of your of your surgery
covered guess whatever exactly
vaccines are fully covered is this
something that we want as a society my
grandfather was an Aetna man father was
a man yeah
no but this is it this is this is
exactly it's just early version of this
sentiment this is from going green well
it's interview with Lula where Lula says
you know we made everybody made strides
under my leadership but because the
airport's became more egalitarian rich
people had a problem with it yeah for
unique moment when I started in kills
mice published the very incremental
percent Wow
Aseema those my heels now to Zico's no
guy Adam
that's because publish clip 0% omentum
eyes for your unique a face you come a
friend come on that was a DeVito feed my
report to do Galliano a report of the
convoy now in a porta pottis Mahal of
the idea that shady Palmer killed others
Kemosabe any flick potato in cup yeah
that's the same thing that's Donny do it
similar attitude fortunately there are
people who appreciate the idea of
grotesque wealth inequality and all that
comes with it the enormous benefits that
corporate entities have had under Donald
Trump economy slowing the the numbers
are in it's not hard to find it can just
google it and find out that all of the
tax cuts that were given to corporate
America went into paying off wealthy
people who were shareholders not in
creation of jobs not in research and
development not in expanding the pie as
it were
wages have been largely stagnant but
this took guts to do this type of tax
cut how do I know
well IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva
tells us so on Axios 'as HBO show we're
in the middle as you know of a crazy
election cycle here in the US and
there's lots of people accusing lots of
other people of being socialists and
what do you think when you when you hear
this rhetoric been there done it don't
want to see it ever again happen to this
country I don't think so I think that
the Americans are so pragmatic there is
no way that they would go for the
craziness of mediocracy and this is the
danger of communism that it says there
is somebody who knows it all and can
tell everybody how it should be done now
we live in a country where where the
president is someone who thinks he knows
it all you you sell us short and also
just if credit Ameri no no that just to
give a creditor to to the leadership
here at the United States is one of the
better performing economies and it is
because it had the bravery to use a tax
reform to spur more growth so you're in
favor from tax cuts I am in favor of
countries using their policy space to
make the economy more vibrant and
ultimately to make the lives of people
better yeah policy space that's what I'm
talking about
that's pretty stunning I talked about
lack of confidence in the International
Monetary Fund now I'd be a little bit
worried in fact all our data shows all
the that well I do appreciate the fact
that she did the bait and switch with
like he says socialism and she says
communism it's a little bit of a slight
there might be a little bit of
biographical trauma there yeah from the
Eastern Bloc but I think I mean I I will
say at the same time this woman spent
most for a lot of her career in the
World Bank whose job is theoretically to
alleviate poverty even as it has
increased poverty across the globe and
IMF of course is currency regulation
which it helps prop up currencies by
giving loans while demanding that people
got their public health and education
systems so there you go she fits she's
exactly who should be running these
institutions which is why we should
abolish or radically transform them
immediately
yeah the system she subscribes to the
people that have the money know it all
right
hey when Felix Amman thinks you're
acting like an oligarchy you know you
have a problem Felix Salmon was given
her to look like IMF chief on am talk
right interesting
so here's a funny story as you know I
used to be in show business so I would
talk to people who are on different
cruise and would work on different
reality shows at different times and I
remember having to tell a guy who was
who needed the cash like hey man don't
worry about it because he felt so sick
to his stomach about the way that doctor
drew on his addicted show whatever that
was what was that show that he had where
he had all these addicts in a an
apartment was the attic house or
something like that how horrible and
exploitive the whole thing was and how
they would sort of like create a certain
amount of tension and drama with the
idea that these guys would fall off the
wagon and how disgusted he was and and
this is what the guy told me and I would
just say like look dude you need to you
need to pay for your family if you can't
find another job you know you know I
don't know what to tell you but speaking
of which here's dr. drew now on Fox
Nation what does this doctor have to say
was an ideology whenever you have
ideology grabbed people in a profession
or a leadership position
this is the exact same thing that's
happening with homelessness the ideology
is this is a housing crisis period ends
of story its income inequality it is not
it's a mental health crisis and if you
don't wake up from that theological fog
more people are gonna die three people
dying in the streets every day in Los
Angeles County three every day and
people get in the way of treating those
people are murderers they are and I'm
sick of it
we're all sick of it yeah all right
doctor yeah dr. Drew's celebrity rehab
now how do you how do you propose to
provide services for someone who does
not have a place of residence
I mean how what is the proposal here I
think you know specific individuals but
how do you propose like if someone has
mental health issues okay and needs to
be treated with therapy or medication
how does dr. drew propose to provide
these services to people who have no
address who have no home who have no
security at night who are sleeping in
the rain how do you propose to do this
like you need to triage people you need
to give them a place to live before you
can provide them any type of services on
a consistent basis this is just fully
absurd Oh in addition to that I mean how
do you also incidentally synchronize I'm
tired of people getting in the way of
funding proper public mental health like
I don't even know what he's saying now
and that's just if I was to stipulate
that the problem with everybody who is
homeless of course that they have got to
own it to the extent that and I'm also
sure that some of them to the extent
they do it's because they've had the can
they've been being homeless which tends
to take a toll on every aspect of your
health we also have a huge amount of
children who are homeless that is not a
a function of it is simply a function of
they don't have an ability to get a home
and if he's arguing we can't stop once
we give them you know residents we need
to give these folks support great but
that's not what the argument is
unbelievable we have some more if we
want to see it yeah let's see more of
this this is I guess right before paying
people to leave New York to go to places
like Hawaii yeah it's incredible but it
makes perfect sense to me given how the
people in power today seem to be trying
to solve the homeless problem it's so
appealing to go you've been in our
shelter for 90 days which is what they
have to do in order to be eligible
you're a family pat on the back we will
take care of you we will give you a year
of free rent to get you back on your
feet which is a nassima to the problem
right the problem is not that you need a
housing it's not that you need a period
of time to get your act together you
need mental health services course and
if you do not provide the treatment and
the vocational rehab you're you are
committing people to chronic difficult
you just warehousing you're not even
warehousing them you're these things are
progressive these are all progressive
illnesses that you see on every street
in this country there are progressive
illnesses and they end in demise they
end in death big majority are drug and
alcohol it's the last chapter of our how
do you how do you fault giving people a
home now if you're saying like we can't
stop there we need to continue to spend
more money to provide services but
that's not what he's saying here and
it's just absurd you need a home you
need a place to live to have access to
these services you need a home to
receive these services he's just driving
around in his car in LA and saying
there's a problem see a real doctor I
mean this is like I don't know what
ideology is talking to like I remember
this from college the Maslow's hierarchy
of needs and like shelters the bottom
base of it
there you go boom purple is my literary
ideology yep but the guy who exploited
people's addiction he should know he
should know
maybe he's just afraid that if they all
get homes that the they'll come in there
with a reality camera one director yeah
or he's trying to build up a number of
studios as quickly as possible I filmed
them simultaneously I wonder if we went
through the list of people who were on
Celebrity Rehab and see how well the
rehab took not great alright let's let's
look in on one more well a couple of uh
as you know Donald Trump was booed at
the Houston Houston Astros washing
Nationals World Series game game five
right
and let's just remind you of one of the
other cheers that we heard this also
call it a Bronx cheer when they boo but
I don't know what you would call this
cheer
[Applause]
hey cutie
there it is lock him up launcher when
they see the picture I'm there now
folks as you know that cheer was
organized by all of the Democratic
candidates running for office and also a
Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer they were
all there they were all leading everyone
in no it was a lock him up every it was
a organic spontaneous reaction to this
the the image of Donald Trump at the
game everybody wanting to make sure that
he wasn't enjoying himself but this is a
great opportunity for folks to flash
their bona fides as being objective and
just being able to analyze this and and
longing for the days of normalcy
here's mica and Joe just lamenting the
fact we hear this type of cheer at a
baseball game
I know but again I speak to the lock him
up chance again I it's just it's
unamerican it started with Donald Trump
in fact he's made it a centerpiece of
his campaign rallies it's sickening when
it happened was it was rallies we're
gonna just take a moment to just enjoy
that image of these six almost total rep
mummifying
you almost can see you could you could
line them up in terms of their hair loss
and their aging as they go go on you
know and thank God they all wore
different ties or would be extremely
confusing that's not relevant well maybe
it is a little bit this whole idea that
we need to project some sense of of
normalcy and look at Donald Trump it's
true it started with Donald Trump and
now it's actually gone to some people
who go to a baseball game rallies I find
it kind of sickening watching he's like
me that's resident we are Americans and
we
not do that we do not want the world
hearing us chant lock him up that he
created this president are to any
president that's what I'm saying
let's hope as we move forward maybe this
is one less fascist tactic he and his
supporters use during chance that you
were going to actually imprison your
political opponents so let's leave that
behind and just this is pretty this is
pretty rudimentary stuff I'm gonna I'm
gonna lay this out for folks and you see
you know this is like one of those think
one of these things doesn't fit with the
other a presidential candidate and or a
president right particularly a president
who has access to all the levers of
power presidential candidate has some
power to they have a huge platform
calling for someone let's just even
stipulate that they have the same levels
of guilt or non guilt calling for
someone to be locked up versus people at
a baseball game who have the ability to
get a beer or a hot dog does does
anybody see the dynamic difference here
that it makes these two examples
completely different
they're both fascism there but it's I
mean it it is and you know I think it's
easy to assume that this isn't important
but this is important because this is
the way you create a textbook version of
false equivalency because it's not just
a question of elevating drunken Bleacher
fans at a baseball game to having the
power of the presidency but it's a way
of saying that the power of the
presidency
it's irrelevant in this equation I mean
this and this is like this is this is
true across all issues in politics like
you're like you're going to completely
ignore the dynamic between people the
power between people and here is Joe's
response on a tweet so let's see if I've
got this straight when crowds chant lock
her up toward Hillary it is a liberal
and anti-american I agree
but when crowds chant the same word
toward Trump it's suddenly a fulsome
exercise of sacred First Amendment
rights
what hypocritical clowns here's the
thing when crowds chant lock her up
toward Hillary it was literally led by
people at their convention
it was literally led by the presidential
candidate it was literally led by a
president who was egging them to do that
the issue isn't the crowds it is the
person who has enormous power
marshalling this from the crowds this is
not like the king rides through the the
town and people throw tomatoes at him
this is like the king saying to his
soldiers find those people I mean and
the one similarity though to be just
fair is that they're both fascism right
that's right lock her up I mean over is
Joe being disingenuous here or is it
possible that he just can't wrap his
brain around the difference that'll be
an extra credit question for you folks I
mean back in the American Revolution
times we used to like tar and feather
people as a usual part of public by life
and protest you know what's actually
goes on to say if you think that
democracy is strengthened by calling for
the arrest of political opponents
you're as ignorant in as a liberal as
Trump himself delete your account and
read some civics stop embarrassing
yourself now he's also changing the
terrain of the debate with this second
part of the tweet right where it's like
you don't have to think that democracy
is strengthened to think that these are
not equivalent and the fact of the
matter is those people in those
bleachers are not political opponents of
Donald Trump except for the extent that
they don't want their actually his
constituents he's president you know is
actually a much less important point but
a funny contrast I and dozens of other
Patriots at the Bernie rally in Queens
were starting to try to get a lock him
up champ going regularly specifically
while the mayor of San Juan who's a
co-chair of Bernie's campaign was
talking about Trump's conduct in Puerto
Rico which by the way I'm a make your
case person there's some things you
could talk about with Clinton as an
example in Haiti where you might get me
to go on that chant for what it's worth
and I think Donald Trump has done any
number of things or you could just say
lock him up if I'm gonna lock people up
I think it would be a problem for a
political candidate I I I happen to
agree with that but that being said the
crowd the crowds were out me and my
fellow Patriots were heartily making
that point and the mayor of San Juan
could have just ignored us
she couldn't even just smirked a little
bit giving a little nod but she said no
we're gonna vote him out there you go so
there you go Joe it should working calm
down now I know that Joe spent 10
minutes talking about how how much that
helped our democracy right can you pull
that clip please I guess we don't have
it here's Chris Coons getting on the I
know people can't see it but Chris could
he always just looks so goddamn sad well
you know I mean have people noticed
maybe maybe we've been paying more
attention to it but chris coons feels
his moment
folks he feels he can see where this is
going and he has been on this path for
some time when he said that we should
reinstitute institute the filibuster if
we take back the Senate to give
Republicans the ability to kill our
judicial picks not our a Supreme Court
justice but at well I mean also our
Supreme Court justice but our judicial
our judicial picks across the board
because Chris Coons and this is the
thing that people have to understand
about the Senate particularly when it
comes to Democrats because the
Democratic coalition is much broader
than the Republican coalition it almost
doesn't matter where the fault lines are
there are going to be Democrats who
rushed to that fault line so that they
can be right at the fulcrum so that they
can get all the attention it is very
hard for us non psychopathic people to
contemplate that there would be two or
three individuals who are so determined
to be the most popular or the the most
important in in the class that they
would actually prohibit and inhibit the
ability for people to get health care
let's say or the ability to like live
fuller richer lives or to live or die
because they want to be at that fulcrum
Chris Coons is one of those guys you'll
recall he said you know one of the wanna
I think history's gonna judge us that
and I'm of course for it I'm totally for
having women and people not white in the
idea that I'm really it's a great idea
but in practice I think history's gonna
show that it's led to a lot of
polarization right it's important
because he of something he drops in this
in this conversation about the fact that
some people at a baseball game said lock
a mop to Donald
face and Trump attended Game five of the
World Series in Washington last night I
just want to play the sound
thank you soon he was booed and you can
hear the chants thereof lock him up what
do you make of that Center we'll forgive
me I'm enough of a sort of
traditionalist about our institutions
that even at a time whether I believe
that yeah I remember a time where it was
all just white guys for the most part
and things weren't so polarized but
forgive me I'm a judicial forgive me
Father for I have sinned - go ahead that
senator will forgive me I'm enough of a
sort of traditionalist about our
institutions that even at a time when
there is a lot that our president does
that I find that's it I'm sorry one more
time I know this is annoying folks but I
will tell you the institution he's
talking about is a baseball stadium
that's what he's talking about I guess
right I mean what it was like where did
this happen but good lot that our
president does that I find disturbing
offensive unconventional I have a hard
time with the idea of a crowd on a
globally televised sporting event
chanting lock him up about our president
I frankly think the office of the
president deserves respect even when the
actions of our president at times don't
I certainly hope that we won't hear lock
him up chance that Democratic rallies or
at our convention I think that's one of
the most regrettable even at times
despicable actions by candidate Trump
when he was running for president in
2016 it reminds me of things that happen
in countries where rule of law is
unknown or unestablished and you know
sort of whipping up public furor on both
sides I don't think is constructive or
helpful I understand why crowds in
Washington would feel a lot of animus
towards our president and given a lot of
things that he's done but I frankly
that's why I think those of us in the
Senate need to approach the impeachment
process seriously in a measured and
responsible way because our very
institutions our Constitution is at risk
by these sorts of the passions that have
been unleashed by the politics of the
moment who is we
anything well you know what is the
institution like I'm sorry if you're a
traditionalist then you must know that
when you go into the bleacher section or
the higher seats of a baseball game
you're gonna hear some pretty ugly stuff
I mean I remember coming down to a
Yankees game as a Red Sox fan 35 years
ago and I Got News for You Chris Coons
your ears would fall off of what you
heard well I mean you know I'm a
traditionalist and the idea that you can
have women on their periods at baseball
games I love the idea of it but it might
not be working out so most work what
does it work with it's really Sciences
off you know the president support don't
get me wrong he's there are children who
have been kidnapped and will never see
their parents again there are parents
whose kids were kidnapped and they will
never see their kids again the idea that
Chris Coons has even three minutes to
criticize some people had a bought
baseball game we don't want to see an
image of Donald Trump is is stunning I
mean honestly if you feel so obligated
to take some type of high road about
that all well and good but you should
say like but in the great scheme of
things let's put this in perspective
there are children who will never see
their parents as part of our government
policy so and they and those people in
that crowd have no power zero power to
do anything in regards to what makes
what Donald Trump did so reprehensible
because when Donald Trump does it as a
candidate when he does it as a president
when he leads send them back lock her up
as a president it begins to undercut the
folks faith in the institutions of our
government when people at a baseball
game do it what what does it undercut
the institution of being polite at a
ball game honestly this is just like
this is this is like it it would be
childish if it wasn't so disingenuous it
bums me out to say that only
property-owning white males should vote
again but I think if we look at the long
light of history that's probably where
we're headed the governor's picking
senators there's a lot of people in the
Senate Democratic caucus that won't
agree with me I don't see what I think
so Joe Biden is out there trying to
relaunch this is Joe Biden 2.0 the point
I wanna hear he is this is just this is
just stunning to me here's Joe Biden
he's on 60 minutes oh we just got to
play the audio right where would you let
us do this okay so yeah it's over my
shoulder so here's Joe Biden and he's
he's explaining to Norah O'Donnell why
Donald try
Barack Obama has not endorsed him yet
now you'll recall that like if Rudy
Giuliani was verb noun 9/11 and when he
ran for office Joe Biden is verb noun
Barack Obama and so he's running his
campaign as Barack Obama's vice
president fine that's his prerogative
but here is his interesting story as to
why he's not being endorsed by Barack
Obama the Democratic Party has had Jack
Kennedy Bill Clinton Barack Obama this
is your third run for president why Joe
Biden well because I think as I said
there we need somebody who on day one
knows exactly what to do can command the
world stage no one wonders whether I
know a great deal about these issues and
foreign policy and domestic policy those
things I've done that might be one of
the criticisms - that you're offering
essentially four more years of a Obama
like administration well you second
I love the fact that all of a sudden the
Democratic Party doesn't think Obama was
that great a president positive note
that he's not refuting the premise I am
running out four more years of Obama I
just think it's funny that people
wouldn't want that Bhama was that great
a president I find that fascinating
some of us why hasn't President Obama
endorsed you you guys served together
for eight years because I have to earn I
want to earn this on my own did he offer
to endorse you
no we didn't even get there I asked him
not to he said okay I think it's better
I think he's I have no doubt when I'm
the nominee he'll be out in the campaign
yeah
now folks remember what Joe Biden's
pitches this is the most important
election ever facing us to save the soul
of America but with that said I also
don't want to get into office and feel
like I didn't earn it myself so I just
said let me do this this is the most
this is an existential threat to America
but I also don't want to feel weird
about myself when I'm president saving
democracy would feel cheap that way they
don't want to play with a handicap right
I said don't do it don't endorse me sir
don't you say those words don't you do
it I'll tell you what Jill if your
retinas can keep it together through the
next I feel like I love the way you see
if you pull up that officer and a
gentleman where he's like I got no other
place to go
I feel like Joe was just like don't you
say it I wanna Ole Miss I would feel
like I earned it I don't want people to
say that I didn't I didn't win this that
was real hope and changed where your
teeth fell out that was great
way to hold down the legacy does he I
mean they really couldn't come up with a
better response to this like Barack
Obama wants to let the people choose no
it was all about me and my sense of I
want to do this on my own because
America stands in the balance and even
though I could save America with his
help I don't feel bad about myself Joe
what are you gonna do to get air to one
in line bleed on
now but over elders you know look at
that I'm gonna look at that metal that I
got and that trophy that I put up there
for winning the president I'm gonna know
deep down I didn't get it all on my own
that sort of appealed the ego though
might work for you're undecided you know
independent voters in America like nah
dude I didn't even want to like go home
with her I just like it happened and
that's sort of energy I feel like they
would respect that like I told hunter I
said you really want all these board
seats don't you oughta do something on
your own you're 46 years old you can't
even get a girl that is unbelievable all
right so here is uh Joe Biden explaining
that he can't possibly be responsible
for the super PACs that fund his
campaign even though they stopped it in
the past and even though we have massive
amounts of reporting that they made a an
internal decision to allow the super
PACs there because why Joe Biden was
running out of money
there is no grassroots support for Joe
Biden they had a watch party in
Philadelphia Philadelphia incidentally
is in Pennsylvania Pennsylvania
incidentally is the is a key state that
Hillary Clinton won that Joe Biden has
to win and he's supposedly he appeals to
these guys because he's a guy's guy and
I know what it's like a blue collar
because 45 years ago
before I was a senator I knew people on
the train who were blue collar
so I got I know what it's like that's
why people love me there at his
Philadelphia watch party for the debate
zero people showed up like literally I
think they have a picture of it you can
find it zero people
CNN reported this here he is ronk was
gonna come I told him not to I said
don't go stay home I want to feel like
I'm gonna watch myself on the debate
here is Joe Biden talking about why like
here's the guy who's going to save all
of us right but he can't control these
super PACs I didn't uh look here's what
I did
the I don't have personally don't have a
super PAC you know I
there were people have come to me and
said will contribute X amount of dollars
to you was set up a Biden super PAC and
you know we can directly go the whole
thing like other super PACs I don't want
any part of that but what happened was
when President Trump went out and got
the folks who loved me the most the NRA
and the and the gun manufacturers and
the oil companies and the insurance
companies to spend some was excesses so
they tell me ten million dollars on ads
that fortunately most of you networks
won't run because they're flat-out lies
what happened I learned after the fact
from some of my folks there are a lot of
people who said we can't let this stand
they're able to do that I haven't
discouraging them but I haven't
encouraged it either I've just stayed
away hands off but if I'm the nominee
and if I win I promise you I'm going to
continue to push for a constitutional
amendment to make sure that there's
public funding funding of Elections
that's I proposed that way back in South
Carolina with Fritz Hollings and and as
I think it's a single most significant
thing we can do
I didn't change my opinion
I didn't look these they're able to go
out and do this period I cannot stop
them if I wanted to stop it it's their
right to do it and and so I'm surprised
Bernie was saying that because anyway
I'm surprised so the question was why
have you stopped discouraging people and
it took him about three minutes to get
to I'm not discouraging or encouraging
anybody the question was why did you
stop discouraging and the whole you
don't want my endorsement having made
more so than that really really doesn't
like this question folks so if you're at
a rally or some place where he's at and
you ask him be prepared it's not gonna
be friendly Joe who's gonna respond to
you here is in your face Joe yeah here
is in your face Joe and you oh listen
and here's the other thing if you're
gonna ask this question try not to be a
woman or young because you know how that
pisses Joe off to go ahead
[Music]
my record
there you go look at my record child Wow
just he was just mastering the selfie
method yeah this kid had to go and ruin
it you know when you're trying to take a
selfie with some people and then they
remind you about your Iraq war record
actually kind of can't wait Bhama
becomes grouchy like that
hello well the bags look at the record
child go windsurf of branson what are
you complaining about yeah what are you
complaining about all right let's just
do Donald Trump here Donald Trump trying
to be the tough guy apparently he was
not in the what do they call it the what
is that room the woods it he was not in
the Situation Room my understanding is
he was that is that true it appeared
well at least the previously Obama's
photographer said that the metadata
suggests that they staged that photo at
different time the metadata suggests
that they staged the photo that he was
in the is really a Jewish pardon of more
than likely that he was yeah that he was
on the golf course and the reports from
New York Times suggest that the timing
and the of this killing of Baghdadi was
was had to be had to deal with the the
American pull out we got the information
from the Kurds of course as to where
Baghdadi was and but Donald Trump he
knows I've got to project like I'm a
tough guy I just watched the Seagal
movie and I'm gonna go out and talk
about this now last night was a great
night for the United States and for the
world a brutal killer one who has caused
so much hardship and death has violently
been eliminated
he will never again harm another
innocent man woman or child he died like
a dog he died like a coward the world is
now a much safer place rip his lungs out
there he is
Donald Trump reminding everybody that we
killed him in a violent way as opposed
to the way that we kill other people in
battle you should have seen the way
Obama really just was like oh I'm sorry
can I have for you to room a therapy
bath that isn't it so your experience is
nice and then he apologized for doing it
that's what Obama did I didn't guy did
it violently like a dog it made on buck
make him bleed and make him bleed like a
dog actually was a sleeper was happening
so ahead of himself and I think he's got
to be pissed that he's not getting
enough credit in fact here's my
prediction if it hasn't already happened
today within a couple of days he's gonna
be complaining about we got no credit Oh
dud I was so great how that sweet audit
of one of my text threads was we some
would put it in the bag daddy figured
watch just for like lol nobody care
about terrorism anymore dude really
trying so hard to be like Obama here is
Donald Trump talking about how brilliant
Isis is now the Kurds have done a very
good job two tests show it's a very high
one yes all the intelligence is due to
the Kurds or most of it for this whole
thing here hey sorry about the killing
of al-baghdadi from the first day I came
to office and now we're getting close to
three years I would say where's L beg
daddy I want al-baghdadi and we would
kill terrorist leaders but there were
names I never heard of there were names
that weren't recognizable and they
wanted the big names some good ones some
important ones but they weren't the big
names I kept saying where's L bag daddy
and a couple of weeks ago they were able
to scope him out you know these people's
very smart they're not into the use of
cell phones anymore they're not they're
very technically brilliant you know they
use the internet better than almost
anybody in the world perhaps other than
Donald Trump but they use the Internet
incredibly well and when they've done
with the internet through recruiting and
everything and that's why he died like a
dog he died like a coward
he was whimpering screaming and crying
and frankly I think it's something that
should be brought out so that his
followers and all of these young kids
that want to leave the various countries
including the United States they should
see how he died he didn't die a hero he
died a coward crying whimpering
screaming and bringing three kids with
him to die certain death
and he knew the tunnel had no end I mean
it was a it was a closed closed ended a
quarter closed end tunnel they've got a
good place to be
classic closed antenna it's a military
term speaking of military general Miley
the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff told reporters this according to
Natasha but ran at the Atlantic he
doesn't know where Trump got his
information that Baghdadi was whimpering
and crying when he died I don't know
what the source of that was yeah well I
have different service I got extra many
people have serious sources what you
don't know general is they call it a
closed tunnel close the classic closed
tunnel it was a closed closed ended a
quarter closed end tunnel not a good
place to be but nobody uses the internet
better than nobody better than me I they
used the Internet they were geniuses the
Internet
dad I don't disagree with him about that
he recognizes his own game recognize
game yeah yeah Isis uses encryption
software to the lure kids into fighting
for mass killing from the Netherlands
and I give my personal cell phone to
fine it's a state unbelievable
same buggy don't know how to how much
time we're gonna have for too many calls
well let's take one quick column from a
2 1 0 area code who's this where you
call them from 2 1 0
good afternoon Sam this is Rick Perry
I'm the only one of the three amigos who
hasn't testified with to Congress yet
I'm holding out Sam I don't intend to be
a participant in what I consider to
being not only illegal but improper
investigation they need to have a boat
Sam can I can I be honest with you Sam
please I'm having all I'm having a hard
time sleeping it not you know what's my
destiny Sam I gonna end up in the pokey
yeah man I keep thinking about all the
officials they went to Club fed over
Watergate Haldeman Ehrlichman Mitchell G
gordon Liddy hell even John Dean he
turned on Nixon ended up serving for
months what the hell is I get myself
into working for Trump remember when he
made fun of my glasses Trump Trump said
Danny said you put on the glasses so
people thank you smart and it just
doesn't work people can see through the
glasses
ouch Sam you know how many how many
hours I spent looking for the perfect
player glasses to make me look smart but
I'm not a shrinking violet Sam's right
there was my retort in July of 2015
Trump offers a barking Connor relax best
described as trumpism a toxic mix of
demagoguery mean-spirited and nonsense
it will land the Republican Party to
Perdition it pursued hell I even
endorsed Cruz then I joined Trump's
cabinet what the hell's wrong with me
Sam I think of better times like in
August 11th of 2011 when I announced I
was running for president
I shot to the top of the polls for over
seven weeks those are the best seven
weeks of my life Sam you know what
killed my chances Sam no oops debate ya
know
cuz later the herd the things to be
sorry sorry the baits are overrated fam
yeah I was a badass on this stop
promoting my book fed up I know you're a
big supporter of social security you say
it's the most accessible anti-poverty
program and the most beloved government
program in the history of our country do
you know what I think it is no it's a
Ponzi scheme I understand I I am
surprised that you still have this much
passion about politics right now I
forget the sense that you're you're
really more oriented towards business at
this point well I'm a little bit scared
to be to be honest with you you know you
know after that I got a little bit of a
backlash or of a publicans I didn't see
that come and damn did you even know
that Republicans like Social Security
well sorry
go ahead a week after the announcement
of my candidacy I had a reverse track
but the damage was done I was it was a
tough round against the field of all the
intellectual heavyweights you know
you're just looking at the polling
leaders Bachmann Kane Gingrich and
Romney that's a hell of a cabinet Sam
I used to contemplate who would be a
better a better Secretary of State
Bachman is such an area dive under her
immense knowledge of foreign policy and
deep insight into the complexity and
culture of each country is staggering
she thinks outside of the box damn Rick
I gotta be Rick hold on let me I just
gotta tell you that comedic Lee I don't
know if Rick Perry is worth it much more
I think yeah I think it's been totally
mind I think you've done a great job of
it it's been funny but I mean I can I'm
not gonna we get we can't do this for
too long okay well it was great this is
John from San Antonio who that that's
the guy who like like dominated Ewing
the impeachment debate the Rick Perry uh
excellent I just I'm just my point is
like there's only so much there's only
so much there's only so much gold in
that mind as it were okay well just get
into Herman Cain because that was a
tough choice you know Herman Cain was
like you know he's so great himself
because when he started talking about
you Becky Becky Becky Stan Stan damn I
was impressed by that no that's a good
one no that's good I just had Rick Perry
you know it's not the zeitgeist anymore
we'll see what happens when I beg to
differ Sam I beg to differ
what's my what's your advice to me man
should I testify I mean bars not gonna
do anything I'm gonna I'm gonna skate as
long as bars around you know they're not
gonna try to impeach bar I mean
according to you it's just gonna you
know they're gonna take a vote to remove
Trump and he's not gonna pass everything
it's just gonna be one cluster F after
another and nothing's gonna happen oh
well I'm right right I want them to
impeach bar but I don't know I don't
know uh let's let's hear what the the
court has to say from this national
security deputy I'd be curious to see if
the court says that he should go and
testify because if he is compelled to
testify seems to me that others would be
too John gonna enforce it well that's a
good point I'm sure he got much more
precise in his analysis post
governorship and having appreciate the
College on glasses are fine I mean or
what whoever this is
thanks for a call the day folks I know
he's got a lot of people have been
hanging on for over an hour now I
apologize last call the day come from a
seven six zero area code who's this
where he calling from
hey there this is Kentucky Fried comrade
from California Kentucky Fried comrade
from California what's on your mind I
just wanted to tell a quick little story
and I'll try to make it as fast as
possible but uh I've been car shopping
lately totaled my car a couple months
ago seven car shopping and I went down
to San Diego last Friday or last
Thursday and went out at 3 o'clock to go
we'll look at one single car ended up
being of five to six hour fiasco but
what I ended up after getting the
runaround from this one company was I
was sitting in a car dealership office
around 8 o'clock kind of bartering back
and forth with the guys and they were
these two Brazilian guys and you know
you they changed the price they do all
those shenanigans eventually they call
up the owner to the shop and so I start
arguing with the guy and he basically
it's the owner of the cuz of the shop
and he starts explaining to me like oh I
only sell to Brazilian immigrants and
because they need to drive for uber and
because they drive for uber I can put
extra fees on top of the loans that we
give them so we can make some extra
money I don't really sell to Americans
Wow and I thought it was a completely
fascinating thing and also incredibly
evil but yeah there's something I had
never experienced before I didn't only
know that was a thing but want to tell
that story interesting interesting stuff
Kentucky Fried Conrad thank you so much
for your time today yeah you think you
guys have a great no you were the final
call of the day all right folks
see you tomorrow
rvk we'll be in studio exciting
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I was
I just got cut
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option menu
