[Music]
the unfortunate reality one guy I was
hoping would jump into the race because
I do
I am a fan Jeff Merkley he was the one
senator in the Senate to to endorse
Bernie Sanders but yet managed to
maintain relationships with all the
other senators in a rather tricky
political situation the only thing I can
tell you is that I would like to see him
be the new Senate Majority Leader we
have won but I would would see it as a
big trade up to go from Schumer to
Merkley he is what they call a workhorse
here is his announcement that he's not
going to run for president today I'm
announcing that I am not running for
president I believe that there are
Democrats now in the presidential race
who are speaking to the importance of
tackling the big challenges we face but
what I'm also sure of is that right now
the Senate is not prepared to be a full
partner in this fight my best
contribution is to run for re-election
and do all I can to help the Senate be a
full partner in addressing the
challenges before us
so over the next two years while is
Oregonians to reelect me to the Senate
I'm going to help elect a president
senators and other leaders who will live
and breathe the fight even more
especially when that means standing up
to very powerful opponents I'll work to
help build coalitions around bold policy
solutions and I'm going to work to fix
our broken and dysfunctional Senate so
it isn't just a graveyard for good ideas
to fix America we must fix the Senate
two things are three things occur to me
one I think he's a great senator - not
exactly a overwhelming charismatic
presence three if I ever never ever see
that second angle on a video again it
will be too soon that what why can't we
just have videos where you shoot when
people are talking to a camera you do a
medium and a close-up or a wide but why
do I have to have like a view as if like
I'm somebody in the room on the shoot
like oh this is the gaffer perspective
he's the guy who's standing by to do the
lighting and is watching him talk to
camera I cannot stand that I thought you
were gonna say that you want that jacket
I like to jazz what I'm surprised by I
like the jacket handy Nancy act but it's
automatically whooshes shooting this way
outside well I want to know what's going
on it's now it's time to endorse bernie
homie no you know the democrats yes
plural he's trying to set himself up for
a leader if I were to stage an interview
I probably would use that method just
because I've seen it so often and I
would just probably copy it it's
horrible
I just for the life of me I don't
understand like why people think that's
even remotely interesting you're doing a
thing it's not a thing you're not doing
anything you don't see it god soon I'd
see it no I see it no no it's filmmaking
so it's not
filmmaking there's another angle of
their face it doesn't make any sense I
wasn't really buying it until that until
that happens well I have no opinion on
this
