Wow in the the press conference
yesterday the cabinet meeting we had our
requisite member of the cabinet who was
in charge of fawning over President
Trump that day to make him feel good
who got the short straw this week Matt
well the acting Attorney General Matt
Whitaker yes it was acting Attorney
General Matt Whittaker whose job it was
to make Donald Trump good take it away
acting Attorney General Whittaker that
you stayed in Washington DC over the
holidays giving up Christmas with your
family New Year's with your family
trying to bring an end to the shutdown
and security to our southern border
while members of Congress some members
of Congress went on vacation and ignored
the problem you have demonstrated your
dedication to delivering on this
critical issue for our country and for
the American people but Congress has to
act they have to fund the wall it is
undeniable that a border wall improves
the security of our southern border a
wall would reduce the flow of drugs
gangs like the violent ms-13 and
criminals across our border like you
highlighted the brave officer who is a
legal immigrant who was murdered by an
illegal immigrant in California I love
the fact that they claim that he
couldn't spend time with his family
it sounds to me like your family didn't
want to spend time with you dude family
left the White House they could have
stayed no you go ahead I'm gonna stay
here I'm gonna rub peanut butter on my
belly and watch Fox News the Whitaker
also is a great humanitarian he's hit
hot tub invention for people that
wheelchairs they can't get a toss up sir
can't get it to hot tubs folks did a lot
did a big difference so strong there's
TiVo to skip four minutes of commercials
in the past hour yes I missed at least
three new Geico ads me sseriously
meanwhile when we're talking about
praising authoritarian dictators or
would-be or soon-to-be here's Nikki
hailey perhaps the first female American
president is right here you've got it
right up there it's a tweet that she did
she wrote congratulations to Brazil's
new president bolson ro it's great to
have another US friendly leader in South
America who will join the fight against
dictatorships in Venezuela and Cuba
we're so endangered by these countries
and who clearly understands the Dayna
danger of China's expanding influence in
the region just for those who are
interested on day one bolson ro
extinguished food Security Council which
provided food security for people handed
control of Amazon protection and
indigenous rights to a huge agribusiness
Lobby removed LGBT from human rights
protections policies and dealt with the
minimum wage by setting it lower than
what was approved by the car lowered
than what had already been said and just
to really underline the hunger thing one
of the accomplishments of the Lula
administration was and this is pretty
rare was you know if Brazil was on
hunger indexes and it was just
eliminated
it went from a serious hunger problem
country - we don't have hunger in brazil
anymore by any serious measurable metric
he eliminated that in his presidency and
the second thing is not only is this an
assault on LGBTQ obviously but Brazil's
actually been a pioneer there was a long
period of time again particularly in the
aughts when the law was president and
bush was president where Brazil was far
ahead of us on these issues and but but
Michel you clearly don't understand the
need to be to fight these tutorials of
territorial regimes you mean like in our
hemisphere right they do that are
threatening things like feeding their
people or whatnot
yeah or giving gay people right
or or also they had a really great
breakthrough STD prevention policy or or
on the other hand authoritarian regimes
that do things like scan government
employees social media accounts in
anticipation of firing them for post
critical the President and have publicly
proposed just banning protests and this
is the also the same government that a
Dave Rubin went and did a video on in
one of their major networks that
supports balsan arrow talked about how
Brazil has similar problems that we do
to with regards to the more honest what
you guys hope bolson ro derangement
syndrome down there bolson ro said in
his inauguration that socialism and
political correctness were done he
literally used that phrase it's like
when Netanyahu said the regressive left
right yeah
you have these it's literally you have
these fascistic authoritarian grotesque
murderous leaders and then they do have
more on fail sons watching YouTube yep
feeding them lines from people like like
Dave Rubin that's an actual so-called
progressives actually read he's going to
get rid of the world's most important
carbon sinks so there you go yeah it's
China's is trying to gonna like
intervene and is that what they're
talking about well here's here's just I
want to just add this point really quick
because people get all like with their
sort of dumb dumb perspective of not
supporting the Kurds in rojava I'm also
strong critic as we all are of Chinese
and Russian imperialism and Chinese
having concentration camps or you Gers
is something we're gonna need to talk
more about I think but uh I I love any
move that Venezuela is making partnering
with the Russians or the Chinese or the
Nicaraguans that blocks US military
plans in Latin America wherever you can
get a partnership for yourself to keep
your country from being invaded or
undermined I say take it that's great
so China might be playing an indirect
positive role with regards to at least
keeping away a coup hungry United States
