[Music]
CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any of Asia
they are unanimous in that hate for me
hey we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
it is Wednesday March 13 2019 we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industriales canal in the heartland of
america downtown brooklyn USA on the
program today
Rutgers bregman Dutch popular historian
and author on his latest utopia for
realists also on the program today
America shocked people by their way into
elite universities also on the program
today seven hundred and six hundred and
seventy thousand people in Puerto Rico
have food stamps cut meanwhile
Republicans to loot to do a look to do a
one-off on that Trump emergency order
and the Trump administration to close
International immigration offices across
the globe is the sieve Boeing 737
failure a function of privatization and
Republicans advance a judicial nominee
who blamed a rape on drunk women to a
lifetime appointment Gavin Newsom to
impose a moratorium on the death penalty
in California Paul man for it to impose
a greater moratorium on his ability to
be a free person Republicans look to
folks to mortgage their retirement and
Dave Rubin had a blog
all this and more on today's program yes
folks welcome to the program I guess I I
don't know what happened to me that like
I it just there are times like I'm so
used to hearing the opening of the show
that I can't hear it like I was
literally waiting for that the board
like is there something wrong I was
waiting I was waiting for the opening to
play and I just didn't hear it so
apologies ladies and gentlemen for my
little brain freeze there just a
reminder this program relies on your
support for its daily operations you can
become a member by going to join the
majority report dot-com for just pennies
a day and of course also just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea chocolate
coupon code majority you know the rest
let's get into this last night I was on
Chris Hayes program with Michelle
Goldberg and we were talking about
impeachment and this coming largely or
at least initially from an interview
that Nancy Pelosi did and and now I
can't remember where it it was done but
it was a print interview and she was
asked about impeachment
she said no I'm not gonna even bother
you know why bother with that guy
etc etc then she was asked about
impeachment again on the hill and this
is what she had to say they want to be
doing Peach President Bush for the Iraq
war I didn't believe the country unless
there's some cookies
of evidence that takes us to that place
thank you
now now let's just for a moment put
aside the unless there's some type of
conclusive evidence right in other words
unless like we have Donald Trump on
camera and I have said this for
two-and-a-half years he will not be
impeached unless there is videotape of
him stark naked on the White House lawn
chasing around a little boy and I and we
can all conclude now that that also is
not true he would still not be in peace
well I had and it's conceivable but and
last night Hayes like literally
questioned whether there would if there
was evidence that he had shot a man to
death would the Republicans impeach him
I would say no in the middle of Fifth
Avenue perhaps right indeed and so uh
but putting aside the fact that she said
conclusive evidence which I'm not sure
exactly how you get conclusive evidence
without any type of investigation short
of that scenario first off to brag about
not impeaching George W Bush who not
only lied this country in toward not
only was involved in the outing of a CIA
agent for the sake of maintaining that
lie right
that made that understand that
maintenance of the lie protecting the
fact that there was a lie is evidence of
knowledge that they're lying
that's what a prosecutor would look at
like this is the state of mind is proven
by the fact that trying to cover it up
and that's what that was that was an
attempt to cover up the fact that they
had lied about the the the potential for
uranium yellowcake to be there but then
of course you've got torture
there's there's a whole nother in fact
back in the day
it's moderated a panel a town hall John
Conyers showed up with a book ten inches
thick maybe a foot
of possible impeachment causes so to
brag about that is indicative of the
fact that and then to simply say it's a
waste of time its divisive I think and
there is there's certainly arguments as
to why you would not do this politically
and it's certainly predictable two years
ago I was not just saying that the
Republicans wouldn't impede wouldn't
convict in the Senate in a million years
but that the Democrats would much rather
run against a a wounded Donald Trump
than an impeached one but the problem
with the way that Pelosi is responding
to this ignores the fact that
impeachment is important laying down a
marker saying what Donald Trump has done
in office whether it involves the
personal enrichment whether it involves
the the campaign finance violations this
is all incidentally while in office
whether it involves the fact me the guy
was named well identified in an
indictment as a co-conspirator where his
co-conspirator is going to jail in the
next couple of weeks for years so there
is no doubt that there is been
criminality certainly criminality that
rises above the idea of lying in a
deposition about having sex four years
into office after the start of an
investigation about something that
happened 12 years earlier but forget the
tit-for-tat thing Donald Trump is in
office at least in part because of the
complete lack of accountability that our
government held folks like Steve
minuchin to but also the Bush
administration even if even if there was
an attempt to impeach Bush in 2007 and
it failed even if
there was a move to look back and
provide indictments or a commission to
report back on what George Bush did in
office and set down a marker and nothing
happened to George Bush it would have
been better for the country it would
have shown that there is some
accountability for people who break the
law the and I do think that look I don't
think that the the Democrats can impeach
or should impeach before the election
and the here's why the most compelling
reason in my mind is we all know that
they will not get a conviction in the
Senate and I balanced this against the
notion of accountability which is why
the rhetoric here is so important but if
they impeach Donald Trump in 2019 or in
the summer of 2020 and he wins
re-election they will not have a second
bite at that Apple and you will have
Donald Trump in office for four years
basically I think in his mind to his
death or as close as you can get without
the threat of removing him from office
with it gone so all bets are off I mean
this is as I said on Hayes last night as
a metaphor you need to keep at least a
bullet in the chamber because otherwise
you're in big big trouble if he wins
re-election because he's gonna know
there's no danger for him whatsoever but
the response by Nancy Pelosi should not
be impeachments a waste of time
impeachments divisive impeachments
irrelevant it should be we can impeach
because the Republicans are protecting a
lawbreaker and we will hold hearings and
we will line up indictments and wait to
- when it's practical to actually get
this conviction be
he has engaged in criminality and he
must be held accountable this is is
crucial and it is a huge failure on her
part to to poopoo the idea of
accountability which is what she's doing
when she poo-poos the idea of
impeachment
yeah like shouldn't that be a selling
point for people to vote more Democrats
into the Senate maybe well I mean I
think from her perspective I mean I
don't want to argue the politics of it
cuz I think it could go either way but
it could also be an inducement for
people to vote you know to vote against
the Democrats vote against Trump and
mobilize Republicans to vote the Senate
and the Senate's gonna be very difficult
for Democrats to get so I mean I think
there is a legitimate argument that
Republican voters can be at this point
motivated by stopping Nancy Pelosi but
you simply say you know don't use it as
a direct pitch you simply get the
narrative out there that Republicans are
protecting law-breaking
period end of story the practicality of
this is the problem you don't go out if
you don't have enough police officers
you don't try and raid a you know a drug
cartel and put everybody in danger and
that is where we're at we know there's a
law breaker we know where he lives we
know how to go and arrest them the
problem is the Republicans are sitting
there and they have more guns and
they're gonna prevent this from going in
that is a very good metaphor he's
basically Pablo Escobar
without the Horatio Alger story exactly
and he's also got this whole crew of
people over a part of a Republican Party
which breaks down the a metaphor a
little bit but folks unless of course
you have pipes banging in your apartment
and I'm not gonna get into that there is
no need to suffer through another
sleepless night thanks to calming
comfort by sharper image the luxurious
weighted blanket is made with supersoft
Velveteen material and design
with high-density comfort Phil to
promote a sense of calmness Plus by
applying an even amount of pressure over
your body calming comfort helps the
production of serotonin and melatonin
and mimics the soothing feeling of being
hugged for a restful night's sleep I can
tell you what do you mean hello
what's that supposed to mean I can tell
you I have one on my bed right now and
when Saul comes in in the morning to
wake me up earlier than he should the
whole hour ahead thing is really messed
everything up in my house he he and I
fight for the blanket because it really
does help you sleep and it's incredibly
relaxing calming comfort weighted
blanket I think that's because that's it
it mimics the way we were I think in in
the womb that's what they've one thing
they tell you when the kid comes out you
swaddle them for you wrap them in a in a
blanket like a Papoose for I can't
remember how long we did it not long
enough
just do it for I don't know years
probably the calm and comfort weighted
blanket comes with a 90 day anxiety free
stress-free best night's sleep of your
life guarantee from sharper image right
now our listeners can go to calming
comfort blanket calm and use the promo
code majority at checkout to receive $15
off the displayed price again that's
calming comfort blanket calm promo code
majority because you can't put a price
on a great night's sleep calming comfort
blanket calm promo code majority all
right we're gonna take a quick break
when we come back Rutger Bregman will be
joining us to talk about utopia for
realists to talk about his call for more
taxes taxes taxes at Davos and from his
his moment on Tucker Carlson which he
had to share with us because Tucker
Carlson refused to we'll be right back
after this
you
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone its pleasure to welcome to the
program Rutger Bregman dutch popular
historian and author publisher of four
books
his most recent utopia for realists
Rutger welcome to the program now first
off I have to just ask you just for best
practices to make sure that you're not
recording this on your end not recording
anything okay well that's fine
we're live anyway so I had I had to do
that we we had a lot of we we we got a
lot of enjoyment from your exchange with
with tucker carlson and and i'd like to
touch on that and in a bit but first i
want to start with your book which is
fascinating to me for a number of
reasons one because you were writing
about this book was first published in
in 2017 at a time when i think there was
a lot less discussion of things like you
bi and there there's been a lot of in
many respects there's been big changes
in just the past year or two sort of in
the realm of what you're talking about
but but i want to start with this idea
of and in in some ways you you you build
in the conservative critique that we
hear about people's desire for progress
right now when we talk about things like
wealth inequality and when we talk about
perfecting society in some way or
improving i guess i should say which is
that we are living in an unparalleled
age of of stuff and of like you know the
you throw out some of the the i guess
the the parallels you make to what where
we are where your average person is
today relative to where they would have
been in 1850 for instance
exactly exactly it's important to
recognize we've made extraordinary
progress in the past 200 years every
mouse turn a civilization that we're you
see right now was once a utopian fantasy
right so what do you think about the end
of slavery or democracy or equal rights
for men and women we've made the
impossible happen so many times and
that's what progressive politics should
be about you know aim high and come up
with all those countries and go crazy
and realistic proposal because they may
become reality in that way in the future
and you you write that the the failure
of the welfare state at this point has
been to to address to address this I'm
sorry to address the symptoms of the
discontent rather than the the I guess
the the source of the discontent
Tommy tell expand on that for us okay
yeah we had a little bit of a hiccup you
wrote all right it's okay you you wrote
that that the the failure of the modern
welfare state despite the fact that we
have all of these advances when it comes
to you know fighting poverty to things
like nutrition things like you know
advances in terms of wealth and whatnot
that the failure of the current welfare
state is that it deals with the symptoms
of the discontent rather than yeah the
the source of it expand on that horse
yeah big poverty for example you're
breaking up I'm sorry yeah I'm sorry you
know I'm sorry rut can we can we can we
bring you right back we're having a
little problems with connection yes sure
okay we'll call you right back
you
[Music]
you
so it is it sounds like maybe Rupert
Murdoch does have a little bit more
power than we could imagine okay so let
me just let me just restate you've
written that the welfare state despite
all the advances had deals with the
symptoms of our discontent as opposed to
the source of our discontent
I'm just expand on that and explain what
you mean by that
sure well if we talk about something
like poverty I think the most important
thing we should recognize that poverty
is is not a lack of character it's just
a lack of cash look I go over all the
evidence we have from economics from all
sorts of experiments that happened since
the 70s let's show that eradicating
poverty by just giving people money you
know going at the root of the problem
and solving it with this medicine called
money works really really well but so
often what we're doing in practice is
that were you know trying to do
something about the symptoms right we we
invest in education you know all these
courses that are supposed to help people
make better decisions that's not really
solving the real issue which is that
poverty escape a lack of cash and in so
many cases we should just hand out the
salaries of the people that are trying
to help before because the the relaxed
person the poorest lives are the poor
themselves you could think that they
don't have the money let's talk a little
bit about the and you give a
considerable amount of at the very least
I mean data and evidence let's talk
about what you calm income Canada which
I think you know I think maybe to a
certain extent we've we've talked about
a little bit or touched on in on this
program but tell us about the experiment
in in Canada and which I don't think
most people realize there was also
experiments in this country with with
simply paying poor people money so they
won't be poor yeah not many people know
that at the end of the sixties in the
United States almost everyone believed
at some form of guaranteed basic income
going to be implemented you know
everyone was in favor of it from the
left to the right there was at some
point there was a letter in the New York
Times signed by a thousand economist who
all said you know we gotta end poverty
in this country and then at the in the
early 70s Richard Nixon of all people
said you know what if everyone's in
favor of this let's do it it's a pretty
bizarre history this bill went through
the House of Representatives twice and
it was only killed in the Senate by
Democrats not because they didn't like
the idea of eradicating poverty but
because they wanted a higher basic
income so yeah this is a pretty
fascinating history it's it was also in
this period that in North America you
had as much as five big basic income
experiments and indeed one of them was
as you mentioned in this small town in
Canada the minkum experiment well tell
us a little bit about that experiment
okay so this started in 1974 a big
experiment found where poverty was just
completely eradicated so as soon as you
fell below the poverty line your income
would be automatically chopped up now
there were lots of anthropologists and
economists and sociologists who all
moved into that sound to monitor the
effect and if they gathered a lot of
data you know they did a lot of
interviews for four years but after four
years there was a problem a new
government was voted into power and they
didn't treated like the experiment you
know or the idea of just giving people
free money so what they did is they
canceled the whole thing and there was
no money left to analyze the results
there were two thousand boxes full of
data that had to be put away in the
archive and that basically everyone
forgot about it
so twenty-five years pause until a
professor called Evelyn for Jay found
the record it's the analysis and found
out that actually it was the Futurecast
and what I mean by by huge success what
do I mean what is it what are the
measures that we're using to determine
that okay couple of things so in the
first place a lot of people worried that
if you would just give people free money
that they'll just stop working now this
is simply not true
so in all the
Airmen's you see hardly any reduction in
work hours and if there's a little bit
of a reduction it is always compensated
by people doing more volunteers work or
caring for the children and thing for
the elderly so that's not not something
to worry about and then you've got all
the other positive effects like health
care costs going down so the
hospitalization rate in Dalton they
found that I was talking about drop by
as much as 8.5% crime when that it's
doing much better in school and so the
interesting thing here and this is
something that research is actually
found from a similar experiment in North
Carolina is that basic income can be an
investment that pays for itself in the
long run because the reductions in
health care costs and policing costs etc
are bigger than the cash grunts themself
so yeah it doesn't it doesn't really
matter if you whether your left wing or
right wing I always say that if you
don't have a heart and at least you have
the wallet it makes financial sense as
well and what uh I mean one of the and I
want to touch on in just a moment some
of the fascinating history about Nixon
because that the in addition to the
Democrats wanting more there was another
narrative that got developed out of that
time inadvertently by Nixon you right
and I want to touch on that in a moment
but but in terms of the policy itself to
what extent though and and this has been
to the extent that I've heard any
critiques of of a ubi from the left it
has been a concern of the politics that
in some way we saw with dolphine which
is that you could you know folks like
Milton Friedman wanted to institute a
ubi a or you know guaranteed basic
income and as a as a replacement for
other forms of of support for people
living in poverty and the concern is is
that if you put all the eggs in that one
basket the ability of that basket to
shrink depending on the the political
winds is difficult
well you know I really see basic income
as a directional thought and there are
many many different versions of basic
income at are you exciting and you know
hopeful and some of them are disagree
with that idea you know you have this
libertarian version of basic income
which is all about you know getting rid
of the welfare state as we have it now
and just supplanting it with one small
cash grant don't get me wrong I think
that would be a horrible idea I mean I'm
from Holland I know that universal
health care is a pretty great thing and
public education is also a pretty great
thing so a guaranteed basic income would
really be implemented
you know it would be the crowning
achievement of social democracy so yeah
it said the devil is in the details
there it's important to look at that
okay and so tell us about what Nixon did
I mean it was fascinating the idea that
he wanted to be the conservative who
makes this sort of like highly
progressive leap forward but in his
rhetoric he ended up sort of creating
another monster yeah well it's a good
example but you know if you zoom out a
little bit and look at the broad back
span of history you just realize that
it's really ideas that matter in the
long run right so it's almost it's
really hard to imagine right now that
the early seventies it was this
conservative president almost
implementing this seemingly radical
progressive idea now what happened in
that process in the seventies is that
it's a pretty bizarre and complicated
history but to summarize it quite
quickly is that Nixon hear something
about a report of a sort of base to me
basic income is like experiment that
happened in the early 19th century
actually in England where supposedly
they had some kind of basic income that
didn't work at all and that that sort of
convinced him to change his language so
he started used the language of workfare
you know as opposed to welfare and he
started talking a lot about the lazy
poor and the lazy you know people were
out of job and you know that was later
taken up by Reagan as well and then we
moved into it totally different
era what I've learned from all this is
that history is not governed by big laws
and often it's not governed by you know
the best of interests either but
coincidences matter a lot and ideas as
well so he looks at speen Hamlin in in
in England in England and thinks that
work fair is going to be the easiest way
to get this guaranteed basic income in
and it ends up it ends up although we
get from that is this notion of the
premise of work fair that you need to
motivate people to work let's talk about
your other your your other proposal and
that comes from in part I guess maybe
the Jetsons in part from Bertrand
Russell the idea of a 15 hour workweek
explain that to us ok so this idea it
basically goes back to the famous
British economist John Maynard Keynes
right so in 1930 he wrote an essay
called economic possibilities for our
grandchildren it's a really a
fascinating read I and you can just
google it economic possibilities for our
grandchildren and and your mind may be
loaned because he made two predictions
in that essay it's just a phase as long
um where he said but the first place
we're going to get be a lot richer right
so it can only grow simply used as it
has been you know as we've seen it since
the 1850s will be a lot richer and if we
just use a little bit of that wealth
every year to work a little bit less
then the work week will keep shrinking
and shrinking and shrinking and we'll be
working less so unless and if you don't
just extrapolate well have the 16 hour
work week in 2030 that was Keynes
prediction one of the Grady call this
was the 20th century now you could say
oh I never really liked Ames anyway he
was this crazy guy we actually almost
all the experts or the sociologist the
Philosopher's up until the seventies
they all believed that we would be
working and I sell I sell that and it's
only since around the 1980s
we started working in a hell of a lot
more well what I mean what happened i
I've spoken on this program about
finding a an article in a steamer trunk
at a yard sale from a futurist I think
it was in the early 60s addressing a
Rotary Club in Florida talking about how
we're all gonna be carrying around
little TVs which was accurate we're
gonna get beam stuff from the space he
thought at the time they would be
powered by kerosene but you can't get
everything right but he did say the
biggest challenge we're gonna have by
the year 2000 is what to do with our
leisure time because of the amount of
work that we would not need to do so
what yeah what happened I mean this is
what you call I mean many respects I
think what you call the great decoupling
but what what happened yeah well here's
the thing what we underestimate is
capitalism's extraordinary amount or
extraordinary ability I should say to
come up with new jobs jobs that
simply don't need to exist to be honest
I can already see this you know as
someone from Holland where workers are
better protected and we've got a higher
minimum wage you see so many jobs in
America that just don't exist in Holland
right greeters at a supermarket so much
security
that's not really necessary in my mind
right so capitalism is really good at
inventing all these jobs that don't
really need to exist now if you don't
believe me you can ask people themselves
right we've seen huge polls in the past
couple of years there's now a scientific
study done by two dishonest where they
ask people the question do you think
your job as anything of value to society
during that 25 percent of the modern
workforce says no no I don't have
anything of value to society I could go
on strike and no one would care now who
are these people well they're not
teacher they're not nurses they're not
care workers actually there are some
people with wonderful resumes who went
to great universities who worked for
banks or from Golden Key or you name it
but still at the end of the day they
have this feeling like my job doesn't
contribute anything
well so what I mean I mean what why is
it in your estimation is that capitalism
in in the context of the United States
develops these these these you know
 jobs I mean I think we had
greater on to talk about this sometimes
yeah but but what why do you think it is
I mean why is has that been the answer
as opposed to like what are the forces
that create that that that dynamic well
I don't think it's about technology or
about economics it's really about
ideology if you have this ideology that
goes back to the 19th century which is
all about you have to work for your
money and where we use a very narrow
definition of what work actually is so
you have to be in a hierarchical
relationship with an employer and you
pay you know you get a salary you pay
taxes over that and that's the only
thing we consider work right we do not
include caring for our kids in GDP we do
not include caring for the elderly in
GDP right or all kinds of other
volunteers work now if you have this
ideology this pleas system about
everyone should do this kind of work and
then there's some Lee no work left
anymore right because the robots are
coming they're taking more and more jobs
then you get into this crisis this is
ideological and and and you just start
inventing jobs that don't need to exist
I think that is exactly what we've seen
happening in the past couple of decades
and I mean if you want to see what the
future can look like I think you should
go to a country like Japan because Japan
has the most robots per capita right
it's the most technologically advanced
society in the world probably but then
the unemployment rate is the lowest in
the whole rich world as well so how did
it do it well you just walk around in
Tokyo for a couple of hours and you'll
see so many jobs that don't need to
exist right there are wrote works and
there are literally send people spending
next to it waving to you know go to the
left go to the right it's absolutely
useless but that's what happens if you
have this ideology that everyone needs
to have a job
well oh so where does that mean what
what is the ideology is that a is that a
function of of capitalism I mean it's
clearly not just puritanical or maybe it
is and somehow we exported that to Japan
is it just a function of capitalism and
in what does mean is mattered as well
right
so if you went through the Soviet Union
there was ideology that everyone should
have a job right and you would go to I
don't know a bakery or something and you
would buy a piece of bread and there
would be someone to give it to you
someone to hand you over the receipt
someone to put it in a bag right and
because there's this ideology we all
need a job I think we need to get rid of
the real goal the future should be as
one science writer once said the real
goal of this beauty should be through
unemployment so that we can live the
good life right that's that should be
the promise of technological program I
mean on some respects there's a there's
a failure of culture too right because
there is not enough of a competition for
that time I mean you mentioned how much
people watch TV I think specifically in
this country and but there it's it's and
certainly you quote Bertrand Russell the
the idea that we don't really that our
leisure time is really just a way to
regenerate for work as opposed to the
development of of a rich cultural life
that makes pursuing things that aren't
for work as easy as as our like almost
like second nature as the idea of like
entering the workforce yeah I agree
but here's the interesting thing if you
compare countries internationally and
you look at the countries with the
longest workweek those are also the
countries where people watch the most
amount of television right because if
they worked so hard and then at the end
of the day the only thing you can do is
sit back and watch stupid gave cable
news right and be brain quiet if you
look at the countries it's much shorter
working week you'll see that they're
also the countries where people go
through the theater most
where they read the most books where
they do miserable and series work etc so
my conviction is that if people have the
time they can also you know live the
good life and actually develop their
their their cultural taste and you name
it but you need to thank for it if
you're if you're tired and the only
thing you can do is watch stupid
television you had your third I guess
the third goal of the utopia you talk
about and I should I just mentioned I
just have it in my notes here that I did
not know that utopia is both a what is
it a place and oh both a good way no and
nowhere but the the the third I guess a
leg of this stool is open borders why is
that important well this is definitely
the most radical idea in my book right
especially especially right now but
again from an historical perspective
it's interesting to know that borders
are quite recent invention so they
hardly existed at the end of the 19th
century task force didn't exist either
and the countries that did issue them at
some point like the ultimate Empire or
Russia they were seen as backward
countries you know it's a borders are a
relatively recent invention and the
depressing thing is that actually three
quarters of all walls with three nations
have been built since the year 2000 so
sometimes you get the impression that we
live in an era of more immigration than
ever but then you're being misled by the
news because in reality only 2 to 3% of
the world population doesn't live in the
country in which they were born right so
this is absolutely not an era of massive
immigration it's an era of very very
limited integration in reality and and
but what is the value I mean aside from
the sort of the the the tradition and I
imagine maybe there's more you
in terms of the scope of history there's
more just physical ability for mobility
at this point right and like you know
not just we have transportation modes
but we also have a slightly better
awareness of where worth supposedly
headed to or what we might what we might
see on our way there right so it's not
like we could fall off the end of the
earth or we're going into you know the
Forbidden Zone or whatever it is I mean
say so the idea of I mean to a certain
extent there's there's less sort of like
natural obstacles in some ways to
migration than there were you know two
three four certainly you know more than
that a hundred years ago so but so aside
from tradition now what what is the the
value to a society or even does it make
sense to refer to a society if we're
going to have open borders I suspect
that it does but but what is the value
to do specifically to our society for
that yeah well think about that and the
first place we know from a huge amount
of evidence from economics that
immigration is by far the most powerful
do we have in the fight against global
poverty right so we can do a lot of
things like development aid cash
transfers and I'm a fan of all that but
if someone from sub-saharan sub-saharan
Africa has the ability to move with all
his or her talents to a country like
America he or she would be able to make
so much more money right and then all
the standard objections that people have
against immigration like oh they're all
criminals or they're terrorists or they
take away our jobs or they'll drive for
wages down etc I I've taken a look at
all those arguments in my book it turns
out that actually the evidence is very
limited for that for example when we
talk about the issue of crime immigrants
in this country in the United States are
way less likely to end up in jail or to
be convicted of a felony so that's not
the case at all and if you look at are
they taking our jobs
surely there's a lot of evidence that
immigrants bring more dynamism to the
economy and actually create a lot of
jobs so this is this is nothing the most
important thing here to keep in mind is
that we live in a world of apartheid on
on just a global scale basically right
just sixty percent of your income is
dependent on the single factor you know
of which country you were born as a man
so I couldn't write a book about a
radically better world or you know about
utopian crazy ideas that may become
reality in the future and not mention
the elephant in the room right I have to
write something about waters in the
nation-state fair enough all right so in
and you you make the point at the at the
end of the book that like those folks
who gathered at Mont Pelerin in the 40s
they were in the wilderness for about
twenty or thirty years at least I think
until they were starting to implement
their their policies and you don't want
to wake up and find that the clock is
about to strike twelve and that you
haven't I guess I'm trying to figure out
what the metaphor is at that point it
gathered your glass slipper and head
home or whatever it is but um yeah I
mean it's my job as a writer and as an
intellectual to come up with these ideas
that may be completely out of touch but
at least helps us to ask the right
question so as a historian but the
question that always fascinates me the
most is how will people in the future
look back on us right because it's easy
for us to look back on the Middle Ages
to say oh there were barbarians right
and they have slavery or witch hunts and
all these kind of terrible things but
then obviously people in the future two
centuries from now will consider us
barbarian in many ways now the question
is what what is the most immoral thing
we're doing right now and maybe borders
are one of them maybe people in the
future will look back on this whole
system we have of nation-states and say
oh my god that was just how could they
ever justify that and and so I mean if
we're looking at this in terms of in
because you start off by saying there's
been a tremendous amount of progress
you you refer to capitalism is providing
a has opened the gates to a I think you
call the the land of plenty but it can't
sustain it as as presently configured do
you have a sense do you have a sense and
and again and I don't know as a
historian necessarily if this is your
portfolio but that one does not need to
subjugate capitalism or does need to
subjugate capitalism to to advance these
agendas that you're talking about well I
think that this whole debate in America
about capitalism versus socialism is a
bit confusing right so I believe in
market right
I believe in money I think they can be
useful tools to organize our society but
they need to be used alongside many
other things like government
intervention or the Colemans as we call
it just civilians
you know organizing their own daily
business and the thing is obviously that
this the system that we now call
capitalism is not working for probably
the majority of people in this country
so yeah something definitely needs to
change there but then I mean Sweden in
the capitalist country Norway is against
in this country I grew up in socialist
Poland and I'm still alive so I think
that the first things that need to be
done here in America are just common
sense
simple things like universal health care
for all public education Universal child
care you know policies that work really
well and are very popular in the country
that trying to well I mean let me ask
you this because you know I I was I was
caught up a little bit on on your
terminology in the end when you talk
about the underdog socialists which I
think you know to me seem more
descriptive of what we refer to sort of
like you know I guess maybe liberals in
this country I guess to a certain extent
when you say that that Hollen is
socialist I mean what is the
what what tips it across that edge that
constitutes socialism and in your in
your definition well you have to imagine
that I wrote this book a couple of years
ago right know that a lot of things has
changed right that was my next question
go ahead yeah I mean a couple of years
ago it felt to me like that people on
the left and progressive only knew what
they were against they were they were
against austerity against growth against
racism against oviya but there were very
few people had some kind of positive
vision of where they actually want what
does it go now obviously we're in a
different era now and I'm more and more
hopeful about the future
you know this whole phenomenon of AOC is
just amazing amazing to watch and just
just remember here that she's not only
influential and her whole movement is
not only influential in America but also
in Europe I see it changing the
conversation in Holland for example is
that suddenly politicians are willing to
come up with bolder proposals to do
something about poverty to do something
about inequality and to do something
about climate change so I'm incredibly
excited how the conversation is already
shifting and indeed now the underdog
socialist you may call them the
so-called moderates or the centrist were
like can we can't we just thinker a
little bit around the edges and there
this is all through radical for me well
to be honest I think this is the time to
be radical because the challenges we're
facing are radical as well it has been
stunning stunning this progression and
I'm I'm I guess well I mean I think we
might be where we want to land at least
but I'm curious just because you know
obviously you're you've you got some
acclaim from the from your your call for
higher taxes at Davos and of course the
then your subsequent appearance on
Tucker Carlson's program
Tucker's since had you know I don't know
if you're aware this a couple of bad
weeks not a great time to be Tuck
while he's out of he's had quite a run
of it being a pretty good time to be
Tucker but but but this this notion I
just want to get back to like just I
guess circle back around a little bit to
the idea of you're calling for higher
taxes this is I think largely a function
in your or is it in your function in
your mind a way to deal with inequality
you know this story that is just broken
about the about the the extremely
wealthy families who are willing to pay
a huge amount of money just to get their
kids into a college that I think that
they felt they could say to their
friends their kids are in yeah is
indicative of a dynamic you make the
point I don't want to you know end our
conversation without touching on this
because I think this is fascinating that
it is the relative poverty or one could
say the relative wealth which is one of
the primary drivers of discontent in
society and can drive people to pay six
million dollars to get their kid into a
university and and and I would suggest
that if you can afford six million
dollars to pay for your kid to get into
university you don't need them to get
into that kind of university they're
gonna be fine you know there's an
extraordinary amount of evidence from
social science that inequality if you
have too much of it which is certainly
the case right now in the United States
that it becomes a social poison it
basically poisons everything it poisons
relationships between people's it
poisons you know the institution's
people trust their fellow human beings
that they trust their institutions and
their democracies less so yeah that's
that's what's been happening and my
frustration in Bob Davos was people were
talking about inequalities I was on a
panel about the cost of inequality but
no one was talking about taxes right so
as I said in Davos as well but like it's
being at a firefighters conference and
no one's be allowed to talk about water
well if you zoom out a little bit and if
you look at the past 50 years you'll see
that inequality is grown and taxes have
gone down down down I mean for the
rates there is connection here right you
don't need a PhD in economics to see it
so yeah I've been arguing in the for the
past couple of years that we should get
go back to say the 15 to 60 make America
great again
and and bring back those higher tax rate
what was the reception that you got I
mean you know I know Davos is has its
own sort of fractal inequality where
like the billionaires get to go get the
key card and go all the way up on the
elevator and the hundred millionaires
have their lounge areas but to the
extent what was what was the reception
that you received to the extent that you
can get a sense of who you've been
talking to and who's coming up to you
well as you can imagine they weren't
very happy with me it was quite an
uncomfortable experience but then again
I'm a believer in the power of ideas so
I do believe that people can be
convinced there were a lot of people
actually who when I announced that I was
going to Davos who were very critical
that you know it received a lot of
emails people are saying oh I'm so
disappointed in you why do you go there
this is the party of the billionaire's
don't you know that but I believe in
speaking truth to power you know that's
also why I went on Tucker Carlson
because I think I think it's important
to go there and and not only talk to
people in your own bubble but also
spread the message elsewhere and I'm
also optimistic that even the
billionaires in Davos you know you can
make them feel uncomfortable and that
that in the longer run can actually help
them change their mind
all right lastly let me ask you this and
I understand if you don't want to get
anybody in trouble but the tucker
carlson thing okay because I've done a
lot of these type of hits and I have a
pretty good sense of what what the setup
is although I don't know where you
actually shot this but did you record it
after or was someone recording it in
real time I guess is the question I had
behind the scenes there it was all in
real time so you have to imagine it was
2 a.m. in Amsterdam at that point I was
in a studio in Amsterdam and I
into the studio and off the producer
like can you record it do you have the
equipment the technology for that
because I'm gonna throw a hand grenade
it super cross to me probably not going
to like it and he might not air it and
then this guy said you know I can't do
that because I don't have the equipment
for it and I said you know what doesn't
mind I'm just gonna say what I would
have to say well we'll drink a couple of
beers after that and then I did the
interview and then this producer came
walking here walking in the room with
his iPhone innocent so we had recorded
it all with his iPhone so that's how it
happened
then we started drinking beer for for
the next two hours it was 4:00 a.m. at
that point I think and then I went back
into the cat and it was only in the cab
that I looked at the video again and
thought and thought holy
this is this is something I have there
so yeah it wasn't really planned and I
guess you had a sense as you went out
for beers that they would not probably
be hearing that segment oh no to be
honest I still thought that he was gonna
air it I don't know maybe I'm naive but
but maybe it's also my Dutch background
we Dutch we don't have issues with
people swearing itself we don't believe
anything so you Americans are so
sensitive about everything oh he said
 well who cares all right we're
just gonna have to drop out that bad
that to fix that in post well
that that's really no I'm joking
that is that that's great we really
enjoyed it and appreciate the work
you're doing and folks should check out
utopia for realists we will put a link
on majority dot F M how we can build at
the ideal world it's a it's a it's a
great read and Rutger Bregman really
appreciate your time today really thanks
for having me nobody alright alright
folks that was that's great I love that
story some nice little image yes it is
two Dutch guys getting drunk Shepard
Tyrolean Tucker Carlson across the
Atlantic I wish I was there I read a
book in college called dealing with the
Dutch but it reminded me of that that
was awesome
I also just appreciate like it's a
two-way image did my cable television
hit let's go have beer for a couple
hours
obviously beers obviously dealing with
the Dutchman all right we're gonna take
a break head into the sensitive we say
 who cares
think about the Dutch I am her from
Philly I don't know what that there was
well the IM ur who requested less
profanity on the shows I don't remember
that I guess that really stuck in your
craw deeply when was it actually it was
like a couple days ago Michael felt
attackers talking about at all yesterday
I was all day I dedicated this show I T
MVS last night was in defense of
swearing there was ATF words you know
what I don't care
I tell you lose your YouTube
monetization watch this gosh darnit some
for some reason the show last night did
get like it's like a halfway suitable
for advertisers this type of thing I'm
not your wife Joe probably oshawa John I
do Ola so it shouldn't be this way weird
it's a swearing anyways folks common
comfort by sharper images the luxurious
weighted blanket that's designed with
high-density comfort Phil to promote a
sense of calmness for a restful night's
sleep common comfort weighted blanket
comes with a 90-day anxiety free best
nights of sleep your of your life
guarantee from sharper image and right
now our listeners can go to calming
comfort blanket dot-com
use the promo code majority a check out
receive 15 bucks off the displayed price
again that's calming comfort blanket
calm promo code majority because you
cannot put a price on a great night's
sleep
folks this just in Paul Manafort got 3.5
years
sentence in his case in this this was
the second case that he was facing or I
should say the second set of charges in
a we know the other day he got four and
a half years this was the second set of
charges that were brought against him in
a federal district court in Washington
this judge was far less inclined to to
see all the good deeds that Paul
Manafort had apparently done in his life
honorably toiled for dictators for
decades exact said that's what I said
that's obviously what our position is so
he got about half of what the maximum
would have been the maximum my
understanding would have been ten years
for the two different counts five each
he ended up getting 3.5 years that
actually is a secondary story because
the moment it appears that it appears
that the the moment that Paul Manafort
was sentenced he Manhattan district
attorney sy Vance unsealed 15 fraud and
conspiracy charges against Paul Manafort
so understand these are state charges
brought by the New York City District
Attorney why is this important because
you cannot be pardoned by the President
of the United States for state charges
so if Paul Manafort had in in his mind
that this whole time I'm gonna get
pardoned does not appear to be any
charges against me and you know remember
Southern District of New York and this
is also true with the Cohen thing and I
have a feeling they probably have
charges you know science probably has a
whole set of charges against Cohen to
Southern District when you hear SD NY
the Southern District of New York
understand that is a federal office that
is the federal essentially local
affiliate of the
US Attorney's Office the the Department
of Justice the New York DA has opposed
and it could have also been the state
attorney general although we had a
little problem with our last one the New
York DA has a whole new set of charges
that will not in any way allow for for
Manafort to escape this situation with
with a pardon assuming he's convicted of
one of these 15 fraud and conspiracy
charges against Paul Manafort and I
gotta say I'm not I'm not a lawyer I'm
also not a professional gambler but I
would bet that at least one or two of
those are gonna stick out of that 15
there's so things are gonna get a little
now the the real point it seems to me
this is obviously somewhat coordinated
right I mean in some fashion how we
don't know and I don't know what would
have been considered appropriate in this
context this suggests that this that
Muller the US Attorney's Office feel
that manna Ford has more to give because
a pardon at this point after he's been
convicted Donald Trump may go and pardon
him but manna fort was you know he's
gonna go to jail wasn't going to help
further any type of investigation into
Trump they either feel that manna fort
has more to give or that this is a
message to other people associated with
Trump that like look we we know how this
is gonna work and if you were thinking
you were gonna wait for a pardon you may
want to think twice so it's it's one of
those things it could be both of those
things they're not mutually exclusive at
all so
I don't know respect about david axelrod
he's not a rat because what you have is
you have these these these RICO cases
and in a sense it's really unfair
because what they do is they flip
somebody and then they become a rat
testify against the whole organization
Chicago politics
all right well Italy unfair we're gonna
take a quick break I do respect the
David's kept his mouth shut I do respect
that greatly in a certain sense we're
gonna take a quick break we will talk
more about this in the fun half just a
reminder
your support makes this show possible
you can become a member at join the
majority report dot-com join the
majority report dot-com just pennies a
day support the free show get the extra
content every day join the majority
report calm today is Wednesday like I
said at the beginning of the show that
means that last night was Tuesday that
means that things were a little bit
messy we came in this Oh were they no
not really it was a great show last
night a commentary on twenty20 the
return of pseudo world politics
Joshua Cohn of the wildfire project a
professional organizer gave us like a
tutorial on how to run and organize
campaigns in the postgame we continued
the lesson using the Simpsons and then
John honor Ola talked about how terrible
Joe Biden is patreon.com slash T MBS or
subscribe on our Michael Brooks show
YouTube channel Jamie the Intifada yeah
so this week on the Intifada Andy was
finally back from his trip to Mexico I
was back from a much shorter trip to
Mexico and Andy actually did a number of
interviews with people from the migrant
caravan who were currently working at an
anarchist mutual aid center and - who
wanna he got their stories in their own
words which i think is super important
because a lot of the time we talked
about the people in the caravan instead
of a monolithic way like they're these
like faceless suffering victims like no
they they are individuals with their own
stories and their own agency and their
own Paul
and I thought that was really meaningful
he also talked to some people at a
nonprofit organization called el otro
lado that helps people with the process
of applying for asylum and yeah I'm
really stoked about this one and I'm
glad that we got to do it so check it
out
patreon.com slash the anti Fattah as
well as podcast apps this weekend on
literary hangover we're doing Mary
rowlandson captivity narratives and King
Philip's War then the following episode
is going to be on the soul of man under
socialism by Oscar Wilde with David
Griscom of the majora have a TMDs
actually fascinating yeah so that will
be relevant to the conversation with
Rutger actually a lot of automation and
shorter work weeks and that sort of
stuff in there has that board dead yeah
it is didn't use it last night when he
turned it around unplugged it
oh god unplug yeah that's all right I'm
sorry I guess that was your mess aha see
in the finale
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cause you're rich I
have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whipping
like he's boss I am NOT your employer
you know I'm tired of the negativity I'm
sorry I didn't mean to upset you
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defense of that you idiots we're
just going to get rid of you alright
but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur good
exactly I'm happy now so win-win
it's win-win-win hell yeah now listen to
me two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven two thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9
billion Wow he's the ultimate bird
don't you see why don't you get a real
job instead of spewing vitriolic hatred
you left one one ball everybody's taking
their dumb juice today goodbye dance
dance
[Music]
Rand Paul had my first post coital see
I'm hoping to add more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
scroll fine we can double dip yes this
is a perfect moment no wait what you
make underdogs
 you you alright take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there make
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber lassic I'm feeling more
chill already hood Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you
guys ready to go
[Music]
just flush this out a little bit I mean
look it's a free speech issue if you
don't like me thank you for calling into
the majority report them we'll be with
you shortly
we are back I'm still reading up on the
new the new charges but I can tell you
that the presiding judge over the mana
Ford case made a point she was she
seemed to be very aware of what happened
after judge Ellis sentence mana for 247
months and that is that you can expect
Donald Trump to come out and say that
the judge said there was no collusion
and so she specifically said we are not
ruling on collusion one way or another
the MOA investigation continues
conspired or collusion with the Russian
government was not presented in this
case she said so it's not appropriate to
say investigators haven't found anything
when you lied to the investigators that
would be his obstruction charges but
he's basically speaking to the president
and then meanwhile these charges drop in
New York City and that's gonna be
fascinating to see I remember when he
gave me when I gave him $25,000 science
and that doesn't go where you used to go
you know again in in those hours in the
morning where I hear the pipes banging
and I've woken up and I lie in bed and
I'm like just got to wait this out and
they bang for like 25 minutes because
the heat comes on and I'm like don't let
your mind wander don't let your mind
wander don't let your mind wander I know
tonight what I'm going to be thinking is
why
Cyrus Vance well how is it that that he
or any other New York district attorney
couldn't find charges against Donald
Trump over decades how is that possible
how can that possibly be it's cuz I'm
smart I mean there's no doubt in my mind
that's what Donald Trump thinks but
there's absolutely no evidence I mean
Pro Publica finds it all due respect I'm
sure they're great investigative
reporters they don't have like subpoena
power they don't have the same leverage
that a lot of you know long for I mean
and now it seems like whatever was
inhibiting them before one of two things
right whatever was inhibiting these
officials from finding stuff and digging
around and finding stuff is is gone or
they just you know they didn't even
occur dome that Donald Trump was
anything but an upstanding citizen he
was on TV was known as very respected
but also a low-key businessman
customer's always right that's what I
say let's people and I don't pay them
let's do exactly let's just start with
this well do we have more audio from
Tucker - oh yeah I have a bunch of
Tucker stuff ok well let's let's add a
respect for our last guest Rutger uh
Bregman let's let's play a little bit
more Tucker shall we now ladies and
gentlemen as you know Tucker Carlson has
been been having some issues lately with
appearances that he made almost 10 years
ago on a radio show now where he's
talked in the past about having you know
issues like this so-called rapist is
going to take care of somebody for the
their life I mean can you really charge
him with rape so he is a slight
misunderstanding of of rapists and he
also apparently now to be fair this was
ten years ago of course nobody would be
talking about a rock on radio anymore
because nobody cares anymore we've
killed all these people but here is
Tucker Carlson talking about his sense
of the Iraqis and and these are clips
that range from 2006 to 2008 or so let's
listen to so this isn't a one-off maybe
we're misinterpreting what he's saying
let's listen and you decide
cuz a crappy plate filled with about
Iraq as a crappy plates filled with a
bunch of you know semi-literate monkey
one second Iraq is a place a crappy
place filled with semi-literate monkeys
now I don't imagine there's a lot of
people out there who need me to justify
the statement that that is incorrect and
racist I'm not meant to be taken
literally there's not literal
semi-literate monkeys oh he's just
referring to the people there as
semi-literate so he's not saying that's
a country full of really smart monkeys
what he means is that because they are
we shouldn't go to war with them so I
don't agree but maybe we could build a
 alliance to end war I just have
zero sympathy for them or their culture
a culture where people just don't use
toilet paper or Forks one second I can
tell you that in addition to using
toilet paper and forks in Iraq by 2006
it was quite clear there was no threat
to this country whatsoever there was our
Defense Department I believe by 2006 was
releasing Defense Department numbers
that we were responsible for the deaths
of over a hundred
thousand civilians I imagine that number
is significantly higher now on Defense
Department numbers which certainly were
at the low end of assessments of how
many hundreds of thousands of people
were civilians were killed never mind I
know by 2006 we were talking about two
million displaced refugees two million
internally displaced two million that
were sent out of the country but he has
no sympathy for these people he
cheerleaded this war - I can tell you
that right now
the the American public by certainly by
May 30th the 2006 was aware of all these
things that's why they in part got rid
of the Republicans and the way they
treat women you know I agree with you
their culture is but you're in their
homeland and you're over there as an
apposite I will also say the way they
treated women in Saddam Hussein's Iraq
was probably one of the more progressive
things about that regime I'm sure he
cares a lot about the way they treat
women indeed and if they didn't have
toilet paper in the sadhana but this is
the most sanctions the co-host is saying
this here's Tucker's response American
who they hate and they want nothing more
than the Americans off of their soil so
they're not I mean they can be shut the
 up and obey is my view
how could you salvage in Iraq at this
point I don't you know it's beyond our
control
I mean if somehow the Iraqis decided to
behave like human beings or something
he'd need to say look I'm a bigot okay
I'm a bigger I don't like Islamic
extremist like if you are really heavily
into Islam I really do I I'm sorry I
just don't want to care for you that
much and I don't care what that sounds
like you can call me a racist you can
where the you want and in a
disjunction you could say that and not
catch a lot of for certainly could
I'd vote for you if you said that you
know white men you know they've
contributed some I would say like
creating civilization and stuff I think
they've done a pretty dire no whatever
right a white man created civilization
thank you thank you bye guys just a note
on the semi-literate monkeys comment
iraq was actually more literate than
many US states prior to the invasion
well there you get but it was still post
war
so there's tucker carlson now
I suppose you could say like oh you
could cherry-pick a couple of isolated
statements over the course of two years
that's not indicative of the man
these are incidentally statements that
were made on public radio commercial you
know like I think it's not actually in
fact public radio
now the Love Sponge wasn't after Morning
Edition publicly broadcasted late radio
did you say that to me so I mean low in
NPR Tucker Carlson's a scumbag if Fox
wants to maintain Tucker Carlson on
their payroll they can do so but the
folks who own Fox should be completely
ostracized from society for allowing
someone like that on their broadcast I
mean that's just the bottom line well
they should be already for everything
that they've done right they're
basically a disinformation outlet at
this point in time and it's at the end
and the information it's it's not even
just that they're disinformation outlet
it is that they are a disgusting this
information I would I think it's worth
doing a little memory lane trip at some
point though to recognize that obviously
the vulgarity stands out but I remember
that time like now this is the time
where I you know I was very well aware
of what people were saying and you even
I mean you had Democrats like dick
Durbin couching their criticisms of
ongoing operations in Iraq as literally
we've done enough for those people they
need to clean up their own nests after
we invaded and killed hundreds of
thousands of them so obviously it stands
out because of just how disgusting it is
but in that context of that time there
was just a uniformity well that's the
only human audition that's the only way
you can get out of a war right if you've
gone in there like we did and invaded a
country it has to be ultimately well
we've got to leave because it's their
fault they're not right they don't show
enough gratitude for the fact that we
came in oh sure and bomb them back into
another age there there was a super
bizarre time where the
only people and it was a total lie and
fake obviously but the only people who
spoke with any even Fame public respect
about Iraqis on mainstream media were
Bush administration officials who were
look we're gonna give the Bhakra see
they deserve it
now if you are Tucker Carlson and you
are in desperate need of someone to come
in and justify come on your show and
justify your non apology
you want someone who is a heavy hitter
someone who is gonna have some type of
gravitas some type of moral and
intellectual Authority so that you can
you can bring on a guest who is going to
defend you you're not gonna have to do
it yourself this is the type of guest
you need on your show someone with
gravitas someone who can be out in front
of you so that you don't look like
you're trying to be self-serving
unfortunately for Tucker none of those
people would come on so he got Dave
Rubin Dave Rubin hosts the Rubin report
we don't agree on everything politically
but he is a sincere believer in free
speech we wanted to talk to him Dave
thanks very much pausing on I am quite
curious as to what they disagree with
actually you know what
Tucker might have for purposes of
branding better and more progressive tax
policies that's that's absolutely true
now Tucker might be really against I
don't know is he's against choice you
might have some issues with gay people
he might I don't think he would
articulate that Tucker Carlson he might
have it with abortion when of course
Dave is really really really reluctantly
pro-choice so reluctantly pro-choice
he's probably going to change soon
because of how liberals want to kill
born babies and call it abortion but
let's leave that said but but kudos for
Tucker for having to me this is how
desperate Tucker is I'm so desperate
that a I'm gonna book to Dave Rubin to
to defend me and B I'm going to play
along with Dave Reubens
ending up atop because I'm that
desperate that I'm afraid Dave Rubin
won't come back on coming on I'm
starting to think that a lot of us be
with overestimated the willingness of
the Democratic establishment to coexist
with people who disagree with them and
underestimated the real threat the
actual existential threat to speech that
we face now do you think that's right
well I wish I could say that this whole
situation is shocking but this is
exactly what I've been raising the alarm
about on my show for the last five or so
years as you know I come from the left I
was a progressive I still consider
myself a liberal in the best sense of
liberalism class pausing for one second
pause it for one second let's see I wish
that we could we could go back in time
and see what Dave Rubin would say about
about Iraqis the dossier my literate
monkeys could we please open up the
research vault thank you it's a time
machine
oh my god that's it's pretty good oh
well fortunately we don't need a time
machine because everything on the
internet lives forever ladies and
gentlemen so we have found some old
rediscovered Dave Rubin blog posts and
this isn't this joke notebook just to
clarify this is not as joke notebook
this is my idea a new book and it is
stunning how liberal Dave was back then
you will know that it's Dave Rubin
because it is not an intellectually
rigorous racism that we're looking at it
is super sloppy here are some of his
anti-arab jokey jokes in his blog Israel
is pulling out of Gaza today why is it
the Jews can't live in a place that is
run by Arabs but Arabs can live in
Israel France Britain America and every
other country on the planet oh yeah the
Arabs are backwards fundamentalist
wackos I keep forgetting that
you would have to eat a lot of stand-up
doesn't translate well into writing yeah
feel the animal in the room there is
nothing more dangerous than
fundamentalist Arabism fundamentalist
era business customer you know we
criticized de ville offer his complete
Craven this and inconsistency but he's
absolutely mean now here is the little
room here is when Dave Rubin has that
moment where he's like where he's asking
God questions right
the Arabs those peace-loving
freedom-loving people are saying they'll
kill Jews wherever they are I thought
that the Jews were the chosen people
chosen for what exactly that was you
know there was no v & o for and now O
six in American news like in-depth
international stuff this is him trying
out for Weekend Update right all right
Oh totally but I love I love it's like
it's like this is like the tenor of
these jokes really are for like today
and the peanuts bags are so small in the
airplane it said it's like the Holocaust
what's the deal with that huh in
American news it looks like we're gonna
sell some major ports to a company run
by the United Arab Emirates I remember
this everyone's making a big deal about
it as if giving control to our ports to
an Arab country is a problem but frankly
I think Arabs have earned our respect
and Trust wait for it Oh going with this
um I'm gonna have to retract that
sentence I know it's a misdirect it's a
misdirect just calm down sorry you don't
know where he's going you know you're
totally right hold your thumb Master
Craftsmen hold your fire this is
comedian at work I turned on CNN while
writing that while writing that and some
Arabs just burned down a chuck-e-cheeses
in Pakistan they're not Arabs in time so
oh no sorry to be that guy yeah they're
not Arabic yeah how do you know that
some Arabs didn't fly to Pakistan what
we did was we Flo we were flying from
the Emirates to ink the jet the airport
to the Adid port deal and we did a
layover in Karachi to punt on a
geez
hell will freeze over before I have
people like that in charge of my ports
like to paraphrase the great liberal
philosopher John Stuart Mill but I tell
will freeze over before first oh my is
is in charge of my ports and double
entendre what does he is he or does he
actually owned ports or back then I was
I mean she erratically if I had a put
and let Arab rent it back then is it
thought that we all learned the ports
that's how diluted a was but then I left
the Young Turks is it is it though that
he has there's some like metaphorical
special special quality to
chuck-e-cheeses like I can't quite make
out what part of it is if you don't have
respect for chuck-e-cheese you can't
touch my metaphorical port exactly well
you know some people just don't get some
jokes am i what I was with Sam Harris
explained to me that I was actually
doing thought experiment so I was ahead
of the curve what's what's amazing if I
could just give some advice if he just
stopped with like um um that would be a
lot funnier like wipe you know like then
it would be like hey like it old borscht
belt Salt Lake why cuz what of the Arabs
ever done you know it's gonna be like
it's got to be it's got to be something
like um I think the Arabs have earned
our respect and Trust wait what right
dot dot right and then that would be a
joke but it's literally actually it was
like hmm how am I gonna land this how am
I gonna land this who with Chuck E
Cheese
okay paw rats not jokes we still doing
okay to understand why he chose this
career path because the bar is you know
it's at the appropriate height for
somebody of his talents indeed and he is
he's hey buddy brushes up against it
still challenged but he's if I still
consider myself a liberal in the best
sense of liberalism classical liberalism
and I believe in the individual and all
of that stuff that we've talked about
several times but I want to I want to
address a couple things here first on
the way that you've responded to the
attacks by not apologizing I think that
was exactly the right thing to do you
know
all of us have joked all of us have made
mistakes all of us have a past all of us
have done things that were not proud of
and a series of other things if you've
lived you know wait a second wait a
second wait a second
Tucker Carlson was not joking he has a
past Rubin is saying it we're not proud
of well that's what you do when if you
have something that you feel badly about
that you're not proud of this is what
you do when you're called about it and
you have to discuss it I'm sorry you're
just gonna say hey this is a nice
concession segment we move forward right
went on I regret that I said those
things that's what the point is but yet
he's saying I'm you the way you handled
it by not apologizing for that thing
that was in your past that you may
regret that we both are
I guess gonna agree as a mistake that
you are not saying you regret so to any
hazard with you not apologizing in other
words clearly mistakes you're so
desperate to have me on and I'm so
desperate that I can only get on your
show so where both of our disingenuous
'no sizz going to meet in the middle and
just do a beautiful dance
i heard that for people tune you down
and I actually almost got into a traffic
accident that was booked last minute I
I knew that investing in that lawn chair
and waiting out in front would be worth
it and Here I am
it's
I love everything he just said there is
actually like totally fine and correct
leading to exactly the opposite of the
premise exactly exactly like that's
right something everybody makes mistakes
and therefore they should apologize and
move forward right I agree
[Laughter]
everybody makes mistakes and I recognize
they shouldn't it did certain things so
like it should be the right of them to
not ever faced anything accountability
it was exactly why you built your Hill a
segment I'm not taking any
responsibility for anything you just
said I agree I mean did Tucker even
admit that he made a mistake because no
because it seems like the things that he
said are completely congruous with the
things that he says now they're just
more vulgar exactly I don't know if
anyone out there thinks that like oh
this now impugns on the good name of fox
news hence he should be fired
I think the Fox News viewers are eating
it up oh yeah and like he doesn't have
to apologize so why would he dave rubin
is too stupid at any speed now look look
Tucker was in trouble he went to dave
rubin because nobody else would come on
a show to defend him however if you're
Tucker Carlson you strike out and you
end up with dave rubin who contradicts
really everything that the whole point
of the segment by saying that it's
something you regret that's not ready
son shoot back down that's all about
when you make a mistake and everybody
makes mistakes but then you won't back
down because Hucker has a safety valve
and what is that safety valve if you
can't get some a guest to come on your
show and you go to a co-worker to
pretend like everything is just
hunky-dory live tonight in the 9 p.m.
hour Sean Hannity all right I got to
give you a compliment so Tucker was
gonna be back this week now Tucker he
was gonna be off this week becomes a
busy news week and he's not gonna take
the mobs crap and he came into work yep
to to stand up to this and I want the
viewers of this channel to know that
well thank you Sean and totally
unprompted if I understand what Sean was
saying is that you had your vacation
schedule but it was a busy news week so
you came in busy news week but you came
in and to say take this mob I'm not
going to stay on my vacation and I'm
gonna stay on the channel because of the
busy news week and then Tucker was like
oh I'm this is totally impromptu I why
thank you Sean
well thank you Sean and you've helped me
every bit of the way I have to say we've
been talking every day yeah I'm an
expert in that he was trying to kill me
for 23 days I know I'm like trying to
help I'm like use it well you know IIIi
have been saying really racist stuff and
inappropriate stuff for years and years
and they're been trying to get me off
but fortunately I was safely behind a
rush on radio and good I know I'm like
trying to help I'm like you Laura Laura
you Mimi Lurie you it's like never stops
but anyway always great to see you and
have a great rise to vacation that you
were supposed to have alright right have
that vacation now because there's no
news now there's no news now glad you
said earlier prob too and of course
before he went off on to vacation Tucker
Carlson had to get you know was a little
bit upset again he couldn't get anybody
on to defend him so he went on the
attack against the media reporters
others who are trying to hurt you that's
the message from Fox I think all of this
matters
get it to about decency and standards
it's about the corrosive ugly nasty
behavior this mess happens on cable news
or off cable news and involving some of
these hosts it's about decency cries the
eunuch we must have decency by which the
eunuch means less disobeying more
obedience stop criticizing the program
or else
this is the face of state media what
does Fox even exist they wonder we've
got 11 other perfectly good kid calls
him a eunuch hmm see I don't know this
is where the liberal media kind of fails
in their response because like he's
going after his vulgarity it seems but
like would he be okay with Tucker
Carlson and Fox News existing if they
were saying the same things without such
vulgar language that's kind of right as
opposed well that's the thing is it yes
and that is why like the there is there
is no doubt that these entities and
people forget a dozen years ago when Fox
was just as odious if not more so you
had other press outlets defending them
as real journalists and I Got News for
you folks
they weren't any more real journalists
10 years ago than they are today
and Bill O'Reilly in his fake awards the
human and I mean just going back through
the years the war on Christmas which was
90% of their programming at that time
they were no more real news than they
are today maybe less so but other
journalists outlets protected them and
so the the bar is extremely high for
other cable television news to recognize
just how horrible they are so they have
to go to it's well it's the lack of
decorum not so much the constant the
stream of lies that is pumped out I mean
that's the the sad thing about that but
I don't know if he's a eunuch this is
also this is also pretty funny the Jacob
wall you'll recall this is the the young
man who had the bombshell that Robert
Muller had sexually assaulted somebody
and he got as far as calling a press
conference
on behalf of the woman who was going to
announce that she had been a victim of
these and he went to the press
conference and she never showed up and
he just said you know yeah well and it's
not there and he's been asked about that
ever since and he says well I'm not
talking about that anymore when some do
some and so this is this is pretty
upsetting
Jacob wall received death threats just
because this guy is a joke doesn't mean
that he should face this kind of
activity right it is wrong to receive
death threats wall and fellow I don't
know exactly how to characterize her
Laura Loomer the woman who locked
herself chained herself to Twitter
because too literally the building that
housed Twitter because Twitter suspended
her from the service went to Minneapolis
last month to investigate whether their
quest to prove representative Ilan Omar
married her own brother was true and his
videos apparently walls videos to his
fans were premise taun the idea that
what he was embarking upon going to
Minneapolis as you know was incredibly
dangerous because there are all sorts of
NER duels in Minneapolis no-go zones
yeah no-go zones who wanted to take him
out apparently he often would wear a
bulletproof vest because of the danger
in Minneapolis
they call it Target Center for a reason
he received a this is really uh he
received some death threats one of which
was I hope you effing know and the death
threat or didn't say effing I can assure
you know that if I bump into you in
Dinkytown or anywhere else in my city
I'm going to shoot you sort of polite
threat and I booked the habitable
continue effing bodies some some Twitter
account I told him how odd the left get
that F out of my city you piece of s now
that's more like it
this is from a Twitter handle called
Drake homes six one two well oh where
Jacob very and very smartly went to go
report mr. Drake homes six one two to
the police and here is a video he shot
of himself doing so
hi there we're journalists on town for
business for a report we're doing and we
received a couple of death threats yeah
we watched it progress over 24 hours -
what you're seeing now and that's a
steady stream coming in every couple
hours now apparently this Drake homes
612 here's the police report victim one
wall
Jacob Alexandra threat terroristic
threats completed homeland security of
France completed and apparently and the
other victim was ali abdul razak Akbar
that's who he's doing the documentary
doing the documentary with now this
Drake homes I guess is a a diversity
what is it let's see what does he say
honest he's a Drake Holmes is a
diversity coordinator born and raised in
Minneapolis
the problem is Drake Holmes is also a
really really bad speller and he
misspelled his own last name and his
username which is weird
and it turns out that Drake Holmes is a
creation of one of jacob walls fake
accounts it doesn't mean that diversity
coordinators aren't tremendously
dangerous people I think we can all be
an election if diversity coordinator
we're that hard in the DM z-- for real I
might be kind of a breast yeah there you
go
and apparently well deleted the account
because somebody cotton gotta got wind
of it
so Jacob wall my understanding is wasn't
um wasn't there some controversy
recently about somebody who created
their own fake death threats or attack
or something Jessie Smalley is he
smaller so so wanna point out that he
says hater of racists homophones and
bigots I'm a fighter by oh yes so like
homophone doesn't like words that sound
like other words Drake Holmes - like
could just be a really bad speller that
could have been the character that Jacob
I think you said errands or objects to
the euro standards if she really hates
if you say I threw the baseball through
the tunnel
so Jacob wall may end up serving a
little bit of time in Minneapolis which
is pretty hard pretty hard
it depends it's weird that he didn't
serve any time for the whole Moeller
stunt would be funny of L on Omar like
actually she's just like it what if her
like like like walks down the hallway
and she's being harassed by some idiot
from fox or something she's also like
and also jacob walsh should watch
himself in the prisons like if I was him
I'd be very mindful in the corridors of
the prison maybe take your lunch in the
cell like I would eat privately and a
hashtag no new friends so alright let's
just I want to touch on this this
scandal you know that I don't know I
have mixed feelings about it I mean I
don't want to sound jaded but there were
50 indictments the FBI presented that
involved I mean it's a fascinating story
and it and it's it is indicative of a
real ill in our society that you know we
talked about a little bit with with
Rutger Bregman about this the what
inequality does in terms of like driving
everyone insane and creating massive
discontent across the across the board
you had 40 some-odd parents who
apparently have been indicted for paying
what appears to be some type of network
of people who would go out and according
to the perpetrator find a guaranteed
side door into the admissions process of
colleges you don't get the backdoor
which is
I'm gonna donate a library or something
to that effect but a guaranteed
admission which is basically we're going
to do stuff like pay off the crew coach
to say that he wants to recruit these
people for crew and then they'll never
be on the crew team or we're going to
Photoshop pictures of my child
playing water polo as part of a cover
story as to why they should get in we're
going to bribe people the media is
making this about Hollywood because
apparently there are two actresses
involved - there was also a top hedge
funder this guy Bill McGlashan who was
an investor at the private equity firm
TPG he's among these other 49 people
accused of participating in a bribery
ring involving parents admissions
counselors and athletic coaches at Yale
Wake Forest and the University of
Southern California you mean it's a
bribe to get your kids here but like is
it really that hard to get into USC
given all the advantages that you people
have had in life you want a guarantee
you want a guarantee you came from a
poor family and you got into USC huge
accomplishment but if you come from a
family like this and you need to pull
some type of hustle to get it to USC
what's ridiculous because I read one one
of the parents was like we don't want
them to get into Arizona State and it's
like just go to Arizona State I just
don't go to school you're fine you could
literally do nothing just drive you're
gonna inherit money it's like it's over
he apparently signed off on plans to dr.
photo that would make McGlashan son look
like a football recruit
and apparently they had people take fake
tests for them they had a whole system
where they would set up where like you
know if you had to take the SATs or
something you'd need a special like oh
he's got a doctor's appointment or he's
got some problems so they would do like
a separate one they'd have a different
plate of Proctor's and I just saw on one
of the emails one of the actresses I
forget which one she wrote she wrote to
the person that they were coordinating
this with like rut row the high school
wants to use their own Proctor like why
do you want to go to college in the
first place like what do you think
you're gonna do when you get there
you're gonna pay someone to write all
your papers for you well that's actually
that's a really good point because a lot
of these kids buy their way into Ivy
League schools and guess what they
graduate just fine exactly here's the
thing you know there was a quote from
the from and Kushner do this all legally
because his dad was seriously lemme
here's the point
there was a quirky and it's very
exciting there's a quote from the the
quote from the US attorney who I think
was part of the announcement of these
indictments and he said we're not
talking about donating a building we're
talking about fraud here's the problem
right like this is this is why I I think
this is this story it's revealing in
some respects but it's also akin to
saying we're gonna focus on on Bernie
Madoff instead of all of the things that
nearly brought down the entire economy
and-and-and lost millions of people's
their jobs and millions of people their
homes under the the mortgage crisis I
mean this is there is a problem with
higher education being so out of reach
for people without going seriously into
debt
with essentially some type of filter
that ranges from that tuition through
donating a building and I just donating
a building and getting your kid in is
legal but it seems to be even far more
corrosive than even what we've seen here
I mean people are talking about like I
feel bad for the kids because they've
been taught to steal and lie as opposed
to you could buy a building and get in
yeah that merit is a function of how
wealthy your parents are that your merit
is a function statistically speaking of
the zip code that you've been born in
and the idea that this is not a bad
value to be teaching kids or that to be
unleashing in society or to have a US
Attorney say like we're talking about
something bad here not like donating a
building and getting your kid this is a
problem like oh it's not the problems at
people rich people can buy their kids
way into school it's that they did it in
this one very illegal way possibly
because you know when multiple
generations of rich people buy their way
into school and pay people to do their
work for them eventually they're not
even smart enough to pull off the scam
reached a decadent period no those are
the people that don't have the nested
the same level of money to just buy a
building or the connections that's why
they have to do it in this new money
hustle tacky sort of way versus just the
like oh no
we'll just donate a bill to six million
can get you at least like an auditorium
or something also certain parents did
this in a way that was tax deductible
too right oh I think there's a lot of
ways to but I think I just also think
like yeah I mean when I when they do
those like silly like sanctimonious like
it teaches young people you know to
cheat and it's like every single thing
in this culture teaches you to do that
in the country as sucker to not do that
indeed and if you're gonna change
policy to disincentivize it of course
but like it's it's so the people who
aren't hustling are the suckers and
that's the system they've created and
you know what the real problem with this
is of course it's that it besmirch --is
successful people in america yeah I was
scandal millions of dollars paid to
bribe to college coaches school
officials administrators actor Felicity
Huffman was released on two hundred and
fifty thousand dollar bond actor Lori
Loughlin husband will be released on a 1
million dollar bond
let speak with us now you know I said
before I'm tired of moral lectures from
the elites and this makes things worse
Harvey Weinstein and now college
admissions right I mean it is one second
wait what this is a moral lecture from
the elites that you shouldn't be kissing
the millionaires who buy their way into
colleges and then she says yeah this is
a problem with Hollywood just like
Weinstein I mean the they've got to get
better writers or something over there I
kind of agree unfortunate this is not
just Hollywood its wealthy people all
across America and I think what's so
offensive it's unfortunate it's not just
Hollywood because then we could write it
off as a liberal thing this is gonna
actually require just a little bit of
imagination on our part go back to what
its wealthy people all across America
and I think what's so offensive about
this is first of all in one of the
tragedies is the kids the kids are being
basically taught from their parents that
this is the way to get ahead in life to
cheat and steal secondly already we have
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes out there
saying ah just another example about how
the wealthy and powerful in our country
are not playing on the same field as
everybody else and she already has and
this is going to become another cudgel
with basically beating up successful
Americans I think though the the real
tragedy here is that the kids involved
in this who apparently did not know what
was going on are ashamed they're
probably going to lose their spots in
school and obviously we don't have to
feel too sorry for them because they're
all rich and famous but it's this is a
horrible thing
these parents have done to the system
and to the kids oh you're so right Liz
you really are yeah you said that so
let's just just a review there are two
tragedies here one is that the kids the
kids at these 39 adults there are
embarrassed and they're gonna have to
live with this although a couple of them
knew about it but but the ones who
didn't which is tragic
but that's the that's the main tragedy
the other tragedy of course is the kids
who don't get in and that it indicates
there's a deep rot in our in this
so-called merit oh wait no I'm sorry
that's not the second tragedy the
tragedy is that someone's pointing out
that there's a deep rot in that they do
see as a talking point that yeah that
AOC is a talking point that there is a
deep rot in our society those are the
two tragedies incidentally they were
taking other people's place and
incidentally you know this is again this
is just sort of the the part of the
corruption that sticks out from the you
know it's it's it's little peak out of
the the water on the whole other low
ends of it there's also there's the
whole test prep industry to like exact
every single step of the way this is a
loaded from the I mean legacy mission
which literally is futile istic all the
way through the criminal conspiracy of
this which is kind of hilarious and Coen
Brothers but all the way through just
the things that we take for granted like
you know I know it a lot of elite
colleges like I talked to somebody once
who's like look like a third of the kids
have different rules so they can take
tests at different time and get extra
like everybody's got a psychiatrist note
everybody has of this and of that
everybody gets paid you know everybody
has tutoring I mean it's it's a whole
game that reflects all of our other
social pathologies all right here is a a
good look at the the sort of the but you
know what affirmative action am
i right exactly
treci Macmillan cotton was on Hayes also
with on on gear Dada's and explaining
how these this in many respects exposes
sort of the rot that's that's there it
is rule by legacy cases is it's whatever
the Greek term for that that is the sort
of pervert that's where we are right now
like Jared Kushner is advising his
father-in-law after his daddy gave a lot
of money to Harvard and God knows how
Don Trump got him to listen right what
we're really seeing here is historical
subtext that's contemporary text right
what these wealthy parents really wanted
to buy was not just a more guarantee
point of entry into elite higher
education which with yawning wealth and
inequality just becomes a more valuable
commodity for the few who can afford to
be there so that's what this
relationship is broadly between wealth
and inequality and elite institutions
who benefit greatly I might add from
that wealth inequality wealth inequality
will probably destroy access
institutions those working horse
institutions that actually promote it
upward mobility for poor and middle
class students but elite institutions
are going to win and that's what we're
saying we're seeing that win but we're
also seeing a culture of wealth which
anon points out to this is about this is
about more than money this is about what
can we get away with and that is the
insidious nature of the culture of being
wealthy it is not that their children
will be fine it is that their children
will not be finer than the other
children who are fine right there is
always an additional layer of privilege
and status and opportunity hoarding to
be had and in many ways it is the entire
culture of wealth that says that is what
the pursuit of wealth is about so it's
about not only getting in through a
guaranteed side door but getting in in a
way that says you deserve to be there
even knowing that you got in through the
side that's the system in which they are
trying to preserve now who could
possibly check your feed who could
possibly defend the idea that legacies
should have a leg up and getting in
there
that who could possibly make the case in
some way that people who you know by
nature of their parents or whatnot
deserve to be in these institutions that
ostensibly are handing out the benefits
of these institutions in permit or to
the most meritorious amongst us I mean
who could actually say that in public
Oh Megan McCain is she back from
vacation not just feeling better legacy
admissions which means if your parents
went to brown or Harvard or or you know
you pay you can go but it's interesting
because the idea of legacy admissions is
racist in nature and I'll tell you why
it started in the 20s to keep out
upwardly mobile immigrants who had
started pushing for admission to elite
schools and I think that that is a very
very bad system legacy why should your
kid get in because you got in yeah when
I would have any I was the first
political million military academies my
family goes back generations at the
Naval Academy and that's service to your
country so I would push back in that in
that part of it because my grandfather
great-grandfather my brothers they all
serve there yeah but if you don't have
the grades why should why should you
have the grades my brother did but I
don't think there's anything to be
ashamed of the fact that my family's
legacy is at the Naval Academy my
father's buried I'm not talking about
your family I'm talking about legacy I'm
talking about the policy of wit legacy
admissions came from I'm very very very
proud of me and Jews probably out of the
college's well let me say that yeah just
one
my closet I just got it I'm gonna just
point out the joy knows exactly what
she's doing when she says keeps Jews out
of the colleges cuz hey that's true but
be Megan McCain is God where's the crime
what happened to Uncle Joe Megan by the
way I love the like again Megan McCain
not the brightest so maybe it's a
genuine confusion very store she like is
explained by a broad narrow to you Sally
but I'm saying too literally mix like
what I say get rid of legacy emissions I
don't mean dig your father's grave up
and forget your family history right
erase history it's not that you're not
allowed to have members of the same
family go to a school it's that that
shouldn't be the reason why you get in
but let's continue my brothers they all
serve there you don't have the grades
well I should why should lead have the
grades my brother did but I don't think
there's anything to be ashamed of the
fact that my family's legacy is at the
Naval Academy my father's buried I'm not
talking about your family I'm talking
that legacy you talking about the policy
of wit legacy admissions came from I'm
very very proud and Jews probably out of
the college's yeah my question is will
these parents go to jail I mean the US
attorney said that there shouldn't be
disparate treatment I wonder is the
American public ready for the assignment
parents our parents were in jail for
food stamp fraud yeah and there are
parents who are in jail for yeah and a
Navarro nailing this now I was a woman
in jail for five years for voting listen
I am not making any accusation here
whatsoever I'm going to just point
something out the person who could not
distinguish between the concept of
legacy admissions and the idea that you
have a legacy or a family history at a
university was accepted into Columbia
University
one of the most elite universities in
the country
Christ and that was my admissions essay
for Columbia stop undermining the legacy
of legacy
it was the argument about graves do you
think undermining was the term or do you
think it was stop being a hater about
legacies stop totally being a hater
about legacies and such that was my
essay that got me into Columbia
University I'm proud of my family I'm
proud of my family okay what your pride
about your family is pretty goddamn
anti-semitic you know is really
upsetting to me because after the
Holocaust and after everything we've
been through this cut you know there's a
time my grandfather had to go to City
College in a very dangerous time in our
country's history not be able to
distinguish me pretend that she's so
stupid that she doesn't understand the
difference between legacy admissions and
getting rid of her father's grave site
it's just really upsetting okay guys I'm
gonna be taking the rest of the week off
I just hope that after this scandal we
realize that we must exhume almost every
single body Fitz destroy records go to
the same school as them the decadence of
the ruling class folks
it really is generational because like
you know I don't like John McCain but he
did some things that were legitimately
impressive and and she just has never
had to really do anything it's almost
like it's not genetic
I love how like joy is sitting there
being like you know a hull of the Rae
this could be read honey as I have a
career that I created on my own and I
sit across from you while you talk
absolute nonsense and are an entitled
idiot every single week and I'm
wondering as with college admissions why
do I have to go through this and is
there a much more talented person who
has married who could be sitting in your
chair and making a better show for
everybody
Abbey Huntsman went to University of
Pennsylvania by the way uh again a be
happy Huntsman definitely like we only
do clips but she seems to have a much
better understanding of like hmm whole
life handed to you by
I'm gonna step back a little bit yeah
exactly exactly incidentally I mean is
there you know Donald Trump is a perfect
example of all of this right I mean we
have a president who is there and in
some respects I mean this is I mean what
John Huntsman also went to University of
Pennsylvania that's what treci cotton
said was that we are seeing the subtext
of our society played out in the text
which is exactly the way the people
described Donald Trump and not I mean
coincidentally but perhaps not so
coincidentally you know Donald Trump of
course also bought his way and just like
his son-in-law into college and that is
aside from like Michael says the the all
of the filters that get you in a
position to apply and get into college
even if that doesn't involve your
parents paying any money to the college
ranging not just from you know SAT prep
but the ability to live in or be born
into a location that has you know a
decent public school or a your parents
PI you know paying for a private school
and on and on on like this and the the
limitations of just even the concept of
meritocracy in in a society particularly
as disparate as ours is ridiculous but
is it true that John McCain did graduate
at the bottom of his class to look yeah
he says I retract my comments at John
McCain not if not nothing he's ever done
is it broke I mean I think he I'm sure
that he literally engaged in physical I
mean and on behalf of a genocide
so it's not a moral claim yes he flew
planes not torture McCain literally done
nothing in her life of any even note I'm
not saying the things he did were good I
would stand by your state he did moral
claim and she has never done anything
she did appear as a guest on have I got
news for you one of the pilots that did
for it so that was and that was tricky
we had to get there like 4:00 in the
afternoon she married a federalist
writer - that's right right now just a
reminder I'm going on the view I'm
owning Meghan McCain this is happening
let's all envision it together I thought
you were actually announcing them no but
yes in a way there's two things a piece
of legislation you should be aware of
that are going on right now one is that
the Republicans are looking to pass what
ostensibly sounds like a an attempt to
regain authority for Congress and that
is Senator Mike Lee is drafting some
type of legislation for Congress
ostensibly to clawback the emergency
power is that the Congress has given to
the president but the fact is that
Congress doesn't need to do that
Congress could prevent President Trump
from from getting the money to build
this wall by taking it from things like
the military pension etc etc but they're
not going to do that because they're so
afraid of Donald Trump what they are
gonna do is fashion a piece of
legislation that allows Donald Trump to
do it this one time but will prevent
future presidents from doing it when
there is a Democratic president I don't
know if that's going to succeed but it
is an attempt to head off Republicans
who are voting to limit the president's
ability to do this meanwhile there's
another piece of a legislation that is
called the cradle act and essentially
what this is is a piece of legislation
that is aimed I think at destroying
Social Security the biggest failure in
pensions and in 30 or 40 years has been
the experiment to do
401 k's these are not defined benefit
pensions but defined contribution
pensions in other words you got to pay
in a certain amount and the the problem
with these are that one people have
access to this money they pull it out in
times of emergency rather than saving -
they don't contribute in the first place
so the way that they want to undercut
Social Security is by making it an
ineffective social insurance this is
what social insurance is you cannot
access this money until the triggering
event happens cannot pay into who fire
insurance and pull the money out because
I haven't gotten uh there hasn't been a
fire in my house and then if a fire
comes I have no home and I have no
ability to get to get in to do to get
another home this is what they want to
do and their couching it as if it's
providing flexibility for people as
opposed to addressing the needs that
people have in real time I think most
people would look at this is an
opportunity that they might not
otherwise have an opportunity to benefit
from payments that they've been making
already for years why is the u.s. so far
behind the rest of the industrialized
world on this issue I think that is a
really great question and that's why we
have decided now is the time to step up
and really do something about this
we think it's time to catch up with
other countries what's the like I don't
even know like the this is there is the
idea that this is somehow us catching up
to other countries to allow people to
raid there because the the questioners
question is in terms of like you know
leaving for paternal of you know for
maternal or paternal leave or other you
know sort of events like this where we
as a nation do not provide support for
people in that way our guests in Holland
they of course they do this they do this
in Germany they do I throw out Europe
they give you paid vacation when you
have a loved one that is ill you get
paid vacation or time off with the
maternity and paternity leave we're not
catching up because we're raiding the
our retirement pensions our retirement
insurance insurance that says I'm going
to pay into this as a society to make
sure that we're not leaving our elderly
in poverty that's what this is that's
what we're insuring against we're
insuring against massive rates of
poverty for our elderly we're insuring
against burdens that would be placed on
children of parents who might be living
in poverty we are that is what we're
doing to raid that and allow people to
raid that as opposed to just as a
government if we think this is an
important value to support people when
they take time off to be a mother or a
father or they take time off to care for
a loved one we should fund it because
the rest of the world does yeah if
anything other countries are trying to
catch up with us right now
like the Mad King of France of raising
people's retirement age etc the the
neoliberal governments of Europe they
are looking at that and they're trying
to catch up with us in terms of throwing
old people out on their asses that's
true the bottom line this Republican
legislation do not be taken in by it not
good let's go to some im's I don't think
we're gonna get to any calls today
because we get though not too much time
but snow fake mats Dave Rubin impression
is presciently close to sounding like
Cartman from South Park it's Mike
Racine's be silly to the Fox audience
any amount of gross Nisour stupidity can
be completely masked by a nicely clipped
earnest sounding authoritative a
thorough tative white person speaking
effect Drake Holmes
Sam can you please have someone on to
discuss the eunbi movement it's becoming
a thing here in DC in suburban Maryland
I'm skeptical of its intentions and its
necessity for one I don't think everyone
does well living in high-density areas I
think a little distance is good for our
well being and I think technology
increases make
increasing makes commuting unnecessary
eunbi is is what yes in my backyard I
see I guess it's a movement to build
more housing developments yes and to
build upwards I think I mean I think it
density is generally good
I think density is generally good there
is always the opportunity to move to the
suburbs theoretically this would make it
easier if it's really important but if
you think that distance is good for
well-being it's definitely not good for
climate it's not good for climate like
technology makes the commute a smaller
problem but I mean suburbs are such a
huge problem when it comes to like the
climate absolutely I would just make
sure that the developments being built
are not luxury developments but have
some measure of affordable housing give
me space water boat from Kashmir Rutger
Bergman Michael Dell Howard Schultz walk
into a Starbucks Rutger Berman's Bergman
says poverty is a lack of cash Michael
Dell says poverty is a lack of film
philanthropy Howard Schultz says poverty
is a lack of imagination Bergman chokes
Michael Dell figuratively is speaking of
course I don't but um I'll get a square
hello mr' was travelling now and playing
catch up on shows mr killing it and
today with Rutger Sam how gratifying to
see you on Hayes last night in a longer
segment and then Macmillan cotton who
you introduced many to us in January
interview I'm convinced Hayes as a
producer whose job it is to listen to mr
the DX fool hello Sandinistas do you if
Peter teal is involved with this Tucker
tape dump since it was Bubba that
blackmailed former entertainer Hulk
Hogan with a sex tape that he passed on
to Gawker which Hogan and his friend
teal bankrupt by a little tired of
Tucker we a chef populist so I don't
understand bubble of sponge is the
reason for his bankrupt I didn't know
that he is the one yeah Hulk Hulk Hogan
cooked Bubba the Love Sponge
and there is a video of it which Gawker
for some I'm a big Gawker defender but I
have to say for some just like why would
you do that reason posted this video
that no one would want to see and then
Peter teal secretly funded the Hulk
Hogan loss he did that way and it was a
sort of like a sock puppet yeah to to
write to Gawker for outing him because I
don't mind his deals with the Saudis and
Emiratis would be my guess
street legal comes up with the point
civilization was literally invented in
Iraq which is truth II think all that
the other the cradle of civilization so
what they Bull Prague Joni Ernst and
Mike Lee are proposing cradle act yes
where a parents get paid leave by
borrowing from their Social Security
savings and then postponing retirement
to pay it back there's gonna be a full
CBS yes well we did it skip that last I
am wall in Akbar have the same lawyers
Gavin McGinnis according to the address
on that police report Wow
oh well I think then the Southern
Poverty Law Center can be sitting a
little bit more easy there you go Tim
Apple he's gonna be busy Tim Apple I
need to set the record straight the fake
news machine and people like you were
obsessed with celebrities so much so
that you ignore average people like me
our heroic President Trump wasn't
addressing Tim Cook he was addressing me
Tim Apple your average beer drinking
American not clever username Sam just
signed up for membership today
[Music]
love you and the whole team wish you
were on a talk radio station in every
market we'd all be better off for it
talk radio is slowly dying on the vine I
think the same jerks that argue against
me too saying what if someone files a
fake report retweet Jacob wall after he
files
back-to-back actual false police reports
how long until boof Cavanaugh says Ruth
sent him death threats from the hospital
lead me
wealth correlates to k-12 funding and
test prep which correlates to college
admission this will be true without
scams and free college this is why free
college before and without k-12 funding
leveling will increase wealth and income
inequality free college is uniquely
popular with a relatively privileged
that's a good point
well we should also bring back an open
admissions policy like they used to have
at CUNY that's I would imagine also true
and we really do need a universal pre-k
and a better way of funding K through 12
as a professor I cannot possibly cure 12
plus years of an educational deficit
even if my students don't have to pay to
sit in my classes that is also part of
the problem even that an open admissions
doesn't necessarily solve we need
redistribution to solve these problems
as well
JB dear Speaker Pelosi
we're already divided please get a clue
yeah true holy crap John McCain only got
into the Naval Academy because of his
father checked though Schechter I think
that is true you could find that in the
real McCain written by cliff Schecter
here's what Lori Loughlin daughter said
on her youtube channel before she was
attending USC I don't know how much of
my school I'm gonna attend but I'm gonna
go in and talk my Dean's and everyone
hope that I can try and balance it at
all
but I do want the experience of like
gamedays partying I really don't care
about school is all you guys know having
been exposed to big leaf or taking
campaign contributions in exchange for
ignoring Trump's flagrant crimes science
is a little more motivated than usual to
make big charges stick against Trump
minions look for Trump too
the whole pardon until after man fort
has undermined the state case if he
sings for Vance he does his federal time
dr. chaos MD schools that routinely
accept Brides for student submissions or
ones a favorite legacy over merit and
their missions process are far more
likely to donate to a school legacies
are far more donate likely to donate to
a school after graduation should have
public funding revoked and lose their
accreditation if you accept the bribe
permission who's going to say that you
wouldn't accept the bribe for favorable
grades and if that's the case then your
diplomas are meaningless
well the schools are making it like they
had no idea that this was all sort of
like and it's possible but I find it
hard to believe I don't like this season
a full house Chris Bernick I got into
USC after rejected by literally every
other college I applied to so yeah maybe
not the heart of school to get into
senator claw lobo chair lower looma
loudly locks limbs for lunatic liberty
late leaving laksa less okay doh faa ops
against grounding boeing 737 after a
second crash leash guidan era this is
brilliant it's part of the point of
writing passing bills you know will fail
she should be chaired the do see I don't
know what the do C is but we'll check it
out
NIC from Manitoba hey mr. cedar great
show today I got a friend who started
bringing up race realism with me
recently I asked if it was because he
read or something I've heard of the bell
curve he said nah Charles Murray's too
smart for him genital strike McCain
didn't so much flies planes has crashed
them several times
Tucker Tolson anyone seen Tim pool
versus Jack Dorsey and Joe Rogan that
cool kid is such a whiny Frankie be hey
Sam I come from a military background I
can assure you that military service
academies are filled with entitled
legacy students just as much as any
other organization meliss demeanor I
don't know if any of you guys listen to
true-crime podcasts but they're cemented
drama lately because this one popular
podcaster makes 70 K a month on patreon
has been dropped from his network after
making a disgusting violent misogynist
post on Instagram
he also creeps on his fans and asked
women's to send nudes parades anyone who
criticizes them and generally disgusting
so having a very public meltdown right
now blaming sjw's for his takedown
surprise surprise he's a big fan of dave
rubin and jordan Peterson and not could
you uh how about some beers or a bottle
of tequila for membership Christo my
father knew John McCain while attending
the Naval Academy remembers him as an F
up who'd have been kicked out numerous
times had his dad and granddad not not
been Admirals and the final oh we got we
got three more Suzy chest this is petty
but Tucker defining people as civilized
because they use toilet paper is
ridiculous get yourself a $20.00 bidet
attachment and join the future yeah till
the papers technically pretty unhygenic
Kentucky Fried comrade conversations
about mmt vs. mark and econ are badly
framed they aren't in opposition in both
used different fundamental frameworks
Marxism is a critique of capitalism and
structural nature while mmt is offering
a policy set based of a reaction to
mainstream economic consensus I don't
think it's a policy set I think it's an
assessment and analysis that may lead to
certain policies but and the final I am
of the day final 1 a.m. our crew I'm
gonna have some time to read over the
next few weeks if you guys had to pick
one what book would you recommend I mean
that trustee McMillan khatim book is
really good but if you want one that's
like a an easy read and sort of hopeful
this utopia for realists is pretty fun
and if you'd rather read a fictional
utopia read the Mars trilogy by Kim
Stanley Robinson and then listen to our
interview with him on the anti Fattah
ghost wars by Steve Cole yeah that's
fine with me ghost words all right folks
see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
somewhere the choice is made option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
