[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Thursday December 27th 2018
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live to take steps
from the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on the program
today it is another one of our famous
best of shows we've done this now eight
years running when we look back on the
the year that was some of the best
interviews as voted by you the listener
or you the the guy sitting right there
and today we have for you from been way
through the year I think was June June
26 Pratt's dr. Henry Giroux talking
about American Nightmare facing the
challenge of fascism and also matt has
what we call Matt picks clips some of
the funniest moments interesting moments
heartfelt moments mostly funny mostly
funny funny funnily heartfelt moments of
the year
assembled for you as we make it a
freebie Thursday we're doing the free
beats you know there is no we don't lock
out non-members during the bathtubs
anyways this year I think we did we have
in the past not sure but today we just
said let's open it all up so check it
out for that of course members will not
hear ads because when you remember you
don't hear ads and members have access
to that brand and Straka thing too may
post it down the down line but for now
if you want to see that debate where I'm
shockingly condescending and smug check
it out
in the meantime what are some of the the
challenges that small business owners
face for me the worst thing about doing
this job is that I'm running a small
business I don't like I mean just the
logistics involved in it all the
different paperwork it's difficult if
you're a small owner honey book.com can
help you spend less time handling the
administrative work and more time doing
what you love oh honey book is an
all-in-one business management platform
for creative small businesses hello that
make it easy to streamline your process
with client and calendar management
tools and custom branded proposals and
contracts we don't do a lot of contracts
here right I mean it's like set and go
but they're there just the idea of like
calendar management who's gonna be
taking off I mean just keeping track of
how many times the Michael decides to
take off you can even get signatures
generate invoices and get paid faster
all within one online system so if
you're a plumber or an electrician or I
mean there's a million different things
photographer a designer graphic artist
there's over 75,000 of folks like you
event professionals other solo
entrepreneurs have saved hundreds if not
thousands
of ours with honey book it's geared
towards creatives I mean theoretically I
guess you could if you were a plumber
but it's geared towards the type of
stuff that you do when you deal with
your clients and you want a sense of
like you know you want to express the
some of the the creativity that you also
have as your billing folks we have
partnered with honey book calm to offer
majority report listeners 50% off the
first year of honey book when you use
the promo code majority you get a full
year at half price so get started at
honey book.com today use promo code
majority for 50% off your first year
you're a graphic artist photographer you
don't want to deal with the business
stuff do it all in one place makes it
easy
again that's honey book calm promo code
majority also folks I've told you about
growth whether it's cranberry sauce
drops or your uncle smelly socks nothing
cleans holiday messes like mrs. Meyers
holiday scents available in Iowa pine
peppermint and orange clove shop your
favorite scents at Grove dot CO then
once you place your first order of
twenty bucks or more new customers will
get the holiday set which includes a
free mrs. Meyers holiday hand soap a
free mrs. Meyers holiday dish soap free
mrs. Meyers holiday multi-surface prey
Grove collaborative red cleaning caddy
and grove collaborative walnut scrubber
sponges those are awesome I've been
using those for a while now if you spend
$39 you also receive a free Grove
stoneware tray two beautifully display
your new holiday soaps I have to say
I've talked about Grove in the past I
love it I use a lot of not a big scented
fan I know a lot of people are but I get
a lot of chemical free products a lot of
safer soaps and what not a lot
recycled paper toilet paper etc and I
some of that stuff I don't want to carry
home and it's not at the normal
supermarket I don't want to go on Amazon
to do that for obvious reasons Grove is
great they get a great selection they
got great prices and they send it right
to your door it's Grove dot CEO shop
Grove before this exclusive holiday runs
offer runs out the stuff will be gone
come December for a limited time my
listeners will get mrs. Myers holiday
products a 60-day VIP membership and a
surprise bonus gift free when you sign
up and place an order of twenty bucks or
more check out Grove and our special
offer at Grove dot co / TMR that's Grove
dot co / TMR that's grove dot co not com
dot co / TM r alright we're gonna take a
quick break when we come back my
interview with dr. Henry Giroux on the
American Nightmare facing the challenge
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report it is a pleasure to welcome back
to the program professor at McMaster
University author of many books and his
most recent American nightmare facing
the challenge of fascism Henry Giroux
welcome back to the program Sam it's
always a delight to be on the program
with you okay so let's let's start with
some some definitions so that we we know
what we're talking about fascism we hear
it quite a bit what does it mean
both I guess in in a in a sort of a
historical context but I my sense is
that the the term is a lot less I I mean
I feel like it's sometimes it gets very
narrowly defined and then made sort of
like historically unique when in fact
it's a dynamic in some ways not right
right I mean III think that in many ways
there are two ways to understand this I
mean one definition is just as you've
suggested enormous Lee static and that
it seems to suggest that it was a period
that we can refer to in the 1920s in the
1930s or particularly around places like
like Italy and Nazi Germany and
eventually even later in Argentina and
some of the countries in Latin America
in which it seems to me that it seemed
to include a belief in the supremacy of
one nationalistic group over another and
the kind of deep-seated contempt for
democracy and an insistence on an
obedience to a powerful leader and a
strong demagogic approach I mean I I
think that that's some of the the basic
elements of other kind of static fascism
but I I think it what I've tried to say
in this book regarding the use of that
term is that it's not static in that
those very elements whether we're
talking about also nationalism we're
talking about white supremacy we're
talking about a politics of
disposability the notion that a country
is in decline the elevation of emotion
over intellectualism the contempt for
dissent in the rule of law I mean these
things tend to emerge
different forms and while we could one
can say and I certainly have said that
the United States is not mirror in some
static way when I talk about fascism
what we saw in Germany it does contain
elements of a kind of fascism that we
reproduced in the American flag and get
reproduced in a range of issues that
basically are endemic to the culture the
American society and culture is we're
currently seeing it unfolding especially
under the Trump administration is there
I mean is there a are there a set of
circumstances is there a means in which
to measure is it when we can say oh
we're living in a fascist society is it
is it is it something where
definitionally we can be know I think
that's a great question and I think
there are two things that can ways to
answer that question I think that one is
to look at patches and early spots with
the language and it's generally a
language of brutality it's a language of
humanization it's a language that that
legitimates hatred and racism and
violence it attacks the truth it
undermines the possibility of a free
press it refuses that allow the press to
hold power accountable and it often
claims that the rule of law can only
operate when it serves actually the
concentration of power and I think at
one level when we look at the language
of fascism even in its most brutal forms
one can argue that that language has
reappeared particularly under the trump
administration in a way to provide a
very dire warning about where this
government is moving secondly I think we
look at policies and I and I think that
what we have seen emerging in the last
40 years in the United States is a kind
of casino capitalism that so accentuates
both our the the enormous inequities in
wealth and power massive amounts of
inequality in ways in which we know 40
million people are living in poverty in
the United States and 12 million people
are living in extreme poverty and I and
I think that what these conditions often
do is they generate
what I would call fascist instincts they
mobilize certain kinds of fascists the
fascist principles you know the hatred
of the other the blaming of Muslims they
appeal to racial purity the extreme
nationalism all these things find an
avenue in a kind of resentment that
seething among people who feel
relatively powerless and then of course
you begin to see policies that are
addressed to in Bakke that group whether
we're talking about the separation of
children from from their parents at the
border whether we're talking about the
hatred of Muslims and laws that seem to
suggest that whether we're talking about
a constant accentuation in the part of
the Trump administration for a
law-and-order regime that basically
refuses to deal with questions of law
and order in a legitimate way remember
there's a kind of summary in Trump's
language that even police chiefs that
have attempted to repudiate when he says
you know when you arrest somebody don't
just push their head down bang their
head into the right Mike my god I
mean this is a guy who actually has
become a kind of classic example of how
the mobilizing passions of fascism are
really being fed by both his policies in
his language I mean that's the things
that I mean it seems like and and I want
to sort of walk through some of the the
the the elements of your of your book
but I mean while we're we're here
there's I mean certainly we can point to
right Trump's language like you say or
of the specific policy of separating
children from their parents I mean but
in totality I mean this is the things
like you know how how do you know that
you are that that fascism has taken hold
in real time right it's you know it's an
interesting question because if you read
the historians of fascism what they
often say is that the this emergence of
fascism in Nazi Germany and actually in
Italy as well we're actually incremental
I mean people went about their daily
lives
indifferent to all of a sudden policies
that were both cruel inhumane and
extremely dangerous in terms of what
they were suggesting and and I and I
think that you know one can say well
what's the end point to recognize that
you're in a fascist state well the end
point would be when you lose any basic
freedoms that suggests that a democracy
matters well the end point might be
those basic institutions that make a
democracy policy possible all of a
sudden no longer are there and I think
that what we can say rather than going
to that end point and say well we're not
really a fascist country until we're
there I think that what we really have
to say is look to what degree are we in
the abyss I mean to what degree are we
moving forward in a way that suggests to
that end point is possible look Sam when
you get a person like Madeleine Albright
you know I mean not exactly on the Left
right claiming writing a book claiming
you know we're basically becoming a
fascist state when you get the head of
the NSA Michael Hayden saying that we're
moving towards fascism I mean when you
put all these conservatives who are now
saying hey look we've reached a point
that's very dangerous here and we need
to be attuned to it by looking at
history so that we can begin to
understand that what we have seen in the
past echo is something that we're seeing
in the present that should become a kind
of warning to say the very least as to
where the country is going you know it
makes no sense to say we're not a
fascist country until we have
concentration camps what really the
question it really has to be asked is
one of the conditions that produce those
camps I mean I think that's the basic
issue and and is there are there
accelerants I mean or is it I mean is
there a the the more that one I mean
because look I mean by a a you know in a
vacuum if I was to look at what's going
on with these so-called tent camps for
these children who are immigrants I
could say these are concentration camps
I mean you know not every concentration
camp was established as a death camp
during they were literally to
concentrate undesirables so that
ultimately if speaking as a German in
nineteen is late 30s if we come up with
a solution for how we deal with these
undesirables
we'll have them conveniently located
ultimately there was a final solution in
that instance so I mean it's it's when
you start to see I wonder if the lack of
reaction or if if there is a reaction to
when you start to see these early signs
where things it may be fascism it may
not be fascism if the reactions in any
way function as an accelerant or a deep
accelerant I think there are two kinds
of reactions I mean I think that there
there's often a reaction that's read by
demagogues that actually in celebrates
and intensifies the emergence of a
fascist state and I think that that's
one of the things that we're actually
seeing with Trump at another level of
course bizza
is a there's a progressive populist
reaction and we're also seeing that that
that in some ways is beginning to
recognize how dangerous the climate has
become you know whether we're talking
about the current weather we're talking
about the darkest situation where they
were talking about young students coming
out of schools protesting mass violence
whether it's talking to black lives
matter movement in the assault on police
violence or whether we're talking about
the the the increasing concerns that
many groups of immobilizing over
considering the ecological crisis but I
but III think that the real issue here
is at what point of these groups
actually come together and begin to
recognize that outside of the political
silos that they operate in there's
really a larger threat and that threat
is to democracy itself and I think of
what we need to look at is to ask
ourselves what are the institutions and
what are the formative cultures that
make a democracy possible you don't have
an interim citizenry you don't have a
democracy and I think that all we have
to do is look at the attack on public
education the attack on higher education
the attack on the press the attack on
the rule of law the increasing attack in
in many ways on any l
dissent you know when a guy like some
stands up and says but I really like you
know the German Kim jong-un because he
makes his people stand up you know
that's what I want my people to do stand
up then he says it's just a joke but
it's not a joke for him we know what
that means we know that he confuses
royalty with with basically any kind of
moral and social sense of responsibility
and I and I and I think that in that way
you know there are indicators in terms
of what you're talking about
I'll go back to something that you
talked about you say tent city remember
the United States is as as the social
state is eliminated as the roughly
estate is eliminated you know what takes
its place is the punishing state and if
you're asking me how I can prove that
all you have to do is ask yourself talk
about two things you have to talk about
the increasing number of people who are
considered disposable and throwaways in
the United States and you increasingly
can look at the the accentuation of what
I call the criminalization of a whole
range of behaviors it's a criminal act
to be poor today it's a criminal act to
be in schools and all of a sudden
violate a dress code I mean the prison
is increasingly becoming the model for
whole range of institutions from from
social services to the screws to hold it
to the airports and I and I think we
need to be very attentive to the way in
which violence becomes the only
organizing principle left the really sow
a whole range of social problems and
that is absolutely endemic to the issue
of fascism to me and and so is the idea
that these circumstances make us more
vulnerable to a Donald Trump that we're
walking around with like a low you know
immune system essentially and we can
function like that as long as we don't
catch this that you know we don't bump
into this virus on some level well as
long as they don't come to us right I
mean I mean look you know you've got a
civic culture that's been eradicated
under neoliberalism under extreme dis
extreme form of capitalism we've lost
our shared sense of citizenship private
a private right is more important than
the common good I mean we live in a
culture
self-absorption we live in a culture of
immediacy and I guess what I'm getting
at we live in a culture controlled
largely by a corporate media and we have
a Republican Party that basically is a
bunch of Vichy Republicans and we don't
have a mass uprising against this form
of fascism and I and I think as you're
suggesting if I'm reading you can fully
enough that this is dangerous I mean
this is really dangerous I mean you know
how much further will we let this guy go
I mean separating children from their
mothers sending their parents back to
these Latin American countries where
there's rampant crime and violence and
the parents don't even know where the
children are
I mean does it get worse than that
outside of camps the images of these
young children in these cages I mean
look if you want to measure the index of
a democracy in any country look at the
way that country treats its children and
by that measure the United States it
seems to me is well on the way to a kind
of fascism that is as disgusting and
revolting as it is dangerous let's talk
about the the use of language in this
era I mean Trump has been president for
less than two years maybe a year and a
half or so and yet his ability to
dominate the media to dominate almost
every single story now yeah in the news
is a function of him in some fashion we
are sitting here just in this you know
this past week in the wake of the the
initial reports about this change in
policy that happened in April and the
implications of that with with the
children in the in these in these camps
we have various administration officials
it runs the gamut from denying this is a
policy to saying we're doing this
because we want it to intimidate people
where are we in terms of of language and
what has set the table for this we're
trapped in a language basically
dominated by two parties that are
basically wedded to a financial elite
and I and I think that that language has
nothing to do with democracy and has
everything to do with it basically the
concentration of power in relatively few
hands and believe me that's not a
conspiracy theory I mean I I think that
when 400 families don't have to the
wealth in the United States now you have
to ask yourself what's happened to
politics you know when all of a sudden
the political state becomes a corporate
state people benefit from this I mean
you know people benefit from these
concentrations of power do you think of
the people who are backing Trump in any
way want to endanger the possibility
that he's going to pass through the
policies like his tax cuts that are
going to be enormous ly beneficial to
the rich absolutely not I mean they'll
sacrifice the lives of children on the
basis of those potential gains they've
already done it with gun lords they know
that guns kill people they know that
they know that that you know you don't
have a gun it's very difficult to shoot
somebody from a car or to walk into a
school they know all this but there are
interested were clear that we really
make the connections to and that is when
you have a country that's so vastly
undemocratic in terms of its
concentrations of wealth and power it's
really difficult it seems to me to be
able to mobilize the kind of language
that we need to be able to say for
instance capitalism and democracy may
not be the same thing they may be at
odds with each other at this point in
history we may be evolving into a form
of capitalism so ruthless so overly
narcissistic in separate orb so willing
to sacrifice human needs the human
prophets that maybe it's time to rethink
the language of democracy maybe it's
time to rethink the language of two
parties and to begin to talk about a
democratic socialist party maybe it's
time in some way to talk about what
social hope means which social
provisions mean what are the conditions
for real agency you know why is it you
have one of the richest countries in the
world and of course Philip halston from
the United Nations just did a major
study saying we have among the rest of
Nations the worst health care system in
the world this is the only country in
the world that has not ratified the
United Nations Declaration of Human
Rights the children can you imagine
the only country in the Western in the
world not just the West the world I mean
these these these are interesting issues
but I but I think that under underlying
another question that you raise is we
have to stop talking about
authoritarianism in totalitarianism
simply in terms of economic structures
you know we have to ask ourselves you
know what what what are the formative
cultures that make this possible how is
that possible you know what how does a
part of the cultural apparatus function
as teaching machines that shut down and
so limit the language and its meaning
that people can't make a distinction
between the truth and and falsifications
anymore
I mean what happened to schools you know
what happened to higher education what
happened to a media that's like this
like this radio station now that's
really willing to ask hard questions I
mean I watch NBC CBS and inside are the
major news programs TV news programs
programs every night they are so shallow
compared to the BBC I mean if they it's
like we have one position and we have
another you know it's it's a system that
trades are false equivalencies they
can't take a position that matters you
know even even in the face of Trump's
white supremacy regarding Charlotte
ville they reported as it right being
objective is is a way to somehow get out
the truth I'm sorry there are some crews
that need to be named alright so if it
is the case that you know we can look to
these institutions and these failure
these institutions whether it's the
media whether it's our education system
in terms of of teaching any type of
civic literacy what what mean what is
done at that point right like I mean if
we have a situation where we have a you
know both parties on some level are
compromised
I mean clearly it is in the best
interest of the Democratic Party to be
at odds with Donald Trump you know the
Democratic Party I don't think could
have turned out and elected a leader who
would be separating
families at the border but we also are
aware that you know Barack Obama had
some record years years of record
deportations in arrests I mean so
certainly the table was set for some of
this but what then becomes and maybe
we're getting ahead of ourselves but but
let's go for it anyways I mean what what
becomes the sort of like the tangible
steps forward I'm aware that the
education system has failed in terms of
creating a citizenry I am aware that our
the the the language and the structure
of our of our world now has been taken
over by neoliberalism and it D values of
things like the Commons and and and and
like citizenship over you know sort of
marketing and sort of financial
competition but what what but what what
do I do at that point with that I think
I think there are a couple of things I
mean let's let's look at the landscape
and be able to recognize two things
power isn't only about domination it's
also about resistance and I think that
we are seeing movements all over the
country that are basically I mean
whether we're talking about these women
in the red states who are really
fighting around the electoral process to
put progressives in power that's a good
step I think there are a lot of people
who are operating at the local level to
try to address some issues that they
find horrendous whether it be or whether
it be around the question of passages
that the funding of public schools so we
see all that at the local level and
that's a beginning to it seems to me be
able to educate people about issues that
matter it's not enough enough to do like
Robert De Niro does the called trumpet
jerk that doesn't quite work I mean I
think that what we really need to do is
to say okay what kind of policies matter
here do you need health care how do we
talk about that what does it mean when a
a president who claims he is a populist
passes a tax law that's basically
utterly regressive and most of the
benefits go to the financial elite let's
talk about that I mean people need to
begin to create a narrative that speaks
to people's needs in ways in which they
can recognize themselves
I mean we need a new story about what
America is we need a new story about
what politics might become and that's an
educated task and I think that to the
degree to which we recognize that
education is central to politics we can
begin to take that seriously whether
through alternative media working with
one foot in it in mainstream media
struggling over schools and struggling
over those cultural apparatus that
basically promote this I mean I'm not an
optimistic I mean III think the
contradictions are so overwhelming right
now that people are looking for
alternative languages I mean I I've
never talking 500 people show up if I
put the term fascism in the talk I mean
it's a people are hungry for a language
for social movements for something they
can put their hands on that give them
the sense that they don't have to be
written out of the script of democracy I
mean we are certainly seeing that with
young people I mean young people finally
recognized that they've been so waiting
out of the script that they can't even
go to school without actually believing
that the police are more important than
their teachers right and I and I let me
let me touch on that on that for a
moment cuz I also I want to talk about
your concept of the politics of
disposability but let's talk about a
little bit about about young people for
a moment to what extent I mean you know
and I don't want to get too reductive
here but to what extent does the size of
generations and the sort of the the
experience of the baby boomers is
continues to weigh on us I can't help
but think that we we we had our last
election was between two baby boomers we
have a Democratic leadership that is
completely dominated by baby boomers
right Chuck Schumer Nancy Pelosi
and there's this and even even Bernie
Sanders uh you know but and we're sort
of like floundering around for the next
generation of leaders yet the generation
just one younger than me these
Millennials and and perhaps just
slightly older they don't seem to be you
know their experience has been so
different and not defined by the
generations before them
and we you know they seem to be the most
well it gives me the most hope let me
put it that way what so give me your
your sense of to what extent these
generational differences mean anything
well I mean I think they mean a great
deal certainly in terms of the way
culture and society has changed in light
of the forces that shaped those
generations right I mean you know this
generation has grown up under the as
she's grown up under the style Reagan
this is a generation has completely
grown up under the forces of
neoliberalism under the notion that
there's no alternative you know as
Margaret Thatcher once said right under
the notion that government really is
more your enemy than your than your
friend and I and I and I think that at
the same time they've grown up in a
culture in which the question of power
politics culture and everyday life has
taken on a distinctiveness with a new
technology that offers them an
opportunity not just to play games but
actually communicate with each other
into and use that technology and ways to
enlighten themselves so that they not
only have a limited sort of experience
of what the world is about would have
access to a broader understanding of
that experience unlike many theorists I
think that's a good thing I mean I think
that what we're now seeing with this
generation is the generation it's far
more cosmopolitan then I think the baby
boomers were right I mean the baby
boomers were driven by the assumption
that you know life is open right there's
a sense of social mobility you know you
can go to college and get a degree you
can buy a house
this generation has grown up under a
very different assumption and that is
you're lucky if you're able to survive
you're going to have 15 bosses in your
lifetime it's not about getting ahead
it's about surviving democracy is not
really working for you and your life
will be much worse than what your
parents had and I and I think that given
those sets of assumptions this
generation is now fighting back and
saying sorry we're not buying that
script you created that script for us
and it's wrong and instead of arguing
for democracy means it's at odds with
the sense of possibility means and so we
increasingly see a generation that has
moved away from a privatized sense of
hope to a social sense of hope
meaning that they believe that problems
are not just individual that you know
that all problems can be perfect at the
footsteps of individual individuals
there was the claim that if there's a
problem you altima the only one
responsible for it they realize that
they can translate private issues into
systemic problems that's the great
difference with this generation and it
seems to me that's really grounds for
hope let's talk about the the culture of
cruelty in in Trump's America what do
you mean by that that that term I mean
it's it's a the culture of cruelty is a
culture that basically disdains human
needs and human rights and has no
problem elevating questions of power
over questions of human needs and it's
become so expansive within the last 40
years because it seems to me that the
more that you economize every aspect of
social life the more that you believe
that the market basically has the
ability to solve all problems and to
control not only the economy but again
the entirety of social life because the
template for all social relations
morality begins to disappear questions
and social responsibility begin to
dissipate remember at the essence of
neoliberalism is the notion that
economic activity has nothing to do with
social cost and I think to the degree to
which we write out questions of ethics
questions of social responsibility
questions of justice all of a sudden you
create a culture that disdains weakness
that refuses compassion that is more
than willing to actually humiliate
people who are vulnerable and is more
than willing to take away all those
social provisions that would be applied
to people in the way that would give
them an opportunity to live a decent
ingested life all you have to do is look
at the language I mean that has emerged
among these extremists and I mean in the
last in the last 40 years you know
people being bombs you know poor people
being stupid people who exercise any
kind of compassion being weak I mean the
language of the cool culture of Cruelty
is the language of reality TV right
there's only one person left on the
island it's the language n Saul it's a
it's the language of
absolutely rigid stupid it seems to me
poisonous forms of competition I mean
it's a language so rooted in
self-interest that it's lost the apart
of the possibility for imagining that
any society has to be social and not
just an aggregate of self-interested
individuals and that creates a culture
that is indifferent to human suffering
and lacks compassion if not disdains it
and the consequences of that are truly
deadly and toxic for many people tell me
what you mean by the the politics of
disposability how is that related to
that concert well III think it when you
you know when you live in a culture that
throws away everything particularly
goods the politics of disposability in
the last 40 years takes on a particular
kind of residence and relevance in that
that more and more people are now
considered disposable more and more
people are now being left out of the
American Dream more and more people are
now being seen as a threat to a
particular kind of notion of racial
purity more and more people all of a
sudden outside the bubble of inclusion
under on the grounds of a kind of
poisonous ultra-nationalism or toxic
racism and so what I've argued is that
that increasingly whether you're talking
about a war on youth whether you're
talking a war about a war on poor blacks
what are you talking talking about a
warm brown people undocumented
immigrants the scope and the level and
the degree in the range of disposability
of those who were considered access has
so expanded that it's now become a
defining feature I would argue of
American politics let's talk a little
bit about this concept of democracy in
exile and in toward a politics of
uncover nobility what would discuss
those two concepts for me and and and
and and where that leads us I what I've
argued about the notion of democracy in
exile suggests that that there are all
kinds of institutions and social
relations developing through
out the United States in which people
keep the idea of democracy alive where
is about shed and shared goods whether
it's about trading it off each off with
each other whether it's about the rise
of the sanctuary movement whether it's
about new attempts at thinking what
communities actually are whether whether
it's about you know creating health
services that are not based on simply
profit whether it's about bringing
people together in public spheres it
will say produce their own newspapers
they produce their own media I mean all
these are alternative Spears that become
a model for what democracy should look
like and I think we're seeing them
sprout up particularly among young
people all over the place I mean they're
not governed by the logic of greed and
rabid individualism and a kind of work
of all against all the places where
people are trying to resurrect a sense
of shared citizenship a sense of public
service a kind of passionate notion of
compassion and I and I think that unless
those things become visible right well
let me put it differently when they do
become visible and as they begin to
emerge they offer an antidote to a kind
of toxic capitalism that basically
believes that you know there should be
no social provisions there should be no
social goods that the Commons doesn't
matter and that in it's okay to wage war
on the planet in ways that would
eventually destroy it and to elevate the
question of militarism over the question
of justice so I mean just to sort of to
bring this home the the the act of
resistance in a practical sense how does
it stem the tide of fascism I mean is it
something that needs to have depth or
breadth or buff has that both it has to
have both it basically has to be
insightful in terms of the forces that
are now threatening democracy and at the
same time it has to expand into social
movements into what I would call a mass
political formation capable of
challenging these two existing
body we cannot allow the Democrats to
basically be the party of resistance
they are not the party of resistance
they're the party of the financial elite
they're the serf version the Republicans
of the hide version and it seems to me
that not only do we need to have what I
would call one foot in and one foot out
when it comes to resistance meaning that
I think all the major institutions that
govern American life should be seen as
sites of struggle and we should do
everything we can to change them but at
the same time I think we also have to
operate outside of an electoral process
that seems to suggest that if you wrote
if somehow matched out your capacity for
being them for democratic participation
I mean we need to we need to learn we
don't even remember what Martin Luther
King did what Gandhi did these are
people who believed in direct action I
mean these are people who stood in the
streets who put their bodies on the line
these are people who said sorry we're
not going to wait for an election to be
able to liberate young children who are
being ripped from their mother's arms
and put in basically what appear to be
concentration camps I mean it doesn't
work that way and I think that in many
ways people have been too comfortable
with the notion of democracy that they
think works well when in fact has been
consistently eroded you know in failed
view so I mean I I mean to me to be
clear you're not saying I mean you're
saying participate in elections and and
and and and make choices that are
somewhat expedient there but do not do
that at the expense or as some type of
substitute for far greater involvement
for direct action no absolutely Sam Sam
what I'm saying is unlike many people
I'm not saying it's reform or radical
restructuring of society I'm saying it's
both I'm saying reforms are limited but
in the most immediate sense they may
save people's lives right I mean I'm
sorry you know if I'm going to if I have
the opportunity to change power
relationships make sure that people are
not making a choice between eating and
taking their drugs I'm going to make it
I don't believe in that kind of pull
purity where you say no that's reformism
I'm sorry
that's nonsense to me I mean I think
that we need to do everything we can to
eliminate the suffering that people are
engaged in at the same time we need to
change systemically the structure that
produces it and reforms will not do that
I see it's a little bit of walking and
chewing gum at the same time I guess now
it's a matter of being able to think in
in in dialectical terms to put it that
way like me right I mean it's a matter
of thing of you know knowing what you
can do in the most immediate sense but
also recognizing in the long term you
know it's a long march through the
institution's these institutions have to
change and especially with it with the
war and the planet I mean you know I
don't know how much time we have right
you know you know that the clock is
ticking that atomic clock is not what is
now what one minute before doomsday or
30 seconds I mean people have to wake up
you know you have to wake up and realize
that these are dangerous times these are
crucial times resistance is no longer an
option it's an absolute necessity
Henry zero the book is American
nightmare are facing the challenge of
fascism thank you so much for your time
today I really Paul your pleasure thanks
for having me on
okay look where to begin I'm just gonna
say part of the reason that Sam Harris
has always bothered me so much is that
if you look at the pattern this is going
back several years when I always had a
problem with and now it's become a lot
more stark because when you get into
race quote unquote science this is a
much you know that hits most Americans a
little bit more viscerally but all of
the anti-muslim and all of the
thought experiments about you know
dropping a nuclear weapon on Muslim
world and all of this nonsense the same
pattern of policy illiterate aggressive
a history a historical approach any
reactionary bent which when he is
cornered he retreats to usually
either bizarre obsessive self-defense or
just stating truisms and I think this
debate with Ezra Klein revealed a lot
about Sam Harris and will start and and
this is also it's inescapable because
you you can't not talk at this point
about this guy's psycho emotional issues
I'm not gonna do an amateur diagnosis
and I'm not trying to take a cheap shot
here but if you listen to this show with
Ezra Klein and you can hear it as
anything other than a sort of controlled
outburst and to our act of projection
and hysteria I don't know what else
you're listening to let's just run
through some of the sound clips from
this exchange with Ezra Klein there is
what you would call confusion here I do
think it's just important to say this I
have not criticized you and I continue
to nod for having the conversation I've
criticized you for having the
conversation without dealing with and X
and separating it out and thinking
through the context and the weight of
American history on it not the way we
are the way our American his way of
American history money irrelevant to
know it can't possibly be irrelevant but
even you admitted Superman the only
thing that is relevant so yes but that
that part of the conversation has been
had you don't have to talk you don't
have to talk about slavery you don't
have to talk about these specific and
justices in the past to have a
conversation about the environmental
factors that very likely keep people
back so okay here what's really
interesting and the reason that we want
to isolate this is first of all that's
actually the most honest distillation of
Sam Harris's philosophy and I'm sure
that people are going to say it's taken
out of context or whatever but to the
extent that we have human context and
you hear that bracketed and how he
intervene there so Sam didn't say I
would be completely delusional
to say and then we clipped it out okay
you heard how he said that and in the
context in it
so ironically the guy is a total
idealist and not an empiricist he
literally thinks and you see this with
religion that abstractions and ideas
exist almost in a platonic form outside
of history during most of the
conversation he's on one hand saying
that Charles Murray who's an incredibly
well compensated and profoundly
influential policy entrepreneur who's
written multiple best-selling books
who's won prizes who's appeared in
almost major every major news outlet in
the country whose books are multi -
reviewed endless times in new york times
he's been on everything from ABC news to
bill maher that this guy is oppressed
because some kids protested him okay
while not doing that he's then also
basically saying like I don't agree
necessarily with Murray's policy
prescriptions even though the whole
point of Murray's work is his policy
prescriptions been quite influential and
if you look at the bell curve he
actually literally talks about the
policy of disincentives that needs to be
created from having quote unquote stupid
mothers having children because of this
genetic determinism at the same time
while begging from Murray
he actually echoes Murray's core
argument there which is that even by the
1970s when Charles Murray first came on
the scene he was saying that race and IQ
could be completely disconnected from
environment because Jim Crow and legal
segregation was over which in Murray's
case fits with his far-right politics
and I would say yes indeed racism in
Harris's case Harris is so delusional
and disconnected from any broader
understanding of how the world works
that yes and his personal normative
sense he's not a racist but he becomes a
active agent of racism through this
attitude what's the next clip we have
this is where they talk about the Flynn
what Flynn told well this is interesting
because you'll hear in this exchange
it's kind of unbelievable but I just
want to stipulate in the interest of
intellectual fair
that in the past Sam has said that
apparently like race and IQ although he
does seem to now have a big interest in
this although he's not particularly
interested in the field he doesn't
include sort of he doesn't rule out the
possibility that there are things like
psychic phenomenon so it is possible
that even though Ezra Klein is quoting
Flynn James Flynn and even though James
Flynn is confirming what Ezra is saying
that Sam Harris actually has a karmic
scient a psychic connection to James
Flynn which he's developed through
meditation which allows him to
understand that what Ezra is saying
about what James Flynn said to Ezra on
the phone is wrong let's check this out
you say that it is unfair
journalistically to put your
conversation within the lineage of the
conversation going all the way back in
American history and all the ways you
say pre American history in fact in my
piece I quote Voltaire and Hume and
others that at each point European who
descended white men of scientific mind
looked around them looked at the society
they saw looked at the outcomes people
had in society they saw looked at the
science pulled from those outcomes right
and it was called science back then -
and said you know what what we are
seeing here is a result of innate
differences between the races and but
it's something I just going to say we've
not even talked through questions of
like what even means to talk about races
in the way that has changed over time
but I'll just bracket that and at each
point that has been you know it's been
justified in different ways with
different kinds of science but you know
now we look back and we say home and
they did not know what they were talking
about that was ridiculous I mean look at
what was going on in their society but
they you know they looked and they ran
their studies and they they ran the
numbers and they said you know um
there's just a difference here there's a
difference here and that is why things
are turning out the way they are but
that is run by why it is unfair to put
to put your conversation in that lineage
why the burden of proof is not actually
on you to say here's why it is different
this time here is why we are at a point
either in American history or science or
whatever where that that is no long like
we are certain that nobody in 50 years
is going to look back at a
and say that because scientifically what
what the scientists who are on my side
of this argument think and they include
James Flynn and many others
they say that's where we are here I just
quoted him to you I just well it was
still it was still a misleading summary
of what he said I know I know what he's
on record I'm staying here and you're
interpreting it in a way that you you
like I understand that but no I'm not
interpret James phone just said to me
two days ago I I it is it is consistent
understand which is a genetic advantage
or disadvantage for African Americans
that it is entirely possible that the
ten-point IQ difference we see reflects
a 12-point environmental difference and
a negative to genetic difference that
many things are possible right what
we're trying to judge and what is
plausible to say and more important I'm
I am worried about the social penalty
for talking about these things because
again it will come back to us on things
that we don't expect like the
Neanderthal thing right like that comes
out of left field had it gone another
way all of a sudden we can't talk about
Neanderthals ena anymore and it would be
there's no point in having our politics
be hostage to these kind of tripwire
effects where you say something that
seems politically invidious the merely
talking about the data as they are me if
it unless every population of human
beings has exactly the same mean and the
same variance for every trait we care
about we are guaranteed to be blindsided
by these differences that seem important
to people who care about differences
among groups okay so first there's one
valuable thing that came out of this
which is the new sound drop now we can't
talk about Neanderthals anymore which we
will be using liberally but okay so
first there's the possibility and Sam
hasn't commented on this that through
MIT I meditate as well no one has shaken
my faith in the power of meditation more
than Sam Harris but in my experience of
meditating I have not been able yet to
connect psychically if Sam psychically
is connected with James Flynn that he
could read that what he said to Ezra
Klein on the phone was wrong he should
immediately publicly release those
emails but beyond that I mean Jesus
Christ there's it's just sort of just
the sort of there's a real mess that Sam
created it's pretty invidious for me to
have to clean it up but the first part
that Ezra's baking if you didn't catch
is he's actually saying that what Flynn
told him and what is possible is that
this ten-point IQ gap might actually be
a 12% environmental influence which
means that there's a 2% lead for black
people in IQ over white people which
speaking of innate biases Sam Harris
dismissed this hypothetical in a field
that he admits does not have settled
science on as basically just ridiculous
so let's just listen to that again it is
very revealing still a misleading
summary of what he said I know I know
what he's on record I'm staying here and
you're interpreting it in a way that you
you like I understand that but no I'm
not interpret Jamesville just said to me
two days ago I I it is it is consistent
understand which is a genetic advantage
or disadvantage for African Americans
that it is entirely possible that the
ten-point IQ difference we see reflects
a 12-point environmental difference and
a negative to genetic difference that
many things are possible right what
we're trying to judge and what is
plausible to say and more important I'm
I am worried about the social penalty
for talking about these things because
okay so let me also just say I would say
that I think it's actually and it and
this by the way is already stipulating a
path that we've gone down here which we
need to have we're gonna have Eric tour
karma on this show to talk about the
science and the bunk it from that
perspective but we need to get back to
have a much more regular conversation
about a test that of course is
understood to be universally valid by
the people that study it and
administrate it
that's hardly a shock that they would
say that and is a privately owned test
by a private testing industry that
already exists far too much influence in
American and international life and
tracks not just on race but all sorts of
other class disparities in our system
tabeling that much more important
conversation and even some in like
sidarthur Mukherjee's book on genes
actually addresses this very well we'll
come back to that later but Sam is just
saying cat it like it's ridiculous and
on my question would be if we're
stipulating that this is
sound science and a lot of it is genetic
it actually seems to me that it might be
possible that if you subjected one
population to everything from slavery to
mass murder to terrorism to systemic
political economic job and employment
discrimination legally through at least
the 60s and then continued with social
stigmas cultural stories which by the
way Harrison Murray are doing their best
to reinforce to again housing job
discrimination police interactions
police violence not to mention let other
than environmental and pollutants which
have actually been shown empirically to
lower IQ scores including even down to
telling kids to not eat fish because the
mercury actually can lower their score
as well it actually strikes me that only
a ten point differential might be just
the sort of like methodologically
interesting question asked if the gap is
that small maybe we're talking about it
just a community that just starts with
an innately higher intellectual
advantage I mean this is and by the way
that type of subjective musing and
speculation about the data is social
science this isn't math you're always
framing data questions you're always
framing studies you're human bias and
subjectivity is never impossible to
escape let alone when you're talking
about research that exists in the
context of the entirety of American
history and then Sam goes back to his
real Bally wick which is of course the
real aggrieved parties in a conversation
that goes back to the founding crime of
America is obviously him and Charles
Murray
no one has been more hurt what's the
next we have more no that's it but just
to be explicit there's a certain sort of
Sam Harris fan that could watch this
segment and think well they're still not
addressing that Ezreal wanted to talk
about all these history things and and
Sam Harris just wanted to talk about the
data as it is right the important thing
is that the data as it is doesn't even
say that either there is no there is no
nothing on the data that suggests that
there's a permanent racial IQ gap which
is what Charles Murray has been going on
for twenty years about and and so like
yeah
exactly so it's it's it's absurd that
like charles murray burned across when
he was a teenager part of his research
comes from the pioneer foundation which
was a eugenicist group and involved
research from people who literally did
study things like penis size versus
brain size like actually not as a joke
he used this research along with other
pseudo scientific theories and I will
say pseudo scientific to forward
reactionary social policies which not
only have not marginalized them they are
our policies we do have disastrously
small spending on welfare and social
advancement in social justice and now we
also have the type of immigration
policies which has paid attention to
less but he also called for in the bell
curve along with Herrnstein there's
nothing in the science if we even accept
the science that says that this is
permanent and irreversible way that he
can see is of race and IQ it's
still because and that's why he talks
about Neanderthals because the current
date the Neanderthals in an alternate
reality where it turns out that it's not
like Europeans that have some
Neanderthal DNA it's Africans he
suggests that in that hypothetical
reality we would have a PC outrage that
maybe he'd have to self-immolate his
career over yeah but in season jumping
the gun on that like because he's
fundamentally not because he's a lunatic
and by the way if that came out no one
would care we wouldn't be sitting here
in the in an hour see like oh my god
what are we gonna do nothing and they're
all Andrew Thal story that was created
that was it written up in the back page
of the science section in the New York
Times and maybe handful of white
supremacy on with and handful of people
on Twitter were offended by no one gives
a people do give a about the
attempt to naturalize racism so as to
implement social Darwinism and policy
which the whole time he's saying he
disagrees with you know at least charles
murray is coherent in his despicable
contributions to human life i mean sam
harris would be a lot more likeable i
mean though no less despicable if he'd
was the reverse if he was genuinely
scientifically sound and a white
supremacist like if he was just like the
data just doesn't imagine he's like with
Richard Spencer and he's just like
Richard Richard
I would love to live in a society where
I never had to listen to rap music or
see basketball again okay okay that is
my normative preference but if you look
at what Nisbet is saying about IQ the
data isn't there this doesn't account
for the fill-in effect we need to we
need to be prepared for the worst-case
scenario okay okay let's let's say
disaster IQ it's it's been mapped and
black people are not only athletically
superior that are also intellectually
and morally superior okay they're
they're better at solving solving math
problems
what dent is does that mean our
commitment to a white ethno state is any
less valid of course not we need to be
prepared for these contingencies that's
the more full honest sam harris i would
like to see all of a sudden we can't
talk about in the and earth all DNA am i
inferior to john von neumann yes i don't
think so and i don't think you think so
i do that was i like data
it can't be racist the other fun thing
like just i mean all i got to remind
myself that his cultists are so into
people remaining calm at all times let
me let me let me tap into my breathing
scientific facts can't be racist I mean
the the deeper implication of this
worldview is a war on every single human
discipline besides a incredibly narrow
quantitative idealism that never takes
anything systemic or structural into
account and I have to say like even if
you were cool with the dumbing down of
the Islam stuff which we'll get to in a
second and even if the race science
stuff for God's sake doesn't bother you
and disturb you and outraged you
intellectually and morally this like
there's a reason why Silicon Valley
robots are interested in this type of
thinking like this is the enabling of an
algorithm driven age with zero concern
for any type of provision of public good
and accounting for anything besides
goals set within its own narrow narrow
narrow limits and really what's
astonishing about Harris's but all
accounts I mean he is the one he truly
does not understand this he he is he is
total I mean he's sincere and all of his
whiney attune he has no clue what
he's doing he didn't blink when Ezra
Klein brought up the point where Charles
Murray I can't remember in which book is
it coming apart or losing accomplishment
where yeah where Murray measured human
accomplishment by how many column inches
black people versus white people got in
the Encyclopedia Britannica right so you
have right right you literally have a
guy who actually subconsciously or for
whatever reason gave us all the great
favor of being like lest you were
deceived with my intimidating seeming
book which was in fact a racist tract of
discredited science analysis and social
Darwinism here's this book which is like
the intellectual project of like a
racist retired British gardener okay
that's like that's like like I'm like
I'm gonna pension in new home do to do
is look at the Encyclopedia Britannica
and not too much space for the blacks I
I'm gonna write that up but share that
the humans why it's accomplished the
most charles murray wrote that book and
this gormless doesn't take
anything from that in fact he thinks
that he's one of the most depressed
people in america which as ezra says is
a form of identity politics which is why
i say this with some trepidation because
i still cast a very wary eye on ezra
klein but him and the whole Vox crew and
going gangbusters on this and it is
written
I'm sure it's has more currency with a
certain type of quantitative normy twerp
look at this point if you want to be
part of a decent polite society you
really don't have any excuse to be
defending this
guy anymore I mean it's been the science
at the very least is vastly more
complicated and the fact by the way that
Center that Harris talked nobody else by
the way
Flynn does not talk in absolutes and
Turkey Marin Nisbet are clear about
Murray and Harris's miss readings and
dogmatism but there Harris isn't even
from this field which again if even for
taking that serious that this is an
industry to feel Harris is not from it
he's read a couple of books and he's
asserting that he's in the right its
dogmatic fundamentalist and bizarre so
Ezra Klein he's paroled from the pyramid
but still with super from a330 area code
who's this where he come from
hey Sam it's Ryan from Ohio Ryan from
Ohio what's on your mind
so I it's the last day of the semester
in the school here and I want to call in
and say thank you to you guys for all of
your all of your you know various
interviews and musings on the political
climate the past however you know the
past year so uh I've actually used a lot
of the things that you guys had brought
up on on the show
so like essays that I had to write for
class and growth and thank you for
listening and I prepared a list of
everybody I wanted to thank I would like
to thank Sam cedar Michael Brooks
Matlack Jamie Peck Brendan Finn Kelly
Carrie Matt bender Patrick Finn John
Benjamin Andy Kindler Dennis Miller Alex
Jones Mike sir Novick Mike Cervantes
Donald Trump said Gorka Paul Ryan Devin
Nunez Devin Nunez Daniel Nunez Bernie
Sanders Alan hawk honk Franken Marc
Maron Judy gold
Isabel gillies Matthew film guy Ronald
Reagan John from San Antonio Jimmy Dore
that Mike from PA Dave Rubin who
still won't debate Sam because he's
stupid Janeane Garofalo Bernie Sanders
Jill Stein 2020 Timbo
Dragic veritas who I happen to really
like because they have videos Matt
Taibbi D Krishna Paco the king of earned
media Mindy Brenda Jimmy Reaper Kate
Jimmy reefer
Joseph ballin Rafael Cruz right-wing
Mandela Josh from Chicago's mom nation
of islam Obama that guy who said keep it
simple and no bomb no bumps in the road
but I don't remember his name's Peter
Thiel Greg the libertarian a che Goodman
Doug the new dork and last but certainly
not least Sam I would like to thank your
de minimis penis oh well thank you that
was that was great we gotta pull that
what can we make a note really we should
have that for the end of the year that
is uh that's like a best of college just
to remind people Ryan thank you so much
it's worth
are you graduating you graduate no no
thank you Sam
no I'm still a junior all right I think
goodbye we'll see you next year thank
you okay
this is funny so speaking of content
creators that I actually respect I
didn't know so so Milo is so-so Milo is
basically just like the sad sidekick of
Alex Jones now is that what's going on
I think he's exploring his opportunities
Michael Milo is exploring his
opportunities of being a sad sidekick to
Alex Jones and this is footage of this
is great basically Milo and Alex Jones
are they yet they're at like a
restaurant or something yeah it looks
like they're eating some food and
they're eating some food they're doing a
live stream they're doing a people on
the street live stream and basically and
this is it this isn't well prodigy for
mob deep they got their start he he
caught q-tip a tribe called quest's
coming out of I believe it was Def Jam
and he handed him a mixtape and lob deep
was good and q-tip got it and that's
what helped make their career happen so
you
it's a time-honored tradition of yellow
let me let me let me show you my tape a
fan of Alex Jones and Milo interrupted
the livestream to do a prodigy we're
gonna see I have a song it's viral I'm
gonna scram but I'm gonna give your
drink boom Rob D are boobie d I bit it
and in for is that gum say it again are
obedient in for now we're into some lady
just like I've met your Infowars guys
are obedient influenza SS we gotta split
the signal because the words out but
more people are telling don't kid since
your song it sounds a million times and
I got 50 artists that already sell their
songs there's Rob the our D let's go
guys bye security guys we trust you like
get out of there get out of there were
doors
I'm the king of it there's so much there
I can time is dilated yo I finally found
the one way you get Alex Jones to shut
the up
this temporarily it's just a meet so
whose actual fan base I love I love Alex
Jones is always giving you perfect sup
like the subtext is my securities
it up why am I still here I'm still
having to pretend to respect this guy
and want to take a selfie
you guys are failing and then also that
moment of like this guy's actually crazy
should go back to the king of RS
negative blood types spider-man on 6th
Street it was a spider-man fixture he's
protesting of Muslims
I love this this is this is the best
part the way he sidles up and pulls the
period that is it oh that is so boss I
don't know if I've seen some full beers
in my time that's InfoSphere I've ever
seen his heads cocked back like look at
the set this meeting up for a while that
looks crammed but I'm literally in the
middle if we go back to the beginning
they're like having a leisurely
conversation they're mid drink and just
to throw in there Milo clearly bummed
that this guy doesn't want a selfie with
him clearly beau I don't know I think
Milo's like what is this pathogen well I
think it's a combination I think it's
like what is this path I've taken who is
this peasant but also like whoa like I
don't get any shine out of this like
there was a time like in 2015 Steve ban
and said like I was the most dangerous
propagandist on the planet or whatever
and now like I can't even get that I was
you doing my Trump shirt we approached
us to Muslims that guy doesn't even
recognize me
but just go back to the beginning to
show just how easily the pace was this
is what's awesome all right so like
their dirt yeah like got a scram just
remember that in 30 seconds he goes got
a scram they go oh we're gonna get a
Mike that's a mark of complacency way
how are you good man big listen god
bless you by the way I just wanna let
you know of my own Infowars music calm
that's awesome spider great guy with six
feet
oh great job everybody I have okay I'm
gonna scram but I'm gonna get your drink
boom I gotta go right now
Rob drd4 is that gum
are OBD it in for an - some lady looks
like I met your Infowars guy SS we got
to split this Rob the our D Rob dude our
dude it's giving him like are you trying
to mess up the email Rob do Rob - Rob
dude calm Rob Dyrdek up well I just want
to say to this gentleman if he's
watching now maybe there's this whole
code for anti-globalist that we're not
following as globalists in this room but
i think you have to ask yourself after
this interaction is Alex really on your
side and the second question actually
second question you ask yourself is is
majority FM music available calm because
I don't I'm not a idiot okay I'm
not gonna turn to a frat majority mb/s
dude I'm not turning down an opportunity
to make millions and I would like to
hear a lot more about this blood type
thing well as the Steve Novello was
writing about it and skeptics blah
the only other thing the only other
thing that makes me skeptical is like if
alex jones is good enough to make that
like seem you know natural and organic
like that would be on just like King of
Kings Rob do give it to rhabdo Rob do
you know as I've said it Rd rhabdo Rob D
at Infowars just Robin we'll figure it
out we're gonna do it man good yeah it
was great I have to say because I
thought when he smacked down the bills
like oh you're pro you're buying
the drink and you're out like he shot
back his drink slam down the bill we're
good and this guy is just like dude you
leaving money on the table I moved to
Austin I just I just moved to uh I would
not be surprised if that guy gets a call
from a globalist police Flores and
Austin that he is not allowed within a
certain amount that would be an
incredible thing - right you mentioned
the play
you just write like a one-man play of
like all the calls and all of the police
reports that alex jones has filed on
fans like off air just like yeah some
crazy guys talking about type O blood
types or something I don't want to tail
on them oh that's rich
