I think there should be term limits for
people on the view particularly
talentless trust fund babies the megan
mccain anxiety attack continues but this
time it's not about attacks on her trust
fund baby riches now it's about race
romney hurt now it's done that there's
no list of mutual right there's a list
of people but I'm just saying more
people should come out he should be he
should step down I don't have patient
Steve King we're talking about just for
this I don't think anybody has tolerance
for this in any way I would like us to
move toward a path except for the
entirety of the Republican Party that
supported him in his reelection
including Chuck Grassley did a video for
him by the way even as of a week ago
even as all the other people were
jumping ship and the new media climate
after the election Ted Cruz didn't fully
denounce Steve King and I believe still
said he would accept support for him so
your big wide point
she's totally wrong on an even narrow
point also wrong I don't have patience
for this I don't think anybody has
tolerance for this in any way I would
like us to move forward and pass things
that I thought were done in the 60s
apparently they are not he's a bad dude
should he be stepping down should he be
saying anything to get him the hell out
of Congress I don't really care
closet I'm sorry I mean dude you didn't
know that like this this is what I mean
one need not watch all of eyes on the
prize as documentary though they should
one need not read histories of the civil
rights movement or certainly god forbid
something like you know about the Black
Panthers or something I mean whoa I
don't want to give I don't want her to
actually have you know a seizure from
her you know class anxiety and
entitlement anxiety but like okay I know
we're in the world now where a guy like
Jordan Peterson doesn't know the basics
of civil rights law and it's called the
most important intellectual in the
Western world but like you're the
daughter of a guy who served in the
Senate for decades you comment on
politics for a living and you didn't
know that this stuff was quote unquote
taking care of in the 60s and
incidentally you didn't also know that
the party you support has been steadily
gutting all of those things in Congress
as well as the Supreme Court I mean of
course I'm sure she did wouldn't know
that part but I mean not even the
sixties part come on I'm a political
analyst I don't want to keep reliving
stuff that I thought we had passed by a
long time handy bit I'm sorry I don't
think other people want to relive it
either you know like the people who are
on the receiving end of it and aren't
multi-millionaire trust fund babies in a
studio sorry in history they're only 20
jobs that have been washed out the the
problem that some people have is from
was heard he wasn't voted in by like a
board you know he was voted in by his
but yet there's no pressure from
Republicans in the party and Mitch
McConnell and leaders and people like
you and I on TV the pressure mounts
we've seen in different fields why can't
it be the same and they strip all of his
duties so you're in office but there's
really nothing you can actually do there
and that's what censoring is so they've
taken him off his committee so he's
really doesn't have a job there this is
the time to do it I mean I remember joy
you were pretty upset when Al Franken
stepped down and I think the Democrats
wanted to take the moral high ground and
they did
they get that if they get anywhere with
it right but Republicans now with this I
think could make such a significant
statement by forcing him to resign but
will Republicans now step up to the
plate with Donald Trump because he has
been using I think the border wall as
sort of this dog whistle for racism the
government is still shut down and I
think it's all about let's not let all
these brown people in right unless
they're working for farmers unless
they're working in agriculture so now
will the Republican Party's step up to
him and say we don't want to sit there
anymore there's 42 percent of this
country that isn't worth the wall are
they all racist that's a good question I
don't think so I ain't got a lotta basil
they believe in I don't know it is
Donald Trump racist okay so the point is
I mean that's ridiculous I mean of
course the answer to Donald Trump is yes
and the answer to the 42% thing is yeah
probably like it depends look it depends
how look if you define racism in any
functional sense the answer is yes as
holding racist ideas the answer is yes
it's way higher than 42% it's well right
that's what it look the way Republicans
want to define it no it isn't 4010 Klan
rallies yes now if you want to define it
in a more reality-based way the answer
would be like every single white person
and I'm not interested like look I again
I'm not interested in like the
performance and the signaling politics
of this but like the gist historical
reality of this country is one that
white supremacist ideas have been in
cultured in this country that's part and
parcel of the economic and political
development of this country it's it's
inescapable it's the air we breathe now
can it be changed through politics is it
a metaphysical static fact no I reject
the argument that says it is but it's
the water we're swimming in so this is
actually a really good
departure point here because if on one
end you have the Republican just denial
of racism which is racism which is that
unless you're at a Klan rally you're not
racist even though all of their
leadership is racist even though they're
constantly running racist campaigns and
then you know maybe there's um I'm not
equivalent in any way because we're not
drawing a false equivalency but another
dynamic that would sort of oh yeah this
is a good problem this is an example uh
Chuck Johnson who as far as I know I
don't know very much about him I've
heard that he denies the Holocaust I
believe he got kicked off of Twitter for
racist statements if I understand
correctly here he is throwing the with
Richard spam it's definitely not white
power white power son yeah here he is
throwing a white power sign next to
Richard Spencer and here he was
yesterday walking with representative
Phillip roe and andy harris those are to
Congress Republican members of the House
Republican caucus again this is a racist
party there's debates inside the left
about the distinctions of how you deal
with racism in terms of organizing
spaces and I mean there's there's a lot
of complexities to that debate and I
have critiques of how some of these
things get played out that I don't think
are smart I don't think are effective I
think you know again there's a lot of
nuances to this conversation but I would
actually say that the 42 percent number
is a great meeting ground of having it
like that is expanding it in a way that
makes absolute sense which is that if
you have bought into a policy structure
that is predicated on a conspiracy
theory and is predicated purely on
racial fear and paranoia then yes by any
functional use of the term you're racist
now could that change could some of
these people be educated so you know I
have to say maybe because again I don't
want to assert it as a metaphysical
static fact but in that conversation
well 42 percent of people are interested
in security no they're not
that that's 2n security I don't I don't
think she's actually doing it in this
way but Security's a dog whistle
yeah okay everybody knows what that
means and you have Tucker Carlson doing
crypto Nazi talking points every night
on the main right-wing channel in the
United States on cable news acquainting
this stuff and actually spelling out
what this actually means for people
which is my neighborhood looks different
okay and yes that is indeed racism so by
any funk I actually love that 42% number
because it's like the real and broader
answer is like yes everybody as a
historical contingency we're all
subsumed in it if you have been uh you
know if you're essentialist identities
been created as white and that isn't you
know and I know some idiots wall try
pukey well do blah blah blah that's just
historical reality read a book
this is why I didn't want to just to
button it if you want it but if you want
to make that point really concrete I
think that's a very that that 42 percent
number is actually a really good way to
operationalize it has your paranoia and
delusions about this stuff gotten
operationalized such a point that you
support shutting down the federal
government to support a fake policy over
an imaginary problem that purely flows
out of that paranoia yup great so we got
42 people 42 percent of people that need
a whole hell of a lot of work this is
why I always reference Ephraim Kennedy's
stamp from the beginning yeah because
the introduction talks about about
racist ideas he himself has had about
black people and I think for a lot of
white people they need to see a black
person do something before they can
figure out how to do it so yeah check
that out
