the other sort of dynamic I mean I saw a
report I think was that guy Josh Rogin I
don't know how much to take that but
that Trump made up his mind on Syria
after speaking with air21 on I guess it
was just a week ago and that you know
and I think we speculated on this
yesterday in terms of Syria
you know the idea of air Dewan getting
what he wants so that he stops you know
drip dripping stuff on MBS in his
killing of khashoggi you know there's
there seems to be basically two like
like a catalyst for Donald Trump's
actions one is this notion that his base
is a you know a white nationalist and
that's politically and then to the other
sort of thing that drives his policies
seems to be some type of deep
relationship with Saudi Arabia and
Russia right like now maybe it's a just
a sentimental one maybe it's one where
they you know have I don't know P tapes
or maybe it's one where it's just like
he's making money from them I mean who
knows right but those seem to be the two
sort of like abiding well if we had
x-ray vision I feel like that's what we
would see just you know two lines of all
the wars we never should have been in
right but I have a pause you have to
take a minute and consider the context
of the reason why he did this and then
what flows from that decision right a
lot of people are saying oh well we can
we can celebrate him doing the right
thing for the wrong reason and I'm like
well do
you understand what he's doing the
ramifications how far-reaching they are
and how it's going to further exacerbate
war in that region how it's going to
further exacerbate imperialism like in
the long run
don't Trump's not making anti
imperialist decisions Vladimir Putin is
not an anti imperialist none of the
players involved in Syria are anti
imperialist and so if you if you really
take a pause and think about it and I
honestly I'm gonna be to be sure I have
not figured to stay on yet right I'm not
I'm not going to try to assert that
other people haven't figured it out and
I have I'm saying that we are so caught
up in the usual anti Trump versus the
anti anti Trump ism that we as a
collective progressive body have not
really figured out the right position on
this because we're really just jockeying
for who has the best tweet to slam the
the resistance and then who's got the
best tweet to slam the anti resistance
and so we're stuck in that limbo
meanwhile Donald Trump is being
motivated motivated by something that I
honestly believe is going to exacerbate
all of the problems that we're fighting
against right I mean I think this has
also been a consistent theme with with
Donald Trump the process and the
intention and the catalyst for these
moves are important because they're you
know it's these things are bigger than
just a headline there there there is a
whole set of other cascading issues that
come from this and so how it's done why
it's done have far greater implications
down the road it's not enough to just
get the headline and wrap your arms
around it you you you need to there
needs to be some type of depth and
substance to this stuff because this is
complicated it's complicated and we
media we have a we have a daunting task
of taking these complicated things
synthesizing them into talking points
that we can say very quickly on the air
but we're fighting against conservative
media that has no need of nuance or
complexity and they simply pound the
drums or build a wall and raise three
million dollars and
three days to do so I mean so we are in
our own asymmetrical fight I know like I
always say that about the Democrats
versus Republicans but progressive media
versus conservative media man we've got
our work cut out for us all right listen
I know you got to hit the road just
lastly let's just let's just touch on
this quickly Michael Flynn shows up in
front of a judge at the beginning of the
week and this judge as far as I know is
the first person who is read any sort of
like been read into any major narrative
with it and there could be multiple ones
right but certainly this is a major one
involving Flynn he's the first person to
be read into it that we can hear his
reaction right in real-time and he he he
basically came back with like oh my god
I can't believe you're not going to jail
I may send you to jail I don't care what
the prosecutor said what you did was
really really really bad I'm just giving
you 90 days because you served in the
military for 33 years and you were
general you need to do something to keep
yourself out of jail that sounds pretty
serious at least to you know to a
certain extent and the prosecutors are
willing to let this guy go away for what
he gave them like right right
and so this week we find out that
Whitaker initially had been reported
that the DOJ ethics review said he was
okay not to recuse himself but
apparently that was just a blatant lie
and that notion is out there and we
don't find out about it - I mean what
what what happens next on that and and
are these sort of like what we're seeing
are they related you know I mean if
there's nothing this all comes out and
it's no big deal with the Russian
investigation this would have been the
greatest example of Kabuki theater in
all of world history in all of human
history and the reason I oppose it like
that it's because there's there
here's another cliche there's so much
smoke in this thing there's got to be a
fire here at some point and and I you
know people trying to dismiss the judge
this week is being overzealous and and
being overly performative and all those
things but I mean at this point you if
you actually put the pieces of the
puzzle together you have to really be
expecting something huge to come up next
to answer your question very directly
they what they have on Donald Trump has
to be something that is massively
significant and the only real questions
is can you indict a sitting president
because other shorter sort of than that
man anything that comes up short of that
that milestone I honestly think that it
has been a massive waste a massive
showcase something that the people who
are doing the investigation need to be
investigated at this point because two
years in all of this grandstanding all
of these plea deals the judge making it
sound as though that this was the
biggest thing that he's ever you know he
wants to throw the guy in jail even
though he took a plea deal there better
be some damn good evidence against
Donald Trump and the only question is a
constitutional questions it's can you
indict a sitting president yeah I will
say you may be too young to have like
been fully conscious during the seven
years of whitewater that brought about
nothing except for the president lying
in a deposition about whether he had sex
would not present himself as taking
sides in this right it's supposed to be
a nonpartisan black but there is a
political this is clearly political
right there's a political aspect to this
there is a push from the left from this
the Democrat Center to to do see what's
happening with Donald Trump and at this
point if the people at the top of this
political machine understand right now
or have understood at any point that
there's nothing really here I think
those people need to be held accountable
out of us more so than the Republicans I
I agree that the left is heavily
invested in this investigation but let's
be clear none of the player
who initiated this you know we were yeah
I mean you know and it's not like there
hasn't been you know the the
congressional and senatorial
intelligence committees they were run by
Republicans I mean yeah you know so I
mean that's true right now
Muller's run in a twenty million dollar
surplus on this investigation not bad
maybe this would be a great way to fund
free colleges just just keep
investigating anyone around Donald Trump
and and taking their illicit gains and
but at this point because Michael Flynn
was a good enough catch for them to send
him to jail for a very long time you
know they didn't if they did not send
Michael Flynn to jail that that would
have been enough to be politically
satisfying as well as some sense of
justice we didn't get that with Michael
Flynn so BAE sure as hell better get
that with Donald Trump yes I agree like
if you wanted to make a graceful exit
out of an investigation you could say
like we just arrested the chief security
adviser of the president United States
because he had a plan to kidnap a
Turkish national in Pennsylvania and
chip them you know through you know like
a the back of my plane I mean it's like
yeah we just found out that he thinks
he's in like a Steven Seagal movie or
something but Bendixon thank you so much
man thank you so much for appearing on
this show this year I really appreciate
it I want you to have best of holiday
and great New Year folks should check
out the North Star give us the URL again
building the North Star building wow
that's amazing
