[Music]
meanwhile speaking of his cabinet ladies
and gentlemen as you know we have a vast
vast arsenal of nuclear weapons they are
under the auspices of the Department of
Energy the Department of Energy is under
the auspices of a man named Rick Perry
just if you forgot who Rick Perry is I
take you back to this moment years ago
at the 2000 I guess it must been in 2007
maybe it was in 2000 yeah 2007 primary
debate for the 2008 election here is
Rick Perry this was 10 years ago when he
was sharp his attack it's three agencies
of government when I get there that are
gone commerce education and the what's
the third one there let's see
EPA EPA there's good
[Applause]
is EPA the one who were talking about it
no sir you can't name the third one the
third agency of government I would I
would do away with the education the
Commerce and let's see
I can't the third one I can't sorry
Jesus crazy alright so I want to cut
three branches of government I just
can't remember which three you're always
from said he's like so got glasses now
but it doesn't work right he's that
smart well and he's in charge of our
entire nuclear arsenal which could blow
up the world I don't know what is it two
or three hundred times oh yeah the
entire not terrifying at all but good
news he well I should say yeah the good
news is that this was the technology
that he had trouble sort of deciphering
didn't end up causing a meltdown but I
would remind you well let me just
explain what happened on Instagram
sometimes people send around what amount
to like chain letters and they have fake
memes and they're sure pranks I know
this is the case because when my
daughter was 12 she fell for one once
and called me up and said dad I I'm so
sorry
why what happened well I clicked on a
thing on Instagram and it's going to
delete everything on my phone and I'll
probably have to get a new phone what
are you talking about well someone wrote
this on Instagram and it said something
to the effect of like don't forget
tomorrow starts the new Instagram rule
where they can use your photos and they
can they can wipe your phone if you use
the etc etc I'm like sweetie that's
that's not true it's just an internet
meme that someone's trying to fool you
with and now she knows to do that well
apparently now she knows that's not
anything to panic about apparently Rick
Perry not as savvy he reposted
a Instagram post saying that tomorrow
the Instagram rule where they can use
your photos they can be used in court
case litigation against you everything
you've ever post it becomes public from
today even messages that have been
deleted or the photos not allowed cost
nothing for a simple copy and paste
better safe than sorry Channel 13 News
about the change Joe both shield 13 News
did I talked about the change in
instagrams privacy policy we just note
how it looks like Instagram has been
pasted over something else like
throughout this well it mean cuz it's uh
it's like bold and like there's it looks
like there's some this.w missing it
looks like like did they use white I
don't know what's going on there yeah it
looks very crude whatever the point is
he reposted this and then people pointed
out a dude you got you got fooled by an
internet meme and he's like oh well what
are the chances oh you know like haha
feel free to repost no no you know no
thanks Instagram haha I'll be darned
first time I've ever seen anything fake
on the Internet Oh glasses oh my god
seriously you mean that's a fake haha
I'm disturbed by his emoji use yeah yeah
well I should not use emoji like that
but here's the thing it's not just that
this guy's so dumb that he falls for a
you know not good
there are phishing scams there are all
sorts of scams on online you could one
phishing email makes it into his email
box we know this is the way that the
folks in the Clinton campaign nest it
was like oh I won't change my email pass
exactly oh but for the guy who's in
charge of the nuclear arsenal maybe
we're gonna want a little bit more savvy
about how the internet works now I will
remind you that there were reports it
was reported by credible reporters that
he thought the job of being the
secretary event of energy
was not going to be overseeing the
nuclear arsenal that we have in the
country among other things he thought he
was just gonna travel around and promote
the oil industry - people thought I was
gonna be like travelling Roadshow bro
that's what he thought it was gonna be
hey should check out some liquid natural
gas I mean on some level said Texas that
should be just grounds for impeachment
of Donald Trump right there just sheer
incompetence I do like the Podesta one
though like Oh a gift certificate for
Whole Foods absolutely it's it's
attended Z Bell's little scary little
scary and I get listen my you know III
don't I'm not
Instagram savvy so you know what I do I
don't go on Instagram and if I really
felt like I need to because I'm
Secretary of Education and I'd say or
energy or education or any of the other
agencies I've cut I would say hey person
I just hired you're going to be in
charge of my Instagram account you're
savvy about that stuff right yes okay
good
that's the way you work that now you
hire top people we have to get the best
people we need to get the best and the
finest and if we don't we'll be in
trouble for a long period of time
[Laughter]
