[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar in his Monday August 5th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
eager Volsky
on his book guns down how to defeat the
NRA and build a safer future with fewer
guns of course over the weekend 29 dead
over 50 injured in two mass killings one
motivated by explicit white supremacy
meanwhile Mexico will take legal actions
over the shooting of six of those people
in El Paso Mexican nationals Donald
Trump supposedly calls for something
meanwhile in other news another
Republican House retirement the fourth
from Texas in about two weeks nine
brings the total to nine in 2019
meanwhile Iowa's Stephen King will get a
challenge from the challenger that
nearly beat him in 2018 miners in Harlan
County Kentucky still protesting head to
court to seek back pay defense secretary
wants to place new intermediate-range
missiles in Asia by by INF treaty
meanwhile Turkey on the brink of an
invasion of northern Syria looking to
attack the Kurds in rahova the Indian
government revokes cashmeres autonomy in
a serious provocation and Florida
Congress members want the FBI to explain
how they are not sure that hackers
didn't manipulate the voting in 2018 and
while
Stephen Miller emails show his attacks
are not just on so-called illegal
immigration but also legal immigration
and finally we did it folks
July was the hottest month in recorded
history around the world
I really felt that write records all
over the place it's bizarre when you can
you know personalize it like that
well you can't cuz I feel it all around
the bear but at least in New York City
it was hot it's nice to know I wasn't
just being a baby know all this and more
on today's program sorry for the late
start folks we had some technical issues
obviously a horrible weekend there's I
feel like over the course of doing this
show for eight nine years this iteration
the the number of times we've had to do
shows like this has just been insane and
it is very very hard to not become jaded
about this stuff because there doesn't
seem to be any progress we had nearly
two dozen toddlers elementary school
kids killed a couple years ago and
nothing nothing happened nothing
happened
it looked like something was gonna
happen everybody says this time it's
different
nothing happens there will come a day
where something will happen I don't I
don't know if that it's now I doubt it
the fact of the matter is is that as a
bottom line there's one thing I can
assure you that if there's a Republican
president and the
becomes control either house nothing
meaningful will happen that is the one
thing I can tell you for sure I can't
guarantee you that if there is a
Democrat in the White House and the
Democrats controlled both houses that
there would be any meaningful
legislation and I can't tell you that if
there was meaningful legislation in that
instance I can't tell you that it could
go to the Supreme Court and survive
there at this point but the one thing I
can tell you that is absolutely I'm a
hundred percent sure of that there will
be no meaningful legislation with a
Republican in a position to veto a bill
and with a Republican sitting atop one
of the two houses in which to stymie a
bill from hitting the floor or being
voted on or being crafted that's just
the reality of it and that doesn't mean
that we should stop you know pushing for
change that doesn't mean that we
shouldn't that we should assume
nothing's ever gonna change it just
needs it just means that you need to
have clear clear-eyed perspective on it
and the fact of the matter is is that as
much as there is support I'll talk about
this with with our guest as much as
there is support for for varying degrees
of gun control and gun safety whatever
you want to call it taking away every
gun the bottom line is it's not the way
that those people who believe that vote
they don't vote on that first and
specifically in terms of like the
Republicans who believe that right I
mean it's we're talking about 25 percent
will make the difference there 20
percent Republicans who believe there
should be sensible gun control they just
it's very far down on the list way after
taxes and first certain percentage of
those way after something that's gonna
be harsh on
you know keeping the brown hordes at
back that's just the reality of our
situation right now so people should
just keep that in mind we're less than
24 months away it could be a completely
different situation 18 months from now
there could be theoretically a
democratically controlled Senate a
Democratic president and a severely
debilitated NRA a disoriented Republican
Party who knows so this is not it's not
bleak I don't think there was anybody in
2008 who thought that we would get
marriage equality that that within ten
years
no would would he be talking about it
anymore like it would be so settled that
people aren't even talking about it
anymore
so don't lose hope now there's two
parallel stories that are going on here
one is that we have a massive problem
with guns and anybody but an idiot or a
liar will tell you that we have a
massive problem with guns in this
country the other problem that we have
is we have a burgeoning radicalized
violent right-wing extremism that is is
a contagion and you can look at a bunch
of different ways the the conservative
movement in this country has moved to
the right and they've moved to the right
in terms of like numbers of people as to
where they are and as you move all these
people down the spectrum of right-wing
politics they start bumping into the
outer fringes
of violence like we see from people
let's say like Timothy McVeigh right who
killed was a hundred and eighty people
in blowing up a Federal Building and as
these people move towards that thing you
start to get more and more sort of you
know marginal people there's just more
people in the margins and the marginal
ideas have more salience for more people
and in this instance they convened an H
an and there's attempts now I at the
very least you can't shut it down but
you can make it you can debilitate it
but they're gonna find another place and
they're getting a tremendous amount of
support of 30,000 foot support as it
were like the reason why things are
moving to the right is because their
leadership because what is considered
you know sort of appropriate behavior
has moved to the right and so those
marginal people at the margins they're
sliding to the right to and there's just
more people who are going into that sort
of like zone on the spectrum of like
right-wing violence I mean we have
played
I can't tell me how many clips of Tucker
Carlson Laura Ingraham others on Fox
talking about the invasion how many
times have we said all of this invasion
talk is going to lead to someone
basically like what do you do if you're
being invaded well you pick up a gun and
you fight the invaders right I mean
that's that's what's gonna happen and
you know it's it's happened it's
happening it's unclear what went down in
in Dayton
we don't know there's a lot of different
mixed reports but there's reason to
believe that the guy was inspired at the
very least to go commit an act of
violence by the guy from El Paso who was
doing that explicitly in service of a
right-wing political agenda explicit and
we're still waiting to hear more about
this Dayton guy but there's a lot of
rumors going around all we know is that
he clearly was you know had something
like this planned apparently according
to his friends in high school ten years
ago the guy was suspended for having a
rape and kill list that many people were
aware of far as we know he didn't leave
a screed like the guy in El Paso
but maybe we'll know more when we find
out he killed his sister incidentally in
Dayton his sister was among those who
were dead he had gone out with a group
of people it's my understanding gone out
with a group of people including his
sister to that area then disappeared and
then came back there's a lot of rumors
about who who the who the group of kids
were that were out her young adults I
guess 20s and who the girlfriend who the
sister's boyfriend was we're gonna find
out more information later but we do
know the El Paso attack was explicitly a
political an act of political terrorism
there's no doubt about it
that's just like irrefutable here is um
bateau who obviously represent
that area or from Congress and he just
he just has hit the breaking point I
guess in terms of like the questions
when the press is there anything in your
mind that the president can do now to
make this any better what do you think
you know that he's been saying he's been
calling Mexican immigrants rapists and
criminals III don't like members of the
press what the hold on a second you know
III it's it's these um it's these
questions that you know the answers to
I mean connect the dots about what he's
been doing in this country he's not
tolerating racism he is promoting racism
he's not tolerating violence he's
inciting racism and violence in this
country so you know I I just I don't
know what kind of question that is yeah
there you go
I mean so and he's right he's right I
mean the we're gonna play a clip of
Donald Trump getting up there reading
from a teleprompter and saying it and
it's completely meaningless it's absurd
there is one thing that Donald Trump can
do to help the situation go away but
he's not going to do that of course but
I mean to ask these questions you know
I'm gonna read a piece a little bit
later in the program by Tom Sacco about
the the press involvement in this and
you could see it at the debate framing
things about immigration as if like you
know of all the different things that
could take place in the idea of this
country upholding its Asylum laws or
being welcomed to the you know the
people who have suffered horrible
tragedies in these countries that
they're coming from you could frame a
question of like do you think that we
should give extra validity to claims of
refugees from Guatemala because of our
historic involvement in destabilizing
their country like that seems like a
valid question
do you think that we should actually pay
them reparations do you think that we
should have a Marshall Plan do you think
that what's your feeling about the
studies that show that immigrants
actually increase our GDP that they
enhance our tax base there's a myriad of
different questions you could ask but
every single one of the questions was
like what do you think about them taking
our welfare what are you thinking about
them taking our jobs right it's all
framed in that one fashion and to ask a
question is can Donald Trump help
anything is like denying the reality of
what's been going on it's absurd I
understand they have to have to ask
question but it's absurd here's Donald
Trump giving his speech he said that the
the the attack happened in Toledo
couldn't remember that El Paso and yet
but here is the shooter in El Paso
posted a manifesto online consumed by
racist hate in one voice our nation must
condemn racism bigotry and white
supremacy these sinister ideologies must
be defeated hate has no place in America
hatred warps the mind ravages the heart
and devours the soul we have asked the
FBI to identify all further resources
they need to investigate and disrupt
hate crimes and domestic terrorism
alright so over the past 18 months or so
there's been over 2000 Facebook ads
placed by the Trump campaign with the
use of the word invasion as my
understanding they he has regularly
tweeted out we're being invaded I mean
let's go to where he was in Panama City
Beach Florida when was this like a month
ago May
may I was badly criticized for using the
word invasion it's an invasion folks
it's crazy and then they say and the
wall would help because that would not
help the world would stop it okay the
world would stop it I mean when you have
15,000 people marching up and you have
hundreds and hundreds of people and you
have two or three border security people
that are brave and great and don't
forget we don't let them and we can't
let them use weapons we can't other
countries do we can't I would never do
that but how do you stop these people
you can't busines that's all in them
somebody said shoot them and yeah yep
can't fish nah that's only in the
panhandle you can get away with that
state
yeah only in the Panhandle
apparently not just in the Panhandle I
just like to add briefly it's important
Peter Beinart did a piece last year and
a lot of people covered this on how the
Trump administration had shut down
counter violent extremism programs yes
and this is so important because these
programs specifically like I don't want
to have a whole other set of policies
that reflect the policies that have been
targeted against Muslim populations that
would be horrible just all of those
policies should be dismantled but these
were programs like funding Christian
pickle Eenie who had the exiting hate
groups programs like actually seriously
productive sociological programs which
can basically help colty program people
the Trump administration defunded all of
them I mean so there's you know this is
some people have Minoo to two issues
here right we have the guns that are so
readily available to anybody with a
desire to hurt themselves or anybody
else which is a massive problem and then
we also have this sort of growing that's
sort of we have a growing right-wing
violent movement in this country and
that some people basically
say like you know people say there's a
coming civil war the civil war could
already be here it's just that it's
extremely low level at the margins and I
don't know at what point I mean at what
point again you know and I've had this
question about well you know when Mike
Pence is going and overseeing all the
brown people in the cages you know at
what point have we crossed a certain
threshold where something is what it is
I mean if we get 50 people shot every
weekend for a specific political
ideology violence happens accidents
happen that science guy what's-his-face
I can't remember gross noise Neil
deGrasse Tyson put out like a thing like
saying hey folks everybody got to remain
calm more people died in car accidents
by a factor of 20 and more people die by
joke and whatever it is but there's a
reason why terrorism is deployed it's
because it works because you know if
you're at the mall and you're out of
your car you don't think you're gonna
get hit you're gonna be in a die in a
car accident if you're not eating a fish
bone you don't think you're gonna choke
a fish you know on a on a fish bone
there's never a moment where you're in
the mall and you think oh I could get
shot by a semi-automatic weapon now with
a guy in up-armored you know coming in
soem it's just absurd and this is what
is political terrorism but we got to go
I gotta go
we got we got five minutes for our guest
here we'll be right back we're gonna
take a quick break
Igor Volsky will be with us to at least
deal with the question of guns
you
how to defeat the NRA and build a safer
future with fewer guns igor Volsky
welcome to the program hey thanks for
having me so I know I know we have just
a limited time with you Igor but give us
a sense of how realistic you know we
have two different issues obviously with
the shootings that took place over the
weekend one of them being the sort of
the the right-wing extremism that's
involved there let's put that aside for
the moment and because and talk about
the how we deal with this problem of
guns people are listening to the show
are well aware of it I think most people
know that two-thirds of gun deaths are
our suicides
we've we've talked on this program about
how the access the easy access to guns
makes those suicides you know has a
direct correlation to the success of
those suicides particularly by the
nature of how people commit suicide and
what happens in the failure rate for
other ways of doing it and the the
narrow window of time where they're
contemplating doing it etc but we also
have these problems these mass shootings
which terrify the entire society what
what can we do what we beat what have we
been doing wrong well look I mean we
know exactly what to do to reduce gun
deaths the question is are we holding
our advocates that is and I'm
specifically talking about people in
power members of Congress members of the
Senate to doing everything in their
power that's possible I don't understand
why after the House passed universal
background checks in February 27 the
Senate Democrats did close to nothing in
fact I did a study of this only about 19
of them even tweeted that it happened
okay and now we're in a situation where
it's been about a hundred and fifty
seven hundred and fifty eight days since
the house took that action and you
haven't seen a single Democratic senator
filibuster over this issue place any
kind of hold on a nominee or on a piece
of legislation because of this issue I
mean my god
why aren't they back in DC right now
showing the country that they are ready
to to take action that would make it
harder for people to get gun I mean
there's a pro forma session tomorrow at
nine o'clock in the morning why are
there trying to use that to spark the
conversation we can call on Mitch
McConnell to do this that and the other
thing but Sam you know that if two of us
and all of your listeners set ourselves
on fire in front of Mitch McConnell's
house he wouldn't do anything because
he's built an entire career on carrying
water from the NRA so we have to do
everything we can and those senators
have to use their leverage as senators
to push push push for action what where
is the what can let's just assume for a
moment I mean they forced McConnell to
bring some legislation or bring that
house legislation to the floor at the
very least right this is the process in
which you gain support where you punish
people for not supporting certain
legislation and you make it clear that
they don't exist support it
but what are the outer limits of what
can be done legislatively based upon the
narrow confines of the Supreme Court
well my argument is that given how the
Supreme Court has interpreted Heller or
I'm sorry how it interpret the Second
Amendment in Heller where it's found for
the very first time that there's an
individual right to own a gun that even
given that reality we can actually get a
whole lot of things done so you know in
my view we need to crack down on the gun
industry banned military-style weapons
but also regulate the products they
produce we need licensing and
registration and we need to invest in
urban and urban areas and
community-based programs to reduce gun
violence there all of those things Sam
can be done under the confines and under
the framework set out in Heller
now if the justices move me
interpretation and write new rights into
the constant
tuition into the second amendment then I
think we should have a conversation is
it time to to amend the amendment is it
time to rethink how how we view it but
right now under current law everything
we need to do to build a future with
fewer guns we can do and can those be
done on a state-by-state basis and to
what extent have we seen some success
there because it seems to me like I
think I was just looking at the
difference between Connecticut and maybe
it was Texas in terms of just suicides
it's been helpful oh absolutely and as
you know you know oftentimes you've seen
States try policies and then they'd been
federalized so there's currently nine
states for instance that a firearm
licensing those states have found great
success if including Connecticut as you
point out in reducing gun deaths but you
really need a federal solution for this
because what ends up happening is guns
come in from states where they're easier
to get because they're coming in to the
states with greater regulation so you
need a federal for each wave that
federal floor to licensing registration
but you know but states who are doing
the emergency risk protection orders who
are doing universal background checks
who are doing licensing they should
continue doing that that has an impact
but but to really get at this problem we
need to we need to really raise the
standard the federal standard of
commercial right I mean those we just
saw that in California where the guy
bought the the weapon in Nevada I think
we saw that in Ohio where he bought the
MEP and I think by mail-order in Texas
all right so we would just have a couple
minutes left here what can people do out
there if they want if they're motivated
by this would they go to your website
what what I mean what can people do sure
so two different things that they want
to get Senate Dems into DC and actually
do everything they can right now go to
emergency Senate session dot-org to make
your voice heard and the other piece we
didn't really talk about this is I think
Walmart really has a role to play why
are they still selling guns
why are they still giving money to run
away back candidate why are they
investing in gun buyback from the
communities that they serve they should
be doing all of this and if they do Sam
they'll have I think a major in fact
just given their size and so for that I
think folks should go to Walmart must
act dot-org you know they've already
moved in the right direction over the
last couple of years now I think they
need to go further they have a role to
play as we wait for legislative change
they have an important role to play in
helping go the future with fewer guns
are they the are they the singers
biggest retail seller of guns in the
country and that's what's estimated yeah
it's hard to tell but but typically yeah
typically because of their large
footprint they become the biggest seller
and so that is a at least I mean there's
more than likely that that is the the
first like sort of the the the the
lowest of the low hanging fruit to the
extent that there's any fruit there
that's low-hanging it I would imagine it
would be make the people who are
profiting directly off this or I guess
maybe secondarily because their retail
ashamed and then so we have I'm sorry
give us the websites one more time both
of them shirts for Walmart its Walmart
must act org and then for the Senate its
emergency Senate session
all right well we'll put both those at
majority dot F M Igor I know that you
were really pressed for time today I
appreciate your your taking the time
with us thanks for having me him
[Music]
you
that is their number
one like they've been able to meld these
issues into one identity very difficult
to find a gun nut who also doesn't
perceive themselves as a Christian I
don't mean they are Christian but they
perceive themselves as like you know
they they ID as an evangelical Christian
I think the overlap there is pretty
significant in other words there's there
there are signifiers on the right that
have melded in used to be deficit Hawk
Ritu but they were able to jettison that
one pretty quickly but guns God what was
the third thing that Obama said guns God
and religion seems a little repetitive
yeah it seems I think there was one
other thing
but never look for the third thing I
guess it's God guns and their religion
super is why people are so stupid they
can't even to soccer game but it is it
is it becomes a surrogate for all the
complaints it's the source of their
power and they they vote on it that's
just the bottom line but it's but
head-to-head to those websites will put
them on majority dot F M's site they
take you two guns down
America different campaigns I don't know
why the Democrats are not using more on
filibuster but the bottom line is I
don't think there's a lot of legislation
that the Republicans are trying to pass
in the Senate they could hold up the
budget deals but they'll never do that
they're all terrified of doing that they
could hold up immigration they're not
going to the immigration reform not get
the money to immigrants but they're
terrified of that beyond that there's no
legislate
- a filibuster at this moment you cannot
stop federal judges you could put a hold
on nominees but there's they're not even
bothering bringing nominees to the Sun
anymore this is just the situation it's
not it's consistent to say Democrats are
weak on this
like I say largely because their voters
do not prioritize it I mean we're we're
all mad about it right now
but Joe Biden came out tomorrow
you know if Joe Biden's the nominee and
he comes out and he says I'm just not
gonna push for gun reform people are
still gonna vote for him over Donald
Trump but if Donald Trump came out and
said I'll give you everything you want
except for we're gonna get we gonna take
your guns everybody they would all vote
for Joe Biden I mean that's just the
nature of this you know for cos for
normal human beings it's like with
there's a problem here this shouldn't we
shouldn't have to give up stuff to be
able to go to the mall or send our kids
to school and not feel like they're
gonna come back in body bags like
everybody just assumes like that should
be that's that's the baseline we
shouldn't have to give up things to get
the baseline of go to the store don't
anticipate a guy in a full body armor
coming in with a weapon suited for
combat the guy in Dayton shot people in
a very busy Saturday night like
like party area there were cops all over
the place they had him dead within 30
seconds of his first shot he was dead in
30 seconds so too were nine other people
and 27 injured in 30 seconds the good
guy with a gun theory doesn't work in
these circumstances I don't know if it
ever works but if the good guy with a
gun theory is just how to mitigate so
that only nine people get killed and 27
get injured because I mean it's not
gonna get much better than 30 seconds
I'm sorry I mean so it it is a
reasonable expectation of people as a
baseline that you can go out on a
Saturday night and there's not going to
be someone who's coming out specifically
to target all those people if they
hadn't gotten him in 30 seconds if the
cops were instead of like on the corner
across the street from him if they were
three blocks down and it took him two
minutes to get to the scene literally
two minutes 120 seconds he probably
would have made it into the bar that he
was headed towards and we we talking
about did you see those heard the
modification he had on that magazine
apparently it was like it looked like
two Gatling guns good barrel drums yes I
don't know how many of that holds I
don't know but I think that's the sort
of modification that when when Tucker
Carlson had that gun control advocate on
and was incredulous at how many bullets
could actually the they could actually
spit out and actually
it turns out the gun advocates guy was
right that just hundreds of rounds right
I mean the you would have been talking
about I don't know I mean it doesn't
matter nine dead versus two dozen dead
versus three dozen dead can I just add
one thing and broaden it out a little
bit because I absolutely agree on the
need for gun control I do not like
living in the gun country it is always
in the back of my mind a little bit that
somebody could murder me if they really
wanted to you know I've been threatened
by the manga bomber I've gotten phone
calls threatening to cut my head off
it's it's not good but I also I think
nobody listening will disagree with this
fact uh I want to remind people that
this stuff didn't come out of nowhere
this fringe movement it didn't just come
from hm the things they believe in our
foundational elements of this country
right because this country was founded
on white supremacy it was founded on
settler colonialism the violent
dispossession of indigenous people from
their lands and the imposition of these
arbitrary borders it was founded on
slavery and all these things were also
of course heavily intertwined with early
capitalism and it hasn't gone away right
we practiced an imperialist foreign
policy for pretty much the whole time
and if you want to talk about recent
years the war on terror
is heavily driven by Islamophobia so it
is hard to say that these guys are just
into some fringe ideas when these things
are so heavily intertwined with America
for its entire history well like I say
there's two separate issues we don't
know what motivated the guy in Dayton
but the thing that we do know whether
it's someone committing suicide which
accounts for two-thirds of all gun
deaths in this country whether it's
someone who is trying to pursue a
political terrorism like this guy in El
Paso
you would call it a soft civil war early
civil war nascent civil war and as such
as domestic I mean the Queensland guy
was very similar in his rhetoric indeed
and you have bracket I mean look yes
it's not this kind
right Andrews brevis but here's what is
exclusive to this country whether you're
talking about the 24 I don't know 30
thousand suicides by guns every year or
the mass murders we see it is the gun
culture that is problematic yes we have
another issue that is white nationalist
extremism but I'd much rather those guys
you know have baseball bats and knives
for a while and try and figure out if
they want how to make an explosive and
you know blow their hands off and
they're in their basement they live a
much larger trail though right yeah of
course I don't think anyone's gonna
argue with you on that well but that's
that I mean that is that is the the
point I mean yes this the impetus that
that drove that guy to shoot up people
although he was also anti corporate
apparently but that was because that
they're letting in immigrants Tucker
Carlson special exactly right up right
up Tucker Carlson's ally
I mean Tucker Carlson let's face it if
you're Tucker Carlson today I'm sure you
feel bad about the loss of life I mean
look I have no idea what Tucker Carlson
feels but let's just say let's not talk
about Tucker Carlson for just a moment
we'll get to that we'll get to that but
let's not talk about Tucker Carlson
let's just talk about a hypothetical
person all right let's call them
Schmucker Ralston
and if you're smug or alson and you go
up and you promote this notion of an
invasion okay and you you promote this
notion of Democrats just want immigrants
in because they're gonna take over the
country by replacing basically white
people with brown people and they're
gonna get all the votes if you put on
this thing that like corporations don't
care about us they're willing to bring
in immigrants and replace white working
people that's the most disingenuous show
ever and if this Schmucker Crossan or
whatever that hypothetical guy is is
saying all this and then someone hears
you and they regurgitate everything
you've been telling the country for
years and they write it down and they
use all your same language and your same
construction in your same perspective
your same disgust with politicians who
are too cowardly to do anything about it
whether they're Democrats or Republicans
like all of the nuances even I'm sure
you say like oh I wish this guy hadn't
shot all them I wish he did something
else in support of that exact same
agenda I don't know what it would be I
don't know what it would be what would
it be what would it what would it be
because this guy basically regurgitating
not even the same ideology as this
hypothetical person that we're talking
about but also the same frustrations
about politicians aren't going to do
anything about it if you say it's an
invasion how can you look at yourself in
the mirror and say I care about this
land that's being invaded but I'm gonna
how to do anything about it if it's an
in vain
Asian how else do you stop them
we already saw Donald Trump's rally the
one suggestion that was there
here is someone completely unrelated to
the hypothetical character I've just
talked about this guy's name happens to
be Tucker Carlson and he's on Fox News
what's a quarter million people this
isn't an invasion it's terrifying and
you're seeing obviously the okay he's
talking that's the ease using the
invasion of the the people coming across
the border here's here's here's stuart
varney
saying the same thing it's all totally
wrong i'm not gonna call it an invasion
like it or not Jason all right call it
invasion like it or not here's Varney
doing it again this week I'm gonna be
quite as spoken about this I greatly
care attention that Middle America that
of American Buddhist accept this
invasion this open borders policy I
simply don't believe that America
accepts that well they don't they're
gonna go what one of them is gonna go
buy a weapon and he's gonna go into a
Walmart and he's gonna shoot everybody
let's hear Jesse Watters using this
invasion bait all right as the illegal
invasion at our southern border
intensifies AOC tours one of the
overcrowded detention facilities and
make some wild claims about what she saw
ins yeah but she did is a wild claim but
his a claim of an invasion where who
else I mean that can't be that has to be
yet right there's nobody else saying
anything about an invasion I find it
amazing that Nancy Pelosi
is upset that the president is having an
incredible success in being able to get
Mexico to finally come to the table and
cooperate in stopping the invasion and
that's what it is it's an invasion folks
get your weapons we're being invaded
here's bad on our clip of bateau being
played on that guy Tucker Carlson the
president achieved nothing except to
jeopardize the most important trading
relationship
that the United States of America has so
in case you're trying to follow the
reasoning at home by asking Mexico to
stop encouraging an illegal invasion of
our country were quote jeopardizing our
relationship with Mexico folks you're
being told that there's an evasion if I
keep telling you there's a fire that the
house is on fire
you show up with a hose with water I'm
not gonna be like wait what what are you
doing I didn't mean I didn't mean come
up with a hose I just meant like just be
aware there's a fire there that's what's
going on here he's gonna there here's
Pete hagseth I mean the whole network
this was a talking point president Trump
just announced moments ago that the US
has reached an agreement with Mexico to
stop the invasion it is an invasion of
illegal immigrants and it's an invasion
of illegal immigrants from Mexico well
if there's an invasion we've got to stop
there and that invasion
the Minutemen yeah I mean it's not like
there's no precedent for this it's just
that this guy was just like yeah your
tactics aren't working time for me to
move on to mine and specifically there's
a really good piece in The Washington
Post by I Shaun Thor or on this specific
language of replacement the great
replacement theory which connects the
Trump the rhetoric of the Trump
presidency and the manifesto of at least
the New Zealand terrorists I don't I
haven't really heard those guys in
Charlotte were marching name you will
exactly you will not replace this is the
same thing as this demographic
determinist
white supremacy white anxiety argument I
I think it is really important though
more broadly one of the reasons I've
been really appreciating Cornel West so
much right now among many reasons is
that we can sort of his argument that
there is this savage and murderous from
its inception American tradition and
then there's always been the Liberatore
Democratic American tradition as well
and we need to choose
that one and actually win and embrace
what's right yeah it's very dangerous to
act like the only answer is the
precisely well I also want Democrats and
liberals I mean you know the ones who
agree with us anyway to be more
conscious how they talk about the border
because when you use the language of
security you use the language of safety
you use the language of the war on
terror that's not that far from this
kind of white supremacist hysteria that
we're hearing from the right it's maybe
it's quote-unquote smarter right they
don't want a wall they want a smart wall
made with technology that they bought
from Palantir Peter Thiel's company but
it really is a slippery slope to this
like a lot of the infrastructure for
what's happening right now was created
by Obama and Clinton before him so I
just want people well-intentioned people
left liberals Social Democrats to think
a little bit harder about these things
when they talk about them yeah I mean I
think people have to be aware of the way
that they're framing it and you can have
a secure border in claim but it but not
just when they talk about them sorry
like when they do the things as well
right well I don't know what they're
doing what they when they when they
grant government contracts a Palantir
for instance yeah I mean I don't think
those are yes I agree they vote for
spending on border security well in this
instance that spending was earmarked
towards trying to provide better
facilities I guess but the idea was that
there was no sort of way of maintaining
the trusting essentially the the Trump
administration as to how they were gonna
use the money oh sure this is going
right to the nicest supplies right no
right to think you man they're gonna get
Trump branded supplies everyone to be
the best Trump sheets ever seen all
right let's let's take a break we're
gonna go into the fun app let's just a
freebie Monday
we'll take some calls we have more of
this we're I mean this is pretty
stunning talk about shoehorning your
favorite topic into this Jake Tapper
wants to make sure that he's not accused
of some type of both sigh tourism so for
him it's he is really trying to flatten
some nuances down here a little bit
let's just play this and we will we will
digest it in a moment it's pretty sort
of shocking it just gives you a sense of
where Jake Tapper is on this and I think
you know for for some people in the news
media there's a desperate fear of of
taking a position of of against like
some type of form of white supremacy it
just seems like you're just getting too
political and so you got to balance it
out and but it's a little bit tricky in
this environment in this country to sort
of balance it out by talking about like
well what about the Black Panthers
weren't they violent or you know like
like if they get up there and they go
like what about the semanas liberation
say this is one I'm gonna have to give
Bill Maher of props on this because and
this is years ago I don't even matter
what the context was but he had on right
on Salaam it was like a relatively smart
conservative and Bill Maher was actually
making it it wasn't even about anything
like this it was literally like a state
lawmaker said a slur somewhere and Bill
Maher's Lee you want to guess which
party this guy was from right and right
Han sallam started talking about the
semanas Liberation Army something where
the Weathermen and Bill Maher looked
anybody who's like you
boring yet well like what are you
talking all that's the problem that
people have who are desperately sir is
seeking some type of and so you got a
shoehorn it now so where does Jake
Tapper where does he keep score his like
I gotta prove my bona fides I think we
all have an idea is that you know you
hear conservatives all the time
rightly so in my opinion talk about the
tone set by people in the Arab world
Palestinian leaders talking about and
the way they talk about Israelis
justifying in the same way you're doing
no direct link necessarily between what
the leader says and a violence against
some poor Israeli girl in a pizzeria but
the idea that you're you're validating
this hatred it yeah and yet and yet
people don't I mean I'm you can't
compare I'd be ideology of Hamas with
anything else but at the same time if to
either tone matters or it doesn't well
now here's the thing I I wonder if he's
really this this uh nuanced in his
thinking tone can matter and material
facts on the ground matter so let's just
compare this I'm gonna stipulate that
Hamas has very bad they set a very bad
tone in terms of the way of their
rhetoric in terms of the way that they
should the Palestinians should behave
towards Israelis I'm just gonna
stipulate that for the sake of it right
and we're gonna stipulate that Donald
Trump does the same now Hamas represents
people a million-plus people who are
living in an outdoor jail who have forty
some odd percent unemployment constant
food insecurity they have every couple
of years if you're a civilian like I
know we got to presume that all million
people let's just well can I get
everybody to agree that like all million
people are not attacking Israel with the
kites okay can we just
like let's see we can I don't know what
Jake can agree to right well let's just
say that Jake I'm sure Jake would
concede that half a million of the
people there are not right let's just
I'll stipulate the other half a million
are all sending kites cross into Israel
that are flaming kites okay half a
million of those people are doing it but
a half a million or not and those people
are still also subjected to you know
every several months bombings no freedom
of movement the economic deprivation
whereas the people subject to the tone
of Donald Trump are subject to the same
stagnant wages of the people that
they're attacking they they're living
under a Republican administration so
there's cuts and all sorts of support in
terms of their environment and
corporations are getting all the tax
cuts and whatnot but you can say that
tone matters and also not equate the
situation that these right-wingers are
living in with the the situation of the
people the Palestinians are living I
also have to say I mean what makes it
even worse and again I'm of course I can
condemn any number of things about Hamas
I think that we have to uphold certain
basic standards or there's no standards
to uphold right I don't have any problem
with that as long as you understand the
profound power asymmetry but what makes
that even more racist and ridiculous
I'll use those words to describe it
myself I'm not putting that on anybody
else is that the direct analogy you
could draw if you wanted to talk about
the Middle East would be Netanyahu and
the Israeli government right like if you
want to talk about a pretty dry McGrath
wretches Oh a governing party that is in
power and has control over thing but
he's not uses advertisment bigoted I
know he's looking for a license to be
able to critique nationalists the only
way I can get that license if I show my
bona fides by saying however there are
some brown people I do think deserve it
precisely precisely well in and he does
that all the time I mean he's always
fear-mongering and always distorting
what's happening at least but again I
don't want to give him any ideas but if
he went to Pakistan and he said well
this is a thing like the like the ISI
and some members of the Pakistani
military they play a double game where
they work with us on certain security
issues but then they back the Taliban
and they fund certain preachers who do
instigating rhetoric isn't that like it
would have been also a ridiculous stupid
stretch but at the very least he would
have done one that here's the battery
implicated here's the better thing the
exact example Netanyahu is Trump here's
the better example he could say if
you're looking for that tone we
assassinated an American citizen named
anwar alwaki indeed based upon
supposedly there was operative ties but
they were never made public or proved
that's the one of the beauties about
being able to assassinate somebody it
makes the court case a lot simpler but
the big complaint was that he was
inspiring people radicalizing them
online in video clips I don't know if he
was saying like it's an invasion and
then people adopted the terms it's an
invasion but the idea was that he was
saying something and they were adopting
those terms in that frame but again
maybe not as it doesn't work quite as
well he's not doing a good job making us
disbelieve the credible rumor reported
by David Kleon from someone who used to
work for Jake Tapper that he pushed for
greater scrutiny of Ilhan Omar and
Rasheeda to leave in advance of the
midterms well one never knows I would
not be completely surprised by that I
don't ever remember Jake Tapper being
like this he's always had a real thing
for Israel identity stuff and then also
for just like having tantrums about
Louis Farrakhan and again I don't know
all my jokes aside
of course I'm not a fan of Louis
Farrakhan I was not a leftist one he's
not a leftist and to like I'm sorry
Louis Farrakhan has very little power in
the society I mean that's really what
all of these things come down to do you
want to actually be real about who has
power who doesn't that's one of the
reasons I use the Pakistan example as
you could say like yeah there's
right-wing Islamic forces that have a
lot of power in Pakistan and they cause
a lot of problems like at the very least
let's just do some actual power
symmetries here but yeah that's not what
he is any interest it's all so bizarre
too because wouldn't you think about it
like right like the idea is that well
it's the president saying this and so
that is like at the heart of sort of
like the president is completely sam
central like is centered in what we
consider to be mainstream society right
like the president just sort of largely
generically is considered to be centered
in our society and you could argue that
Hamas is centered in the Palestinian
society at least within the contours of
Gaza and you could argue that the
president says something everybody
thinks like oh that's normal mainstream
what Hamas says that it's a normal
mainstream that's that's the the case I
guess maybe his argument is about like
the implications for it's just a very
weird social sanctioning but also for
it's worth it Hamas is rhetoric has
changed radically
like yeah last 10 years so that would be
that's the other problem with the
analogy it would actually be like if 10
years from now somehow we had another
Republican president who it steadily
de-escalated all of the instigating
language so-called progressives are
actually regressed yeah that guy has
instigated his language every step of
the way and there's members of the
Israeli government who are not him who
have literally called for genocide in a
place that they are actually occupying
and regularly killing civilians and so
you could do some pretty exact analogy
if you wanted to but I'm sure you have
some questions about why
medicare-for-all
is bad right this actually I enjoyed its
on MSNBC and Eddie cloud was going in
Sunday morning to talk about this I'd
say notes on Twitter he had said like he
wasn't sure what he was gonna say
Eddie's in him pretty impressive guy I
think and we need him is a has a very
good sense of sort of like a moral
conscience and can articulate this and
apparently Eddie cloud had said on the
program that Mick Mulvaney can barely
acknowledge it now you'll note today on
Monday we're devoted two days later
right Donald Trump comes out and
addresses the nation first thing now to
be fair he was stuck in his Golf Resort
and he was playing golf and so he
couldn't get back but they know they had
to do something they knew this was a
political liability and I think largely
it was because of what people on the
press were doing and saying at the end
of the day I don't know if that's you
know that's just the way that politics
works he's not gonna do anything about
it he's not gonna do anything about it
just covered my ass I'm gonna be really
robotic when I say the parts about white
supremacy and so all my peeps will know
I had to say it and I guarantee you if
wherever these cretins have gone if
they're not @hn anymore they're on storm
front or whatever did storm daily front
whatever it is now and they're saying he
had to say that he did but apparently
Mick Mulvaney had seen Eddie Glaude I
guess earlier in the broadcast of this
show and it tweeted out something and
Chuck Todd says what do you what do you
say back to Mick Mulvaney to Eddie
Glaude and we had a unique situation
here in that Mick Mulvaney ended up
hearing a panel discussion that actually
might not have heard had our satellite
worked on time that time but he clearly
Eddie Glaude was reacting to you in
particular in that interview what did
you hear from him first of all I can
give less than a damn what make no vain
he thinks about what I say to be honest
with you he can't even acknowledge that
it was a domestic terrorist act how many
times did you use the phrase and he
wouldn't he wouldn't acknowledge it What
did he say he said it was a person who
was crazy a nut with guns right and
that's always the case right when we
when we have if it was a Muslim it would
have been a terrorist act Donald Trump
would have already been on television
not a tweet he would have already done a
press conference right but when it's
white men engaging in this sort of
action we get this sort of account right
that we want to go to their mental
health let's just stipulate that they're
crazy let's stipulate that they're crazy
everybody who kills people are crazy
something's wrong let's the startling to
that but but there's an ideology at work
here when you used what about the troops
but I digress
everybody who kills people are crazy
something's wrong let's the start led to
that but but there's an ideology at work
here when you use the same language that
we've heard the same language that we
heard in the clip and let me say this
for a lot of folks in this country who
are black and brown for a lot of folk in
this country war not white men it feels
as if some white may have lost their
damn minds Chuck and we have to bear the
burden of I mean hard to argue I just I
think I want to just add to that it is
important because Matt and I have been
trying to emphasize this though that and
I have no doubt that the reason Trump
came out and was so for him unequivocal
is clearly there's there must be some
bad polling or something they're
responding I don't believe for a second
that there's any conscience in this at
all there has to be something they're
responding to that's my 100 percent
assumption and that means that outside
of a incredibly dangerous and empowered
base that a lot of people including
people who might not be so woke or
whatever are the very least objecting to
this extreme grotesque version of it
they
the miletti liability and but also that
most people genuinely didn't like go
back to where you come from comments
they actually got it and understood it
and I think that that sense of a broad
set of normal people having a reaction
to this is something that we really
should capitalize on and think about and
I and I also I think and I'm sure Eddie
you know I would be really interested to
hear what he thought about this as well
is that like where is the balance
between that undoubtedly this is talked
about and treated differently because
it's white supremists terrorism versus
Islamic terrorism and I don't want to
adopt the same failings in their
response to Islamic terrorism so no like
we've always been making the argument
from the beginning like yeah if you want
to deal with Islamic terrorism you do
have to deal with alienation and foreign
policy and all of these other factors as
well as a toxic ideology so I would just
say that should be applying here as well
the first step is to be honest about
what it is but we don't want to just
security ties this either because that's
also it's bad policy frankly well also I
think you need to you need to
contextualize like what exactly is the
what are those material things that are
in contextual things that are driving it
I don't think that it's the ideology of
white supremacy that is that is I that
is new right it's not obviously all this
stuff has been there and there are
certain there are certain there are
certain material things that are driving
this in some way but I think with a lot
of these people they are marginal
figures and you have the president
basically giving a validation and saying
here's the world that here's the
scenario and this is what is is right
about it I mean I think like that's a
hundred percent right and ie is
weaponizing that in a way that it has
not been weaponized in this country for
a long and the analogy in some way still
holds because you know the Saudis
weaponized a group how they fund it but
so but as an example like we Fang who
you know triggers people for whatever
reason I think he's actually I don't
agree with all of his takes but he's a
very good reporter he tweeted out that's
something that we have to consider
sitter is as an example the record
levels of like loneliness and alienation
that young men are experiencing right
and some people jump to that's a
justification which it absolutely is not
know that me to understand it is not the
same thing as justifying Benjamin barber
had a great line after the September
11th attacks in that fear I'll
environment and he said he said I'm
paraphrasing but it was understanding
causes is not a justification yeah and
so and I and I think that Scott at Rijn
who's done a lot of ethnographic work on
terrorism he's starting to write about
the halt right now and he's talking
about some of the same patterns that he
finds in terms of lack of group identity
lack of meaning and cohesion in life and
actually when I say material I think
something like the Saudis funding
ideology or tunneled Trump condoning it
that's amazing material right right
right right and Minh promoting things
like the what pic aleni
is is doing I mean these are all part of
a whole we also have to be able to
prioritize the material factors in a way
that is good and just right because you
know the advancements made by minorities
they're a factor in the backlash
immigration is a factor in the backlash
to immigration but that doesn't mean
that you should do what Hillary Clinton
says and restrict immigration in order
to decrease right populist reaction
right I don't think that I don't think
that the capitulating with the hopes of
like you know getting a reasonable
response there's no negotiation here no
you can only dunk them with superior
power right and I think I think there
are mitigating things that can be done
you know and we've talked about some of
them we really really do need to regrow
the social bonds in our society right
because when you get rid of old
institutions like church family
patriarchy I don't like these things but
they did provide some sort of social
cohesion and people are right when they
say that neoliberal capitalism is
intensely alienating to live under but
what do we do with that we can't go
backwards we have to go forwards to some
kind of like secular new version of
community that is good for everyone
mental health majority report community
centers all across the country third
place for people it's certainly
obviously exacerbated when you hear
people justifying this stuff I wouldn't
be surprised if you got a guy who's
making I mean like for instance look I
don't think there's any question that
what happened in El Paso by any by any
definition would be considered to be
political terrorism I mean I just don't
know how more explain if Polly terrorism
exists then that's political terrorism
if if it's that was not political
terrorism then I don't know how you
define political terrorism I don't know
that that was the case in Dayton it
seems to me that what could be going on
is you have a guy who clearly clearly
had some deep-seated problems that were
quite obvious if you're making rape and
kill lists in high school and they
suspend you for it because it's going on
there that's a problem and assuming and
I think it's a fairly safe assumption
that at the very least he had that type
of mentality there are people I want to
kill there are people I want to rape for
the for the next ten years or whatever
it was eight years of his life and then
and he's clearly planning some day I'm
gonna do something about it
I've bought weapons I've bought body
armor and then he sees this guy go in
maybe he's just inspired by the bravery
or maybe he's inspired by the bravery
and the ideology on some level we don't
know but he clearly was inspired by that
and he does it the next night
the idea that he was though you know
bullied and I think you know in the in
the retrospective like Columbine I think
they found there was a lot different
things going on with Columbine then we
first hear that it's like you know
alienated bullied kids he may be
alienated he may have had problems but
it turns out he was more of the bully
there was a whole series of people
claiming to know him and using their and
as far as I can tell the AP has has
vetted at least most of these I'll be
pretty ballsy to use your own name in
your your your Facebook account whatnot
to come out and say this bullies can
certainly be alienated too though yes
like that's probably why they're bullies
it's very possible
Brian Seitz writes this Connor Betts was
a classmate of mine a real scumbag who
threatened to kill women and attacked
the school he was not bullied in school
he was a classic glorify er of violence
and an all-around unpleasant person it
would threaten many of my friends in the
past you can blame bullying which would
be lying
you can blame media which would be
extremely untruthful you can blame a
society where threats against women are
bad enough to get you kicked out of high
school or simply forgotten and allowed
to firm ate for almost a decade so he
can kill nine people his violence was
simply ignored as a quote boys will be
boys rhetorically willfully ignorant
cop-out to protect that status quo that
makes me so mad
a lot of blame all around he had access
to guns he was toxically masks masculine
 the cops did nothing about his
threats the list goes on bottom line if
he had no access to guns less people
would be dead and or in the hospital a
few Connor bets you put my friends and
peers life in danger multiple times in
the past I hope you rot in a body bag
they carried you out of this morning
yeah a lot of anger let's another one I
the person is but that the news says he
was remembered as being bullied which is
interesting because I just remember him
as someone who enjoyed making people
afraid connor seriously threatened to
hurt women who rejected him myself
included channel says they are avoiding
saying his name but i think we need to
talk about how connor brett's has been
openly talking about doing this for a
decade and no one could do anything
about it
and he couldn't in fact well in texas
nobody could do anything to that guy
until he started shooting at people i
don't know what it is in ohio to is ohio
up and carry it is shame that makes
me so mad by the way that boys will be
boys oh there or this one he
probably just has a crush on you right
like i was told that a number of times
by a kid who was psychologically abusing
me when I was in school as if like the
fact that there's some like sexual
feelings mixed in with it makes it okay
for someone to be abusing you right well
but they're doing it because they like
you like oh okay right taking Harley
Alice and Connor bets is nothing but a
case study on how consistently our
society fails to call it perpetrator for
what they are he was not bullied he was
a bully bully towards women including
myself a bully toward anyone he deemed
below him I knew Connor for over 10
years and to pretend that he's ever been
any other way to pretend that he wasn't
capable of this level of violence is
nothing but willful ignorance does a
disservice to those he finally had the
opportunity to exercise his unearned
power over to believe you as ever
otherwise I mean so there's a lot of
people saying like yeah that typical
like I would have never imagined seems
to be like this is exactly what you
would imagine but the bottom line
ultimately it comes down to the guy's
got easy access to guns and in terms of
the number dead you still have a
sickness in society you still have all
these maladies that need to be addressed
but they're not going to
any more or less address now I can tell
you that right now first order is how do
you how do you make these attacks less
lethal there's been tons of studies over
the years over decades about crime
levels in the United States not
necessarily particularly higher or lower
than anywhere else but they're more
lethal so the first thing you deal with
is the lethality of our of this stuff
and then you got a deal with the
underlying issues that are driving this
and it's a it's a huge mix of stuff you
know how you're not supposed to
politicize things you know so close so
you're not supposed to talk about guns
control after have a little bit of taste
what the matter of the funerals first
here's a guest on Fox News Ted Williams
who is this guy and on Fox News we're
not supposed to this is back when they
there's only 15 killed in an El Paso
shooting so it's they didn't get the
full mount so it was quite early in the
day on Saturday and we know we never
want to politicize this stuff talk about
banning guns are you talking about that
now let's let's not let's just mourn
these folks and ban video games you know
I wonder if if these guys who very often
are raised on a diet of violent video
games if they if they actually start
pulling the trigger of a real weapon and
they see real death and they find that
it's not as satisfying as as maybe it
was when they're playing it on a
television screen have you ever
encountered that and and could that be
the reason that that this guy just
finally stopped well I've been cow
video game players and their activity
but it's rare that individuals act out
like this there are video gamers I think
it's a little too early to speculate at
this stage about the motives but what we
do know is that this guy got a hold to a
gun or probably a semi-automatic gun I
would have to believe because of all of
the people that were injured or killed
as a result of all this shooting and he
specifically targeted this mall and he
pacifically targeted because clearly it
was a soft target it was a soft target
but we 12 hours later had disproved that
theory where we saw a hard target where
a target that was so hard that they had
the guy killed in 30 seconds he was
still able to kill nine people that
guy's not the only person who is blaming
video games Kevin McCarthy who is the
Senate majority or minority leader house
excuse me House Minority Leader was on
with Maria Bartiromo
and now here's this is a fascinating
clip one it's fascinating just because
can't talk about banning gay guns you
know which we're actually used in these
killings but you can talk about banning
video games
look I have no pork particular portfolio
for video games that's my job that's
Matt's job but the absurdity that a
video games can be held responsible for
this stuff but be that you can ban video
games but not the actual weapons that
does the killing is bizarre it's bizarre
what's
so fascinating about this clip is if you
listen to Maria Bartiromo
very carefully and you have in your head
because you've watched her with the
president a million times that she is
desperate not to criticize the president
but you also have in your head that she
hasn't again I we're oh this is all
speculation conjecture that she's also
aware that the president used almost the
identical rhetoric no no no the
identical rhetoric that the president
has used showed up in that screed that
the killer used I mean full sentences
somebody did like you know you could
almost like full sentences the Hulk all
the concepts the ideas have all come if
not out of Donald Trump's mouth Kevin
McCarthy's mouth or any other Republican
frankly and she knows this but you can't
quite say it so she started dancing
around it a little bit and it's almost
like she's relieved when Kevin McCarthy
lands on video games because that way
she could sort of change the topic you
know we heard from the deputy governor
of Texas earlier and he was talking it
was very impassioned conversation really
and he was talking about the tone that
the public uses on on social media he
was talking about video games all of
these things that could have triggered
certainly the video game situation he
was saying may have triggered the the
shooter there in in El Paso but what are
your thoughts on that in terms of
understanding that words matter and that
when we're talking to each other on
social media or looking at video games
where they're using you know like who do
you think she's talking about we're
talking to each other on social media
like who's the most famous Twitter er in
the world who's using this exact
rhetoric that shows up there now the guy
doesn't mention anything about video
games in his screed not a thing about it
he does mention like invasion and all
the other things immigrants are coming
to take
my games yeah but she's like sort of
like trying to open the door
you know like getting that sense like
she's trying to open the door but she's
not sure where she should tread so she's
gonna keep the like the emergency hatch
open and let's see which one
McCarthy goes for games where they're
using you know videos of characters with
these weapons
is there a conversation to be had about
that about the tone that that this
country is using it's become commonplace
to say whatever you want to anybody on
social media I think we should and you
you want to see from these individuals
what what they wrote in others but I
mean this may be a place that we could
find this ahead of time there may be a
place of what what's being written can
be changed could be an indication that
an individual needs help and others that
we can posit if you saw an indication
that somebody felt there was an invasion
and that the politicians weren't gonna
do anything about it how would you know
if this was a red flag screed from some
potential killer or just the script
tonight for Tucker's you know now I'm
making my point how would you know the
difference change could be an indication
that an individual needs help and others
that we can stop but the idea of these
video games to dehumanize individuals to
have a game of shooting individuals and
others I've always felt that is a
problem for future generations and
others we've watched from studies it's
shown before of what it does to
individuals when you look at these
photos of how it took place you can see
the actions within video games and
others but what I'd like to do is make
sure just get all the facts were there
indications and there's times before
that we have found this and there's
times before that we proven we could
come together just in the last Congress
oh yeah you know what I love about these
things and I pardon me for going here
maybe I'm just being way too cynical not
only are they not talking about guns
I always now interpret these clips not
only as a distraction but as like the
Republican leadership's way of saying
like video games are actually a really
major industry and you are not
spreading your donations around fairly
enough at all right it is amazing that
in that conversation the word guns does
not come up not once you you see the you
see the he talks about it here of the
weapons the yeah he sees the he sees the
impact of the weapons but he doesn't say
guns what are we gonna do about the guns
that I mean that that and they just are
ignoring you know there was also a twist
when cell phone people are so rude on
Twitter they're alienated from each
other and they can just say things on
Twitter it's really out there yeah
exactly I agree with that that's also
reflected in the dehumanization of video
games I mean I don't want to agree that
first-person shooters are worse but I
would say Twitter and first-person
shooters are different things let's say
there's different things I also I mean
literally when what's gonna happen if
the video game industry starts you know
properly distributing their donations
where are they gonna go next
however the Republicans they know that
may be saying video games or is not
gonna be enough to justify why this
happens that may not have any salience
cuz they tried that back in the early
aughts and they try I mean they try it
all the time and it didn't it doesn't
work out for a long time it was the
music remember it was I don't know if
you guys knew this but like when it was
when Columbine and other shootings like
this it was a heavy metal Marilyn Manson
yep it was heavy metal they they were
convinced it was the most God and he's
dropping a new album soon things are
only gonna get worse yeah geez turns out
ice turns out it wasn't the music heavy
metal you know it's still around not not
so popular as it was at that time well
that's why but maybe it's the tone of
nameless people on Twitter you know that
or maybe the governor of Texas has
another idea lieutenant goes he's me
lieutenant governor of
Texas has maybe another idea of what
could be responsible for it
here he is delivering it to the somewhat
concerned looking folks on Fox and
Friends weekend Sunday morning 1 most of
your viewers right now half of the
country are getting ready to go to
church and and yet tomorrow we won't let
our kids even pray in our schools we
have to look at ourselves as a nation
that's many factors that go into the
shooting many factors and it's not in
time to politicize it it's not a time to
politicize it's a time to call for more
religion in the schools first of all I
got I have some bad news for the
lieutenant governor half the country's
not headed to church yeah it looks like
about 37% on Sunday he's higher than I
would think and I would imagine that's
also self-reported yeah that could be
like how many people go to church once
every couple Easter yeah the big ones
but the idea that this guy's answer to
this 20-some odd year old individuals
killing of all these people is prayer in
schools leads me to believe that he
doesn't have like the nimbleness that
one would want and a and the thinking of
a public official well this is what I
was talking about earlier right like
these old institutions were incredibly
oppressive to a lot of people but they
did serve a social function of community
and cohesion and just keeping people in
line right yeah but I mean let's also be
clear that they were keeping people in
line but the church was out there also
saying like Oh incidentally the savages
that that we're living here before we
are where we're I mean you can say that
they were creating a certain cohesion
but it wasn't necessarily it was just a
cohesion that was directed at other
people sure and it was incredibly
oppressive to people including you know
the ones who were in out group the ones
who were colonized but if we want to
really solve this problem in the law
term we need a new multicultural and
secular form of community that can keep
us all connected to each other I mean
yeah I think that's that I think that's
a good goal to strive for but I think if
we had less guns and even if we didn't
have the you know the the cohesion that
we would want et cetera et cetera
there'd be less mass killings absolutely
and less suicides I hundred percent
agree with you about that yeah I would
start calling forces of the market
mediating every human relationship it's
not surprising that people are gonna be
alienated from each totally the one
where they can sell guns sure yeah I
would just say I mean yeah start with
getting like taking on the gun industry
because it's ridiculous that that is an
industry in my opinion but then you also
just expand public education in my
opinion and shorten the workweek give
people more time to go make friends
frankly and you know how else people
make friends unions
what's Union density right now ten
percent I think that we have quite a bit
of room to grow there and it is if you
want to talk about a multicultural form
of community unions are some of the most
diverse community bodies that exist I
got to think that that vac dude is gonna
be enough union density is that 60% he's
not gonna be in the Union okay I mean
it's possible but I don't think he's
gonna be in the Union the shooter
yeah that's I get that sense but but yes
that would be a good thing I'm not sure
that would be the the the the most
immediate solution to this problem the
most immediate solution to this problem
is it's just it's you you got to get rid
of it as good as many there's the
compress the access to the guns as many
guns I mean you got to do it in every
single different way that you can I
don't think there's going to be one
solution particularly since the Supreme
Court is so problematic you need to find
like end
and side arounds and insurance rates
make it expensive for people to have
guns make it super expensive for them
like you know you oh I also don't
believe that obviously if the lieutenant
governor of Texas is concerned with
solving the problem on a systemic
long-term level know if it gets people
into church working on a new D si prayer
caucus so Tim Ryan has exited stage left
what who's he Tim Ryan was a guy running
for president mm-hmm he is no longer
running for president but good for him
appreciated the way that he stepped out
be a great time for Beto to do this I go
back to Texas better be a great time to
do it
here is Tim Ryan on MSNBC Sunday
basically with a piece of parting advice
she's at parting the the campaign not
the house but he has an advice for
Republicans I think it's a good good I
think it's a good piece of advice to
address gun violence but how realistic
is that do you think that's going to
happen well it's time to put public
pressure on Mitch McConnell I'm
suspending my campaign for the
presidency I'm gonna head back to Ohio
and you know we need leadership right
now and and enough enough is enough is
enough is enough I mean you watch these
videos and you see Dillard's in the
background then you see Walmart in the
background or you see a church in the
background and no one feels safe anymore
and there is a bottleneck in the United
States Senate with Mitch McConnell we
passed in the House of Representatives a
few weeks back background checks a base
step that 90% of the American people
support and the Republicans need to
quite frankly get their together
and stop pandering to the NRA because
people are getting killed all those
people we saw and you've been doing this
all day long they had hopes and dreams
they had plans this week they were they
were gonna do things they were gonna
meet with their friends they were gonna
meet with their family they were going
to go to church and and now they're gone
because in this country we're so
dysfunctional that we can't do basic
things and it's got to stop and we have
to put pressure on Mitch McConnell to
start with the background check bill we
need an assault weapons ban we need to
study this as a public health crisis
that it is I'll just tell you quickly I
was in Nevada yesterday shoot shooting
in Nevada
how many months back at the concert I
come to campaign in South Carolina
Immanuel Baptist Church now I'm gonna go
back to Ohio
it's Dayton it was Chardon you go to New
England and you have sandy go I mean
this is happening everywhere he's right
it's not I should just correct myself
he's not withdrawing from the campaign
he's suspending his campaign he may or
may not come back but and and you know
in in light of our guest he Gore of all
skis advice it would do well for
Democratic lawmakers to take that next
step so when they talk about how we're
gonna put pressure on on McConnell III I
think our guest was right we could go
there and light ourselves on fire on his
doorstep and he wouldn't care you've got
to actually make his job harder
you need to cause him some inconvenience
and really Democrats in the Senate are
the only ones who the ability to slow at
least part of his agenda the value of
doing a filibuster even if there is even
if it's on something like it's
procedural is just that like you're
slowing down the amount of time that
they have
to ram through more judges one quarter
of the federal judiciary incidentally
now appointed by Trump one quarter we
are only three years through his tenure
these are judges who have lifetime
appointments so bad so bad this is why
okay
one thing that passed this year at the
DSA convention that I'm really excited
about is the mass strike for
reproductive justice resolution and I've
been talking about this for a really
long time we can't rely on the courts to
protect our rights the courts are effed
for a long time to come now so what do
we do instead it's not a plan for a
general strike right away it's a series
of escalating direct actions and that
may be the end goal is a general strike
but we're gonna need to see more of
these kinds of actions as the courts
continue to be effed forever yeah I mean
I think people are gonna have to
actually see I think before we get that
in a widespread way I think we need to
see we need to go through the exercise
of lawmakers passing laws that everybody
wants and having the court strike them
down oh yeah and so that people can
understand this because I'll vote out of
fear exactly there's too many people out
there too stupid to understand to like
to do that calculus without actually
having to see it happen or if they
overturn if they overturn Roe vs. Wade
that's going to be a wake-up call for a
lot of people yeah I think so I mean I'd
be as surprised if they do a head-on
overturning of roe v-- wade as opposed
to just sort of like allowing other laws
that infringe upon that right to the
point of making it useless
oh they will if they can they will oh
they will overturn it if they can oh
yeah okay why do you say that with such
assuredness I mean I think it's possible
but they can right now I mean maybe
maybe I'm wrong I just feel like they
they're not the Republicans always go
for the things that they say they're
gonna do in this arena right well
they run I've been saying they've been
saying it for 30 years and they have
conveniently appointed judges who didn't
do that I think that they like to string
along I think we're close to the point
where I think we're as close as we you
know it's really gonna be a question of
who the next judges frankly I think John
Roberts will slow their roll a bit but
if it's seven three excuse me if it's if
it's six three in a year or two I think
he may not even John Roberts may not be
able to put the brakes on it in the way
that he wants to I mean it's true that
it matters more that they've been able
to chip away at this right through
passing laws year after year but what
I'm suggesting is they're going to
diminish the scrutiny that laws that
kerb or woman's right to choose so you
get trapped laws like in Texas they had
that law like I don't know your ceilings
need to be for abortion clinics need to
be 32 feet high on the west side and you
know 7 feet high on the east side yeah
that's also what I'm talking about and
well laws regulations right and the
point being they don't have to overturn
roe v wade to basically make it
impossible for you to get an abortion I
mean we've seen examples of that on a
state-by-state basis but it could get
more egregious oh I agree I just think a
lot more people will be paying attention
if they do overturn Roe vs. I agree with
that yes they not do it head-on
and they make sure the time to start
this series of escalating direct actions
has already passed so I hope people more
people start paying attention regardless
I will second that here's our buddy
Charlie Kirk going on Fox News now I
gotta be honest with you I don't know if
Charlie Kirk has used the invasion
language he has there you go
and facture sorry
I wonder if now Charlie Kirk is going on
there he's gonna be talking about why
they engage in mass shootings I know
this about eco anxiety we're off the
mass shootings Oh
oh is that it yeah I thought that was
why he was arguing that that's why they
engage in that that the yeah so he's
gonna come up with why why are these
young people because he's the young
person expert why are these young people
engaging in mass shootings and he can't
say I mean why is the guy who's afraid
of an invasion of immigrants engaging in
mass shootings he can't get up there and
say oh that guy's doing that because I
didn't say there's an invasion enough he
can't say that he needs to find some
other reason maybe it's because there's
being so much anxiety that young people
have it has nothing to do with college
debt it has nothing to do with living in
a situation where they're not gonna do
as well as their parents
I remember having anxiety about school
shootings when I was in high school well
I mean let's let's hear what Charlie
Kirk has what why he thinks they're
doing it one other topic of concern is
the environment so much talk about
global warming and climate change and
stuff like that Vogue magazine has a
headline how to talk to your kids about
eka Eco anxiety and they define it as
Eco anxiety is a specific type of worry
or fear focusing on environmental
destruction it has been at a serious
level enough to interfere with their
life posit fluence I get it actually
that doesn't say it's been at a serious
level it has to be at a level serious
enough to interfere with their lives to
be an actual an actual I mean because
like look if you're a 12 year old kid
and you pay attention to even glancing
checking the news you'll see that like
Oh July was the hottest month in the
history of the world that's not good but
here they're gonna mock it maybe on some
level they're gonna say it's it's it's a
it's a fake anxiety it's been created
manufactured what do you make of that
well first of all I really find it hard
to believe that there are five and six
year olds that truly have anxiety
towards the inevitable alleged
destruction of our environment but if
that actually does exist then isn't it
the people on the left that are saying
the world is going to end in 12 years
it's their fault that these children
actually have this anxiety if it is true
isn't it the people that are saying we
only have 10 years left to live again
this is something that is just so based
in fear mongering and demagoguery the
idea that children are having some sort
of anxiety that the world is going to
end in 10 to 12 years which is anti
science and is just not true whatsoever
but there again you look at the left
look what they're trying to do they're
trying to make it seem well it's for the
children why we need some sort of green
new deal or more government control over
our country there's no doubt kids have
worries and anxiety Mike just last night
one of my boys is worried about whether
he'd be on the team with the other two
boys in basketball camp this morning but
it's not just families it's schools are
reinforcing this Eco anxiety - by a by
being obsessed with climate change
that's exactly right and unfortunately I
this is this is a really important point
elementary school children spend much
more time focusing on climate change and
the environment than they do in American
history you will have fourth and fifth
graders true that will know much more
about positive in one second I cannot
tell you how many times the right has
complained about actual American history
being taught to people
I mean well Charlie kind of hints at
what kind of American history yeah the
good kind of American history American
history you'll have fourth and fifth
graders true that will know much more
about the idea that the world will end
in ten years
then about 1776 the war of 1812 the
Civil War Abraham Lincoln or the beauty
of the American Founding and that that
right there can answer the question of
how these radical ideas are actually
able to spread in our society when you
when you spend far more time on
was going to end in ten years which is
totally false and not not on the history
of our country all right so he's not
bringing other in the context of the
shooting okay that's a great segment the
idea handling anxiety the idea that for
fourth graders or fifth graders now
Charlie doesn't get this because I mean
there's a problem you have when I think
you're Charlie's age is you don't really
you're not you don't remember what you
knew at that age and you're not and you
haven't had your memory refreshed by
hanging out with people that age which
is probably a good thing that he's not
but having had a recent fourth and fifth
grader and expecting another one to be a
fourth and fifth grader and about four
or five years I can tell you that they
you know do things like read the
internet and see the reports and study
things called Natural Science and if
you're teaching science and you're not
talking about global climate change then
you're not doing your job you're not
teaching science now what's interesting
though is that Charlie does understand
the implications of fear-mongering like
for instance if you told everybody let's
say you went and told a group of kids
who are in fifth grade there's an
invasion going on we're being invaded I
suspect that they would freak out here
is Charlie Kirk just well to be fair
this is seven months ago liberal
hypocrisy he writes tear gas was used at
least once a month from 2009 to 2013 to
deter immigrants at the southern border
under the Obama administration the left
is outraged when our Border Patrol
agents protect our country from a
violent invasion but only if Trump is
president well on some level certainly
the use of tear gas it wasn't using the
exact same way but the use of tear gas
was certainly something that people
should have been pissed about of course
I don't remember charlie Kirk praising
Obama for using tear gas and
people on the Left were outraged by both
of those things yes
but the idea that we're involved in a
violent invasion I think Charlie has
figured out probably why some people are
inspired to commit those those domestic
terrorist attacks inadvertently he may
have I agree with him that we should
teach you know American history more in
schools for instance like about that
founding of the country that was so
beautiful for instance who would have
the slaves preferred to have won that
war not America and and then you know as
long as we're doing the Civil War we
could do reconstruction and we could do
the end of reek and we could do Jim Crow
that would be fun to hear about well
don't go overboard you don't want to
make the kid look they're anxious enough
about basketball tryouts problem they
don't know about stroke about structure
they want to know about the plantation
economy and want to know whether about
recapping nasca Paul's winter what about
spring sport you're gonna bring Sven
Beckett about County you listed
kids that would be awesome
women take some time to understand that
our country is fundamentally disease but
then the other part is gonna be that
your world is you're gonna exist so
daddy would like to apologize for
bringing you into this world which is
going to do you see as you pick them up
in your arms and their babies go oh I'm
so sorry
yeah they won't raid the Social Security
trust I did see last company I did
specifically tell them like daddy's
gonna be a little bit annoying I'm
giving you a heads up right now and if
you don't like it then you're gonna have
to figure out some other way to survive
way you're the Long Island Expressway
exactly do you see
here is Pat McCrory he's the former
governor of North Carolina
remember this guy was so bad that upon
losing his clip number 10 upon losing
his election he basically the the
Republicans in the state legislature
passed the law saying that the Democrat
who preceded him or succeeded him I
should say was not allowed to really do
anything they tried the same thing in
Wisconsin - pretty stunning I'm having
trouble getting on to the Collins system
it's not showing up and showing the it's
weird here is Pat McCurry
now here's Pat McCrory trying to explain
explain that there's not it's not you
know this is it's not just it's not just
Hamas and it's not just the lack of
prayer in schools Pat McCrory can you
defend any of this of the guys on its
words and statements and and and and his
do you believe he's contributed to this
toxic brew as it was through the Cory
Booker I don't I agree with the comment
made that I don't think you blame a
politician you blame the person who did
it
you know I blamed Oswald I blamed
Brenner I blame James Earl Ray I blamed
him I blamed a haunting Charles Whitman
who when I was a small kid in elementary
school went to a tower and shot students
from tower in Austin Texas I didn't
blame Lyndon Baines Johnson at the time
but there is no doubt that the president
has to come out with a strong statement
against listen there are some white
nationalist nuts and dangerous people
out there including my state that need
to be called out radicals and by the way
and Tifa nuts that attack Mike
car just blocks from here in a taxicab
and during the inauguration and jumped
on my hood with hoods on him we have to
call out radical left-wing groups and
not give them any credibility whatsoever
Wow wait a second so he started with I
blame the people that do it and now he's
going around to upset that we're not
calling out anti far for jumping on his
car the full 180 by the end of that
statement there I would find out who the
individuals were who did that blame them
it reminds you of that is me sir
the the bill o'reilly saying to dennis
miller like hitler was such an idiot
like that what really upsets McCrory
here is that this justifies an tyfa's
some like anti foot action basically
hitler was it idiot guy was a total boy
you know pointed hitler if hitler did it
Hitler wasn't so brazen we wouldn't have
had decades of Jews Widing and I heard a
right bill is that okay so the Jews are
already annoying enough to begin with
Miller then Hitler comes along totally
such an idiot balls out no maturity no
strategy and now taking out all comers
Steven Spielberg daddy off of it forever
all right Miller let's just play this
one clip this is uh I like to see this
because there is at least you know some
pushback in our society and I like the
fact that I mean soccer has always been
a the probably the most political of all
sports because of the nature of the the
countries that have you know had it as a
national pastime to the extent that they
we could say that I've been more
political than and you know the
countries that let's say have baseball
per se but it's it's catching on and I I
like it you know even obviously even in
the context of a US soccer here is
and row Bedoya he placed for
Philadelphia Union and he scored a goal
against the DC United and watch what he
does he runs over to a Mike
[Applause]
[Music]
in the third minute
the captain comes up with a very big
goal he runs over to the microphone they
put microphones on the FIFA ambient
fields how that gets this field son yeah
and he runs over he sees the microphone
and it was weird too because like all is
he's right right there no right before
that go go back all these guys start
running back onto the field and he's
like he goes right for the microphone he
goes to completely the other direction
looks like he's running off he's running
like you know back to the locker room
[Applause]
[Music]
that's pretty awesome Miller did you
anticipate him politicizing this gay
Eurosport like that come from a four one
five area code 401 five come from a four
one five area code who's this where you
come from four one five that's the thing
is I don't know if I'm actually even
logged into the system I think I am but
I come from an 803 area code who's this
where you come from
hey this is a Dustin for Carolina Justin
what's on your mind um it's gonna be a
little bit off topic for today but it's
something probably one of the most
enraging stories of the last year for me
this August ninth will mark sorry I'm a
little nervous I don't know why but I'll
try to push through it you're doing cry
um August 9th will mark one year since
the school bus bombing in Yemen last
year yeah um um you might remember that
story it was kind of like a blip on the
radar in that kind of that's been
something that's kind of pissed me off
actually that and I was just hoping like
people would just you know remember that
and maybe use this anniversary
anniversary if you want to call it that
as a way to pressure twenty twenty
candidates ask them what our
relationship with Saudi Arabia should be
I don't know I think we should just end
the alliance I'm not I don't want war or
anything of course but you know that
needs to be a conversation I think I
think you know at the very least
obviously there's been some activity on
it you know the Congress Sanders and Roe
Kahana
they they introduced bills that would
inhibit our providing weaponry and
material support for the Saudis in their
in the in the war against Yemen I mean
it is you know you can't you can't
surpass the veto but yes I mean I hope
that foreign policy comes up in in some
of these debates I imagine it will I
imagine it will if only because Joe
Biden there's a perception that Joe
Biden is a is an old foreign policy hand
and so I find it hard to believe that
we're not going to see the establishment
media sort of try and play into that
it's gonna be an interesting exchange
you know it's they should talk with the
Houthis directly you know again this is
just you don't have to be pro Houthi or
whatever but the whole mythology that
the Houthis are just an Iranian proxy is
not true and there's clearly a lot of
organic support for them or they
wouldn't if still I mean one of the kind
of things first and foremost obviously
is the genocide that's taking place in
Yemen backed by US and the UK but how
resilient the Houthis are I mean the
Houthis have been able to still be
fighting and claiming territory with all
of this artillery against them and it
has so many I mean this is a part of the
Sudan story the actual ground troops
that are fighting for the Saudis or
Sudanese troops and you mean I mean
Sam's right though there has been a lot
of work in Congress and it's not enough
to override a veto
and that's because of the Saudi Lobby
and it's also because of the arms Lobby
raytheon and other companies are making
a killing out of this but we will will
make sure we try and remember that on
Friday
yes appreciate the call I had one other
I had one other thing I wanted to a date
coming up this week that I think is
important to remember if I could sure
I'll get seven so it's my birthday for
one but importantly that is the release
date for centaurea Brown so a
celebration on one hand but also
remember the injustice that was done
there and that's all I appreciate the
call thank you all right my daughter's
birthday is the 9th centaurea Brown was
the woman who she killed I think she she
killed was it like a John who was
abusing I'm not 100% sure I think it was
a pimp
but I got a double check yeah she was
like 16 I think at the time not terribly
familiar oh yeah it was it was a client
calling from an 8 1 8 area code who's
this where he come from
hey long time no see Dave from Jamaica
hair day prior to make a mark a long
time no hear from really I mean maybe
you haven't seen me in a while how are
you Dave I'm not doing too bad news is
depressing as usual yeah I guess what I
was talking about while we all agree
that there should be going reform but
the thing is it almost seems like you
have to have like a ton of societal
changes just to get to the gun reform
because it's just not people number one
issue yeah oddly enough I mean I think I
mean I mean I think that's my my point
about you know you're not gonna get
gun reform until you sort of deal with
all the other impediments to any decent
legislation which is the existence of
Republicans in positions of power
frankly right because I mean think about
it
Newtown huh and if that didn't move
people I don't I hate to be pessimistic
I don't think nothing will no I hear you
guys I think I think you'll be easier to
get I think we're talking to discord and
I think kept Kentucky Fried comrade said
it it probably will probably get more
movement on climate change then you get
on gun reform well I think people still
need to to UM focus on the real core
issues Cornel West talks about it a lot
too
we have to figure out to do this
alienation and we also have to realize
that because I've shot guns before um
there is an addictive quality to God
because I know they're fun it's funny
and it's illusion of power like cuz they
feel like they're powerful and cuz I've
talked to gun nuts and they're telling
me every scenario but well if somebody's
going to break in the house I'm always
situationally aware and you know like
they're in some sort of bad Chuck Norris
movie for once you can dispel that
illusion that might be one key step I
don't know but you know what you can't
dispel that illusion you can't mean like
there's no program where we're gonna go
to all these individuals I mean look
mm-hmm upstate all my neighbors all my
neighbors had guns some had guns that
they you know made like they get an
apple tree and they did they build the
the but and it was it was like a two or
three and they it was you know it was
all about gun safety and it ranged from
there through to people like I just have
a range in my backyard with a handgun
just because it's fun and there's nobody
else around here and I keep the gun
locked up too you know
somebody who was like I got a shotgun
and I got a ar-15 I'm like what's the
ar-15 for zombies or you know somebody's
telling me like they've they've they've
buried an unregistered handgun in the
woods and I'm like what why well I mean
if they come and get me
like what who's coming to get you that a
handgun buried in the woods is gonna
save you like if this apartment gonna
give you enough time well it's the
government the government I'm like dude
if the government comes to get you it's
gonna take you wouldn't stop them if you
had a tank right like it'd just be a
matter of time they're gonna get you
well look we also have to remember like
with many issues the will of the
American populace is not being reflected
by our elected government like I just
looked up this poll and Reuters from
this year that says 69% of Americans
including 85% of Democrats and 57% of
Republicans want strong or moderate
restrictions placed on firearms well
yeah but that's the way I started this
conversation and what David said too is
that you can look at those people and
where they rank how they vote is not
contingent upon those numbers they don't
put gun control high enough on their
measure when they go and pull a lever so
particularly with those Republicans most
of the Democrats all of the people that
they're gonna vote for are already for
gun control but out of that 57% of
Republicans
I bet maybe not even 5 or 10% would vote
on you know would insist that their
candidate be for gun control or they're
not going to vote for him that's the
problem right there in a nutshell and so
you just need to defeat Republicans and
because the the problem is is that the
33% or 43% of Republicans who are not
for gun control that's that's their
number one number two voting thing
because that because guns is represents
a whole lot of other things it's a
surrogate for a whole because I can tell
you that right now like the people
that the guys you're talking to who
think they're Chuck Norris or whatever
it is what color what color do you think
the people who are invading their home
are in their mind see if they're
probably browner than a brown paper bag
right well we also got a look at Leggett
the other side of the coin the other
info French one if Republicans if bad
which is that only fourteen percent said
that they were very confident their
representatives understood their views
on firearms and just eight percent felt
very confident that they were gonna do
anything about it so maybe if nobody
believes that their representatives are
ever going to do anything about it it
makes sense that it wouldn't be at the
top of their list well I I do I do agree
with there's a bit of hopelessness thing
kicked in but there is also I think
unfortunately there's a see you know
certain people don't learn to live feel
so unless they can experience that
tragedy personally then it kind of
lights a fire on their ass because
outside of that it's still not their
number one issue I can't tell you how
can you get motivated over all sorts of
 I'm not I don't know well I
appreciate the call Dave I'm just happy
to drop some ideas
got a rare appearance that is a regular
segment on T MBS Jamaican Dave room to
make us best Dave Rubin emissions Dave
Rubin impersonator calling from a to10
area code who's this where he come from
good afternoon Sam is John from San
Antonio John from San Antonio yeah
Bernie gave a stellar performance at
last Tuesday night's debate at promoting
his agenda of helping working in
middle-class voters it's all so
impressed by Warren's commitment and
defense and Medicare for all their
performance should have moved the polls
but I'm not seeing much movement they've
Weigel explains in a tweet a bit on
Saturday
you can't write the same story every
week but the electability question runs
everything 80% plus of Democrats like
Biden Warren and Sanders and many of
them it's told that Biden had a 90%
chance of winning but the others had a
70% chance would stick with Biden so
this analysis is in line with the the
last what you dove polling which asked
the question thinking about the
Democratic Party's nominee for president
in 2020 which is more important to you a
nominee who agrees with your position on
issues which only gets 37% or a nominee
who can win the general election in
November which gets a 63 percent voters
age 18 to 29 have a plus 6 on issues 50
53 to 47 32 44 have a 6% advantage on
electability voters aged 45 to 64 have a
plus 50 or a three-to-one advantage on
electability and voters 65 and older
have a plus 52 advantage on electability
on the latest NBC poll conducted by
heart John John I'm not explain that to
me what do you mean by advantage on
electability again they're more
interested in electability right right
okay so I mean all so basically this is
all being driven by older voters is the
point and they said they support they
they had their their most supportive
Abidin and then warren yeah yeah that's
that's true right I mean you know Harris
had some support you know after the
first debate that that kind of
evaporated but so anyway on this on this
NBC poll they had the same question and
it's actually 651 to 45 as far as the
issues and so so the difference is one
is an Internet poll participate yeah
participants want to have the voice
piñon and willing to take is a
significant amount of time to answer the
hundred over a hundred questions in the
NBC poll is an old-school foam poll that
uses a majority of cell phone only calls
so this method was very effective at
picking races at close to the election
time you know in Senate races in the
21st century leading aggregators pick
the winners in 95% of the races with a
slightly higher number for States and
presidential elections over the same
period but all everyone remembers lately
are the five states that almost all the
aggregators got wrong in 2016 the
uncertainty in polling is because of the
emergence of smart the smartphone and
the fact that younger voters still don't
answer their phones from a number they
don't know I enjoyed your take on the
Scarborough's ridiculous take on
electability that you addressed in a
clip called Morning Joe forgets he loved
Trump before 2006 the former Clinton
campaign operative Jen Palmieri
epitomizes the delusion of many
Democratic voters when she said on MSNBC
they're using issues to attack each
other's character and record yeah I
didn't hear I didn't hear any character
attacks in either debate and that's the
what's the point of having debate if you
can't point out differences in policy
well I think by tomorrow I gotta be
honest with you I think Biden's
character was a little bit assaulted
insofar as that the idea was that and I
would say that they didn't that the
busing issue was an attempt to point out
a narrative with Joe Biden which is that
he didn't have a problem in retrospect
even more I think most importantly with
having to deal with segregationists back
at the time he was bragging about it and
I think that is I think that's a
character flaw
frankly but your Violet your mileage may
vary in some ways but I also think idea
that like you bring up issues to attack
people
records yeah that's I don't know what
else is supposed to happen in a
political campaign well that's the best
point that nobody actually wants to talk
about issues I mean the whole you know
push back the next day you know behind
the the mainstream media was just
basically saying that we can't talk
about issues the only thing that's
important is electability and you saw it
I mean like the night to cheer on MSNBC
that first section that was one of the
worst things I've ever seen in any any
Chris Hayes segment I mean they had
Jonathan alter on they had I you she
moved him Moody Mills
and they were just talking about how
candy mccr ATS attack each other and I'm
just like what I mean it's just that
they're just so delusional about you
know the whole idea of of having a
primary I mean I just I just don't
understand it I've ever seen it I'll
tell you how I can help you understand
it if you want the front-runner to win
the first thing you say is like hey why
is everybody attacking everybody right I
mean it's like it's like it's like this
it's like you know you run one quarter
of the race you're ahead by 30 yards and
you turn around you go hey wait a second
I have an idea why don't we stop running
we're just gonna walk let's just walk
because you were starting to get winded
a little bit so you know we're just
gonna walk let's walk the rest away why
are we getting so caught up in the
running I mean the idea is that they
don't they don't the more attacking on
issues the less they're least they're
less favored candidates will win
convinced I'm yet to hear any of the
candidates but I thought that was about
attacking Obama not so much each other
they don't they you know people want to
maintain the Obama legacy and I
understand why they want to do that but
the fact of the matter is
it wasn't very good I mean he's a great
guy
I think you know as it's in terms of
like if I could construct a you know a
president I would want that president to
have like his his grace his demeanor his
you know ability to smile you know like
all those things like all these sort of
like very superficial things so that I
could show my kid you know like look at
the president she's she's a great person
look at the president he's a great
person but from a like a political
perspective they messed up a lot of
things and in some instances they you
know why they messed it up there's a
couple of different theories it really
you know maybe it's less relevant now
looking back and why they messed up as
much as how they messed up because I
don't know what's in Barack Obama's mind
I suspect it was because you know he
just had a specific ideology that was
that would also made him rather timid
but the stimulus wasn't big enough
everybody knew it they knew it at the
time at least from a data perspective
but they were afraid politically to go
forward
they were overconfident about a lot of
aspects of Obamacare they oversold the
affordability aspect of it and didn't
focus on just the regulatory aspect of
it recall that if John McCain had died
six months earlier there would be no
Obama legacy all you'd have is no health
care plan and an anemic recovery that
took too long and brought about you know
arguably opened the door for a Donald
Trump a foreclosure foreclosure regime
that was horrific for millions of
Americans
you lost a thousand races over the
course of those years particularly in a
devastating fashion in 2010 after Obama
specifically said to the
guess I got this don't worry about it
the Obama people shut down ofa going
into when they want they did not want
any outside pressure they did not want
on any outside groups they want to play
strictly an inside game they cut off
funding to outside groups that weren't
affiliated with them in any way I mean
there's a lot of things that Obama did
wrong and I think it's it's silly to say
that the candidates shouldn't argue
about it if they want to look here's the
bottom line if they're so if they think
it's such a bad idea to attack Obama's
legacy because it's gonna alienate them
from voters then just you know whatever
I mean I I happen to think from a
strategic standpoint I wouldn't have
done it the way that most of those
candidates did it on the on the second
night III would have I think I mean I
thought that what Cory Booker was doing
was pretty good saying you don't know
about these issues if I was Kamala
Harris I would have basically said I'm
curious about why you think you can deal
with Mitch McConnell better than Barack
Obama did and tease that out a little
bit because if Joe Biden has to start
explaining those things it's gonna make
him look either completely clueless or
just think what what could he possibly
say that isn't like very damaging to him
they're uh nothing
yeah in my estimation or it certainly if
he figures out something he's a better
politician than I give him credit for
appreciate the code you're talking about
all right but what could I make Michael
one more point if you're talking about
Medicare for all don't you have to
address you know the fact that Obama
care was was not the sufficient I mean
you know what but you don't even have to
frame it that way here's how I would
frame it everyone knew the Affordable
Care Act was the first step we had plans
for a public option even Barack Obama
said that if he had to do it over again
he would do Medicare for all he said in
2018 is that what this is in 2018 the
Medicare
for all is a good idea we all knew that
Affordable Care Act was the first place
we had no idea that the Supreme Court
would say no to millions of people on
Medicaid we're never gonna get that back
now we build on the Affordable Care Act
in September 2018 all right there it is
I mean there's room too here's the thing
people already have an idea at this
point about their health insurance and
about the Affordable Care Act when you
are trying to communicate to people who
have disparate views on things some
people might like certain aspects of
their health insurance they might want
it cheaper they might want there to be
less hassles but they're also comparing
it to their neighbor and they're like
I'm actually doing okay like I can get
75% of my of my doctor's visit taking
care of or 80% taken care of I'm doing
okay would I rather a hundred percent
take yeah would I rather not have the
things but that's not really necessarily
the question that they're answering the
point is rather than tell people
something that they have beliefs on you
can leverage those beliefs nobody's
gonna be up there going like no one put
this way nobody who thinks that the
Affordable Care Act is not sufficient or
that their health insurance sucks is
gonna complain that you're offering
another solution right nobody's nobody's
gonna do that the people who might feel
married to the Affordable Care Act
because they got attached to it because
it was being attacked by the Republicans
they don't want to lose what they have
or they don't realize that like oh this
stuff with like all the things that made
the insurance actually viable and decent
that's still gonna exist in a
medicare-for-all like for us that's
obvious but I don't know that it's
is to everybody especially considering
most people have not had to buy
insurance on the exchanges it most
people have no idea what the experience
of Obamacare is when they hear Obamacare
what they hear is I don't have shitty
insurance anymore price is still going
up but it's not crappy insurance and I
can't get rejected if I have a
pre-existing condition and my
colonoscopy is free my birth control
it's free that's what they hear when
they hear the Affordable Care Act for
the overwhelming number of people in the
country so there's no point in my I mean
if I was advising somebody I would say
the Affordable Care Act was a good first
step even if I believed it wasn't a
great for a step because it's already
happened
and why should I go back and litigate
the past if I'm really basically saying
but we can now it sets us up to do
something even better and we will always
always think President Obama for setting
us up to have Medicare for all Thank You
Obama that's the way I would do it and
that's probably the way I'll do it
against Chuck Schumer if that happens
all right I gotta go John Thanks okay
okay one other thing real quick what you
rant red numbers from on the the second
night of the debate it's on Friday and
on Ring of Fire where are those numbers
coming from what the about who supports
them percentage yeah percentage I don't
know document I don't have in front of
me okay all right okay I was getting
bold he wanted John is always out alpha
Sam I mean look it's one thing for him
to clearly be the Alpha the relationship
but like you gotta just have some
respect to the format I got no problem
that I have no problem submitting all
right
I don't I chose bottom that's like I I
can handle do you see I like it it's my
version of no exit listening that you
guys talked about pulse column from a
509 area code who's this where you
coming from the yellow John hey Sam this
is Ron Reagan Ronald Reagan how are you
sir
good I keep thinking about um how as a
majority report correspondent I went to
a Dave Rubin show about a year ago right
yeah I do remember yeah Dave brought up
this guy onto the stage who doesn't have
any hair he has some sort of disorder
where he has no hair and this guy had
been at a patriot prayer rally and a
leftist called him a skinhead and there
was a video that kind of went viral and
the whole thing was that the left is so
intolerant that they just assumed that
this poor guy with a disorder was a
skinhead and like hot you know that's of
course serious oppression right I think
I see another controversy yes yeah yeah
yeah so I I came home and I looked up
the guy and he's got a YouTube channel
and it's like him and some of his
college friends complaining about how
hard it is to be like right-wing in
college or at the university you know
and then like in one of the episodes
this one of his friends is talking about
how he just got back from France which
is like a total hellhole now because of
the immigrants right and and this same
guy who was like so offended that he was
called a skinhead suggest that like it's
not at all unreasonable that a European
nation should be able to declare
themselves a white ethno State and so
and then they talk about how is he as in
Hanna's real Japan is really great
because it's a monoculture and all these
things so basically like you know there
dave rubin is like really obsessed with
you know protecting these people and
putting out this idea that the worst
thing in the world is be called a racist
while the more
that they get like the deeper into a
chain or 4chan or whatever those things
are the the truth starts to come out and
then I decided recently to find out
where Dave Rubin stands on immigration
because at the show he said he was Pro
amnesty and thought that the wall was a
dumb idea but I found some interviews
where recently he's been complaining or
you know what his big concern is
assimilation and pointing out just like
these you know college douchebags on
their little YouTube channel pointing
out that Europe has had all of these
problems because of immigration and the
failure to assimilate and I think that
it's going to be important for us to
learn not ask because obviously we're
super world's and we'll totally get it
but for people to for people to
understand what it means to be racist
it's not just like shouting the n-word
and being overtly racist if he likes
Japan yeah exactly
it's these you know these sorts of
cultural concerns and things like that I
think you do a good job of covering that
but I just well I like that you know I
it feels like there needs to be another
word like a racism or something like
that so that so that when they say like
you calling me racist I'm not racing I
didn't call you racist sir I called you
a racist how's that different well
that's just like when you quietly
espouse racism so you're not the type of
person is going to go burn a cross on
the on someone's lawn I mean that's the
problem is that like the threshold the
racism does a racist really does cover
someone who would go and lynch someone
because they're black through making
these type of arguments and frankly you
know even I think on some level just
sort of like well you know live
some type of practice of white supremacy
you know it describes this whole you
know that's a that's a a wide range of
perspectives I'm not saying that any of
them are legitimate but it does cover a
wide range of perspectives and I think
the the polite racism is just as an
affair it well and it's quite as
nefarious but it obviously does get
people killed like it's only polite
oftentimes because they're savvy enough
to know that it's a dance that they're
doing it's not that they're you know
well they've convinced themselves that
it's that it's it's you know they
wouldn't say that they're racist I think
even though they would just say like
look I'm not racist I'm just looking at
the reality that we're better and I
think it would be helpful but we you
know it's not gonna happen obviously but
it would be helpful to have another term
that is like that can cover those people
so that we can communicate you're racist
but we will acknowledge that you also
are not burning a cross yeah I
understand you don't identify as a
racist however well I mean I just think
it could be fair to say like now I get a
I get to give you I got a I got to give
it up I've got to admit you're an on
cross-burning racist you're not a
cross-burning racist you know I mean if
there was a way of saying that sure I
mean we also need to work to identify
and expose the racism underlying these
attitudes right cuz like yeah in some
ways the alt light is maybe more
dangerous than hard right because
someone like Richard Spencer like an
out-and-proud white nationalist is never
going to be accepted in mainstream
circles but people who couch their
arguments and concerns about culture
like say Gavin McInnes
or Tucker Carlson are going to be given
bigger platforms and more people right
and just like you say all light instead
of all right
it's helpful to have a it would be it
would be helpful to have a but we don't
have it so we just have this let me ask
you one more thing do you think it would
be more useful I mean it's very it feels
very futile to even have this
conversation but to focus on sort of
like a licensing structure for guns then
rather than the type of guns because
they do hear certain right-wing
arguments about like you know Virginia
Tech the the shooter Virginia Tech was
using handguns yeah
and sometimes I think the left gets
bogged down in details that frankly the
the right is correct about that don't
really matter if I had one if I had one
if I couldn't go for the whole kit and
kaboodle I would I would do it like this
rather than putting you need to take you
need to take a test and you need to get
a license and there are thresholds in
the license and what you can wait you
can know so that one individual could
theoretically own it all but they would
have to be extremely well vetted do you
follow me like you and me right now like
you and I like we you know you can show
us look I can go to your home right I
mean if you're if you're if you get a
life insurance they come and they take
your blood they take your medical
records they give you an examination
well if I want to if you want to get a
license or to get a gun you also need a
certain amount of insurance let's say
you know maybe if we can we can in we
can incentivize people to make it a cash
business in this instance you to get to
get a certain license to carry let's say
you want a an ar-15 okay you need a
class-four license to qualify for class
four license you have to have a visit to
your home by an insurance company that
insurance company has to issue the
insurance they will determine you know
your gun safety protocols your training
etc etc
you know and right and and and do it
that way like that even even the waiting
times like at a fellow student in law
school who went and bought a Gannon and
committed suicide the same day and the
El Paso shooter seemed to indicate that
he was in a rush to do it because he was
afraid of losing his nerve and so you do
wonder you know waiting today what do we
just talk to about that with suicides
the the decisions made within the first
hour yeah Jonathon metal paint thanks
for taking my call cam thanks Ronnie
yeah I mean that was all that that if
you want to stop like those twenty
thirty thousand suicides annually by
guns you you make it harder for people
to have guns that quickly so if you've
already but you could do it this way
where like if you already have a
class-four license I'm making this up
and you're fully insured you you don't
have a waiting period you don't make it
per gun you make it per the person it's
just one potential suggestion I mean
personally for me I would just like no
handguns
no no semi automatics hunting stuff only
sport shooting if you want to shoot a
handgun got to be locked up at the range
boom that's it if you want you have the
range you can use it you can use a group
you can use a bazooka - gotta be locked
up at the range alright
call of the day ladies and gentlemen's
Colin from hey 602 area code who is this
where you calling from Ryan from New
Hampshire I don't know what device
you're talking on but you should try and
talk on it closer I mean I just wanted
to say I don't I hate the phrase common
sense gun control yeah I think it hates
anyone that disagrees with you but also
I feel like it does it give enough
factor how hard any kind of meaningful
gun control is going to be let me ask
you this Ryan does the term common-sense
gun control scare you more than the idea
of maybe sending your kid to school and
getting shot in a shooting there's gonna
be this easy legislation that's gonna
pass to fix everything well yeah no I
think you're I think you're wait wait
wait there's no point in you just
talking over there so that I can't hear
him
I mean if you have something to add at
it but talking to yourself over there if
you need to go go but I can't even hear
what he's saying
so what's your point that you think that
people think there's gonna be one
forgive the pun silver bullet actual
discussion well I
you're not you're not really telling me
anything I can't quite figure out what
you're saying the obstacles to to a
common-sense gun control and I think
common sense is a term that like if you
have 70% of the population agree
certain provisions I think that's a safe
way of saying common sense now like I
say it's not intensely held by them in
terms of how they vote and that's why I
don't think you see it but I'm not sure
like I'm not sure what you're saying I
mean she's just because something is
common sense to most people doesn't mean
that it's easy to put it into practice
politically those are two different
things I think there is a sense that if
we did just background checks that that
would be enough or something else that
that would be enough and I think what
happens is we keep we keep we keep
learning you know what how you you do
this and where the where the the
constraints are by the Supreme Court
firstly I think background checks will
accomplish almost nothing so I don't
know it just makes you feel like I don't
have common sense because I don't think
background checks would be effective
well you don't think background checks
would be effective wine sales tiny
percentage it's just waiting period
she's doing what is there a waiting
period state excuse me yeah okay so why
would we need background checks if we
already have them but I don't think you
wait right so who's calling for
background checks well people say
universal background checks do they want
to end private sale loopholes which is a
miniscule amount of gun sales right okay
so but that but that's not a bad thing
you just don't think it's sufficient we
need to do more well I mean it must
change it must change something I mean
this guy who bought the gun and in
Dayton Ohio bought it through a mail
order in Texas a dealer in Texas I mean
so it would have made it a little bit
harder for him maybe
and if you get it if you get a gun
through the mail you have to go to a
local federal license with PacSun
background check so he has a background
check okay all right well so crime in
closing the private sales loophole is
not sufficient but it but there's no
reason not to do it right okay okay so
it's unenforceable it's only going to
help maybe on the margins but there's no
reason not to do it right there may be
some reasons okay if I want to get my
kid I got a gun for Christmas and he
swore to you so I have to get my
background check okay here's the demo MA
I think part of that background check
should be you're older than 14 well did
you get it yeah I think you did of
course you can't go buy booze for your
fourteen-year-old kid
okay so we can buy a few dime but but
they're requirements on your dad are
that he's not somebody who has a record
of let's say domestic violence or he's
not a felon all right so let's say let's
say your dad's a felon let's say your
dad's a felon okay
just I'm just picking this out of the
air write something that would whatever
would prevent him from getting a gun on
a background check do you think that he
should not have to go through a
background check because you would give
him a gun oh my god well how do we know
that how do we know that how does
society know that he has broken the law
oh my god
Wow
I I don't understand what the problem is
here what's the problem with your dad
getting a background check if you give
him a gun for Christmas you send a okay
then what are you wasting my time for we
have spent ten minutes on this and
you're calling complaining because you
think that people are alienated for
comments because they say common sense
and you feel alienated I gotta tell you
Ryan you're the one who's alienating
because you're just being obtuse like
the you know what you know what the cost
to society is if you gotta get a
background check for your dad when he
gets a gun nothing if there is point one
percent value in it I'll do it
that's point in sense no people are
calling for universal background checks
we're going to spend all this political
capital have something that accomplishes
nothing all right I think there is value
in you saying that but the bottom line
is that's not how political capital
works the extent that that's the only
thing that they can go in on people
would be calling for a lot more but
they're trying to do the least amount
that is least offensive to people who
are sensitive about hearing things
called common sense gun laws people get
sensitive about hearing something that
people say is common sense and it's not
and they think they have a better idea
for the gun thing it that's you want to
talk about wasting political capital
you've just had twenty minutes or ten
minutes to talk about this and you've
achieved nothing
all you've said is I don't like their
strategy because I think that they're
going for the wrong thing but you
haven't even told me what they should go
for something that's actually gonna
change you know Masuda dozen general you
want to ban semi-automatic weapons like
no but what about what if I want to what
if I want to limit the number of
suicides in this country the 30,000
suicides by guns I mean yeah
right okay so we're getting somewhere I
agree with you I would go for a waiting
period but you know what if there's a
chance that you can get universal
background sales you're certainly gonna
be able to get a waiting period I just
don't think that you that your
assessment of the political landscape is
there we're not dealing this is not
going to be a marginal thing they're
either gonna pass something significant
or they're not it's not going to be
because that they they expended their
capital on background checks for private
the the loophole it's a small part of
any package it's a weird thing
yeah I think I think if we're talking I
appreciate the call Ryan but if you're
saying if you're worried about
expenditure of Pryor of political
capital on something that's not hugely
important don't spend your time focused
on something that's not hugely important
lead by example
she's all right folks we're out of time
great see you tomorrow in that sit goes
to get
no sir
I'm going
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
well the option where you don't get paid
rub
brakes off switch right
[Music]
no teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
