[Music]
this is a fascinating take I you know I
really wonder when normal people watch
this on Fox News Lake setting aside that
plenty of people on Fox must you know
who watch Fox actually I think do you
have pretty relatively a high incomes
this is just this flies in the face of
just everything I mean we know all of
the actual trends about wages have been
stagnant for 40 years the disconnect
between wages and productivity
skyrocketing corporate and shareholder
profits then we know that there was a
global meltdown caused by Wall Street
Wall Street was bailed out millions of
people lost their homes and their wealth
we know all of this but then even you
you feel it you know if you have a kid
you most mutant Lee experienced them
like oh by the by the time I was their
age I had a house blah blah blah blah
blah they can't afford any of these
things even if they're working full-time
that is the vast majority of the
experience for most including like
privileged people so you know it's one
thing to do the well there's there's two
moves there's you know the libertarian
fantasy world which is we just have to
keep going and make things worse and
worse and worse and then somehow it will
magically become better and now and then
there's the smart move which is the
tucker carlson Hawley move which is
let's let's let's start selling some and
Trump move let's start selling some fake
populism then there's the David Webb
move which is that if you're a worker we
are already living in that worker's
paradise I went through this released by
team Warren by Elizabeth Warren and read
it it reads like a pre-debate market in
peace of selling to a base she's rising
on Biden she needs that support from
SEIU and the other various unions she
highlights something in there that
actually says more about what's happened
in America that's good
you
35 now down to 10% in the country how
did that happen
the workplace has changed the fact is
that workers rights are codified in law
EEOC lots of protections across states
lots of protections in corporate policy
and yeah are there issues there always
will be issues but she can't fight
against the reality in the evolution of
the workplace in America not the work
environment so she has to do that in
cobble together I took one of the
paragraphs she highlighted I didn't have
time to look through for my copy of the
communist manifesto but it reads talks
about removing supervisory hierarchy in
the workplace so workers have more
control sound amazingly similar to Marx
and angles
this is cobbled-together pre-debate you
don't I love about these guys as they
say the comment like the communist
manifesto is not the piece where he
talks about his ideas about how it work
in fact there's very few Marx pieces
about how this would actually work
because capital is an economic and
history book and a critique communist
manifesto is like it's like a marketing
document I mean it's just hilarious also
what Elizabeth Warren has been talking
about which I think frankly is a lot
less interesting than the worker
cooperative model that Bernie's putting
forward unless Democratic but still
would be an improvement on the status
quo although workers would still get
over would still get outvoted in this
situation because they wouldn't have a
majority of seats but she she's talking
more of like a German model of like
things like board representation so I
look I guess if you think the way like
you know BMW is organized in North
Germany is the Communist Manifesto but
then again maybe does because David Webb
is a well that's what's so clarifying
about this Hong Kong stuff which is like
even not even get into the politics of
what's going on between China and Hong
Kong you look at what's happening here
between a blizzard yesterday blizzard
employees walked out of work yesterday
over the company's decision to ban a pro
Hong Kong professional hearthstone
player right the only the reason for
management is not freedom it's for
authoritarian discipline by the capital
so they can make you do what they want
you to do so like Daryl more and that's
the thing with I mean we're kind of
getting on China a little bit early but
what good is the money if you can't say
what you want to say about stuff like
that's like what's it for at a certain
point precisely and you have like Adam
silver trying to like figure out how to
you know walk both those things but yeah
I don't know like that's what the the
management is there for authoritarian
discipline not freedom I mean clearly I
mean look you know the greatest lesson
in this micro example of the MBA and
Blizzard and you know look I mean
there's literally tens of millions of
examples of this I guess even just going
back to if you wanted to Chile in 1973
but like capitalism does not bring
democracy that is just endlessly opposed
they are ant they're opposed and you
know and and the idea by the way that
people are so enthusiastic about
eliminating democracy in the workplace
would somehow be ultra enthusiastic
about it in the Civic sphere when they
think that a basically everything should
be run privately be there should be no
democracy in workplace see like how is
that kind of graft onto some type of a
broader democratic view it's delusional
yeah who's making capitalism is
anti-democracy who's making history
who's making the decisions is it a
democratic body of workers or the are
the common people or is it a capitalist
that's that's all it is to it
precisely precisely
