[Music]
all right but let's go to to this HUD
stuff yesterday Ben Carson was in front
of Congress and the House Oversight was
it the house however site committee that
Ben Carson was in quite sure but it was
a HUD hearing and Ben Carson is up there
and this is a following a the publishing
of a proposal on Friday of last week
right now if you if you are a child and
you are an American citizen you are
eligible if you meet the financial
requirements for subsidized housing and
your family can join you in that
subsidized housing however the way that
the subsidy is calculated is based upon
only those members of your family who
are American citizens so if you are born
here in this country maybe your parents
came here on on a some type of visa
you're born here you're an American
citizen their visa expires they stay
here they're not an American citizen or
their visas their visa is expired or
maybe they came in through the border it
doesn't matter the policy has been if
you are an American citizen you cannot
afford housing that housing can be
subsidized however if it's a two-bedroom
apartment and
the price-cost I don't know $800 let's
say and they will subsidize it prorated
based upon how many American citizens
are living in that apartment so they may
only give you there's four of you in
there it may only give you $200 if
there's only one American citizen but as
long as there's one they will give you
that $200 this new proposal would
prohibit families in which at least one
member is undocumented from obtaining
subsidized housing so you could be that
there are three of you who live in that
apartment who are citizens and your
grandmother you brought in from another
country or there was one child who
stayed behind who was not an American
citizen or one one mother or the father
huh tis only subsidizing the American
citizens in that apartment
but now HUD is apparently going to
prevent the entire family from being in
there or of not allowing anybody else in
there except for an American citizen HUD
assumes that most mix households will
leave the HUD assisted housing as a
result of this rule according to this
analysis by HUD because of the fear that
the family being separated would lead to
prompt uh you know would lead to people
leaving the humps now here's the thing
about this you've got ben carson is
grilling i mean excuse me is justifying
this by saying it's common sense to just
have American citizens in there but what
makes us even worse Ben Carson's up
they're calling for 15% 16% reduction in
HUDs budget this will increase the
expense for HUD because now they will
subsidize every member of that apartment
it will not be
prease the amount of people who are
unable to afford decent housing because
you're gonna put four different people
in there and you're gonna kick four
other people out
you're gonna increase the homelessness
amongst children fifty five thousand
children are anticipated by HUDs own
analysis to be impacted by this fifty
five thousand children so it does not in
any way help the affordable housing
crisis that we have in this country it
cuts into HUDs budget which he wants to
shrink anyways which means that they're
going to take the money because they're
not gonna get new money to deal with
this greater expense they're gonna take
it away from the upkeep of these places
and the upkeep of other housing that HUD
sponsors it's gonna cost HUD at least uh
almost two hundred million dollars more
their own analysis says it would
exacerbate homelessness and there's an
anticipation that it's going to cost the
agency money in rent because
undocumented families with undocumented
immigrants living in there pay their
rent more reliably because they are
afraid of the scrutiny right this is why
undocumented are not going on mas to
vote in local elections or any elections
because they're afraid so
here is Ben Carson on the hill and this
guy knows apparently we played this
yesterday about the the Katey Porter
exchange where he didn't know what a an
REO was a real estate owned which is a
term about basically when an agency or a
Bank takes over in a foreclosure because
they can't they can't resolve it for the
homeowner here he is talking to
represent of Sylvia Garcia why HUD is
looking to make children of immigrants
homeless so you're going to she have
fifty five thousand children from being
with their families to them to a
homeless status status what's gonna
happen with these children have you
thought this program through well maybe
what will happen with them is that you
and Congress would be a job and solve
the problem there you go
the the problem was solved will not
solve but slightly mitigated because of
at least theoretically what HUD is
supposed to do but this has been a
policy that one meeting only policy that
was the slight dent in the problem I
mean that that's just such a moral
sophistry yeah yeah now this is all
again part of a broader program to
attack immigrants in this country and
we'll get back to that in a moment
because there's a horrible story about
about immigrants who are being put in
solitary confinement in at least half of
the occasions for no reason at all or
really horribly despicable reasons and
this is more of a problem with the
agency of ice than it is necessarily
just the Trump Trump administration and
we'll talk about that in a moment but we
have more to say about about Ben
Carson's tenure at HUD and the pathetic
nature of it so yesterday ben Carson and
this is also a failure of media and I
saw a very good tweet about this Ben
Carson it's not just that he got
humiliated by a Katey Porter yesterday
when he didn't know what a a real
they'd owned or what that term meant in
the context of a foreclosure and in the
disparity between the number of
foreclosures under FHA auspices versus
Fannie or Freddie Mae Fannie Fannie Mae
or Freddie Mac and to make light of it
the fact that Ben Carson thought that
real estate owned that Katie Porter was
saying Orio he put out a funny tweet his
agency did here's a picture of him
holding a bag of Oreos to make the joke
of like at the end of the day and here
he is he's sending a package of Oreos
family size to representative Porter see
I don't have any hard feelings about the
fact that I had no idea about what a
major component of my of my agency does
talk about the banality of evil yes
well what's even more problematic is
that that he did this got more write-up
than the actual issue itself because
reporters to go in and look at like why
is it that the FHA is basically
executing more foreclosures than then
Fannie and Freddie and I think this is
on a per capita basis and Katie Porter
made the point after ben carson
humiliated himself that this is also
leading to a lot of urban blight because
when you have a foreclosed home that is
owned by a bank or an agency in this
instance they are not keeping they're
not mowing the lawn they're not keeping
vandals out they're not I mean when you
don't live in a house
even for like a couple of months things
start falling apart on their own the
general upkeep things like water and an
H HVAC stuff if these aren't used on a
regular basis it becomes problematic
it's like if you let your car sit for
too long the brakes start to rust out I
mean this is what houses need to be
lived in and when they're not they start
to fall apart and when they start to
fall apart and you start to get this
type of blight you start to hurt the
entire neighborhood
you mentioned that real estate
speculators can come in and make money
on blighted areas well sometimes
sometimes it's just they sit there in
blight no most of the time it's like the
girl with tattoos said it turns into
good things for speculators that's but
that's actually not the case okay
there's a lot of times where that blight
just exists for years and years and
years and people get trapped in these
neighborhoods and they can't sell their
their homes because nobody wants to move
in to that area because there's so much
blight it breeds crime and obviously
other problems and not to mention the
people who get foreclosed upon they lose
their homes so Ben Carson went on a
little bit of a tour on the right - I
guess in some way relieve the
embarrassment who better to rub salt on
that embarrassment than Stuart Varney
yes it was first of all it was it was
three and a half hours of testimony so
you can see that some of the network's
are only interested and those kinds of
sound bites I'm used to ridicule you
know the fact of the matter is I was
having difficulty hearing her yeah and
of course I'm very familiar with
foreclosed properties and with Aereo's
have read extensively about them
them even as a teenager there was a lot
of blighted areas Hans it pause it for
one second he didn't just say oreo when
she said that she said no our eeo do you
know what that stands for and he said
real estate organizations it had been
going on for three hours and maybe some
of us are human beings and don't spend
all of our lives looking at Social
Security and Medicare updates that's
called a subtweet or some of us may not
even spend our lives digging into any of
the literature about the agency that
we're running for the US government
continue Troy where I grew up but what
is interesting is that you know we when
a family gets into a problem with their
mortgage and it's backed by our agency
we go through a lot of procedures with
the banks to make sure that they don't
get foreclosed upon in a few cases where
they do obviously were able to sell
those properties very quickly and the
the REO portfolio just over the last 10
years has dramatically decreased by
tenfold
you know $65,000 sixty five hundred
positive what happened ten years ago ten
years ago was 2009 there was we had the
greatest crash in the value of real
estate perhaps perhaps in the history of
the country would you like to know it
really and so the number of foreclosed
homes there obviously now of course it's
dropped ten years because those homes at
one point they go away it runs out the
number of foreclosures that are
happening there but the bottom line is
the FHA the agency that he oversees as
Secretary of HUD is having more
foreclosures continues to have far more
foreclosures she stated to him after
that moment that exchange that there is
a massive study that shows
the FHA is responsible in many respects
for an enormous amount of blight
he is lying lying to steward Bernie you
know $65,000 sixty five hundred so I
suspect when Katie Porter was an expert
in this area things were very different
that's why I invited her to speak with
our staff that deals with these so they
can bring her up to date maybe she would
then be able to understand what's going
on I think they would just have an eye
gouge yeah got what you call a maker uh
so I was Katie what she did was she she
was at university years ago and now she
doesn't know what she thinks she knows
well one of us doesn't know what's going
on I think I know who I think y'all know
who it is
I didn't want to be rude it was
embarrassing to watch her throw these
terms around they're out of date and now
you have the smug guy whose ass is on
YouTube just talking all sorts of verbal
nonsense meanwhile the economy collapse
because there was a lack of Prayer
you
