[Music]
all right let's do one more serious
thing then we'll have a little fun we
have I want to get to sound 9 this is
from euronews this is Turkish jets
beginning a couple of hours ago the
Turks have conducted have begun
conducting operations in northern Syria
against Kurdish SDF positions they I
believe they're calling this operation
spring of peace
adding to the grotesque cynicism of this
it's been reported that a couple of
weeks ago the United States actually
pressured the Kurdish forces to drop
their border positions with renewed
reassurances that they would not pull
out precipitously so as to protect
Kurdish positions now I've talked about
this a lot on my show I have a piece
called the just the annihilation of
rojava which I co-wrote with Gene Basel
on in the Jacobin and you know a lot of
these things are old arguments I think
if you have a you know III think that
both the Kurds because they actually
have had a successful and dynamic
political experiment deserve our
solidarity and support I also a hundred
percent and I think a left president
would sit with the Kurds and say
obviously this situation isn't long-term
and durable what is the alternative what
is stakeholders needs to be brought to
the table Assad even as he is absolutely
a war criminal and I think frankly has
an interest I'm not sure what the
response of the Assad government is on
one hand they are the enemies of air to
once Turkey on the other hand they've
tried since the 60s in varying degrees
to remake the ethnic makeup of this part
of Syria and DeCurtis I it
so there does need to be a negotiation
there does need to be a recalibration as
part of a broader u.s. effort to unwind
Empire and unwind US presence in the
Middle East but to support a precipitous
pullout like this whose only main upshot
is the acceleration of ethnic cleansing
and the war crimes of the Turks playing
their own regional hegemonic games and
the context of a people whose rights
they systemically violate air21 and the
beginning of his terms tried to make
overtures to the Kurds because his
political coalition was different
post-2015 he's reverting to type as an
authoritarian a classically Turkish
leader and that includes a complete
gutting of the Kurds so this has a much
to do with domestic Turkish politics as
anything else but when you pull out like
this all you were doing is aiding in
ethnic cleansing we already saw this in
2018 and Efrain when the russians sold
the kurds out the same thing happened
now there's more kurdish forces here a
freeman was more isolated and there
could be literally I mean basically
street combat they will resist and
there'll be an enormous death toll and
again in the same way that I would like
to see a Russian presence in Venezuela
blocking us regime change efforts there
I want in this specific historical
moment but the United States did not
pull out precipitously because that is
gonna cause an infinitely greater harm
an infinitely greater harm and in
addition to the grotesque sellout of a
group of people who will face ethnic
cleansing and a fought effectively
against Isis if again if you have a left
perspective this is the only space right
now besides the HDP which are a great
social democratic kurdish rights party
guess what all their leaders are
political prisoners in Turkey right now
and now the YPG forces the SDF are
presenting an alternative not just for
the people in their region but really
across not only the broader Middle East
but in fact globally selling it out is
disgusting it's grotesque and not in the
project of the wider winddown
of us Empire and I hope by the way just
as I would not judge the Kurds for
making alliance of convenience in the
United States I hope they can make an
alliance of convenience with the Assad
government that's how politics works you
you deal with people have blood on their
hands all the time but this is something
an experiment and a people that deserve
our full support and solidarity in my
view word I was watching David Graeber
talk about it on no farm media last
night and he had a really good
description of the what they've all that
they've accomplished there which is
actually incredibly impressive I mean
nobody has held a territory like that
for any kind of time for a socialist
experiment as we're calling it since
some Spanish Civil War and it's in this
day and age it's incredibly impressive
and I have no patience for the dum-dum
anti-imperialists some of whom are
Marxist Leninist not all who say oh well
we can't make exceptions to US
imperialism just to support your
favorite Revolution when in fact if it
were a more traditional Leninist
indigenous liberation struggle like as I
understand it that's what it started as
they would probably be all about it so
no the PKK definitely has changed its
political character significantly but
that's also dead to see that's such a
dumb frame though that they're making
because we are not look if somebody said
there are no US forces in Syria there is
this autonomous region and the Turks are
going to do this and the United States
should move in to create a humanitarian
umbrella today that none exists that has
a completely different conversation
that is a completely different mode of
analysis you're talking about an
imperial engagement from the United
States that has already existed for
several years primarily the damage has
been from airstrikes in the war against
Isis that has killed thousands of
civilians in other parts of the country
and probably in that part of the country
as well and you're talking about a
residual force and residual coordination
that already exists to prevent a
infinitely greater evil than the mere
presence of US troops so even that frame
that they're giving it is that's
thought-experiment the real reality
is that they're there now and the state
of their being there prevents ethnic
cleansing we're not talking about a
future projection we're not talking
about an extra engagement we're not
talking about a preventative war those
are very different questions and they're
much more challenging questions we're
saying that of all of the horrific
obscenities that have been perpetuated
in Syria by every single actor there
Assad Russia the United States Saudi
turkey hitter on that one good upshot is
a successful socialist experiment that
in a historical irony has a security
umbrella from the United States because
they've been incredibly effective
fighters against this obscene Isis cult
which everybody I think agrees is
disgusting they are at least that's a
totally I mean dare yes I mean there are
cult they're fascists they're Muslim
Khmer Rouge whatever you want to say
their genocide Allah I mean in in a
proper use of that word and so you are
simply saying of all of the pieces to
dismantle of us Empire in a broader
strategic recalibration you're gonna
leave a thousand people in one of the
only parts of the world where the prayer
the presence is de facto positive given
the relative other options I'm sorry I
I just don't have time just as with
neo-cons and just as with warmongers i
just don't have time for people's
fantasy lives when it's real like
that you know especially again when it's
people really worthy of a lot of support
no I totally agree I also just want to
mention that there are numerous
demonstrations being organized in
solidarity with our comrades in rojava
there's one happening in about 15
minutes from now actually outside the
offices of Chuck Schumer and I'm Kristen
Gillibrand I mean for what it's worth
and you know look ride the the relative
wave that Congress is like uniformly
opposed to this and they're working on a
sanctions package right now I mean
people are gonna be demonstrating
outside of Turkish embassies all over
the place as well so call your reps
demonstrate have solidarity um let's
