[Music]
meanwhile Donald Trump was in Texas and
was continuing his and there you know
it's starting to get a little bit scary
in terms of wealth it's continuing to be
a little bit scary there seems to have
been a major consolidation by Donald
Trump in terms of executing their Rove
Antipas am I saying that right
anti-immigrant no Matt revanchist
revanchist anti-immigration policies and
demonizing those immigrants here's
Donald Trump at in Texas I guess it was
a roundtable presumably and near the
border where Trump is now lamenting that
we have Posse Comitatus in this country
essentially here it is
I'm gonna have to call up more military
but our military don't forget kids act
like a military would act because if
they had a little rough everybody would
go crazy so our military can't act like
they would normally act or like let's
say another military from another
country with it uh he is upset that our
military can't rough up immigrants what
other militaries are doing that on the
border on their borders I mean any ones
that we want to emulate particularly I
can't imagine I also wonder how that
would happen like are we going to send
our military now into Mexico to rough up
immigrants it's just an incursion folks
are we gonna have the military despite
the Posse Comitatus Act of what was that
like 17 18 I don't know I guess it was
post post-civil war 1880 1870 are we
going to rescind the Posse Comitatus Act
and allow our military to rough up
immigrants who come in and look for
refugee status that'll teach him just a
stupid law Posse Comitatus Hakuna Matata
posse couldn't Matata folks and it's a
big threat to security you can't have a
country can't have a country got pasta
impossible tamas kassey kupatana city it
really does feel like Stephen Miller is
now his chief adviser it's not a country
he's teaching those janitors and from
high school it's pretty stunning
meanwhile Donald reminds me of Barry a
way of who
well not the pol but they're just the
the KGB head under Stalin Baria who like
in addition to all of the crimes he
committed politically
was found to basically personally be a
serial killer anyways right just that's
my side job I try and the personal I try
and make the personal political grace
like I embodied the Chen's I seek in the
world here's Donald Trump also in Texas
claiming that the Paris Accords which
are woefully one size not up to the task
of dealing with the climate crisis that
we are facing but a a decent first step
that the Trump administration has pulled
out of here is claiming that the Paris
climate Accord meant no more drilling
for oil and gas we were just going to
stop it it's weird because climate the
Paris Accord still exists there's a lot
of countries signed on to it we had
signed on to it we were drilling more
than we ever had been when when Obama
signed that Accord and he wants to open
up Anwar which is a you know it's been a
long time issue in this country which is
a part of Alaska that is basically a
major reserve it's unclear to me whether
oil companies actually even are terribly
desperate to get in there or whether
there's any oil but the wants to open it
up because it's just one of those so
signifiers for the right here is at that
same or I guess it's still in Texas in
40 years we finally opened Anwar in
Alaska I don't know if you like that
yeah you like
like little competition we got to give
them George we have to give him a little
competition here right but that was
something you had heard of you know that
they've been trying to get that approved
since Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan tried
it they all tried to get any work done
and I had it at a plan I was supposed to
getting it done then I didn't like
somebody or something that somebody did
I said let's take it out of the plan why
should we do it then a friend of mine
who's in the oil business called
unrelated didn't have anything to do
with is it true that you're gonna get an
award I said yeah I can get it I don't
know I think I'm not going to though
they don't appreciate it they don't
appreciate it at all he said oh that's
too bad because you know everybody from
Ronald Reagan all the way up to you
couldn't get it done
I said really oh I called up put that
back in the plan that was just a
competitive thing right put it back
wait you don't think these shoes look
good on me
okay let's lock up every immigrant in
the country like how insane has things
gotten what that is actually you know
whatever obviously most of it was
ridiculous with Omarosa but I remember I
don't remember where this clip was but
it might have even been on that reality
show she was on the so ludicrous things
are but she was saying like she was
expressing a lot of anxiety and you know
sure she's a sociopath but whatever it's
her intentions are secondary but she was
saying like this terrorism of immigrants
it's like he's about breaking records
like that's it that's all he cares about
so if that means a record number of
families destroyed that's a record
obviously the same mentality I'm not I'm
kind of curious like who the people who
almost saved Anwar for us by not being
stroking enough of trumps right oh hey
Davis major piece of ecology because
they didn't say that like Ivanka was hot
or something right they didn't stay at
the Trump Tower they didn't stay at the
Trump Hotel in DC I heard they went to
I heard they went to the Hilton so I was
like forget it they went to the Hilton
then all of a sudden I'm feeling like
John Murr sorry
heard it before records all over the
place and that will continue and then
some because of what we did
