[Music]
there is a OC after having toured these
facilities these border concentration
camps in June and she is at the house
Department of Homeland Security hearings
is that what it is and I think she's
there testifying not necessarily a
member of the committee because they had
been on the trip and here she is much
has been made about the fact that we
have said that this is a manufactured
crisis and in many ways it is
manufactured and that it is wholly
unnecessary it is unnecessary to
separate children from their families it
is unnecessary to have a policy to
detain innocent women and families that
have harmed no person and are legally
seeking asylum in the United States of
America it is unnecessary to have a
policy that calls children unaccompanied
when they arrive with older brothers
sisters and grandparents and treat them
no differently than human traffickers
and in speaking of trafficking it is
completely unnecessary for this
administration to choose to implement
policies like metering and so-called
remain in Mexico policies that dump
innocent people in dangerous territories
that puts them right in the crosshairs
of human traffickers right for picking
this is a manufactured crisis because
cruelty because the cruelty is
manufactured this is a manufactured
crisis because there is no need for us
to do this when I and when we took our
tour of the border one of the first
things that we were told was that we
were not allowed to speak to the
migrants that we were not allowed to
have contact with them that we shouldn't
and this was given for reasons of quote
their safety or reasons for or for the
expediency of the tour we went in and
one of
officers attempted to sneak a photograph
photograph of myself and other of and
other congressional members and at that
point we asked to enter one of the cells
we're allowed to speak to the women and
these are the women that we spoke to
it's their handwriting and while we are
being asked to speak only to officers we
are not getting the accounts of migrants
of their treatment of what they are
experiencing and so when these women
tell me that they were put into a cell
and that their sink was not working and
we tempted to think ourselves and the
sink was not working and they were told
to drink out of a toilet bowl I believed
them I believed these women I believed
the canker sores that I saw in their
mouths because they were only allowed to
be fed on nutritious food I believed
them when they said they were sleeping
on concrete floors for two months I
believed them and what was worst about
this mr. chairman was the fact that
there were American flags hanging all
over these facilities that children
being separated from their parents in
front of an American flag that women
were being called these names under an
American flag it's it's stunning to
watch these these videos and to hear
these stories and to know that this is
official policy and that half the
country maybe a little more maybe a
little less at least does not care
certainly a significant percentage of
the country has figured out a way to say
this is the right thing we're doing the
right thing here like I mean are there
vast swaths of people who can actually
point to a single thing that has
materially that that immigrants have
materially impacted their lives for the
worst
a single thing and you're willing to put
people in cages for for what it's just
insane it's insanity
it really is insanity and you know like
I said earlier like I don't know how to
articulate this without it sounding like
you know sort of like it arm's length
but it's it I I just wonder like at what
point do we cross the cross a threshold
where we see images or become aware of
what's going on you know because I feel
like I said this like a year ago but you
know this is not this is not obviously
this is not the Holocaust but if you
were going to do another mass extinction
or I should say extermination of people
this is one of the ways that you would
go about doing it this would be one of
the early steps now there's a lot of
different branches you can head off from
this point but you certainly can't get
to there without going through what
we're going through now yeah the
concentration camps didn't start
explicitly as death camps no and I don't
know I mean like what you know at what
point just you know just step back and
think about where we have gone from here
we knew that there were these facilities
jeff merkley was outside of one of them
wasn't allowed to go in then got in got
a little peak maybe well what's the big
deal oh they're in cages that's horrible
but then what's the big deal
oh there are people dying in there but
not many Oh
they're in cages and they're not being
fed very well or they're covered with
lice or they're not allowed to shower
but what's the big deal they're they
have to drink out of some toilets well
now it's not their fault because you
know we'd lead they were designed for
these things I don't I mean at what
point that you know one of the things
that you know as a kid going to Hebrew
school all of it was about not all of it
but when I was seven eight nine ten we
were only thirty years out thirty years
out from the the Holocaust we are more
than thirty years out from when I was
seven or eight nine ten I can tell you
that and we spent a lot of time as kids
probably more than we probably should
have frankly but I think there was an
awareness that like you know these
concentration camp survivors some of
them where our Hebrew teachers are gonna
die off and there's not gonna be any
first-hand recollection and so you
better make sure that next generation
has an awareness of it obviously
different people took different things
from from that understanding of that
generation that went through it but I
just remember you know with questions
with everybody how was like you know how
do how do people around there let this
happen how do people like whether they
were in Germany or whether or in Poland
or other countries around there like
they knew the cancer there how do they
how did they sort of like pretend like
they didn't know what was going on how
do they allow that to happen in the
run-up now obviously it's not completely
analogous but there's weird the you know
this weird dynamic where you start to
see these pictures that come out of
there
and I don't think that I don't think
that we have the that we're in a country
that is going to begin to exterminate
people like this but at what point do we
say like oh you know what the systemic
killing of people that we have rounded
up is not the threshold where we engage
like we're supposed to be a country that
is you know whatever American
exceptionalism like where is the
threshold where we engage like what
would it be what if people are kept in
there for 50 days a hundred days 200
days like what's the day what's the date
where we say hey there's something that
is so wrong that we need to break the
law to stop it
how many people have to die how many
kids have to be separated what are the
illnesses that need to go on there it's
not enough like chicken pox it's not
enough like you know lice and fast
stations what is the threshold where
it's I mean I it should have happened
already I don't know I really don't know
but I don't I don't know what like you
know what's the threshold of you know to
action or what I I mean I I don't I I
don't know what it is I really don't but
there's this like sort of creepy ass
feeling that when you start to see these
images you see these you see Mike Pence
go and just look over the pen as to oh
here the specimens we've assembled in
this cage and what happens when one of
them gets a little bit rowdy oh the guy
on the platform pulls him out we pull
them out I don't know where they send
them where I mean what where do they put
them where do they put those people
they've got 380 I think at that pen 380
he said in another pen
where's the extra space where they put
the rowdy ones where do they put the
rowdy ones when they pulled them out
they have been using solitary
confinement on a lot of people
they're not they're not appreciative
we're giving you a cement floor
to sleep on the only way you can get out
of that cage full of people and your
cement floor with the aluminum blunt
your tin foil blanket is to be rowdy
yeah and I wonder where that gets you
I mean what is what is supposed to
separate us has a well what is the
unique element of our country I mean
it's I also really want to make the
point that the images we're seeing right
now are incredibly shocking and I'm glad
that a lot of people are waking up to it
for the first time but this has been
building for a long time right the
infrastructure for a lot of the stuff
was laid during the Clinton
administration it was continued under
Obama and it is certainly accelerating
but the best way to get involved because
everyone wants to know how they can get
involved in there definitely ways the
best way to get involved is to get
involved in long term immigrant justice
organizing and there are people who've
been doing this work for a very long
time and welcoming the increased
attention and I think that everyone else
needs to follow their lead
and and and I think a lot of people are
going to be looking to the left for
answers now and it seems like a good
chance to draw out the connections in a
very explicit way between the tech
sector capitalist accumulation
militarized borders and state violence
against human beings
besides race is aria our AIC yes do you
have any other groups you want to plug I
got a look back at the thread but
certainly my friends in the DSA
immigrant justice working group have
been doing some really admirable work
I'm about to raise some funds for otro
lado I believe which is a organization
that helps migrants in Tijuana and I'm
gonna post a whole lot more really soon
