folks I just want to make sure that you
get this warning about the oncoming race
war I'm just going to assume that
everybody around here is white so that
know that this warning is for white
people only
let's outsource some of this warning
from Tucker Carlson he he's the one who
tipped me off about it I'm speaking
quietly because we should have the
element of surprise
well the press has taken only two
lessons from the persecution of Brett
Kavanaugh not a sophisticated group the
first lesson is he is guilty no matter
how little evidence exists against him
and second and this is a lesson they
learned a long time ago what I've been
telling us a lot about for years
certain people are inherently bad
because of their race and gender and if
you don't believe us listen to the
selection a panel of eleven white male
Republicans opted to have a female
shield protect them Simone was the
patriarchy a white male privilege on
display white men need to stop passing
judgment on sexual assault victims if
you have a group of eleven white men
sitting there on the Republican side you
have to ask do they get it does Dave
gergan get it open question Joy Behar
gets it she went on the view and went
further if you don't support further
investigation of Cavanaugh which seems
like kind of a non-racial question then
somehow you want to institute a party
the people on the Republican side it
looks like to me do not want to
investigate this any further they just
want to hold on to their power they know
that this country is getting darker so
it's almost like they they're worried
that all white people are going to lose
all their power pretty soon we'll be
like South Africa apartheid where 10
percent of white people we're running
the country I'm not advocating for
anyone's firing but I know a lot of
people in television who've been fired
for saying way less than that I hope
that joy Behar's not canned by ABC but
it's just kind of amazing that if you're
Joy Behar you can save literally
anything on your network and nobody does
anything
no advertiser boycott looming in her
future it's unbelievable Senator Lindsey
Graham the new and improved version I
paused for one second I should just say
that I didn't even think that she was
well I mean what she was saying was sort
of just a demographic trends in this
country now for the first time ever the
number of of that under the age of 10
white people are now a I shouldn't say
they're a minority but the the majority
of children under 10 are kids of color
so so you know what happens is you
should get next year it'll be the
majority of children under the age of 11
unless some trend changes then it'll be
12
then it'll be 13 14 15 16 so you see the
way this goes through history all right
and if you still have this dynamic that
the Republican Party at least seems to
be completely untouched by then we could
very well have a dynamic in this country
where we have small percentage of white
people who are running the country
despite the fact that they are not
reflective of the rest of the country
Senator Lindsey Graham the new and
improved version introduced yesterday
responded to this madness today watch
Senator Graham thank you I know I'm a
single white male from South Carolina
and I've told I should shut up but I
will not shut up if that's okay angle
voices there you go exactly yeah the
point being there obviously I mean I
think this goes without saying but the
point that people try to make when they
say 11 white guys is that none of those
guys belong to a class in which they
would have experienced systemic
degradation of their value in society
and now Lindsey might there may be
aspects of Lindsey's life that he
doesn't share publicly I wonder why that
might be
I mean so Lindsay might at least be more
aware of that dynamic and how it works
in society you would think there would
be value in that for him to use that now
maybe he's just a bachelor he hasn't
just found the right woman to settle
down with or maybe the fact that he goes
around with and it's an open secret in
Washington maybe he would understand
that like what why why can't you be
public about that and the fact of the
matter is is that 11 white guys are
gonna have a lot less ability to be
aware of the dynamic that's going on
here which is Brett Kavanaugh getting
completely indignant that his trajectory
to great manhood would be in any way
altered by okay whatever I did as a 17
year old to that girl but that's like I
mean you know this is this is an extreme
this is sort of an extreme version of
this but you know you walk down the
street you don't alter your your path
because there's an ant on the ground
either walk on it or you don't but you
don't change the direction you're going
but if there's another person there you
do if there's something that's even
bigger you might a little bit but not
significantly and I think in Brett
Cavanaugh's world that's the dynamic
that's at play here
now it's different if it's my aunt it's
my pet and I might act a little
differently but if it's not mine I'll
just walk and that's it let's go to
Tucker Carlson again Tucker Carlson
really wanting to make some hay over the
fact that there are people in fact
Tucker Carlson is almost as indignant
as Brett Kavanaugh is and for the same
reasons which is you can't tell me that
in some way my being a white guy the
other one the other one my being a white
guy somehow is a liability in any
situation that is offensive and frankly
to me that's the equivalent of a race
war but tell me is a logical matter what
the hell does race have to do with this
case oposite we should say he's talking
to a woman who is an attorney her name
is Harmeet Dillon she is a civil rights
attorney one of her more well-known
clients was James d'amour
he was the one who got fired from Google
because he was talking about how women
there are just inferior broadly speaking
here she is you know letting us know
about the oncoming race more race have
to do with this case it has nothing to
do with it Tucker but I mean I think a
couple of things going on here number
one what we're seeing is a phenomenon
that's been happening in America over
the last few years and it has become
fashionable now to be beat up on white
men and whites more generally because we
have this culture of spoils where we are
being told that you are entitled to
certain things in society and certain
jobs in certain places in California we
have a law now that you're entitled to
board membership on corporate corporate
deposit I mean the idea that we don't
have a culture that it tells people
they're entitled to something is absurd
of course we have that culture now she's
saying she's actually going so far as to
say like we have a culture now where
women and black people and Latino people
are you know told that they have a right
to something now
this has been the case in this country
for its entirety that white men are born
with that that privilege
it's almost absurd to suggest otherwise
but the assault on that privilege
feels like oppression to them and their
attorneys California we have a law now
that you're entitled a board membership
on corporate corporate boards if you're
a woman and so that's part of our
cultural shift and you know I just want
to clarify something about that
California law you need more
qualifications than just being woman so
every woman born in California or moved
California I want to make this clear if
you're thinking about moving to
California cos I want to sit on a
corporate board and you're a woman you
will not get a job on a corporate board
just because you're you're a woman
they're just simply saying we want some
diversity now there goes my plan to fund
the Rev there you go see that's why I
said that as a public service and you
should know in California I don't know
how many millions of people in
California what is it I mean how many
how many tens of millions of people one
that gets like 60 yeah okay
well see we're talking maybe
approximately thirty million women only
thirteen Wow just shy of 40 million okay
so we're talking closer to only about
twenty million women and that's a lot of
board seats I'll just make the boards is
there an age cap no but here's the
problem and here's the issue that she
has very hard to find
how do those 20 million women women who
are qualified to sit on boards that's
why this is a problem ultralift and you
know like you I was taught certainly
from my faith as well as my parents of
my upbringing that we don't judge people
according to what they look like or how
they were born we only look at people
according to their merit and we treat
everybody equally and that's an
unfashionable concept now so
unfortunately you know if you believe in
hate speech what you heard yesterday
would be the most vicious type of hate
speech and not just from the senators on
the Dyess but from every Democrat group
and all the talking points it was all
hateful towards people like judge
Kavanaugh which is kind of silly as you
pointed out because both he and his
accuser from the same class in the same
race I'm saying I mean it's literally
that it would be weirder are you worried
that if dumb people like David Gergen or
all the rest had seen and keep up with
the race hatred that that will actually
encourage some kind of conflict you've
seen this in a lot of different
countries we really don't want it here
but could we get there if they don't
occur oh my gosh so I'm you know
Berkeley campus across the street where
I'm one second so one Tucker is afraid
of the oncoming race war and he's
corrected by this attorney it already
exists you ready for this folks listen I
hate to be the bearer of bad news but
apparently we have white no-go places in
this country oh my gosh so I'm you know
Berkeley campus across the street where
I'm you know helping with litigation
over there there are you know places
where whites are not supposed to go I
mean that is apartheid it's apartheid on
our college campuses it's outrageous but
you know at a higher level stepping back
from the cultural disintegration hold on
for one second is Tucker Carlson aware
that Tucker Carlson just moments earlier
on a show said that the idea of of
someone saying that there's apartheid in
this country in years to come
is so offensive that they should get
kicked off is he aware that his guests
just said that there's apartheid now
against white people on the Berkeley
campus they're different Berkeley that
I'm aware of is though we talking about
a different Berkeley the no-go places
for white people the apartheid good from
the cultural disintegration of this
phenomenon the Democrats are seizing on
any kind of club that they have handy so
and you've got a white man in front of
you let's beat up on him for being a
white man if it's yeah I mean maybe
you're right I mean maybe it works short
term but it seems like the long term
cost is potentially just way more than
we'd ever want very corrosive I'm so
glad that the Tucker is very measuredly
concerned about the oncoming race we're
just want to give you folks a heads up
so prepare for that now and or to ground
zero Berkeley there you go it's gonna
start west like a lot of things
skateboarding happen that way too if I
remember correctly
everybody was skateboarding out in
California and then all of a sudden is
here so just be aware of it and tune in
tomorrow when we're selling ready-made
meals
