Oh should we also quit before we really
start getting into it that what's up I'm
starting a campaign called hashtag boot
Boris so we played on the show a couple
days ago and I was Boris Epps Dinah
Sinclair broadcasting it has been
sending must run segments of Boris
Epstein who we like to make fun of here
for being terrible his job and a
basically fascist propaganda yeah that
person fascist and so he did a segment
or two defending the the gassing of tear
gassing of children on the border right
and Sinclair tweeted out 18 hours ago
we'd like to take a moment and address
some of the concerns regarding a
commentary segment by Boris Epstein that
was aired on Sinclair stations this week
the opinions expressed in the segment do
not reflect the views of Sinclair
Broadcast Group but it does reflect the
views of something that they'll tell
their affiliates to must run sinclair
continues when boris segments are aired
on our stations they're labeled clearly
as commentary i mean that it's true that
the word commentary is clear on the
screen but what that means to Sinclair's
audiences it'll say as a commentary I
say the things now when the comment is
below we also offer our stations offer
which offers an interesting word choice
to use because with Boris they're not
just offering Boris their you must run
this or we'll find you right there
mandating it we will we also offer our
stations reporting from the Beltway and
beyond that are not partisan or bias in
any way they finally continue if you
have any concerns about any of our
content we genuinely want to hear from
you I mean genuinely yeah sure above all
we are committed to fair unbiased
journalism across all our stations
nationwide and a truly honored blah blah
blah so I if you want hash tag boot bars
go uh you can find this I'd like to
retweet this guy I would say Matt if you
get Boris booted that we could add that
another notch to one of your nominal
achievement yes I would
like I would like that would be that
would be one of my a modicum of
achievement like demotic I would like to
return to Boris and hey now that I've
got you fired is that achieved enough to
be able to talk to you
so yeah boot Boris get him out there
it's gonna model the paint as they say
maybe several Mata coms I think mmm
Monaco mised Colin from the wrap
