[Music]
as you know they say that Republicans
fall in line Democrats want to fall in
love and as you know Michael falls in
and out of love with a lot of different
number two numbers running for
presidential election Marianne Marianne
Williamson the next day it's this guy
and I have a feeling that on this
Tuesday Michaels heart is been given
wounding to Bill DeBlasio
as you know as you heard we had some
flash flooding but we've obviously had
some power outages because well the
thing is we don't know why we've had
power outages I can tell you something
that's very predictable there will
always be three or four days sometimes
it's a week or two where New York City
will hit 90 degrees plus and it's super
hot and everybody doesn't want to do
anything that's go into their apartments
and they turn on their air-conditioning
now you do not have to be an expert to
know that when everybody turns on their
air-conditioning it's going to put
strain on the grid this is not a new
phenomenon theoretically the company
that has a monopoly on providing power
for people should be set up to address
this but one thing that we know for sure
in every circumstance when you talk
about private enterprise sometimes
they'll do horrific things if they think
that it will make them profits and they
only have to pay back a little bit of
that money I see this every time I go to
Las Vegas and talk to tort lawyers
pharmaceutical companies yeah we knew
what caused this problem we knew what
caused that problem but we knew the
manufacturer of this active ingredient
was letting jet fuel in it however we
had already expended a lot of money and
we made a lot of money from it and then
we know down the road we got a it's
always cheaper to say you're sorry than
to ask for permission and we don't know
why we have these blackouts we don't
know for sure why Con Ed decided to shut
the power in areas that may have people
with less incomes or not as much
political power because maybe they're
not white but we do know that we should
get answers and if we don't get those
answers there's a problem and it would
be nice to have things like power be
something that we never have to think
hmm they just like put on a fewer people
or not upgrade their infrastructure as
much because they want to save money
because some of this money has to go to
shareholders what if all that money that
didn't go to shareholders
went into rebuilding the grid or
maintaining the grid or improving the
grid what if all that extra cash just
actually went to providing the service
to people that everybody knows they're
gonna need going forward Bill DeBlasio
is sort of toying with that idea to tell
us what happened why it happened how
they are taking steps to make sure it
won't happen again they have not given
me a good answer
this situation in Brooklyn came at the
very tail end of the heat emergency so
obviously Con Ed knew they were dealing
with the extraordinary situation once
again I spoke to the Con Ed president
last night I spoke to him this morning
no answers whatsoever as to why this
happened and what is being done to
ensure it will not happen again this was
obviously a predictable situation and
therefore preventable what we're getting
continually is no clarity no answers no
real-time lines from Con Ed so at this
point you know I said earlier in the
week that I was having trouble trusting
them I can't trust them at this point
because I'm not getting any real answers
and they have let New Yorkers down once
again it's very clear that needs to be a
full investigation into what happened
not only last Saturday but what happened
last night it's very clear we have to
question whether Con Ed as it's
structured now can do the job going
forward or whether we need to go to an
entirely different approach
so I'm calling for a full investigation
and further that we examine whether we
need a new entity to handle this
situation going forward because at this
point I do not have faith in con Edison
questions on this immediate situation
yes
[Music]
look Con Ed is a private company that is
heavily regulated but there's still a
private company they're not accountable
to the public and the way a public
agency would be you know the Department
of Environmental Protection provides
water to the people in New York City if
at some point the water was shut off we
the city government would have to
provide immediate answers we'd have to
show people that it was being fixed and
we knew exactly why it happened and
exactly how it would not happen again
Con Ed is very haughty about this they
don't give real answers and they don't
feel they have to so I think it begs the
question whether a private company
should continue to provide a service if
they are not accountable to the public
thank you second choice data although it
is easier you know in the Marianne
Williamson case it's like hey you know
Marianne when you're not dunking on Dave
like you shouldn't you be like writing
another book or developing another
seminar in bills case you could say like
that's great bill don't con bado but you
know fix the subways but you know what
this is good he doesn't I mean the
subway no he doesn't the problem I it's
true but this is actually but I honestly
though this is actually a perfect fusion
because he should be doing more of this
both by the way just tactically talking
about universal pre-k and actually
bragging about his record and then
taking other examples to do something
like this where he's dealing with a city
crisis that he still is made of also as
a trial balloon to show that he's got an
agenda putting all the politics aside in
terms the electoral politics aside the
idea of the countries of the the mayor
of the largest city in the country who
you know being mayor of this city is
from an executive perspective an
extremely challenging job the idea of
the mayor of this city coming out and
calling for what would be you know
equivalent to the nationalization of our
energy supply
our energy producers and delivers I
think is quite significant and this is
important and if for nothing else
de Blasio needs to be sort of I think
elevated on some level just because to
my mind he's the most prominent national
figure who has even floated this idea I
don't even know if I've even heard
anybody float the idea and it's
absolutely the case there is absolutely
no reason why our energy is provided by
private companies there's absolutely no
reason we heavily regulate them to the
point where it's obvious that the market
cannot handle it and so the only reason
why we don't nationalize this at this
point is like tradition and some type of
like weird superstition fealty to the
private sector yeah I mean there's
obviously money you know interests that
are involved in this but in terms of the
yeah and but in terms of like the public
I don't think the public contemplates it
as an ideological thing I think it's
just sort of tradition and had it always
been the case but there's no reason why
we have private entities doing you know
owning the pipelines for our cable and
there's no reason why we have private
entities delivering us energy with these
should be government services there's no
there's no difference North Dakota's
North Dakota is suing the federal
government to recumbent or to compensate
themselves for the police of the
protests for Dakota access pipeline so
it makes no but make energy transfer
Partners pay forget or nationalize them
right anyone who thinks that utilities
would be less efficient as a public
enterprise has clearly never tried to
deal with Time Warner Cable right of
course I mean of course and you could
still have Time Warner Cable wants to
still delivering of services
let them do it let them do it you can
have Time Warner you can subscribe to
Time Warner or Verizon or whoever
miscible broadband that both of those
will try to sue out of existence exactly
let us have we're gonna take over your
cables we're gonna put it in there
I mean Verizon is a perfect example of
like we're not getting any innovation
out of that they put down a fiber they
realize like oh we can't make enough
money off the fiber so we're not going
to offer it in the place that we
pretended we were going to offer it well
here's my plan will take over your fiber
business we'll put it in there with
union workers all across the country
we're gonna put fiber in every single
person's home the last mile or two maybe
a little bit different you want to do
the last mile maybe we could talk about
that but we're gonna run fibre across
this country it's going to be accessible
to everybody you want to offer the DVR
service great you want to offer you know
your your TV service your on-demand
service great go ahead you guys get the
we'll give the private companies the
content but we're putting this service
into everybody's home same with the
electricity the electricity that I get
is no different from the electricity
that people across the country get
number two bill number two number three
it's also easier to make it a site of
struggle when something becomes a
nationalized public utility right what
do you mean a site of struggle like you
can go protest for energy justice
outside of coned or you can do it
outside of you know a government agency
and I feel like the latter will be a
little more effective well if it's a
government agency's theoretically
theoretically the idea would be that it
is it is some form of economic justice
by making public entities are gonna take
your job will not make a difference
whether you're putting this in a wealthy
community or not a wealthy community
there's still a reasons that could
happen as we know the court date is not
always fair to everyone
of course I think you're gonna get more
bang for your buck trying to protest and
struggle against the state than you will
a private company people talk about the
DMV not being good my experience of the
DMV is usually pretty good my experience
with the post office is also usually
pretty good yeah I had imagined us for
office imagine if we funded the post
office I was impressed at how efficient
it is when I go to the passport office I
mean these are pretty good services I
don't know have anybody tried to I
waited on on hold for Verizon to get my
cable fixed for over an hour
the other day for over an hour that's
longer than I have ever waited the DMV
now you know how the listeners a lot of
that competition guess what competition
did it did not kick in
