[Music]
and I just want a couple as they say
foreshadowing because we're gonna go
more into depth in terms of Guatemala El
Salvador and then you know tomorrow with
I mean with Elliott Abrams I mean
there's a whole world to lay to waste
with this guy and all you know obviously
US foreign policy that he represents
I've kind of had a soft spot for
kilmeade recently and I mean you know
just in the sense that occasionally he
seems to not you know he sort of been
caught up to like 2002 in terms of like
overt racism and you can have
instinctively human responses which are
normally conditioned out of Fox News
right which you will never see from a do
see but I just want I mean look it's Fox
& Friends
they're stupid they're immoral they
don't know anything
I just want as a foreshadowing just to
be really clear when we talk about like
what the Reagan administration back then
El Salvador in the 80s as an example
we're not talking about you know like I
don't know what they mean
maybe it's almost like you're trying to
conjure you know kind of like conjure
almost like a Singapore image like oh
you know like Lee Kuan Yew had to Arang
- but it's you're conjuring an image of
like oh well you know you put some
people in jail you shut down some
newspapers which by the way should be
unacceptable in of itself but just to be
really clear here there are documented
cases of El Salvadoran soldiers going
into a family's home
beheading everybody and then doing it
around a table so that the heads are
reattached to the body with oh no hands
on their faces and a bowl of blood in
the middle of the table I mean you're
talking about the types of things that
honestly I mean I guess if you were
looking some persons have said Isis
would be similar that's true and then
some stuff that you would see in the
cartel Wars was the governments that the
Reagan administration was not only
financially and politically but like
morally backing like greeting in the
White House and there were endless
contemporaneous reports what was
happening in Elliott Abrams was going I
don't sue that was I don't think that's
true
so just to be clear as we laugh at the
you know
in this case as dumb as he is just
totally immoral Brian Kilmeade
keep those keep that in mind she's
accusing him of being a liar and wanted
to know about the iran-contra he is a
liar
while she was listening in El Salvador
in Nicaragua in that region Bolivia
there was a communist infiltration of
the 1980s and Donald and President
Reagan wasn't gonna have it he was gonna
make sure that the Russians and the then
the Soviets were not going to infiltrate
and take over our hemisphere so to do
that she had to do some you had to do
some extreme work he's part of that work
and the efforts of that gave us El
Salvador which is closer to a democracy
than not and Central and South America
or the president should be very proud of
this foreign policy for this 24 this
refreshment Congresswoman to be that
dismissive and condescending to someone
like Elliott Abrams is beyond the pale
Democrat should all be embarrassed yeah
we should really be embarrassed um first
of all he he was a liar he was literally
pardoned for his role in iran-contra
that's on the public record I know
obviously there's no research staff
there and then I mean again extreme work
as he sounds like the general character
and doctors dream that isn't amazing on
the fly euphemism okay I mean very
revealing or well nians overused but
what other word could you use to
describe that I mean I thought
collateral damage was a cynical evasion
of a profoundly ugly truth extreme work
I mean this what is this like a new like
what is like kill Meade's new regimen at
the equinox I mean wow beyond disgusting
all right
