[Music]
here's uh Bernie Sanders on with Jake
Tapper Jake Tapper I'm a bit of a tear
today yes fresh here he is is he
actually in front of Detroiters in oh
the debate right okay
I mean it almost looks soulful sweet of
you to fly out on location to be
annoying Jake right here he is the
debates are coming up Jake is out there
he's of all the questions you would want
to ask about health care here is the one
that Jake Tapper ass here in Detroit you
appeared to compare pharmaceutical
industry executives who are artificially
jacking up prices to murderers to take a
listen somebody goes out shoot somebody
they're called a murderer we all agree
with that put him away but what happens
what happens if somebody runs a
pharmaceutical industry and artificially
jacks up the price now I don't know what
what Bernie's gonna say here but I will
tell you this I think there's a very
good case to be made if you could prove
that the pharmaceutical executives knew
what would happen when they raise those
prices or it was reasonable for them to
know that you could get a charge of
manslaughter now I don't know maybe some
people like manslaughter is a form of
murder in some way I think but I don't
think that's the case had manslaughter
so I don't think I think Jake is on to
something here but continued
pharmaceutical pharmaceutical executives
I think that first of all I misspoke I
said disabilities when I meant diabetes
obviously for insulin pharmaceutical
executives see themselves as people who
help save lives and improve lives do you
really see them as murderers
well here's we have it this is a
philosophical issue that we have to deal
with if in the case of insulin people
are dying right now the cost of insulin
has soared in recent years you have
three companies to control over 90% of
the insolent market uh one out of four
people we have seven million people use
insulin one out of four rationing that
insulin a people are dying there is
strong evidence that there is price
fixing that these companies
simultaneously raise the prices and
outrageous levels far far far more than
the cost of production Jake a fiber
product that costs me a few dollars to
make and I Jack up that price and you
can't afford it and you die buddy upon
me so you can call them whatever you
want but I will tell you that it's
President of the United States we are
going to take on the pharmaceutical
industry we're gonna have an attorney
general who is gonna deal with the
incredible concentration of ownership
and we're gonna use antitrust like
alright so I should just say since this
is the way the focus that Jake wants to
do this that manslaughter is not murder
because you don't have the intent but
it's reckless disregard for life it's
criminally reckless disregard for life I
mean I think we can establish that now
we have enough there's enough facts out
there that we now know right like we
know if you don't give people access to
Medicaid because you're a Republican
governor and you don't want to that
there's actually like a formula you can
look at the data the real data and find
out how many people are going to die
because of that now we make these
decisions all the time I imagine there's
someone in the US government I imagine
there are insurance executives who know
that if we raise the speed limit to 75
miles an hour from 55 that we're going
to increase deaths the question is is
when you do it for profits and you know
that people rely on medication and that
the raising of the cost of these
medications basically unlike people who
decide to drive 75 miles an hour as the
speed limits there
they can't make a choice that's the
that's the very definition they can't
make a choice to get the medicine I
think you could make an argument but I
would like to see that debate the debate
that Jake Tapper sponsors our health
exam for Masuda chol executives who
raised the prices of whatever it is
generics are actually their own
medications are they murderers or
manslaughters I think that would be a
good debate but then some people in the
ruling class might get their feelings
hurt this is awesome I mean what what's
amazing is that this is the line of
questioning that Jake wants to take well
it's got the exact same energy as the
Anderson Cooper clip where a assi says
that she thinks Trump is racist and he
looks at her like how can you see that
right well he literally said that I mean
it even just but I it also goes back to
you know Cass Sunstein who speaking of
you know bad legacies of people
empowered in the Obama era and just by
Ivy League's generally but he was the
sort he was like the upmarket version of
Bernie Sanders is doing the same thing
as Donald Trump and his team inaudible
sorry really thought much different than
dividing people along racial lines he's
showing his ass um I mean making a
strategy
let's stick stick with
