[Music]
let's actually do this for a second um
Mike Pompeo is a extraordinarily
dangerous person and always has been he
was the Koch brothers congressman he was
head of the CIA he's a extreme far-right
corporatist but he I think he also has
some quite pension extreme apocalyptic
religious views and he has been
obviously very aggressive and we have to
look to it I mean the announcement of
keeping troops in Iraq to keep an eye on
Iran should be setting off every type of
alarm-bell imaginable Trump has been
making noises and threats about a coup
in Venezuela from the beginning let's
just reiterate this again you can have
critiques of Maduro you have critiques
of Chavez I happen to think Chavez is a
very defensible figure but a far from
perfect one and you can also recognize
the fact that look the actual problems
in Venezuela including corruption
cartels and all the rest of it none of
this is gonna be solved or changed by a
far-right government backed by the
United States and Brazil in Colombia I
think that should go without saying with
a point person whose history is death
squads in the 80s and Elliott Abrams so
that's why we oppose this coup effort in
Venezuela
. . there's and we can have the
conversations about that as well and it
debates and so on that's great US
intervention there we oppose . also the
remnants of the accomplishments which
have been greatly depreciating the last
several years as a result of both
sanctions and economic warfare and the
failures of Maduro both and would be
almost certainly eliminated any US
backed government there still are some
achievements that live on there in terms
of some cooperatives on a local scale
but you can tell that the
administration's pulling out the heavy
guns here because this myth this idea
going back for quite some time in an
attempt to Sicario to
freak out Americans Mike Pompeo is on it
on Fox News do you have concerns that
Venezuela runs the risk of turning into
a no-man's land where you you have these
bad actors including some with links to
Hezbollah that could be more of a threat
because there in our hemisphere Trish
I'm glad you brought that up people
don't recognize that Hezbollah has
active cells the Iranians are impacting
the people of Venezuela and throughout
South America we have an obligation to
take down that risk for America okay so
first of all it's unfashionable to say
but Hezbollah has zero operational
interest in the United States none yes
in the 1980s Hezbollah was definitely
available responsible for killing
Marines in Lebanon now I am that's
terrible that that happened that's a bad
thing
I don't want anybody to get harmed like
that but if you can't see the difference
between the complicated geopolitics and
guerrilla operations in a local zone
versus what he's implying there which is
more like al Qaeda or Isis types attacks
the United States you're being dishonest
there is zero zero zero zero evidence
that Hezbollah has a desire to mount
some type of 9/11 style or any style
attack like that in the United States
and in fact part of this is reflecting
its own shifting politics in the Middle
East because of what's happening in
Syria but if I recall a Hezbollah sort
of somewhat mildly criticized the
attacks on Charlie Hebdo if I recall
correctly and in a Syrian context
Hezbollah is actually with the Iranians
protecting minority communities in
certain areas from Isis and then the
second thing is when you say cells
you're evoking an image of like training
camps
that's ridiculous to the extent that
what he's saying is remotely true and
this needs to be aggressively
fact-checked might mean that there's
connections between drug trafficking
roots in Venezuela and
people who do finances for Hezbollah and
if that is true then that basically
could be in a statement that you
probably could expand to there are
relationships between drug cartel
networks everywhere to everywhere it's
it's you but at time you specify it it
means nothing but he's doing his best of
fearmonger there in our hemisphere
though right there in our hemisphere
you know Vladimir Putin's in our
hemisphere the you know big northern
hemisphere I'm talking about don't worry
about that too bad that a hemispheres
hemispheric risks risks hemispheric
activity I mean look if you have fact
check on I have never heard one a
far-right person from foundation for the
defense of democracy said something
about Hezbollah in Venezuela device that
was what we could find
and then there is Treasury Department
which talks about cartel activities and
again cartel activities of highly
expansive term there's no doubt I think
quite there's debt right it precisely
and talk about connection possible
direct or indirect connections to
cartels I'm not sure is something that
this administration wants to go down and
go in but yeah you're calling from a 4/4
