so Heather you wrote in salon this week
about the pent-up demand for legitimate
investigations right some some form of
oversight and it really became
compelling with the the Cohen testimony
because he was brought in there and
there was you know a if not explicit
decree by the Democrats that we're not
gonna be talking about Russia here right
and to a certain extent the Republicans
want to bring it up a little bit but
that was a pretty intense committee
hearing and testimony considering the
fact that it involves very little of the
sort of primary narrative we've heard
about in terms of investigations in
Trump right I mean there was basically a
whole other litany of not only
discussion of criminal activity but
discussion of a whole nother
investigation of criminal activity
absolutely and I think it was it was
actually you know it was an effective
sort of opening salvo I think because
because what Cohen went you know when I
think we talked about this you know
Cohen said you know he said hey look
Republicans look at me look I'm the guy
who did his bidding all these years I
know where you're at I understand your
position here it's not going to work out
well for you and so Cohen made a sort of
a broad based kind of analysis of Trump
on the level of corruption and on the
level of character that I think was was
really an effective way to sort of go
forward kind of positioning you know the
the new era of how we're going to look
at Trump and you know you said you said
before that that the you know whether
you asked before whether or not it was
smart for the Democrats to have sort of
framed this whole thing around the
Russia investigation and I'm not sure
it's a good question I hadn't thought
about it before but but you may be right
I mean there have been a lot of there's
been a lot in the press there's been a
lot you know it sort of discussed among
Democrats about how about the corruption
issue and about you
maxine waters been all over TV talking
about deutsche bank and money laundering
and you know Trump's finances and
there's been a lot of discussion about
the Trump Organization but it hasn't
been very focused you know I think the
focus has always been on the Muller
on the Muller report on the Muller
investigation and and yeah of course
Trump has has sort of pushed that as
well screaming no collusion every five
minutes so I'm not sure that the
Democrats could have could have
refocused but they probably should have
in retrospect maybe done more in that
regard just to set the table a little
bit for for what's coming because it
does seem that I mean I I'm sure that
the intelligence committees are working
on the Russia story I mean I don't think
there's any doubt and there's also Saudi
Arabia there's Qatar there's you know
there's a whole lot of stuff in there
about Trump and various foreign policy
issues with Russia at the forefront but
it does look as though I mean this is
going to be a just looking at the 81
document requests that the Judiciary
Committee sent out they are looking at a
lot of the corruption angle on Trump and
and rightfully so and not just I don't
think it's just going to be what he did
before he came into office although that
you know they set the precedent for that
when they went after Bill Clinton for
whitewater which had been you know
decades previous thing so that is on the
table because Republicans put it on the
table and there's nothing they can do
about that and not to mention the fact
that it does play into where Trump's you
know where all these questions of trumps
loyalties and how here you know what
whether or not he's been leveraged in
some way by Russia and other foreign
interests and why he is you know why he
behaves the way he does his business
isn't trending to that even more
importantly he never let go of the
business he's still in fact we've just
found out this week that he's been
signing checks for you know in the White
House and you know we know that he's
been signing them for the New York Times
put out that he'd been signing checks to
pay off Michael Cohen but apparently
according to Maggie Haberman New York
Times reporter he's been signing all
kinds of checks we don't know what they
are but it's kind of hard to imagine
what they could be for he's not he
doesn't have any overhead and he's
turned over
the business apparently you know
supposedly to his sons
so there's really no reason for this in
it so that's a very curious thing so he
may very well still be conducting
business as president and that is
something that goes way beyond anything
that happened before he you know decided
to run for president or took office so
all of the this stuff I mean there's
just there's a massive amount of this
and hopefully and and I kind of trust I
think that Jerry Nadler is a very smart
guy I think that Elijah Cummings is very
smart and I think that Adam Schiff is
very smart I think these three committee
leaders in particular I think they
understand that they have to focus this
in a way so that people can understand
it whether it leads to impeachment or
not we don't know I think they'll let
the chips fall where they may on that
but they do know that they have to
create they have to lay out the case and
create the narrative for all this stuff
that we've been hearing for the last two
years and that's gonna that's got to be
the the primary focus and it's not easy
they're going to have to you know they
have to start someplace and build that
case but I do think that they understand
that that's what they have to do yeah
and my sense is is that what we are
seeing may not be called impeachment
hearings and it may not happen quick
enough for Trump to be impeached before
2020 but what we're seeing are
essentially on the road to impeachment
hearings I mean you know there's there
when you when you contemplate the idea
that Bill Clinton was impeached for
lying in a deposition about having sex
with someone that he I don't even think
he had met until his second term in
office Donald Trump seems to have
crossed that that threshold multiple
multiple times right and so all right
well listen we got to take a quick break
and if you'll join me in the next hour
we've got a lot more news to talk about
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
