don't know how we transition from that
funny material I've actually I have been
a little bit surprised that Trump hasn't
gone all in disgusting before on
kristinb lazy ford but he did just that
he was at a rally yesterday in Southaven
Mississippi so right and here he is
viciously mocking doctor for it and you
know bear in mind the Republicans on the
Judiciary Committee who are pushing
through the confirmation of Cavanaugh
who lied continuously where I believe as
much as I can I believe dr. Ford most
people do they're claiming that they
believe her but it's some type of
confused memory or something and as Eric
Levitz pointed out at this point even if
an FBI probe clear judge Cavanaugh of
these charges or and you know even if he
was cleared
he's clearly displayed that he has no
judicial temperament and is a whiny hack
reactionary who had a meltdown on
national television and went on about he
he literally talked about these charges
in the context of a Clinton conspiracy
theory that's Newsmax
editorial stuff which again shows you
that that's what the Republican Party is
it's all the Newsmax editorial but they
are in the contradictory position of
feigning compassion and concern about
these issues while pushing it through
Trump is gonna go the full disgusting
route by just attacking her and really
expose them even more because this is
what they're doing they just don't want
to own it like Trump is doing but this
what Trump is doing here this is what
the Republican Party is doing even if
they
feign concern and respect what he's
going through 36 years ago this happened
I had one beer right I had one beer well
you think it was it nope always one beer
oh good
how did you get home I don't remember
how'd you get there I don't remember
where is the place I don't remember how
many years ago was that I don't know I
don't know I don't know what
neighborhood was it and I don't know
where's the house I don't know
upstairs Downstairs where was I don't
know but I had one beer that's the only
thing I remember and a man's life is in
tatters a man's life is shattered his
wife has shattered his daughters who are
beautiful incredible young kids they
destroy people they want to destroy
people these are really evil people that
was what Lindsey Graham's thing was and
people should recognize that this is
again this is the Republican Party
message even if and the Republican Party
strategy and the Republican Party
commitment even if other members of the
committee are simultaneously speaking
out of both or well they're speaking out
of both sides in the mouth and they're
voting and they're muscling and they're
moving politically in one way which is
the completely railroad this process
because they don't care and as with
pretty much everything else with the
Republican Party from oligarchy to
corruption to racism to xenophobia to
misogyny Trump is the one who speaks it
clearly so believe him because he's the
essence of this whole thing
