[Music]
before we move to Iran for a couple of
minutes I mean what everybody always
goes to and in some ways maybe this is
our own international selfishness that
anytime something happens in South Asia
there's all these incredible intricacies
that implicate so many people and such
dynamic politics in India Pakistan
Afghanistan but it always sort of ends
up at some point of like is this gonna
escalate to the point where there's some
type of actual serious military exchange
between India and Pakistan which would
obviously you know to have ramifications
for the rest of the world what is your
read on the appetite of the Indian and
Pakistani government in terms of
governments in terms of actually
allowing this to escalate beyond the
crisis that already is basically said so
and I also think it's important to
understand that here when the Chinese
have changed the situation in South Asia
you know the appetite is much greater
for greater infrastructure then for more
I think that this is quite a significant
qualitative change in very many parts of
Asia I feel like this is what is going
to turn the Pakistan as well the moment
people in Afghanistan see that the
Chinese are going to show up and build
big robots and connect that they will
say well maybe this is a better idea I
mean I just want to put forward that
it's been a long time in parts of Asia
it's been far too long
where there's been no uniting project
that is not you know something to do
with war and the Chinese have for all
that right um with Iran we've seen the
Trump administration tear up the deal
even though every observer including our
own US you know State Department and so
on confirms that Iran was following the
deal down to the T the Europeans were
angry but there isn't necessarily any
sort of muscle
that anger and now we've seen this kind
of cycle of of tension in in insight in
terms of these sip ship seizures what
what do you see as the dynamic between
the United States Iran in Europe right
now the Europeans are a test case of
spinelessness you know the Europeans
known that the deal that was after a
great set of compromises by all sides
the deal that was struck in 2050 is a
very routine the Europeans know that
they tell you that quite openly secondly
the Europeans know that the Iranians
have not violated even as you say so
does the US State Department fact so
does the CIA
everybody knows the team was not
violated thirdly the Europeans are
desperate for Iranian oil you know their
other main avenues for oil from all
natural gas from Russia from Libya these
have been compromised by sanctions by
very stupid Wars
so the Europeans are desperate for
Iranian oil you know they try to create
a mechanism to be able to pay for your
onion oil around US sanctions so for
these three reasons Europeans you know
the team was good Europeans know the
Iranians haven't violated the deal and
the Europeans are desperate for all you
would think that in a rational world
European social democracy and so on
would stand up and say that the United
States leaving this deal is ridiculous I
mean they would come beyond the United
States it'd be sharply critical when the
US government decided to sanction
Jawad's relief the foreign minister of
Iran you know in a normal world you'd
have expected the foreign ministers of
Europe and the European Union's foreign
chief you know for now federica
mogherini you would have expected all of
them to come out in public and said this
is outrageous all that happened was they
released the very mild statement saying
we will continue to meet mr. Zarif
really is that the best you can do I
mean this spinelessness of the center is
what is crippling the world today you
know
need to see this it's easy to see
where's the left
what's the left not doing its this is
not a problem of the left this is the
problem of a center that has been
dissolved into jelly so what and what
was the rationale I mean just elaborate
on the sanctions against Jawad zarifa
because that is really the height of the
aggressiveness and the absurdity of the
Trump line and the spinelessness of the
Europeans I mean I and I'm not I'm not
making a value judgment here I don't
want sanctions against anybody it was a
great deal things were moving forward
and so on but when someone pulls you
know when someone comes forward and they
say oh well we we sanctioned some you
know commander and the Republican you
know in in the Republican Guard or
whatever okay okay you know that this
makes it inside a certain logic this is
sort of part of the kind of conflict
zones in the Middle East
Javad Zarif no one has done more to try
to soothe all of these tensions and move
forward diplomatically mr. Zarif was
educated almost entirely in the United
States he speaks fluent English he's an
extremely bright and well-prepared
person let's just put that out there you
need to have Secretary of State Mike
compared on your show you need to ask
him why he's jealous of mr. Zarif you
know I asked I has somebody in the US
State Department what's the story here
because I wrote a piece about this
well he told me look let's be frank the
leaf has been doing the us talk shows
and the Trump administration is
frustrated you know they can't stand the
fact that this guy is so good and you
know partly let's let's say he he's
right in what he's saying it's not just
that he's a good you know spin doctor he
has truth on his side I mean it's not
only that he's a good messenger his
message is good and Trump apparently and
Pompeyo just can't stand it you know in
amanaki sometimes you have to look at
the Caprice of the monarch you don't
have to understand structure and you
know you don't have to understand the
context it's just the Monarchs attitude
you know that's how I like to read the
Saudi Arabians situation for instance
you know there's a lot of internal
bizarreness you know when the monarch
says
something you have to do it I mean
there's no checks and balance in some
ways this Trump Pompeo you know policy
on Zarif feels Monica it there's no
rational explanation to sanction the
foreign minister of a country who's
willing to negotiate with you you can't
on the one side say we want to negotiate
a better deal and then sanction the only
person who's able to negotiate this deal
you know the Supreme Leader of Iran made
a very good comment he said you know you
want to negotiate the reef is the only
person you're going to negotiate with
this nobody else he said that openly
right so the the fact of this sanction
on Zarif indicates one of two things one
this government is totally comical
farcical doesn't understand the way in
which diplomacy works they are being
motivated in a sense by jealousy or
whatever that's one second thing is
actually this is their path to war they
really don't want to negotiate anything
that eventually when the timetable
perhaps an electoral timetable suits
them they'll do some sort of bombing
raid on Iran it's only one or two one or
the other explanation perhaps both but I
don't see a third explanation so what
can slow that timetable down or reverse
it is it is it dependent on European I
mean did the feckless Europeans what I
mean I certainly Bernie Sanders has at
least been very aggressive in terms of
domestic leadership and trying to bring
this back to Congress as an example as
well as also saying quite clearly than
any type of military exchange with Iran
would obviously be an absolute
catastrophe
what can slow this or stop this well I'm
not confident about the Europeans I mean
right they they were not able to build
the spine to deal with you know a pack
of lies around Iraq I doubt very much
that this is going to be any different
that's the one side secondly inside
American politics there's a serious
problem
I mean whether it's the Democrats or the
Republicans neither seem to acknowledge
and appreciate the fact that Iran has
the legal right to process uranium you
know
it has a legal nuclear energy policy now
I am against nuclear energy 100% but my
opinion is hardly relevant the United
States government continues to develop
nuclear energy France you know basically
exists on nuclear energy recent until
recently Germany as well so nuclear
energy is a legitimate and legal you
know procedure legitimate policy and so
on and the Iranians through their
membership in the nuclear
non-proliferation treaty through their
established position with the
International Atomic Energy Agency and
so on they have a right to nuclear
energy and they're processing around
four-and-a-half percent of uranium not
even close to the 90 percent which is
needed for nuclear bomb but in the u.s.
in u.s. political culture any enrichment
by Iran is seen as illegal and I think
this is the really the nub of the
problem I don't see a Democrat willing
to come out there in public and say Iran
has a right to process uranium for its
nuclear energy project and unless that
takes place there is no long-term
solution to this problem you know what
gives a country like the United States
the right to tell another country what
it can do or not do if what it is doing
is illegal this is something that
Americans seriously need to think about
