so shy had in the last segment you
basically outlined for us both your
strategy going forward you made a point
of reminding us that this is your second
race against Nancy Pelosi last time with
virtually no resources no time you got
into the race late you had a formidable
stand showing garnering as many votes
votes as aoc did in her primary against
Joe Crowley of course we know how that
ended and now you have a year to ramp up
in your battle with Nancy Pelosi now
there's a lot of people out there I
imagine who are from San Francisco who
are saying you know the set of issues
for people in San Francisco is not
identical to the set of issues or I
should say is more expanded expansive
maybe than the set of issues for people
outside of the district who might be
interested in this race just is there a
delineation in your mind I mean because
it's it's not you're running against
someone in the leadership of the
Democratic Party this is not like you're
running for you know a seat anywhere
else frankly in the country yeah that's
right here in San Francisco
just to be clear I don't think any
progressives are under the illusion that
speaker Pelosi is supporting progressive
interests I think that's an illusion
that only gets projected outside the
district by the national craft but here
locally anyone who would describe
themselves as progressive would see her
as an enabler of the Trump
administration if only because we watch
her more closely I think than many
people around the country but as we as
we look at the at the delineation among
the issues Medicare for all and the need
to establish health care is a human
right in the United States and join the
rest of the civilized world is is a
priority for people across the country
and I think it's an urgent national
priority it's also an urgent priority
for people here in San Francisco the
green New Deal and the need to address
the not looming anymore but the mounting
global climate crisis that is now upon
us that is already killing
for Nia's last year dozens of California
inside the set of wildfires that were
exacerbated by climate chaos that the
prior generation of policy makers
effectively contrived by deferring the
fossil fuel extraction by runaway
corporate extractive capitalism and a
military industrial complex that has
been hell-bent on quote opening new
markets around the world which is to say
plundering their natural resources to
support Wall Street I present a very
different alternative than that as an
immigrant whose family lost our house
when I was 16 I have understood what the
Empire looks like from underneath the
boot and that's unfortunately an
experience that more and more people
have had to experience here in San
Francisco and other of the issues that's
really crucial that I think is also
crucial around the country is affordable
housing we have among the most acute
crises in housing costs at any city and
the country and I was just in Atlanta
for the Democratic socialists of America
conference and I learned there that in
Atlanta there is an urban housing crisis
is an urban housing crisis around the
country at the same time as many rural
and exurban communities are suffering
from a depopulation as you know
urbanization continues and in that
context I think the interest here in San
Francisco and reviving federal spending
on affordable housing which has
collapsed over the last 20 years Maps
very closely to an increasingly widely
shared national experience so whether
it's Medicare for all whether it's the
green New Deal whether it's affordable
housing whether it's dismantling mass
incarceration and mass surveillance
these are all issues that I'm very
committed to that speaker Pelosi
unfortunately problems that she is held
create along with the rest of her class
of corporate Democrats aligned with
corporate Republicans on too many issues
and I and the squad for instance and
other people that are emerging from the
body politic particularly from younger
generations we aim to present a very
sharp difference that is grounded in
experience of the American people
instead of the imperial aspirations of a
military-industrial complex whose
architect warned us to fear it what's
fascinating about what's happening in
this era is that we are seeing
in a way that we haven't seen in the
past I mean because them certainly you
know if you go back 10 15 years ago
there were movements to primary various
Democrats for the most part those those
primaries were were geared towards
people who were clearly you know
ideologically you know across a huge
divide right like the Dan Lipinski's or
that the Henry Cuellar 's who are also
incidentally you know getting primary
dis round but what we're also seeing is
serious challenges and I think you know
at least in part in the wake of AOC
defeating Crowley but also I mean just
as a function of like you say there's a
new generation of Democrats with a clear
more distinct ideology that is more
reminiscent of the Democrats from you
know the the the the early 60s in and
during FDR's time and rooted in our
experience regimen and 2008 when the
global financial crisis happened and
Democrats teamed up with Republicans to
bail out Wall Street and basically throw
students and working families to the
wolves that was a point at which and you
know people were saying at the time that
the Occupy movement failed and part of
why Bernie is going to be the next
president the reason why a Oh C is in
Congress and the reason why I have about
to replace Nancy Pelosi in the house is
because we didn't actually fail it was
just a long fuse and what we are
witnessing now is the maturation of a
political generation that frankly got
screwed so badly by the bipartisan
corporate rule that we are we are not
having it anymore you know that same
stale consensus on corporate rule that's
what created Trump because it so poorly
served working families it's so
dramatically exposed Americans across
the political and economic spectrum to
mounting crises whether crises in police
violence in food security and
availability the climate crisis like
mentioned and you know weather events of
increasing severity and consistency it's
the failure of the past that is driving
that radicalization of young people and
older people I think you know we see in
the president's demagoguery a dire need
for Democrats to show up and actually
mount the so-called resistance that
they've been encouraging the rest of us
to demonstrate I've been resisting
chloride administration's from both the
Democratic and the Republican Party for
20 years I know what resistance is and
what speaker Pelosi is offering us is
nothing of the sort
all right Chad we have we have uh just a
little bit about a minute left here and
I let me just you know frame this
question with with copping to in the
past perceiving the these incidences of
like no you know like and I think there
is a clear cut difference here in terms
of what Pelosi is doing but in terms of
like marshaling resources but I have
come to believe like when we see Jerry
Nadler getting primaried
that it is seriously given him an a
stronger incentive to pursue impeachment
and then when we see people like Richard
Neil being primary to gives him more of
an incentive to go after Donald Trump's
tax returns these are the way the
politicians work and I mean I don't have
an ability to assess your chances of
winning at this point I think that
they're actually stranger things have
certainly happened and you've certainly
proven in the last race but with about
30 seconds left I mean how much do you
anticipate this is going to put pressure
on Nancy Pelosi and why is that a reason
for people to support your candidacy I'd
helped make impossible things real
before yeah I filed one of the first you
talked about marriage equality earlier I
filed the first marriage equality case
in the state of New York in 2004 it was
about a decade before Pelosi showed up
to support the rights of my neighbors
and nobody thought we were going to win
that struggle that we did I understand
how the future depends on the decisions
that we make today and I fully intend to
liberate the seat and all this put it
this way if Pelosi doesn't show up for
human rights or universal health care or
affordable housing or impeachment P
numbers her own days and she will either
show up for the district's interests or
she'll be replaced it's that simple
how can people get more information
about your candidacy folks can check out
our campaign @ww Shahid for changed us
or on any of the major social media
platforms Instagram Facebook or Twitter
at Shaw head for change
