[Music]
this is important this is in Kansas so
we talked earlier and new reports come
out of these facilities every day people
sleeping on bathroom floors not being
allowed to take a shower for weeks not
getting medicine we know people are
dying in custody this is a world scale
assault on human beings it's a
foundational violation of Rights it's a
foundational war on those who are
already some of the most vulnerable
people in the world it's barbarous it's
evil it's fascistic and any corporation
any person certainly any governmental
body complicit in this needs to be
defeated and more broadly held
accountable we need to expose these
things we need human change we need to
to have solidarity and this is also how
far ice will go this is footage from
Kansas City of ice agents smashing a
window to get an undocumented woman they
claim that they have a paperless warrant
she has two children in the car and
she's on her way to a therapy
appointment with a seven-month-old this
is the face this I will use this
language this is evil the person who did
this is totally devoid of humanity you
have disgusting thugs on an authority
trip and you do see that the evil of the
crowd in Germany you saw it see it in
Brazil today you see it in Italy today
you see in the United States today so
let's watch it because we need to bear
witness to this
he can't break my window what do you
guys just can't break for Joe so these
thugs these thugs who have no humanity
right there
I mean maybe look I don't want as
everybody is a trace humanity that maybe
can be reached but in that moment these
are faceless you know these are
stormtroopers these are agents of evil
these are agents of inhumanity and again
we know clearly we battle Trump we
battle the Republicans we need to
abolish and dismantle ice we need to
demilitarize the border we need to it we
can stand of course again I'll say this
a million times you still have a border
you just make it a non militarized non
criminal process period you
decriminalize the act of crossing the
border nobody should be in detention for
weeks for jaywalking and then whether it
is the Democratic Party leadership
whether it's nerd bag pundits on
television or the internet who in any
way attempt to minimize just exactly
what that is
they are complicit agents and we don't
even need to go to oh what will that
develop into which it will it will grow
and metastasize but that doesn't even
that's secondary you're complicit now
there's children dying now this could by
the way stay in two
Pitou 'ti and we could still having
relatively quote-unquote normal cut you
know we can do our show people who are
you know have our documented people all
that you know go about do their business
whatever and this could still and this
can be ongoing and that would be you
being complicit in a form of fascism and
barbarism and murder right now what's
this man this is a brand new video by
three arrows which is a really good
YouTube account that does a lot of
Crowder and Sargon sort of debunking and
he did one how societies turn cruel
featuring Sargon of Akkad we're Sargon
basically goes off on a OC for calling
them concentration camps three arrows
does an amazing harrowing comparison
between the concentration camps in
Germany and what's going on here
basically like he does this hypothetical
where it's like what if this basically
about raising alarm in a similar way AOC
is you can find parallels going on in
Germany and those concentration camps if
I'm not mistaken pre-existed the Nazi
Party Nazi Party taking power so like
even like it's not like there's a lot it
it's terrifying parallels so check that
out if you want to sure up your
arguments when it comes to the fact that
these are concentration camps absolutely
all right
