CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people then
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday December 10th 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Barnard hardcourt author the
counter-revolution how our government
went to war against its own citizens
also on the program today
[Music]
no one remotely sane wants to be Trump's
chief of staff meanwhile Chuck and Nancy
head to the White House fortunately and
hopefully constrained by their now
stronger left flank and on the week of
the six-year anniversary of Sandy Hook
new report shows that 2018 the worst
year for gun violence in schools in
history meanwhile Friday filings drop
against Cohen and mana Ford first off
the Southern District of New York US
Attorney's Office their files
document Cohen's felonious activity and
directly implicates Donald Trump in that
felony ain't gonna mean much but it's
nice to know and afford filing reveals
even a broader range of contacts between
administration and transition fischels
with Russian operatives meanwhile the
driver who killed the Nazi driver killed
Heather hire found guilty of murder
coming out of showers Ville Trump calls
for an even bigger defense budget now
topping seven hundred and fifty billion
dollars antitrust lawsuit expands to an
investigation of price-fixing amongst
300 drugs by a pharma cabal meant loot
Rowdies last chance is days away and
Chicago charter school teachers and
their strike successfully maybe well
last week forgot to mention the Boston
Marriott strike is a big win for workers
or could be nationwide and lastly Kevin
McGinnis is now officially unemployed
all this and more on today's program
ladies and gentlemen yes it's another
Friday
excuse me Monday Friday if I remember
correctly it was last week Michael is
out today he's getting no no one's
getting yeah getting his hair done it's
a hair done day that's a big week for
him but everybody else is here and with
bells on let me just die
touch on this news because this is you
know they say in in drama you want it
you put that loaded gun on the in the
drawer at the beginning of act 1 and
then it makes everything tense for
everybody and so check off and and it
makes everything tense for everybody and
oh you know we don't want to do that so
let's just get this out of the way the
proud boys founder Gavin McGinnis
apparently has lost his gig with his
show get off my lawn you forever
that's my common quote I say it's
you forever we're done yeah that's his
common quote he says forever Glenn Beck
said get off my network apparently Glenn
Beck now as you recall last week we
reported that the blaze and CR T V
merged now I I don't you listen let me
just put it this way if you work for
either one of those entities and you
want to tell me stuff about it you can
email me at majority reporters at
gmail.com and tell me stuff because I'm
fascinated I've done some digging to see
if I could figure out who funds
conservative review they paid out a
massive massive fee to mark Stein a
couple of months ago four million
dollars in an arbitration hearing this
is from mediators so it's not even like
a court case it means that he had to
have had a contract at least that big
and there's no way mark Stein is gonna
generate that type of revenue for anyone
I'm sorry and so I can only imagine what
these people have been getting paid and
I'm curious if they must have exercised
some type of like morality clause or
morals clause with Gavin because
otherwise we'd be hearing him about
getting paid out yeah my understanding
was no one was watching his show but he
obviously
provided them some publicity now it
appears with the blaze and see our TV
merging that they don't want that kind
of publicity anymore now there's some
report that Glenn Beck is on the radio
right now talking about how he had no
idea what's going on so there's like a
the trumpian like I had I just got a
call that you got fired by Kelly I can't
believe it I'm really really upset about
this of course I've got in touch with
what's going on it's just me like
supposed to be woke now to Glenn Beck
and that was like I think that lasted
for a short leash oh yeah I think that
was that that was like a three-month
period you know when your business is
going down the tubes you will attempt to
do a bunch of different things now Glenn
Beck's business as you know contracted I
mean tremendously over the past three
years
epically but he still has a good email
list and so combining with CR TV which
may still have some cash and some shows
who knows but for whatever reason gap
McGinnis is now without a gig on and so
I would say if I'm Gavin right now I'm
doing one of two things I'm either
saying like well screw this I might as
well go back to being the white
nationalist that I was but the problem
is he doesn't have the ability to make
any money off it now and there's a lot
of heat on that now yeah he just wasn't
me he wasn't even making money
he wasn't drawing people then so it's
not like he has a big audience if he had
a big audience he could go do what we're
doing this is easy to set up I was lucky
I came from Air America I had an email
list of people I had an audience and I
was able to reach them theoretically
right Gavin has an audience and to set
up a camera and a microphone he's got
this stuff lying around in his basement
so I would suggest a Gavin go down into
your basement start doing your show
you're funny
as far as you know and so so either that
will happen or Gavin is going to sort
them for suddenly like maybe go into
some type of program you know and come
out the other end and same I've dealt
with my problems whatever they were drug
alcohol you know insecurity incontinence
whatever the problem was
I've dealt with it I've been in an
inpatient facility for you know 60 days
or 30 days now I'm coming out and I'm
I'm a much more benign guy and maybe I
can get a job at vh1 hosting some weird
sideshow or something
he was just intoxicated for twenty years
on the kinds of drugs that turn you into
a racist misogynist piece of I mean
that may require a 60 day stint to get
over but that's those are the two
options that's it so as you said before
sound drop you forever that's my
common quote I say it's you forever
we're done yep there you go you should
have trademarked that meantime oh yeah
here we go one of today's uh one of
today's sponsors is privacy at privacy
dot-com slash majority privacy calm is a
totally free service it lets you buy
anything online without having to give
out your credit card number and it lets
you prevent companies from overcharging
you here's how it works you take a
couple of minutes to link your bank
account to your privacy comm account and
then you're able to create a virtual
credit card numbers which are linked to
your bank account you can create as many
virtual cards as you want you can delete
them you can freeze them and unfreeze
them you can set limits on each card
it's great for signing up for free
trials because you can just create a
virtual card once and delete it knowing
you'll never be charged once the trial
is over
I mean not only if I started using this
but I've read up on it quite a bit
and
people who are uptight about their
credit-card information being stolen
about getting overcharged like I am give
this service big thumbs up and
apparently they get their cut from you
know more or less like the way credit
cards do in terms of a fee but it
doesn't come from the consumer so it's
great for signing up for free trials you
can create a virtual card once delete it
knowing you'll never be charged once the
trial is over that's also awesome
there's a lot of stuff out there I'm
like I'll take the 30 days check this
out and then you forget and then you you
know six weeks later you realize like
I've been charged you can avoid that it
protects you when companies get hacked
in people's information is stolen
because you're not giving out your real
credit card number that's extremely
helpful each card is locked to a
merchant so you're totally protected
against fraud and unauthorized use of
your card privacy coms mobile app and
desktop browser extension make it
incredibly easy to manage your wallet uh
virtual cards and allow you to autofill
your virtual card number to click of a
button when you're shopping online there
are countless different advantages to
using a service like this to pay your
bills and buy things online you can find
out more get 100% free and unlimited
access by going to privacy dot-com slash
majority that's privacy dot-com slash
majority we have a link in our podcasts
description and in below our video
another of today's sponsors Skillshare
and the first 500 people I don't think
there would be that many left now but
check it out who go to sk l dot s h
slash majority are going to get two
whole months of totally free access to
skill shares entire library of super
quality online courses and tutorials
Skillshare is a vibrant online learning
community that offers courses on
everything from design to video editing
photography business technology cooking
mediation everything in between
there are skill share courses for
everyone you'll have no problem finding
courses that will be useful to you in
both your personal and your professional
life
you can sharpen your skills with
something you already love doing or
learn how to do something that you've
been waiting to learn to do sometimes in
my case for decades they of course is
for entrepreneurs of course on computer
coding web development personal
nutrition I probably could use that one
to learning new languages Photoshop that
one is on my list you name it
like I'm mentioning I was very excited
this weekend because I took like one of
the what's the the knife cutting course
you know for a way you do chef and I use
some of that technique on an onion this
weekend as I made lackeys very nice yeah
knife cutting 101 I felt pretty good
about it I mean I think people can
probably get a little more ambitious
with some of these other courses but you
get two entire months of free access to
every single course offered by
Skillshare by going to SK l dot s H
slash majority just think of everything
you'll have at your fingertips for two
whole months
again that's sk l dot s h slash majority
i put a link in again in the podcasts
description and underneath any video you
may watch lastly there is no need to
suffer through another sleepless night i
use this product last night calming
comfort by sharper image is the
luxurious weighted blanket that helps
you relax so you can fall asleep and
stay asleep naturally fifteen pounds
it's designed with high density comfort
fill to provide exactly the right amount
of weight to help relax your body it
mimics the soothing feeling of being
hugged helps the production of serotonin
and melatonin you can sleep better feel
great and stress less plus made with
supersoft Velveteen material calming
comfort is 100% machine washable and
dryer safe that's a big deal a lot of
the the comfort blankets that you get
the weighted ones you can't wash them in
the
machine that's super annoying oh you
know what else is great about calming
comfort well wait a blanket if you want
my son Saul to come in to your bed to
sleep with you because he likes your
blanket this is the one to get it's not
guarantee though now I can't guarantee
that I mean because I don't know how far
he'll walk but lay put this way you get
one you have it I will tell him to go
there
just understand it's gonna happen about
5:15 in the morning calm and comfort
weighted blanket comes with a 90-day
anxiety free stress free best night's
sleep your knife a life guarantee from
the sharper image right now for our
listeners only you can go to calming
comfort blanket calm that's all one word
calming comfort blanket obviously
then.com use the promo code majority a
check out receive 15% off the displayed
price that's calming comfort blanket
calm promo code majority and because you
can't put a price on a great night's
sleep go online now calming comfort
blanket calm promo code majority for
your special discount today so as we've
said apparently they cannot find anybody
to be chief of staff look how long are
they were talking about firing John
Kelly
I mean months and months and months
and apparently Trump was negotiating and
has been talking to and assuming that
Nick Aires the chief of staff of Mike
Pence was going to move over into this
position and it is unclear why Ayres
isn't doing it I've seen a couple things
one there's something to do with
Greitens he's got some tied into that
that scandal the the former governor of
Missouri was it and there's also people
who say like he wants to get out of the
White House he just said you don't want
to be tied to Trump
because the stuff is gonna come down and
he obviously can't stay and be Pence's
chief of staff because trumps gonna be
like wait what you turn me down
but you can work for him not for me
that's no good so you got to take one
for the team this is you know sacrifice
fly you walk out of the building
essentially but the Fox and Friends guys
they have another theory as to why no
one who in their right mind wants to be
even come like within feet of this job
well
these jobs are they're very difficult
the president apparently works around
the clock they don't get paid a lot of
money when you consider how expensive
Washington DC is and then you have Nick
Ayers who says he wants to be with his
family he has triplets young young
children wants to go back to Jordan put
hash tag George on that's right
it doesn't mmm yeah George but I don't
know if you're good to keep up he's Owen
Cinelli for some ungodly reason this
young guy right fairly young guy he's
managed to amass what is it thirty
million dollars in the course of his
public service Wow Mike can I just have
you achieve his staff so basically
what's happened there yeah that's
basically what happens in these arms I
think I think it just at one point that
realize like oh this isn't gonna be good
for Pence and for Ayers is not gonna be
good for them so time to leave the
building but of course it's because it's
so expensive in DC I remember when these
guys were going on and on about how
difficult it was for people like AOC
they laughed at that notion and I Got
News for you when you go down as a
congressperson you've got to maintain
two residences one in your home district
one in in DC when you have when you have
thirty million dollars you'll have to go
to Georgia you can bring your family to
DC when you're working full time for the
white house so it seems a little bit and
of course you know Steve minuchin I
think he can afford live in Washington
apparently he's turned down the
president Mick Mulvaney is already there
minuchin was gonna be chief of staff
they
for two - apparently that's what it's
being reported no a little a little
close no all right folks we're gonna
take quick break when we come back we're
gonna be talking to Bernard Harcourt he
is the Isidore in Seville Sol's Bakr
professor of law and professor of
political science at Columbia University
author of the counter-revolution how our
government went to war against its own
citizens
you
axé Sam cedar on the majority report on
the phone it is a pleasure to welcome to
the program
the Isidore in Seville Saul Baca a
professor of law and professor of
political science at Columbia University
and author of his latest the
counter-revolution how our government
went to war against its own citizens
Bernard Harcourt welcome to the program
thank you Sam Feder so let's start with
this this question let's start from here
I mean right that we that our government
has been in a what you call a state of
exception for about 20 years what what
does that mean yeah so you know I
actually argue that it's it's become so
normalized that what would ordinarily be
thought of as a state of exception or as
exceptional has just become the way
we've come to govern in this country so
what I'm arguing essentially is that
since 9/11 we've adopted a new way of
governing and controlling Society in the
United States and it comes from the way
that we started to engage foreign
countries in Iraq and Afghanistan and
more broadly but that that method kind
of has come home to roost and and what I
what I argue is that it's really a form
of counterinsurgency warfare that we
started to use after 9/11 in our war in
Iraq that gradually expanded across
military operations and into foreign
affairs so that we were starting to use
counterinsurgency paradigms outside of
the war zone and that those those ways
of governing those ways of controlling
populations have come home and have been
domesticated and we're using them at
home and what I'm what I'm talking about
are the methods of counterinsurgency
warfare that basically involve kind of
identifying an internal end
which of course in Iraq or Afghanistan
would be the the the supporters the
originally al-qaeda and now we've
extended to Isis but that that mentality
of trying to identify that internal
enemy and then eliminate it but also win
the hearts and minds of the population
is a way of thinking in a way of
governing that we've now transplanted
back to the United States so that so
that now particularly under the trump
administration but this was true
previously it's been true since really
since 9/11 we're using this notion of an
internal enemy to kind of govern and and
pacify Americans and you know I think
you hear it very clearly when President
Trump talks so much about the caravan
the caravan which is intended to
identify a whole set of internal enemies
in this country of kind of undocumented
mostly a patina or Hispanic undocumented
persons but more broadly it becomes it
becomes kind of Mexican Americans etc
and that that idea of an internal enemy
or or with the Muslim ban right the idea
that we had to be so careful about you
know all Muslims but also American
Muslims and that that idea the internal
enemy starts to be what we use to govern
in this country and and and and tend to
quiet us to quiet the population to to
kind of win the hearts and minds of the
of the American people now okay so let's
and and and and I we should know that I
think you started the book and
anticipated the book
as coming out with a you know the during
maybe at the beginning of a Clinton
administration so I Trump's ascendancy
has has sort of solidified some of your
your thesis but let's go let's go let's
go prior to 9/11 and just or give me a
sense of the development of this
counterinsurgency strategy because on
some level well do that and then I'll
take it from there
oh sure okay yeah so the the kind of the
counterinsurgency approach was a mode of
warfare that really was developed mostly
in the 1950s and 60s I mean there were
precursors of kind of in the Philippines
when when the u.s. fought the war the
Philippines and at the beginning of the
20th century but really it was really
kind of refined in the 1950s during the
colonial uprisings and during the Wars
of Independence in in Indochina for the
French or Algeria for the French Malaya
for the British and of course Vietnam
for the United States so it was a
different way of doing warfare of being
at war different from the more classical
large battlefield style of warfare with
strategies that were very different it
was sometimes it was called
unconventional warfare sometimes it was
called anti-guerrilla warfare it came to
be known as counterinsurgency warfare it
had a number of names some some called
it modern warfare but it's this idea of
kind of the unconventional way of
fighting war which is when you have a
very different kind of enemy right it's
a symmetric right I mean that is a the
okay right yeah I mean it's asymmetric
because you're not fighting a large
another an opponent on on a battlefield
with you know many soldiers or
battalions or tanks lined up against you
you're fighting you're fighting in the
in the in the brushes and the bushes and
the wherever it is in the Kasbah against
Sergent faction an armed revolutionary
insurgent faction that's where it kind
of came from in the colonies mostly and
and so we should say that it is almost I
mean maybe not exclusively but but I
think I mean you tell me
associated with colonial projects right
with imperialistic projects someone is
yeah is occupying someone else's country
essentially exactly right I mean this
was it was it was this this mode of
warfare really emerged hand-in-hand with
the colonial enterprise and and it was
it was refined predominantly during the
anti colonial uprisings and so it's
really tied to that notion of having an
internal enemy in the population that
you are governing right the colonial
population having having a small group
of insurgents and having an insurrection
of course it was it was the the theories
that were developed so the theories that
were developed in the 1950s by French
commanders in Indochina and an Algerian
British in Malaya people like David
pallulah or Roger clanky a French
commanders or Thompson the British
counterinsurgency commanders those those
were developed against insurrections
that had often a Maoist communist
inspiration to them and so a lot of the
strategies that were developed in a very
interesting way kind of took a mouse way
of thinking about the population and
tried in effect to do what Mao was doing
but better against against the Maoist
insurgency or just against the you know
the Vietcong for instance and and the
idea here was that Mao has been a great
strategist of course he'd succeeded in
the in the Chinese Revolution in the
late
19:40 so he but he had a particular
vision of society and you know there are
those famous quotes of Mao about the
fact that you know the insurgents need
to swim in the water like fish and and
that idea was basically that you had a
small group of insurgents that needed to
befriend and win the sympathy of a
passive majority in order then to expel
the what they considered to be what they
considered to be the oppressive minority
that was maintaining rule in the country
now what's really interesting is that
the French the British the American
commanders who adopted counterinsurgency
theory basically kind of took a hook
line and sinker the kind of kind of view
that Mao had of society of there being a
small insurrectional group of there
being a passive majority the passive
masses who could go one way or the other
and of a small counter-revolutionary
minority as well and so that vision of
the world was essentially adopted by the
counter insurgent but then of course
they flipped it upside down in order to
then try to you know target and
eliminate the small minority of
insurgents and to win the hearts and
minds of the population now that's what
developed in the 1950s and 60s as
counterinsurgency theory the RAND
Corporation was really important to its
development and and it was used of
course abroad not I mean only
intermittently successfully I mean it
was used very much for instance in the
in Algiers during the Battle of Algiers
to wipe out the FLN at that point but of
course they lost the war so it wasn't it
wasn't ultimately successful but it had
certain techniques that were involved so
the use of torture for purposes of
interrogation getting information
I mean you have to get you have to get
total information on the population not
just on the people that you're targeting
because you need to be able to
distinguish that small active insurgency
from the general population so you want
these forms of Total Information
Awareness which for instance in Algeria
was done with torture you want to you
want to really target heavily and and
and and brutally that small minority and
that was done some forms of basically
summary executions people being thrown
out of helicopters into the
Mediterranean and and you wanted to work
on the population which was the idea of
the hearts and minds what developed in
Vietnam as the hearts with the work
that's called hearts and minds trying to
win over the population and their
sympathies those strategies were kind of
refined during those colonial and anti
colonial wars and then after 9/11 what I
would argue is that we we then turned to
those strategies after 9/11 and and
refined them more and started expanding
them and ultimately bringing them home
and domesticating them and so in and and
I I remember during those early years of
the Iraq war hearing stories that they
were playing battle of for Algiers in in
the Pentagon and and and to a certain
extent Donald Rumsfeld wanted to reach a
you know change our military to reflect
this new reality where you know this
post-world War World War I me excuse me
Cold War reality where we're going to be
going in and we're going to be from the
perspective of the MAOIs we're going to
be the minority oppressors right and
it's basically just you know two
factions on one side of a sort of a
passive middle I guess you know
extensive middle that aren't willing to
pick up a gun on either side essential
right but might provide food or support
or sometimes again and eventually kind
of
actually the kind of consent and
legitimacy that a that a government
needs really to run you know I mean so
you know in the end governments do need
some you know acceptance on behalf of
the vast majority of the population
otherwise they just you know can't
function properly and so it's that
winning that kind of the the passive
masses that this theory is is what
matters what matters most now and at the
beginning you were entirely right I mean
to return to you know the Rumsfeld era
the early era post 9/11 we did see
precisely the kind of techniques that
had been used in Algeria being used by
US forces and by the CIA so the
extensive torture of those captured
including actually when you compare some
of the use of torture it was even it was
even more brutal I mean for so for
instance the Senate torture report found
that on one suspect you know water was
administered a hundred and eighty three
times I mean a hundred and eighty-three
applications the water yeah during
waterboarding which with it was much
more expensive actually than then than
what was used in Algeria but but so
these different strategies come together
of trying to get total information which
was also done through NSA programs like
prism and upstream etcetera at one point
in 2002 there was an attempt to
institute tips I guess which was a total
information total information prior I
can't remember what what it stood for
but at one point they were going to have
postman and cable cable service people
when they come into your house basically
report on you if you had like you know
the functional equivalent of a Che
Guevara poster hanging in in your
apartment all right but
so but let me ask you this so who when
we say we right when we say we've
adopted these things who who are those
entities and by what manner and I would
also add maybe I'm loading up this
question too much but in the scenarios
that we're talking about there's a
pretty clear insurgency right I mean
there's the oppressive there's the
people who are they that come into the
country try and take over the country
and then there's a pretty clear
insurgency we know who they are because
they're blowing up things or they're
taking over depots or they're you know
destroying a bridge or controlling a
bridge in the countryside well how did
we what what's the process in which we
manufacture that right right yeah so
there's a lot in that question yes I did
a few things and try and give you the
the the arc of my argument here you
started by talking about the we who is
the we you know and and that's a tricky
one because I let me just start by
saying and then on and then I'll explain
a little bit the trajectory but I I
don't want to always be pointing fingers
and at other people and and always
talking about you know they doing this
to us or something because in in large
part we're we're a part of all of this
way of governing and and and and even
you know the even even when we're
protesting I mean the fact that you know
we're not protesting enough to end this
in some way makes us all I feel somewhat
kind of a part of it but I'll come back
to that but let me get to the other part
of the question which is you know how
does it get domesticated how does it
come back and how is it different in
this country when there isn't an
uprising or an insurrection so you know
I argue that the way that it comes back
is basically through forms of technology
and know-how that come back
mostly through military through the
military so a ton of Department of
Defense programs that allow Police
Department's for instance to buy all the
equipment and all the tanks and all the
scopes and the night scopes and the and
the and the weapons etc that means that
pretty soon our domestic Police
Department's are starting to look as if
they're straight out of some
counterinsurgency manual right right
1033 program I think they call it
exactly exactly right that's the beauty
program that allows the excess property
to be bought a very low cost by police
departments that then load up on you
know armored tank vehicles and and night
scopes and just the full military gear
that all of a sudden you've got you know
and the pictures when when we saw for
instance the the protests at Ferguson or
in Baltimore where all of a sudden
you've got civilians and t-shirts facing
against what looks as if the military a
police that functionally looks like a
military just walked out of some moat in
Afghanistan right so you've got a lot of
equipment that's coming back that way
you've got a lot of know-how right so
what happens is in in 2006 General David
Petraeus who head of operations of in in
Iraq and basically rewrites the
counterinsurgency well and distributes
it to all of the soldiers and that 2006
manual was very interesting because it
was really it really was built on the
theoretical work of the French and
British commanders David Petraeus is a
is a is a erudite scholarly general who
had been who is very infatuated by the
the French and British counterinsurgency
commanders and who inserted them all
over that manual so it was very much
infused by the counterinsurgency in
1950s and 60s but of course that manual
then gets distributed to everybody and
all
of our brave men and women who are in
the army fighting our Wars then imbibe
it right it becomes kind of second
nature for for everyone everyone starts
to see the world in this way with you
know a small insurgent an active little
minority in a passive population and and
the different strategies and whatnot and
that becomes second nature and then of
course as all those men and women come
back to the United States and many many
who might end up working in security or
police all of those techniques and
know-how become second nature so that
you know the the police officers who
were say on a SWAT team are raised
basically deploying the same kind of
techniques that have been honed in Iraq
and Afghanistan the same kind of way of
dealing with an emergency situation with
a suspect etc work in the room all of
the that all of the movements all
deployments are basically forms of
counterinsurgency warfare and then and
then you get this kind of created but
the but there of course there isn't an
insurgency in this country at least I
would argue there isn't so you have the
needed fabrication of an internal enemy
and I think we've seen that mostly
during the trump administration as the
kind of final iteration of this
counterinsurgency paradigm with the
creation of the internal enemy and
Muslims I mean Trump has really done so
much work during his campaign and during
his presidency to turn all Muslims and
American Muslims into an enemy an
internal enemy and he's done the same
with mexican-americans started by
calling Mexicans rapists and and with
all this business about the caravan he's
been able to kind of convert those into
that that that idea of an active
insurgency that we need to
repress and I think that you just saw it
perfectly crystallized during the run-up
to the midterm came right because I mean
it you know that was such Trump was just
beating a drum about this caravan and
how dangerous these people were and of
course alluding to the undocumented
population in this country right and
really I mean it is as if he ran the
whole final stages of the midterm
campaign on this counterinsurgency idea
of an internal enemy I mean it was just
remarkable and of course after that you
you you heard so much less about this
enemy but it was clear that it was a way
to control the population right of
course it was a way to get people to
vote it was but it's also just a way to
control the population and much of the
distraction mechanisms that he uses I
would say is a way to kind of win our
hearts and minds or to pacify the
American population because we're
spending so much time following who's
gotten fired and who's gotten hired and
all of the palace intrigue that we
really have hardly any time to discuss
the substantive issues you know when's
the last time you heard someone talk
about drones and drone drone you know
what the the the the innocent lives that
are often the collateral consequence of
drones I mean we don't even talk about
that even though we're using drones more
right of the trumpet raishin than we
were under the Obama administration and
the Obama administration was pretty much
a you know that that was their trademark
with drone warfare but we don't even we
don't even talk about it anymore because
we're just so busy distracted by you
know the latest tweet and just firing
and we I mean obviously present company
excepted but but we do this five days a
week and so we have a little more but
yes as a society we're not focusing on
it I'm not convinced as a society
frankly we were focusing on a much
journey right right but there are
pockets and
but I'm not you know one of the
exceptions but we were talking about it
during the Trump during the Obama years
either though I mean truth be told and
and and certainly there was a lot more
support for the Obama administration
then there was then there is at least
apparently now for the Trump
administration right and so and and part
of that might have been you know a part
of the dynamic coming out of you know
sort of major casualties that we were
taking you know during the Iraq war as
opposed to we're not taking any
casualties during the drone war we're
just creating casualties alright so I
get the and and you know we've talked on
this program I think it was Charlie
Savage some years ago wrote a not a
full-length book but getting an extended
essay on the Obama administration
essentially legalizing the extrajudicial
stuff that the Trump administration did
in codifying it in our law but but does
I mean this sticking point of creating
an internal enemy like Donald Trump he
did this with the caravan but it by by
any measure other than cable news
coverage
he failed right I mean he may be
succeeding to a certain extent but we
still have the majority of the country
can't does not accept his premise I mean
so well tell me about that dynamic
because if the theory is that you must
convince a passive middle one our
middles not quite as passive as passive
but it's not quite as passive as it may
have been frankly during the Obama years
in some respects and into he's not doing
a good job of that right yeah so so the
and this this is a really important
point you're making the theory is that
the masses are passive
in counterinsurgency theory right and
can be swayed when where the other and
that they need to be pacified now I
don't I don't believe that that is
actually true of society and of our
society right we we we tend to it get so
internalized this kind of
counterinsurgency paradigm that pretty
soon we're all starting to view the
world through it I mean that's the
that's the most dangerous thing about
this way of governing is that you know
we start to we start to take it for
granted or start to believe that for
instance we start to believe that there
is an insurgency in this country so when
there are certain acts and and and and
most of the extremely violent acts these
days are actually the are are I would
say unstable individuals mostly
lone-wolf unstable individuals were then
kind of appealing to some ideology and
most of the time now they're appealing
to extreme right kind of white
supremacist ideology but even you know
but and we don't and we don't factor
that into this entire this whole
counterinsurgency way of thinking but
when we do see acts that then do appeal
to Isis or or some extreme a
fundamentalist you know specter of Islam
we then start to believe that there is
maybe an insurgency in this country so
one of the most dangerous things about
this way of governing in this whole
mentality is that we start to see it we
start to believe it we start to think
that it's right particularly on this
question of whether there is an
insurgency right it's it's it's it's
almost once once the reasoning is in our
mind then it's
kind of project with a dart you know one
act and say oh right okay that is the
act of minority but similarly as you
were saying we some some start to think
that maybe you know the the masses or
the population is passive I don't I
don't actually think it is and so when
we look at what was a remarkable turn
out for the last midterm much more
remarkable than in previous episodes
midterm episodes and I think you see
actually a reflection that it's probably
not right to be viewing the world this
way right but but it does have a way of
becoming the lens through which a lot of
people in this country start to think
about what's going on right well I mean
what strikes me is that the you know the
the middle to the extent that we can
talk about the middle but what we're
talking about allows people have sort of
dubbed themselves the resistance I mean
we can to what extent they're you know
they're resisting is is of question but
at least that's the branding right and
that's a lot bigger of a cohort than the
small insurgency but it also occurs to
me that on one hand we are this is we
this resistance as it were may be
fighting against the Trump
administration but does not seem to have
a problem with the paradigm that and
that is existed before the Trump
administration and will exist after the
Trump administration right like nobody's
the one thing that we're doing is not
getting rid of the AUMF nobody's talking
about getting rid of the Patriot Act I
mean all this stuff is staying is
staying put essentially right and yeah
and and that was the point of the book
and you were entirely right or earlier
to say that you know much of it was
written much of my thinking about it was
written thinking that we were going to
have a Hillary Clinton administration
rather than a trump administration
point of the the point of the point of
the book is that this is not this is not
new to Trump and what we've seen is
since 9/11 the same way of governing in
different flavors okay we we had the
bush flavor which was torture indefinite
detention right so one of the more
brutal forms of counterinsurgency
practices and Total Information
Awareness NSA and even more right
illicit illicit tapping which was which
was ultimately blocked by by Comey but
ash cross was being asked to decide to
you know author continue to authorize
elicit wire but Muller was was
infiltrating Muslim student groups you
know all around right you know yeah yeah
I know I know I know I mean the NYP the
NYPD in New York City was sending an
undercover agent on you know whitewater
rafting trips by students here yeah at
the city universe
right that that's right after 9/11 they
were in I remember correctly they were
set up in New Jersey they were set up as
far north as Connecticut yeah in
Connecticut then when BB had this like
had mapped like Newark y'all of Newark
with all of the different Muslim
populations by nationality maps that
like geo coded maps every single you
know a little halal store there was a
picture of it with a description of how
many you know eight seats they had in
the in the store it was it was the it
was typical it was it was classic
counterinsurgency information gathering
that was being done but the important
year point and you made it earlier right
is that under the Obama administration
the same way of governing continued it
was again counterinsurgency it was just
of a different flavor right so we turned
to drones as a way to knock out that
insurgent minority rather than
torture and indefinite detention and we
we used different policies but we but we
legalized a lot of this as well under
the Obama administration so we legalized
the idea of assassinating an American
citizen abroad without without any trial
or anything right I mean that's that's
radical when you think about it and it
how contrary it is to the tradition of
due process in this country but that was
made possible by a more legalistic but
but but entirely counter insurgent mode
of governing under the Obama
administration and that's why at the
beginning I was resistant to call this a
state of exception because I actually
call it a state of legality we've made
everything legal even these you know
even the even the torture when you look
at the torture memos that went back and
forth right that was it was all efforts
to make it legal right to make the most
illegal practice in you know
international law legal somehow right
and and that's what we've done pretty
much over the course of the past almost
well pretty soon it'll be two decades
we've we've legalized these exceptional
measures associated with
counterinsurgency practices so so lastly
how do we how do we reverse this how do
we how is what is with legitimate
resistance to this paradigm not as its
exercised or operated by Trump
necessarily but you know robert muller
now is like you know it's like I don't
know some combination of Santa Claus and
George Washington but he certainly was
you know as an important cog in sort of
building this apparatus that you're
talking about at least domestic
in one part of it as anybody Barack
Obama you know put it into a legal
framework in many respects that's what I
mean much of his project was some of it
was discarded but but but the vast
majority of it was was sort of legalized
what how do we what's the the plan to do
change this right well I would say that
the first thing we need to do is
understand the continuities and
understand the underlying logic of the
way we're governing today and that's the
project of the book I mean in other
words to make people understand that you
know the the Bush administration is is
instantiating a new new variation on
this theme but isn't unique in this way
and that many of the kind of forces from
the middle actually have in the past and
continue to support this
counterinsurgency way of governing and
so I think we need to take a we need to
take a step back and of course I mean
it's hard to given the intensity of some
of the some of these policies that Trump
has put in place because you're just
battling against you know the the the
immigration policies etc so so you're so
focused on these particular policies
like the Muslim ban or the you know a
ban on asylums etc but I think that we
need to you know we need to struggle
against those radical policies but we
also need to take a step back and see
that it's not simply going back to those
policies of kind of sanitized or
legalized counter
urgency that is really going to move us
into a political space where we want
where we really want to be right and so
one thing is awareness and raising these
issues and talking about them and then
the other is putting in place more
probably a more radical approach that
not only challenges Trump's excesses but
also challenges that the regularity of
what we've seen in terms of
counterinsurgency policies that also
challenges our foreign policy the use of
the continued use of drones abroad and
that also tries to demilitarize our
police forces in this country and and
bring us back to more of a good
community oriented way of thinking about
how we govern our shared spaces
Bernard Harcourt the book is the
counter-revolution how our government
went to war against its own citizens
thank you so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thank you so much
all right folks
we will put a link obviously to the
counter-revolution how our government
went to war against its own citizens at
majority dot F M for your reading
pleasure well really you're clicking
pleasure and then the reading pleasure
is you know once we're trying to
facilitate your reading pleasure by
providing you clicking pleasure is the
way I would put it oh one of the key
biographies I wrote once upon a time
when I was a staff writer at a biography
publication was of Doug Feith who
created a lot of the legal framework for
torture during the bush to
administration and I actually got a
pissed-off letter from him because he
had found it and it made him mad so did
you say that letter I don't think I have
it anymore oh my god if we had a nickel
for every time we said Doug fights name
he was in the the DoD had set up their
own sort of like rival intelligence shop
I think in the basement of the Pentagon
right and he because it was basically to
put institutional pressure on the CIA to
come back with material that said that
the rock was involved in 9/11 and so
look competition breaks out and you know
at the marketplace in this instance the
one client was Dick Cheney the
marketplace wants this intelligence
competition would start kicking in and
competition kicked in and they got what
they want more or less and to the extent
that they didn't get what they wanted
they just made sure that it was what
they wanted innovation innovation you
have to break some things so and here we
are folks a reminder this program cannot
and does not exist but for the help of
its members some of you hear my voice
and your members and this this call
lands on on your ears as if it's sort of
like almost like a lullaby you feel so
at home because you've already you have
already become a member so it creates no
anxiety for those of you who are not
members the the the sound of my voice
right now creates in a tremendous amount
of anxiety because you have not become a
member by going to join the majority
report calm and for just a couple bucks
a week
you can support this show on a daily
basis and all our plans for the coming
new year
now look oh I forgot to say this you
guys got to remind me to say this the
beginning the show we need your
suggestions for best UPS best of if
there's like a YouTube clip or something
that you saw or a funny segment or an
interview send us an email at majority
reporters at gmail.com put best-of in
the subject line best of the word best
second word of Oh F
help us out what do you think was the
funniest thing that happened this year
what do you think was the funniest thing
what was the saddest thing that happened
what was the the most WTF the most like
yeah WTF ish thing the most what was the
what was the most Michael ish moment
that we had on the show for instance I
can say he's not here today so and maybe
that's it
also just coffee co-op very comfy tea or
chocolate 30% off I think for a couple
more days now is the time folks you ever
want to try just coffee now is the time
try it check out different blends
whatever 30% off free shipping its
tremendous now listen I don't want to
freak you out again but there is now we
are now in the double digits of tickets
left at one point we had almost 400
tickets available for the January 10th
excuse me 13th show we didn't had a
second one January 13th show at the Bell
House live majority report maybe we'll
have a guess maybe we won't
it would just be all of us maybe it
would be a guest I don't know but we're
now in double digits actually well into
double digits well below triple digits
let's put it that way I don't know how
to express it closer to zero than a
hundred so in other words you better do
it now I sort of lied to you I said
maybe it'll sell out by the end of the
year and now it looks like it's gonna
sell out by before Christmas and maybe
even before the Solstice that's that
that bodes well I think yeah check my
charts definitely so it's 15 bucks
maybe that's why super cheap and it's 18
and over maybe that's why because we get
all those 19 year olds who've been
pounded down the doors to see the
majority before live but we're working
on all sorts of crazy ass stuff and
she's got something in the mail that
may force us to make an announcement I
don't know we'll see you guys didn't see
it it's sitting there on the couch yeah
strange alright so I checked that out
and don't forget tomorrow night
Michael will be back undoubtedly cuz
tomorrow's his show he never misses that
show does he it's very healthy on
Tuesday it's very weird
we should always just tell him it
today's Tuesday what are you doing I'm
not sure who he has is a guest tomorrow
night at Tybee Oh Matt Taibbi is in
studio Matt Taibbi is also very worried
about getting sick so we'll see if he
shows very very health conscious
conscious so checkout t MBS you can find
it on any place your podcast served or
on the TMB s youtube channel
jamie here Here I am last week you were
sick I'm still sick but I'm here anyway
you got to do something about your
health yeah like a body transplant or
something I don't know well just like
quit a few of my jobs I don't know not
this one
this one pays me the best but uh yeah uh
this week on the anti fara we still have
our last week's episode out where we
recap our trip to Mexico including me
Sean's visit to an autonomous stop
Bautista community and the amazing
libertarian socialist society that they
have there also this past weekend we
recorded an episode that'll be out on
Wednesday with Justin Akers Chacon
author of radicals in the body oh my go
nice days socialist Wobblies and
communists in the Mexican American
working class and it was really inspired
by the bad immigration tape by Angela
Nagle the people were getting mad about
but this is actually a topic I've been
wanting to do for a while so I'm really
glad we got to do it and show how the
criminalization of migration actually
benefits the capitalist class more than
anyone there you go
a new literary hangover this week it's a
nonfiction
for those of you who don't like the
fiction focus it's on enhancing
MacLaine's democracy and chains we get
into which sort of the long history of
capital versus democracy and and how
libertarians have sort of played into
that and I also get into some of the
controversy around it like such as I
think uncharitable I think we could call
it quotation by Nancy McLean although I
think it's defensible and in a certain
number of cases that I looked at so if
you've been curious about that book we
kind of go through it fairly in-depth
it's about 90 minutes long so check that
out there you go all right folks do you
see that someone just tweeted me did you
know this I did not know this that
Pamela Anderson is in a has been in
annele is this true she's been in a year
and a half long romantic relationship
with Julian Assange oh yeah to be a
gossip blogger and I had to keep track
of these things why didn't you tell us
to just come up when you thought it was
common knowledge no no she's like
antiphon now she's been tweeting some
very I've been reading some of her songs
pretty sophisticated but I'm sure she'll
move beyond him soon she's got to
graduate yeah it makes me a little bit
leery of mean yeah maybe she'll come on
auntie fada we can talk about it we're
gonna have a little girl the girl talk
about her romantic choices Pamela
Anderson goes into black bloc hell yeah
there you go alright well we're gonna
take a quick break ed back fun half six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you then
[Music]
you
you
we are back it is the fun half ladies
and gentlemen it is Monday oh gosh I
forgot to do this I'm gonna have to cut
this into the yep just reminder calming
comfort by sharper image is the
luxurious weighted blanket that mimics
the soothing feeling of being hugged so
you can now sleep better feel great and
stress less the common comfort weighted
blanket comes with a 90-day anxiety free
stress free best night's sleep of your
life guarantee from sharper image and
right now for our listeners can go to
calming comfort blanket calm all one
word common comfort blanket calm use the
promo code majority at checkout to
receive 15% off the displayed price
again that's calming comfort blanket
calm promo code majority cuz you can't
put a price on a great night's sleep
right now folks there's been as you know
in in Poland there has been a climate
change summit cop 24 is what they call
it what is it climate I can't remember
what it stands for it's in Poland not
sure what the theory was doing it in
Poland I think they were sort of pushing
coal as a country but maybe that's part
of the reason you take it into the sort
of the belly of the beast there was a
massive protest hundreds of front line
leaders in US youth just completely took
over the Trump administration's farcical
clean fossil fuels panel a cop twenty
four and then walked out here's the room
before the action as you can see ton of
people in there a lot of a media and
then after the action virtually all
empty
but for the media
and here's a video of that last movement
a moment during the Trump administration
sided event I guess it was at cop 24
where protesters interrupted to urge the
panel to essentially not dig up any more
fossil fuels
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
there you go so I guess they started off
by basically as a group just starting to
laugh hysterically at what the the Trump
administration was presenting in terms
of the clean coal technology it's a good
bit and and then moments after that they
they walked out I'm sure
Tucker Carlson's gonna do a half-hour on
where's the civility listen to what they
have to say yeah why why why are you
afraid of clean coal technology
it says clean coal what more do you want
that's why I think this is disingenuous
and all they want to do is make
everything socialist and never make them
happy do you really want to drive when a
horse and buggy yeah I wonder how did
they get to Poland they take a steamship
what or what a nuclear-powered steam
ship or solar-powered wind boat no they
all flew with their iPhones probably
that is just I actually think we could
probably put a bet down on that so
you're very predictable see if trade
sports is offering a does that spill
around or predict it it's a different
one is it predicted go see if predicted
has what the odds is that Tucker Carlson
says something to the fact that they
flew those protesters flew there with
jet fuel how dare they
let's go to the phones you come from a
three one five area code who's this
where you come from uh hello
typically lexicon on how my name is
Michael I'm from Austin Texas but the
area code is actually a New York well
Michael that is TMI but uh but if you're
an awesome that's fine do you live in
Austin Texas are you just visiting yes I
do uh I'm actually from Texas originally
but I was in the military so stationed
near Syracuse and I went to school up
there afterwards oh okay good enough all
right so you're Michael from Texas from
Austin oh yes sir what's on your mind
um so I didn't I can't
I guess most the second half because you
had : yeah
and so I'm prior military I'm a combat
veteran and you know he's talking about
the you know convoy the militarization
of the police and I have to say even as
a veteran like I I really agree with it
like I'm I mean I'm kind of against well
I'm very much against it and I said a
lot of my friends that went to work for
the police afterwards and they have kind
of like that occupation mindset and it's
just to be perfectly honest I'm not so
sure that the military background is the
best thing for police departments and I
I think if I mean I've always had the
idea I think you know community policing
is important and there needs to be like
a emphasis on maybe police getting a
degree in social work or something along
those lines right but uh yeah I'm just
very much against the militarization of
it I mean I think on some level I
certainly I mean I totally get what
you're saying here right you come with a
certain mentality you've been trained in
a certain environment and that
environment does not exist in our cities
in the United States yet it's very hard
if you are you know in some respects
not quite geared up but some ways geared
up in the same way that you were in the
military to react to to react to
everyone around you in the same way that
you would have in that situation but but
be just a little bit more explicit from
your perspective if you're comfortable
doing so yeah I'm sorry bit nervous so
um so you see a lot of like this you
know like thin blue line all this kind
of nonsense and it just again I I think
that people exclusively you know people
that were you know in combat arms within
the military tender have the mindset of
you know like the occupying force I mean
and I think they carry that over to the
police
and I think it's just it's bad for
everyone's bad for community what does
that mentality look like the the
mentality of where an occupying force
okay so I would have to say nowhere in
this very sound great okay so it's
really someone who's nothing free like
myself you know you go out every day on
deployment and no matter what you're
doing even if it's like counters the
operations because what I largely did
you know you always you know you expect
everyone's up to no good
you don't really trust anyone and you
know you're trained you know to engage
in kills me and I feel like I just I've
seen so many people make the transition
from that environment to the police and
it kind of had that same attitude right
you know they they are more of an
occupying force they're not there to
help so much if that makes sense makes
total sense I mean there's a fascinating
book that Chris Hayes wrote about that
is that that runs parallel to this a
colony in a nation that specifically
talks about the way that his theory
about the way that essentially black
people experienced the police in this
country versus the way that white people
do obviously you know these are
you know broadly speaking he's talking
about these things and the the mentality
is that some people are you know the
police are there to protect and serve
and in others the police are there to
control and and sort of sequester and
and certainly the the influx of people
who have been trained with that's what
their mentality Madhu in this role is is
I would imagine at the very least
enhancing it society-wide
yeah it's a problem it is it's it's a
big problem yeah we shouldn't have yeah
and we shouldn't have frankly a military
that has that type of experience yeah
that's the only thing I was no no I like
people people shouldn't be subject to
this people shouldn't be subject to
those kinds of occupying methods
anywhere yes yeah and you know we're
completely from the idea of community
policing which is the only way to
effectively police at us and especially
like if you're working in a city or a
county where you're not even from it's
just it's just a recipe for disaster and
I think that's a lot of over smooth yeah
Michael I appreciate the phone call
thanks for calling man okay thank you
and also it's kind of caught me off
guard
thank you someone else you did grab
thanks man thanks thank you
Colin from an 8 for 7 area code who's
this where you come from
Sam it's Josh in Chicago Josh in Chicago
what is on your mind not pulling the
same thing that Michael just did
where are you Josh if you don't mind us
telling I'm in a room all right fair
enough
Josh in a room what's on your mind Josh
first of all Sam Jamie Pamela Anderson
is dating French footballer
a deal Rami like come on people did she
move on she dating two guys what's going
on either you know I I that's why she
was the crimp I am not as heavily
invested in Pamela Anderson as people
seem to think that I was because we
exclaimed that she had set out a bunch
of tweets that I thought were fairly
sophisticated and interesting period and
and I got a little bit of pushback
because like well why why is that a
surprise to you because she's you know
blonde and but no it's here's here's
Harry's that here's why it was
surprising to me in the main in the main
my experience of people who make their
money and their fame and their acclaim
from wearing a bathing suit on a TV show
that I wouldn't be able to sit and watch
for four minutes five minutes do not
show up articulating really smart
analysis of some you know international
political questions and I mean I if Joey
from friends whatever that dude's name
is came out and said it
I would I would register the exact same
like wow I had no idea if I mean I mean
I feel like we've done that with sports
figures we're like what's in Gandhi is
it nothing good top of it you get
Popovich like I had no idea and I'm
impressed by that guy used to be on the
Pat a Patriots my Telus Martellus
Bennett yeah or doctor don't work Donte
Stallworth
I mean these are examples you could have
on your program I'm not saying that they
that you know was was athletes or you
know entertainers can't have good take
that would be it like wow I'm not
terribly surprised by the ability for
it's just that you know you develop a
bias against yeah it's a predisposition
I'm not biased against it I'm completely
the open to it but I didn't expect it
well she's also been all over the map in
terms of her politics and her views I
have not I have not followed her issues
but oh she used to date Kid Rock yeah
well I mean the heart wants what it
wants and there's nothing I know this I
know this you know no you know anyways I
want to talk about you guys talked about
the whole big controversy the other day
with people trying Sanders people people
like me trying to prevent beta or work
from running and I just wanted to
comment on this although you guys said
it pretty succinctly there was a you
know our friend near a tendon had a
tweet the other day where she said why
wouldn't he progresses be protesting the
carbon tax and then I think someone who
was a someone responded to I think he
said he's a truck driver and he said
basically the way to the way to solve
global warming isn't by hurting the poor
essentially and lowering taxes on the
super-rich which is what McCrone has
done and so i think from my perspective
you see a lot of these people who are
essentially it's like i don't want to
say it's not even identity politics
they're using sort of their centrist
politics that they just don't agree with
Bernie Sanders and so they aren't even
bringing up people like Stacey Abrams to
run who is way more porous they don't
like there's no question she's more
progressive or even like Andrea Gilliam
who's actually like very progressive
they like just that fundamental like
disagreements with Bernie Sanders they
think someone like Manuel McCrone is the
future and is how we should address
things like climate change or even
things like income inequality and so I
think that's sort of what's going on and
I it's important not to take the baton
away no not to get into arguments with
these people you
there they're just sort of full of
well that's the thing is that I think I
I think
look there's it's 2016 is different than
2018 2020 is going to be different than
2016 and there's a difference between
being an insurgent candidate and being
the one that has got the most popularity
there is a difference between being the
a candidate who entered the race
thinking that he was going to run on a
issue an issue campaign that was really
more about highlighting an issue versus
trying to win a campaign and the same
level of defensiveness by Bernie
supporters that may have been
appropriate in 2016 it's not necessarily
appropriate today there is I tend to
think for the most part that Neera
tandon's audience has seriously shrunken
and that yeah that it is far more
relevant and there's far more ability
frankly for people to educate people
about beto maybe to his detriment maybe
to his benefit then then it's far more
opportunity to do that than to win in a
Twitter snaps contest with near Tandon
that that is my that is my opinion I
mean look I remember six months ago
seven months ago saying look beto may
win but people should just be prepared
he's not as progressive as yeah he's
just not and which is fine you know
the upgrade from Ted Cruz would have
been beyond dramatic and the the notion
of that state having a Democratic
senator after I think the law lazon was
like Lloyd Bentsen was would have been
great and so but yeah I think there
might be some truth to what you're
saying about Stacy
and Andrew Gilliam I I just haven't
heard I don't get the sense that they
are done with state politics I think
they know now there's a lot more
opportunity for them in their respective
states than there is for bateau and I
think that's why you know I mean that's
why Mike Pence jumped to from a
incredibly unpopular governor in Indiana
and he took the the VP thing because you
know a god told him be God told you and
see God told him like your your ratings
in Indiana suck you're done you're done
so but Bernie is still an insurgent
candidate I mean has been doing
everything they can still to marginalize
him and make him look crazy and his
supporters and the things that he wants
he's our job you're in alternative media
to say no those things are actually
quite reasonable yeah he's he's an
insurgent candidate in in the in the
it's a broader context but I'm saying
that his candidacy is not the longshot
and the the David versus the Goliath
that it was in 2016 I mean I think
that's just the case
yeah centrist Democrats are starting to
come to him like with like their
policies like they're trying to meet him
and so they're starting to talk about
Medicare for all right well this is why
they have to be duplicity and what their
actual arguing about right they doesn't
they say like leave better alone like
there's plenty of time for him to be you
know more specific on about his bold
policy agenda later but now they're
right exactly they all the other kind of
that's the point even even even Booker's
done stuff this is called a campaign
right and like just as you know the
adjust as like when people were like
they they screwed over keith ellison by
running Tom Perez well it's it's an
election it's a campaign like that is
actually the only legitimate thing that
they should be doing putting up their
candidate and if your candidate is
dilly-dallying and hasn't entered the
race resident doesn't have
you know proposals out in front then
guess what tell him to get him
there's a reason Booker came out with
the baby bonds exactly they've been
doing this for two or three years those
guys I don't know if it's gonna be
effective but that's what a campaign is
and so like how how could you attack bet
like why there's 30 people running why
shouldn't be people we should be
attacking everybody right now to clear
the field for everybody it's too many
candidates they should all be attacked
so that you know they all clear the
playing field but you know when they're
when they're when they're crying about
policy
I mean process in this situation and I
said the same thing about when Bernie
was talking too much about process in
March of 2016 when they're talking about
process you just keep doing substance
because no one cares about process this
is not being bagged this is not being
back yep all right appreciate the call
Josh it's not it's not it's not being
back more wisdom from Jeb he still gives
that's the thing about the bushes even
in this - this is beanbag even then this
tough this is not beanbag this is
beanbag that would have been a really
good show if we'd spun that off like a
short 10 minute game show of is it being
beggars if not that would have been
great
I need another sound sheet I've lost
mine I think I've already I don't have
too much time today folks
let me show you how the leader of the
free world free ish world the leader ish
of the free ish world who I mean let's
be honest we can dispute and find find
annoyance at the term leader of the free
world right that is I think we can all
agree that that's a it's an annoying
construct but I think what we can also
all agree
on is the idea that this guy the
President of the United States has at
his fingertips really at is there a whim
the all the possible resources you could
want to engage in politics right hey I
read this book
get me that guy to come explain it to me
it's sort of what I do on this show I
get you know like I get a it's much
harder process we can get them did we
get if i was the president knighted
states we can have everybody come in
studio yeah i made feel patriotic about
it that's right it wouldn't be like a
get on the phone with this dude and you
theoretically have all sorts of legal
counsel and and whatnot so what would
you do if you had all of those assets at
your fingertips when you want it to make
a point well of course you would turn on
the TV
and when you did you would see fox news
morning guys 39 minutes after the hour
democrats can't find their smoking gun
to tie the Trump campaign to Russia
after James commis testimony now I love
how they frame this Democrats can't get
their smoking gum for the testimony that
James Comey was required to give by the
Republicans who didn't they didn't want
any what so that was a thirty nine past
the hour thirty nine past the hours as a
former radio gang that's what you would
say if you knew that you were on across
the country say thirty nine past the
hour because I may be in New York but
when we did the majority report on air
America we also had in LA affiliate so I
would say ten past the hour
quarter past the hour you do that on Fox
News to what happened if forty-six past
the hour for those of you who are who
are big fans of Trump forty six seven
minutes later seven minutes later than
thirty nine past the hour
at 46 past the hour this morning Donald
Trump tweeted out Democrats can't find a
smoking gun tying the Trump campaign to
rush after James Comey testimony no
smoking gun no collusion Fox News that's
because there was no collusion so now
the Dems go to a simple private
transaction wrongly calling it a
campaign contribution
well first off it's smoking gun there
was definitely no smoking gun that's not
a spelling mistake I've ever made before
but well it's not a spelling mistake
you've made before twice yeah you gotta
wonder like what was going on that feels
to me like a cut and paste job too
hacked my autocorrect that feels like a
a cut-and-paste job because you'll
notice there is no no see near like I
don't know what like how do you add an
extra leg how do you add an extra letter
if you think it's like choking well it's
one thing if it was like if the word was
smoking gun and you're like oh I hit I
hit C instead of the second oh because
they're crossing but this is as if you
actually believed that the word smoking
was spelled SM Ock it runs the truth
that was not a typo so can choking not a
typo not a typo cuz Trump likes to use
the word wait and so he goes on and he's
talking about the campaign contribution
now be clear the Dems haven't done
anything this Southern District of New
York is a fully independent of any
political party US Attorney's office
they are also about as independent from
the Department of Justice you can get
and they called it a felonious campaign
contribution a felony that was directed
by Donald Trump but he goes on to say
which it was not but even if it was it's
only a civil case like Obama's but it
was done correctly by a lawyer and there
would not even be a find lawyers
liability if he made a mistake not me
that's his that's his whole mood Cowan
just trying to get his sentence reduced
witch hunt there you go so Donald Trump
getting his news from from Fox News in
the morning and not knowing how to spell
smoking even though it was on the chyron
wasn't it it was that's bigger
embarrassing yeah
that's pretty embarrassing he can't be
embarrassed that's true he is utterly
shame I've got a defense I've got a
defense um I don't know if I can play
that Kevin McCarthy stuff cuz I'm yeah I
find it to Knology hitting let's look at
the IMS for a moment it Gabe from
Chicago best of clips have to include
Ronald Reagan calling in as dumb-dumb
John from San Antonio will you put that
that's pretty good I almost crashed my
car laughing that was from the Halloween
show that was pretty good that was
pretty good I don't know what's more
disgusting watching Kevin McCarthy
pretend that none of the past 10 years
have happened or watching Chuck Todd
legitimately act as if he's been
completely unaware of what's happened
over the past let's say 10 5 10 weeks 10
minutes 10 hours 10 days past 10 days
let's say here is Tony Evers Tony Evers
was elected governor of Wisconsin
you will recall he Houston Scott Walker
you will recall that what Scott Walker
came in on a pledge not to destroy
unions in Wisconsin he went ahead and
destroyed unions ability to negotiate
public sector unions in Wisconsin he
also got rid of I think BadgerCare at
the time and went on to a point Supreme
Court justices in
Wisconsin who would okay his program etc
etc as you know the Wisconsin State
Legislature has severely curtailed the
incoming governor's powers enhanced the
Republicans powers hurt access to the
vote in myriad of ways and so how would
you respond to this if you had Tony
Evers here what are you going to do to
get this back how you must be incredibly
outraged this is one of the most
anti-democratic things I've ever seen
remember remember now folks on a federal
level Mitch McConnell would go on this
program and say look we can't allow
Barack Obama to have a choice on the
Supreme Court because we're a year out
from when his replacement will be seated
we're ten months out from an election
compare and contrast when someone has
their the entire system of government in
Wisconsin is altered during the
lame-duck session because they lost but
so I'm not the particular encouraged at
this point in time but if they're it's
around Scott Walker's legacy he has the
opportunity to change this and actually
validate the the will of the people that
that voted on November 6 did you
negotiate with them did you say you know
what look I know X is really important
to you I get that but what's with y&z
here was there a y&z did you go to them
and say look I I really think this part
is just crazy
please veto that if you want to keep
this I get it no I I talked about a few
areas that are really important that
actually Republican business leaders
have talked about that that would take
away power and implicate and and make a
make economic development much more
difficult the state of Wisconsin but the
the entire thing is a mess it's a hot
mess and
III believe that he should veto the
entire package in fact the at least
three or four the pieces that are in
there now he has vetoed previously and
so it makes no sense to me and you know
he's been a longtime public servant then
and I am in he he he has a legacy here
so we're hopeful that he will veto the
whole thing I'm curious after you were
elected and quickly we heard word that
the Republican Speaker in the Republican
majority leader in the legislature there
were considering these bills did you
reach out to them personally before the
bills started going and and if you did
what was that conversation like well I
met with a Robin vos the speaker much
before those words came that rumor came
down the bike know I am and had a chance
to talk I mean it was last minute it's
one of these here's a rumor and then
here's of hers the bills that have been
worked on for several months but you
know Chuck yeah if Scott Walker he
didn't won this election which Scott
Walker had won this election we wouldn't
be sitting here talking to you today is
there any part you know one of the
things that the speaker said he goes
well in hindsight maybe we gave the
governor too much power
take the partisan hat off a minute all
right I know many people read that quaza
for one second okay let just really
contemplate this all right the voters of
Wisconsin have voted out these people so
the first suggestion in the second
suggestion by job God is but did you
have like a man-to-man conversation with
these guys and say come on guys what are
you doing this for come on
look I'll give you a little bit this you
give me a little bit of that as if like
what the voters voted on was not was not
enough right that the obligation is you
because you just won the election so of
course you need to placate the people
who did not just win the election I mean
this is just I there's a pathology here
there's a pathology you
never never see this in the reverse yeah
and nothing he did would placate them
regardless of course not he goes without
they would laugh at him they would laugh
at him I brought you a big lunch
compassion
hey how about some of those cheese
things that we're so Fred we're famous
for man brought some Lacroix yeah what
are those um those cheese nubs what are
those the cheese not cookies curds
yeah that's Wisconsin I brought you some
cheese curd that might be what Schumer
would tell him to do but probably not
the best idea
Tony Evers I know you just won the
election do you ever think about going
over there bring some coffee
he's bringing him a cup of coffee and
here's some donuts and just being the
nice guy in the office let's see what
else no hit now now he's not we're not
we're go back a little bit because now
he's really really starting to go like
well maybe you really dropped the ball
here maybe you Walker I won this
election we wouldn't be sitting here
talking to you today is there any part
you know one of the things that the
speaker said he goes well in hindsight
maybe we gave the governor too much
power
take the partisan hat off a minute all
right I know that that perhaps many
people read that comment tongue-in-cheek
but do you believe he's right well there
are things in that bill then it really
had nothing to do with giving Scott
Walker anything so no I don't agree with
that
you know we have balanced power in the
state of Wisconsin the legislature and
both sides a Republican I'm a Democrat
the Attorney General's a Democrat no I I
view this as completely different than
the one Robin vos Polly said and that is
that it we are trying to invalidate the
will of the people who people in
Wisconsin didn't vote it for me because
they know that I was four good schools
and good transportation system and good
health care they didn't they didn't they
didn't elect me to fight over
administrative powers in the in the
state of Wisconsin visa vie the
Republican majority no I think this this
this gets us off to a bad start I think
it's a mistake but we will continue
working to get the people Wisconsin to
convince Scott Walker to think about his
legacy and
that he vetoes this language Democratic
congresswoman Gwen Moore said the
following the legislators who engineered
this to their actions amount to a
smash-and-grab hijacking of the voters
will you think who is the right word
here oh my god well it's as always it
seems it seems strong but the fact of
the matter is as it just said if Scott
Walker had won this election and he did
not I did we wouldn't be sitting here
talking about this today we wouldn't
that we wouldn't be talking
Scott Walker wouldn't be sitting here
talking about jeez they're they're
trying to they're trying to balance the
power here so no I I think it is you
know it's directly related to the to a
win to by a Democrat and that'd be me
and and we we we needed we need to have
this in that we need to have this vetoed
one of their rationales but I think the
line of questioning here is just I mean
but but honestly let me give you a
chance there is a there's a
congresswoman from Wisconsin and she's
black and she said the word ku
don't you think that's going too far or
do you think that's going too far
not the problem with let's say we're
going to shut down the majority of early
voting not the problem would say that
we're going to strip the the the the the
Democrat who because won the
governorship of powers in terms of like
the Business Roundtable not because
we're going to limit your capacity not
because we've taken the Secretary of
State who used to have a staff of 50 of
50 people to work on Elections not
because we took that guy and put him in
the basement of the State House with one
employee but she said the word ku
don't we need to bring the rhetoric down
I mean this is just I mean it is that is
a pathology like look at what they're
actually doing look at what they're
actually doing in that Statehouse look
at what they're doing in Michigan but
there is a is a cootie
exact word that you'd want to use to
describe can we spend more time on this
we did the cou make sure we're getting
the tone right yeah I mean we what
they're doing is blank
okay and that's a negative blank but
isn't what's important is that we
describe it in such a way that isn't too
offensive to anybody isn't that what's
really important have the same that we
need to have this vetoed one of their
rationales has been well governor like
the Ebers margins all came from two
cities Madison and Milwaukee we have to
represent the rest of the state what do
you say to that charge and more
importantly you want a very narrow
election how do you resource how do you
reach across this divided state at this
point
watch it pause it are you effing kidding
me are you kidding me the reflectiveness
is just bizarre how do you reach across
the state oh I know how about not during
the lame-duck session we don't try and
strip me of all my powers that one way
to reach across the aisle God are you
kidding to be the all-time bad Chuck
Todd clip this is but I got news for you
folks they'll be coming day I don't know
if it'll be in two years six years or
you know in three weeks when Donald
Trump will not be President
maybe it'll be because he just can't
take it anymore maybe his heart will
give out maybe he'll lose an election or
lose it generally maybe he'll do that I
that I don't think he's kept anybody out
of office maybe he'll lose you know he
will serve out two terms but if one day
there will be no Donald Trump and you're
gonna expect that the media is going to
understand what just happened and how he
was enabled by the darling Paul Ryan and
the the old institutionalist Mitch
McConnell and etc etc and you're gonna
think ah the media they know better now
I want you to go back and look at that
clip over and over again until you
realize they don't they won't there is
there is gonna be no moment where you
can say like glad that passed now
everything's gonna be better than normal
yeah now and also you should also
understand if you're one of those people
who only recently engaged in politics
this type of crap has been going on for
at least two decades at least it may
have been worse during the Bush
administration probably worse because
you know George Bush was not was was
part of the the elite and was much more
well behaved than Donald Trump born
again except for I mean except for the
except for the killing of the hundreds
of thousands of people aside from that
part much better behaved you know they
say it's not it's not the war of choice
that kills the hundreds of thousands of
people it's the manners that counts all
right so I don't think I'm gonna be able
to take it you just can't know can't
even look
we need to be sensitive to the fact that
there are a lot of folks out there who
feel like they're getting a raw deal
right now they're not getting the credit
they deserve that it's people basically
moving into their prime positions and
prime slots and so they're they're mad
there's certain amount of backlash and
you sjw's out there going around saying
it's time that we have more
representation in the power structure of
different types of people well at least
the youth are getting the message right
here's this kid from disadvantaged kid
from where was it he's from Columbia
South Carolina
Oh Oh Columbia University oh wait a
second I thought we were well he's not
from South America he's one of these one
of these guys at Columbia University who
was um you know you might also be taking
classes at Prager University
yes exactly now look he's drunk and I
don't want to pick on a drunk college
student who's 19 or 20 or whoever LD is
but I'm going to just because he so
perfectly captures the essence of
everything he's absorbing from the Dave
Rubens
the jordan Peterson's molyneux the
Molyneux the Tucker Carlson maybe even
the Sam Harris to a certain extent I
mean you set up uh you know maybe it's
not so much white versus this but it's
certainly about the inherent problems
with other cultures whenever he analyzes
hate it's like Punjabi hate right and
here is this guy's getting a dual degree
from Columbia and Prager University
drunk on the town
and here it is Europeans European built
the modern world but GUI is fantasizes
industry and you want to tell us to stop
because oh my God we're so bad waiting
to be invented the modern world billions
of people from starvation now look he's
drunk and he's sort of there's a little
bit of performance here but I think he's
trying to get a rise out of people and
there's a little bit of provocateur he's
just having fun and so and I don't know
this guy and maybe he's not a bad guy
there's certainly far worst human beings
out there that we talk about on a daily
basis some moments that go and moments
from now so I the the idea is less about
people getting mad at this guy and more
about understanding like where that
script comes from and that there are a
lot of people out there feeding this guy
that script and I think in that moment
my sense is he's just trying to get a
rise out of some people and but he's
like a big Niall Ferguson fan that just
got a bit too intoxicated yeah and I
don't you know like I I would encourage
people not to take it out on him as much
as taking it out on the sources of where
his misinformation comes from because
aside from the fact that he's American
not European
and aside from the fact that many many
features of our modern life are a
function of of non-europeans from things
like math and all sorts of Sciences and
building technology and gunpowder aside
from that it's not like white people
haven't had their opportunity to shine
you know what I mean it's not like we
he's sitting there going wee-wee it wins
our turn coming
get those white guys get them get them
get them but that is the the message
that is the message of privilege losing
their privilege and feeling like they're
oppressed because of it yeah I gotta
give a few brownie points to Columbia's
core curriculum and all this - speaking
of somebody went there it's a bit
Eurocentric I must say well there you go
maybe they'll get a little less so now
don't tell that guy I'll flip out again
that's maybe what's going on who knows
maybe that maybe it's changing who knows
maybe he can be an sjw in four years get
his SJW this is a heartwarming story up
in Rhode Island look these days we
because of tight state budgets and
whatnot we're trying to figure out how
we can both maintain state funds and
shame poor people at the same time and
so out of Rhode Island we have an
innovative new program that's going to
both shame people living in poverty
particularly their children because the
children are always always the most
vulnerable if you really want to shame
someone the way to do it is to hurt the
children
and also maintain the integrity of state
revenues first at 5:30 tonight the
Cranston School Department is asking for
its lunch money back in a letter they
told parents they're hiring a collection
agency because so much lunch money dead
has gone unpaid Eyewitness News anchor
Steve Nielsen has the story that's all
new at 5:30 Steve oh Mike Caroline lunch
debts are nothing new it's a complicated
issue
some school departments and committees
waive the unpaid balances at the end of
the year others seek reimbursement but
on January 2nd Cranston schools will
send bills to a collection agency lunch
is so much more than food nutrition is
really important for healthy minds and
healthy kids Elizabeth Burke Bryant from
Rhode Island Kids Count tells me it has
lasting impacts and when kids aren't
getting proper nutrition during the
school day it leads to a lack of
concentration it can lead to behavioral
problems those can lead to real much
more difficult mental health and other
issues over time but those lunches cost
money and a letter to parents Cranston
schools say the unpaid lunch balance is
now more than $45,000 Raymond Votto with
the school department writes to parents
the district lunch program cannot
continue to lose revenue in an effort to
reduce our unpaid balance the district
has retained the services of a
collection agency only one school
committee member returned my phone calls
Thursday for comment he told me to speak
with Votto at the school department who
was unavailable today a Cranston school
committee meeting agenda confirms though
it was the committee that unanimously
hired the collection agency in October
parents I spoke with outside schools
Thursday afternoon didn't want to talk
on camera but all questioned the need
for a collection agency the leaders of
the orchard farms parent-teacher
organization wrote to me the district's
sending out a blanket email to all
families threatening with collections
during the holiday season seems very
Scrooge like we have to remember that we
are talking about children and helping
these children to thrive regardless of
their family's financial status the
answer to this is to raise taxes now I
understand that it's possible the state
school of the the school district
doesn't have the ability to get these
funds
and maybe this is a way of of
encouraging the state to raise money via
property taxes but it is absurd
there should be no charge for school
lunches this is something as society
that it's part of their education and a
need for their education there's no
reason to charge anybody for a school
lunch it takes away the stigma of people
getting free lunches allow everybody to
get a free lunch raise your property
taxes in fact let's do it one better
take away the property taxes is the
funding for these schools and let's have
the federal government fund every single
public school in the country it's absurd
it's absurd
it's I mean it's just like the ultimate
sort of illustration of the issues we're
having I mean there's no such thing as a
free lunch but maybe there should be I
mean there of course there's a free
lunch it's just a question of who's
gonna pay for it and society should pay
for it there's also no such thing as in
a free no lunch because we're gonna pay
for this down the road we're gonna pay
for your kids who are malnourished and
not getting an education because of it
we're gonna pay for all of it one way or
another the question is do you pay for
it now and make lives better or do you
not
there's no no there's no no paying for a
free ed no lunch we live in a society we
pay for everything it's either you pay
for it now or you pay for it later it's
like it's like you know I I saved money
I haven't changed my oil in my car for
seventy five thousand miles well it's
not like children are the future or
anything so probably fine let's just
unbelievable me just be curious if
that's a DSA a local
that's good for local DSA chapters go
Daniel Denver he's in the Rhode Island
DSA over there zyne Rhode Island yeah
come from an eight six four area code
who's this I got maybe one or two more
calls to you eight six four eight six
four once eight six four twice go on
next one come from 501 area code who's
this where you come from
good afternoon mr. cedar my name's Blake
I'm calling from Arkansas we spoke
before hello Blake what's on your mind
well I thought that you were talking
about was pretty interesting to me with
the school lunches do you guys did they
include how many kids were in the
Cranston School District no I find it I
find a cross-reference that with the
forty five thousand in negative balances
what what so you think that that they
should be funded for free that that was
that was your proposition right in New
York City for instance the all lunches
are free okay so those are negative
balances for people that pay for their
lunches and don't get them for free as
part of you know I don't I don't know I
don't know if those are people who get
reduced lunch I don't know if there are
how much you know what their standards
are for free lunch in that school it
could be people in Cranston who can
afford lunch but just haven't sent it in
I don't know it could be any of those
but I say free lunch for everyone so
that there's no stigma associated with
getting a free lunch you just that's
part of school what the children are
they aware of who gets what and oh yeah
man do you ever know what's one you must
have kids right
I do okay so you must know that kids I
don't know how old your kids are but
kids are the news probably yeah okay
your she is it's a sheik yeah all right
dude speaking as a guy who has a 13 year
old daughter get prepared for just how
mean kids can be but yes you get a free
lunch and the other kids don't you're
the kid who gets the free lunch and it
gets a lot worse from there in terms of
like the way you're stigmatized without
doubt without doubt okay okay so so your
idea was for everything to be free and
it's not my idea it's not my idea I mean
they do it in New York City
it wasn't my behest but I think it's a
good idea okay so parents who decide to
pack their children's lunch they can
they would have to know as a taxpayer
they'd have to fund something that
they're not utilizing that what you're
saying yeah do you intend to send you
know what what is a dollar a day or
cents a day or a dollar fifty a day like
whatever message does that send to a
child Blake better parent wouldn't do
that for them Blake hold on
yeah do you intend to send your kid to
public school at this point yeah all
right so you know the dynamic is not
hopefully not long-term okay hopefully
not long-term I mean because that
implies to me that maybe you don't have
the either the private school option or
you don't have the cash for the private
school now when your neighbor come of
money it to try to try to try to get a
small home school okay are you trying to
get small one but when your neighbor
comes up to you and goes hey Blake why
my tax dollars supporting your kid going
to school for free what are you prepared
to save that person they have a problem
with their tax dollars supporting my
child I would say to them I wish I had a
different such a situation where we
could get better education through other
means or Everette enforcing everything
yeah well Blake I guess not that in the
quarter gets me a phone call maybe what
if he says that your neighbor
said it again well in other words you
can say I wish for we had a different
world but that dynamic is the same
dynamic you had a problem with in terms
of lunch and you know to send the kid to
school that's not more expensive than
just the lunch right the brown we're
talking about lunches not an education
system in general well we're talking
about lunch in schools on the back of
which things one at a time yeah well
Blake we're talking about lunch in
school right and I'm talking about a
relationship where people who
relationship between people in society
very low effort well low cost and low
low low cost and low effort maybe from
your perspective but I mean you know you
don't want to get into a pissing match
with somebody who looks at you and goes
wait wait it's pretty easy to set up a
home school thing just do it near 4,500
square foot home like me know there's a
lot of government regulations and red
tape and permits and licenses hire
somebody to take care of all sorts of
stuff you got to get through this hire
somebody to take care of it
hire someone full time to take care of
it if you cared I mean if you cared but
you don't have the money right but we're
so super wealthy yeah we look at that
and go oh come on man don't care about
your kid now don't care about you kid
you got a car right dollar a day is we
want for Bowl to $10,000 in a year
well wait you got a car don't you Blake
yeah what kind of car do you got it's a
truck okay a truck what kind of truck a
lot of money for that what kind of truck
yeah you got a shabby shabby what mmm
Silverado a Silverado that's a $30,000
truck isn't it you know hungry was
14,000 brand new 14,000 cooked it's just
a work truck okay so it's just a single
cab is that your only car you have two
vehicles where do you take the kids
moment well you don't take the
five-year-old than that here do you put
her in a car seat in that front yeah you
do
mm-hmm okay all right so you got $14,000
truck why spend all that money on a
truck once you get used one dude put
$10,000 into getting I mean this is what
they had a rebates on it well I don't
care they have rebates on it ten
thousand dollar truck a purchase ten
thousand dollars cheaper than 14,000 you
have four thousand dollars left let me
see
you see my point here though right Blake
that I could see here in judgment you
having your we're having this huge long
conversation about like you know all the
governmental things and you're asking me
about my truck and I'm talking about a
dollar a day for your kid's lunch like
you can't do that we're going out to eat
anywhere you can barely you could
probably barely manage that oh well
producing food in bulk well that's right
I mean that's why we have school lunches
but right and you're making the argument
that a dollar a day is not feasible I
guess I don't understand I don't
understand where this is coming from Sam
I mean if you have children you're
responsible for them on some level
aren't you well dude you're going and
spending our tax dollars and sending
them public school
why don't you homeschool them why don't
you put them in private school I just
why don't you be responsible Blake
instead of going out and getting a new
Silverado because there's supposedly a
rebate on it you're just gonna leach off
the taxpayers and then you're gonna say
we're subsidizing you we're subsidizing
your trunk purchase because we're
educating your kids for free man no
you're not yeah why are you I'm not
muddling anything well here's the
question I've had my truck for over
seven years like what are you saying I
live luxurious or no I'm just saying
that I'm saying that you are leaning on
are you a homeowner or do you rent yes
you're homeowner I'm home owner okay why
is it that renters people who rent have
to subsidize you
because of that home mortgage deduction
why do you get a kickback from the
government on your mortgage payments why
is it I don't it doesn't quite it
doesn't qualify enough the the extra
cost don't offset my any deductions that
I would get for you don't you're not
eligible for the home mortgage deduction
yes but it doesn't do any good to me
what do you mean it doesn't do any good
for you the amount the offset does not
bring down my tax liability enough to
offset the cost of the extra filings
what now why is that I don't understand
that because tax people chart just acts
people charge extra money well I mean
dude you can do you my mortgage my
mortgage my mortgage payment is four
hundred and twenty six dollars total
okay
do you drive on the roads yeah but he
only drives on private roads that he
built right right because if I'm right
because you're the one who said the the
person who brown bags their lunch and
sends their kid to school without lunch
why are they subsidizing the one dollar
a day lunch of the person who doesn't
brown back and I'm asking you why is the
bike the guy who own doesn't own a car
subsidizing your roads why is the guy
who's a renter subsidizing your home
ownership why is the school subsidizing
your kid go to school and we all know
the answer Blake because that's the way
society works it's the only way society
can work people take responsibility for
their children right that is that what
we're supposed to do in society I would
like to think so yes personal
responsibility I mean it's not you know
my neighbor across the other side of the
blocks responsibility to feed my kid
right is it your neighbors
responsibility to educate your kid no
they don't well I don't they pay taxes
to go to to to keep that public school
open so that your kid can go and they
don't have a kid yeah and somebody in
summary and somebody paid for theirs and
these people in our current and what
you're advocating for is more and more
of a welfare state
yes actually I would not call it a
welfare state because I'm actually
asking for something that's more
universal
you learn here everybody said listen
carefully
it's not even contingent upon your
ability to buy it it's not welfare
it is a universal service that is
provided very much like the concept of
public school you can go to public
school if you're very wealthy or if
you're not very wealthy and society will
subsidize it even all those people who
don't have children don't want children
don't care about educating even those
people who send their kids to private
schools will subsidize the education of
your kid and my kid at public school
yeah but you don't have a problem with
that you just have a problem where you
just want to keep kids hungry is that
right no well that's a typical response
I would expect that for me well do you
have an answer for it I already know
well Blake how do you reconcile this
just tell me how you reconcile this it's
okay for you to send your kid to public
school which is clearly subsidized by
people who don't have children never had
children never will have children you
have no problem with their tax dollars
paying for your kids to go to school but
you have an issue do you I'm sorry you
do what yes I absolutely do all right
well then why send you kids it's public
school because I don't have the ability
personally but you do have the ability
to change the system where the kids get
a subsidized lunch is that it I'm not
changing anything currently people pay
that can and I don't think that we
should lessen that responsibility the
one dollar a day well they can what do
you say to say no in order to in order
to further dissolve does all the
responsibilities that people
have for their own children dude what's
a bigger responsibility providing lunch
or providing education for your kid
what's a bigger responsibility
they kind of go hand in hand well wait a
second my daughter my daughter my
daughter learned a lot of things when I
cook with her and she asked me lots of
questions and that's great you learned
hey what's a bigger responsibility
what's a bigger responsibility I mean
you want to do it in terms of dollars
does that make it easier if you do
assess you feed your kid it's education
doesn't really cost anything
[Music]
wait it would cost me absolutely nothing
if the government allowed me to educate
my daughter oh wait a second your work
do you word it during the day yep you do
do you make money when you're working
and so could you educate your daughter
by taking her to work with you every day
uh partially part I can't bring her to
work so okay so when you would educate
her would you stay at home and educate
her mm-hmm so would you be working at
that time yeah I probably could I could
work something out yeah so you you could
both educators work well some pops in
the work room so you can see so you
could work at home and give her a good
education
simultaneously oh yeah no problems hey
here's a social reproduction question do
you because because you think you know
kids are the responsibility of the
parents to do everything for provide the
money lunch whatever do you think it
benefits Society in the economy that
people are having kids and that they're
being educated and growing up to become
workers there's no benefit or detriment
to children generally speaking and their
ability to support them so if people
stopped having
society would function fine until there
was no more people and there would be no
more society yeah responsible why should
low-income people be subsidizing society
by providing the service of reproduction
and child-rearing and lunch and
education for free I mean people don't
have to have kids and right but but
here's the point Blake we're subsidizing
you but you have no problem with that
well I do I already told you what I do
but not what I mean by no problem is
that continue to do so you continue to
do so so it makes it even work yeah do
you buy gas I do buy gas yeah okay so
you don't bike everywhere that's correct
I don't bike everywhere
okay all right would you like it if
everybody could bike everywhere sometime
or if you didn't have to buy gas one of
these days sure would that be good
that's good that would be cool one day
if that ever happened okay so you guys
complain about climate climate change
right and in the same argument could be
made for you guys what's that what's the
argument yeah Transpo's I I don't I
don't agree with the way our education
system is is currently ensconced let's
say and you don't agree with us being
dependent on fossil fuels you claim that
I'm using the welfare system by allowing
my daughter to go to public schools
mm-hm I don't like that I would like
that to change but I'm not saying I am
no use yeah I'm not judging you for
using your gas in your car are you
am i you're sitting here and saying
there's a problem there's a problem of
kids getting free lunch it would be the
equivalent of me saying like I it's okay
for me to drive my pickup
but it's not okay for you to drive your
pickup that's what you're saying and I'm
not saying that about climate change
I want a government policy that will
fund our ability to get off of fossil
fuels you see the difference here it's
subtle it is subtle but I'm not telling
you that you need to be more personally
responsible for climate change whereas I
shouldn't be but you're sitting here
telling people that whatever I don't
need is what people should be more
personally responsible for now I happen
to need public school but I don't need a
fiery lunch so I'm talking you're
articulating this to us you've had five
years to figure out what to do about
your daughter's education and I don't
have even sitting on your butt or what
but Blake you're gonna send your kid to
public school and you can blame the
government all you want you don't blame
the government for making sure that your
truck is safe do you you know drive
around your truck and go god damnit
government wouldn't allow me to buy an
unsafe truck you say that ever of course
not of course you don't course you do
not of course you don't you don't drive
while drive around say god I wish all
these roads were still dirt I wouldn't
have a problem with that
I like I like dirt road Sam know I did
so so so your your your idea here is
that you want more and more things to be
paid for yes by the public yep yep then
I saw that's absolutely correct and and
where has that gone thus far the welfare
states where these right where's that
guy got more more and more kids and
we've got more and more kids
no no not attaining highest educational
development and lower IQs and more
poverty none of those things that you
just said are accurate but I would all
come together yeah also more kids or
without fathers and yeah then what then
when
then fifty years ago then 60 years ago
then whenever whenever the statistics
were ever taken into account how many
kids do you think we're in school let's
say let's say 120 years ago how much
education you think kids were getting I
misspoke I know where you're going with
this I said I said more kids right rates
have also increased I'm sorry do you
think the rates of education have
decreased since for 120 years or what
what do you what do you what do you
define education as I mean are you just
feeding kids information or you teach
them how to think critically
I mean what's an education video file I
don't know if you can think critically
and you can understand and you can be
escaped you can take it when you get
your home Blake when you get your home
schooling syllabus
I'll prepare can you send it to us yeah
all right well I appreciate the call
Blake what would you what would you have
to say about my home I don't know I
think your kid should be listening to
the show every day I would start with
that the first three hours of the day
should be spent listen the majority
report appreciate the call Blake yeah
ma'am right I hope his kid watches that
call someday it's part of her education
I hope she sticks around in public
school yeah oh yeah oh we have the
kokeshi debate this wednesday oh wow
so wait who is the guest that we push
the wednesday Oh next Wednesday
okay all right folks I'm sorry I
apologize people are gonna be upset okay
I got to take one more phone call I come
from 5:09 who's this Ronald Reagan
Ronald Reagan I got an interesting
package in the mail today I'm not gonna
discuss what it is where they're
supposed to be delivered together but
the mug and whatever all right
well I'm not quite sure how we're gonna
break that out yet cuz that that
deserves a little bit more of a
presentation then I'm prepared to do but
I thank you very much I will take the
the message under
okay hey um between charlie kirk and
blake from Arkansas I'm like halfway to
being a libertarian you keep getting
owned like this then I'm gonna have to
take my ten dollars somewhere else well
I I apologize I'll do my best I will say
real quick my dad was never that douchey
but he was very blue-collar he was a
commercial electrician hardworking guy
my parents paid cash for shitty cars
because we couldn't afford anything
better we never went on vacations they
were very frugal with their money and
then my dad was diagnosed with MS when I
was in middle school and had to retire
early and really ended up leaning on
programs that yeah he never said
anything like Blake
I never heard those types of things in
my house but despite being the type of
person Blake would look up to you my dad
ended up meeting to rely to this day
luckily on Medicare and Social Security
of course and the Union that he belonged
to IBEW a shout out guy VW which
protected him from you know obviously
like early dismissal and things like
that so Blake sounds like a tough guy
and probably a very hard worker and I'm
sure he loves his kids and I hope that
he never has to depend on the programs
that he so maligns but as my father
proved and many others like him the day
may come when despite his best efforts
and the sweat of his brow he will end up
like the people he thinks are
undeserving of public support so yeah
that's a something keeping him typical
thing that you would say Ronald Reagan
typical son yeah I know typical southern
wonder my name hilarious calls yeah
there am thanks for the call I mean that
is that's the other thing
even in Blake's perfect world that he
has now he's leaning on the the public
which is good more than appropriate that
is why we have a society folks and to
make that society a more perfect union
we should be making Blake's life even
easier we should be making Blake's life
even easier we should be providing
universal pre-k I don't know if his
child was already in pre-k but there
should be at least one year if not two
years of free pre-k for all children we
have that in New York as well now it's
doable our our taxes high in New York
City yes they are yes but my kid went to
universal pre-k with good teachers paid
for by the city and there are some bad
schools in in New York State in New York
City there are some not well performing
schools largely again because of funding
disparities if you live in an area
that's wealthy the parents are wealthy
they raise more money because of
limitations on our property taxes but
that's when things are all going good
two-thirds of our elderly were taken out
of poverty because of social security
because of social insurance if you're
lucky Blake you'll never need Medicare
until you're or Medicaid or social
security until your retirement age but
you're already lucky because you just
have to make it to retirement age and
your daughter will not have to make sure
that you are not eating cat food and she
will be able to have a more fulfilling
life because of that and as horrible as
that must sound to you the idea that
your child will have more opportunity
to pursue her ambitions or her dreams or
choose to not pursue her dreams or
ambitions because she can be confident
that you will not be destitute in your
old age as horrible as that sounds to
you to a lot of people in fact the
majority of people in this country it
sounds pretty good and more of that
would be better because there were
people just like you 70 years ago now 80
years ago saying the exact same thing
about Social Security I mean I don't
want to call him out too hard for
hypocrisy for using the public services
and participating in a system he doesn't
believe in because that's the same
argument that people like to use on
communists like myself you know you call
yourself a communist and yet you have a
job what's up with that but when you
advocating for a different world a
different system than the one we have
one would hope that it would be a better
one and not a worse one I just want to
clarify something I am NOT making I'm
not calling him out for hypocrisy for
sending his kid to public school I'm
calling out for the hypocrisy of saying
that it's okay for me to send my kids to
public school but not okay for the
school to provide lunch like there's a
difference there like I get that I mean
I want higher taxes on the rich but I
mean I want me to pay higher taxes I
want the rich and maybe that would
implicate my taxes to pay more but
there's no point in me paying more if
the society isn't but I'm not going
around saying that I arbitrarily think
that I can pay I could take this much
services anything past the amount of
services I need is wrong
that's what Blake is doing I'm not
saying he's a hypocrite for sending his
kid to to public school I'm saying he's
a hypocrite to think that it's okay to
have public school but not okay to have
free lunches because he decides that's
where personal responsibility kicks in
that's he might like to privatize
schools as well but Stacey Mitchell had
a graph here the people grocery sales at
dollar stores versus Whole Foods dollar
stores so a lot more groceries than
Whole Foods do and it's that's a
widening gap alright folks gonna take a
couple more I am so then get going I'm
already way behind sorry
JZ Gabe from Chicago oh yeah we did that
jay-z just a reminder while you and the
US enjoy a constitutional crisis every
day under das trump a Fuhrer here in the
UK we're seeing on a daily basis indeed
some three days time days events which
people will have expected to bring down
a government brexit Britain is an absurd
place but with today's events we may
have taken a step back from the brink we
may have taken a step towards being
Russia under Yeltsin oh well every day
is exciting yeah I understand things are
back crap crazy there Colten from Omaha
I don't feel great about my call last
week I was nervous and unprepared here's
a written list that the lies AOC is told
The Daily Show should claim the Pentagon
was asking for a hundred percent budget
increase not true and the Late Show
still Stephen Colbert in the fall of 95
she made repeated claims that if her
parents got a puppy she would walk it
every day that never happened not once
in the may of 20 okay I in in her bangs
do you ever get the feeling that Sam is
not one of us Bernie was in on it to win
it
you're silly to keep saying otherwise I
Got News for you I know for a fact that
when Bernie Sanders entered that
campaign he was not running to win the
campaign why would this person say this
was such conviction where are you
getting that from
thank you for handling Blake stupidity
so thoroughly that was a really good
call
Sean I think the most WTF moment was
today when Sam explained to everyone how
to spell the word of militant apathy
dude is Right military does not
translate well to law enforcement at all
Jay Jay cool no Michael Mondays are
costly the goofs from right-wing Mandel
about an incontinent Gavin or just
something we can never really get back
also when pence asked for God's for
Direction is that Koch Industries winky
the anus is the couch Brendan official
space with the office poor fellas gonna
have back problems
Sam dangerous profile hey girl swipe
right and you won't sweat the in
just meant in your bed Vespa has anyone
made a common common comfort coke joke
yet also saying we need to find the
smoking gun left his best
Melissa demeanor Sam we have Richard
Neal as our congressman he's about to
head the Ways and Means Committee he's
been on it forever and isn't very
progressive what actions can we try and
take to get ALC on that committee what
are the kind things that we should do to
hold him accountable call Barbara Lee's
office who the other two I can't
remember yeah call Pelosi's office ram
sent Cavanaugh and Chief Justice Roberts
agreed with the liberal justice in
turning away two states Kansas in
Louisiana and seeking a ban on public
funding for Planned Parenthood very
surprising Mac from Maryland yes mocking
wasn't a typos leader the free world
can't spell and doesn't like to read and
the final I am of the day Elon Musk
hello fellow kids who wants to Pokemon
go to space alright folks see you
tomorrow
to get to where I want
no son
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you
