[Music]
let's start with this this I think for
some people this is a little bit
baffling but I do think that what we are
seeing here is a is the playing out
we're watching in real time the
development of a I think it goes beyond
a tactic I think we're getting into sort
of strategy area a little bit and it is
not unrelated from the salt on on Gawker
that we saw and we've seen this now in
the media the the right is starting to
become I mean do you remember there was
a time now you have to go way back this
is probably eight years ago or nine
years ago like ancient history now and
never mind ten or fifteen years ago the
idea of anybody suing anybody was a
complete enactment to the conservative
movement it was you're disgusting using
the courts in that way suing people and
that seems to be like now like literally
the sort of weapon du jour and and I do
mean weapon because none of these suits
so far have been necessarily successful
what we're seeing is the really just
what money can do in the context of
lawsuits I mean one of the things that
I've learned in my years in covering all
the the tort cases that I've covered and
in talking and knowing Mike Papantonio
was a big trial lawyer is the
corporations have understood this for a
long time the way that they would win
suits is simply by out spending the
other side by literally a war of
attrition and certainly in like dockers
case there was nothing that they were
ever going to be able to do
that would get them out from under the
massive amount of legal bills that were
gonna added their way if they were going
to continue to try and litigate this
stuff over and over again
and this seems to be there seems to be
some strategy here where a we can
intimidate companies corporations
individuals with lawsuits maybe we'll
win some maybe we'll lose some we're
gonna cost them money in terms of
lawyers but we're also gonna create a
narrative right like Donald Trump sort
of gave away the game here when he kept
saying like I'm gonna sue all those
women who who claim that I sexually
assaulted them now those suits never
happened but they were talking points
that established his credibility or the
credibility of his denials now it didn't
work for everybody but again their plan
is that none of these things have to
work for everybody they have to work for
the base that supports Donald Trump so
here is Devin Nunez who has filed a 250
million dollar lawsuit against Twitter I
think just for the purposes of
maintaining this this narrative that
there's such a thing as shadow banning
remember they had the shadow banning
hearings Maria published weeded out it
got no life it got no life and I know
that's something that my followers and
viewers care about here there is a
quality to this let me just like and
just understand I'm not making an
analogy although I think there is some
coincidental crossover but you know how
the white supremacist the reason why
they they hate the Jews even though
they're white is because the Jews are
the ones who are supposedly the race
traders who are allowing people of color
to succeed like that's like the
calculation that's built into this this
whole thing about shadow banning is part
of like their narrative the
Wright's narrative is like why nobody
seems to agree with us or why we're not
being retweeted oh it's because there's
some other underhanded plan that is that
is being taking place some tactics that
are beyond that are outside of fairness
like I my free speech this we're in the
intellectual dark Twitter right because
we're shadow band this is all part of
their narrative that they build when in
fact none of its true well how is it
that every day there's conservatives
that are being banned so you know look
they don't go want to call it shadow
banning that's fine they can call it
whatever they want to call it but the
fact of the matter is is people could
not see my tweets okay so now but if you
move forward if you get emails from
Twitter it's constantly left-wing stuff
it's constantly fake new stuff so I
think if Twitter wants to be in the
public square and they don't want to be
a Content developer they should come
clean give us all your algorithms how is
it possible that I can be attacked
relentlessly hundreds of times a day by
fake accounts that they claim in theirs
in their Terms of Service should not be
there so I guarantee you if I put
something out that was sexually explicit
or attacked someone personally they
would they would stop it they would say
this is a sensitive tweet they never did
that to any of the people that that were
coming after me or other conservatives
so so this is Devin unas on on Hannity
basically coming up with this massive
conspiracy theory that Twitter has an
algorithm that sends only emails pushing
liberal stuff and in in his some way
like been zeroing in on Devin Nunez like
this is some multi-dimensional chess
here where Twitter is like the people of
the Twitter are like we've got to
silence Devin una respect check doors
yeah watch yeah I had no idea that Jack
Dorsey was so conscientious wait I
thought he was just an enabling idiot
how long eight accounts how much have we
seen this be an issue on the right you
know Eric Alterman coined the phrase
working the rest and that's what they
did with the media and now they're doing
it with the social media right Facebook
Twitter
they're all gonna have special select
committees that are basically going to
be like the Republicans are in power
we've got to you know Devin Nunez has to
be the bou' we have to come up with an
algorithm make sure that Devin Nunez
isn't ratio to every time he puts out
his stupid stuff but here's your Shawn
being oh yeah here's Sean Hannity and
you know they're trying to seem like
they're serious when Hannity drops the
reading glasses down the nose to talk to
Devon Nunez about how Devon Nunez there
he's in the intellectual dark Twitter do
have a high bar we all need that because
if you're a public figure you need
actual malice and what's known as a
reckless disregard for the truth or else
I would sue people every hour of every
day but it's harder it's not like in the
case of the Covenant high school kid
tell us about the suit yeah so this is
the first of many Sean and what we're
doing here is we're actually going after
Twitter first because they are the main
proliferated on go back no one I want to
point something out rewind it from the
beginning right there it's who people
every hour of every day but it's harder
it's not like in the case of the
Covenant high school kid tell us about
the suit yeah so this is the first of
many Sean and what we're doing here is
we're actually going after Twitter first
because they are the main proliferator
and they spread this fake news and the
slanderous news so if you look at the
lawsuit I think people can go and look
at it on Fox News posit it's you know if
I was Twitter and I heard this guy go on
television and say that my business
proliferate s-- slanderous news the
implication being that you know we're
doing this on purpose I don't know I
might sue them for attempting to harm my
business you just need to prove that one
of those things was like basically true
and then it wouldn't be slander right
that he look at it on Fox News it's all
there but what were the case were
basically making is is this was an
orchestrated effort
so people were targeting me there were
anonymous accounts the
were that were developed and look
there's not supposed to be these
accounts aren't supposed to exist
Twitter says that they don't have
accounts that do this so like I said
this is the first of many lawsuits that
are coming but it that there were
several fake news accounts whether it
was regard to the Russia investigation
or to me and we have to hold all of
these people accountable because if we
don't our First Amendment rights are at
stake here this isn't 20 years ago Sean
what's happening is is that is that
Twitter becomes the gaslighting for all
of the news and when they're regulating
us they're regulating what people can
see on my tweets which they've done and
then they're there proliferating out
things that they agree with with the
algorithms that they develop positive
evidence for is this the first time that
he's used like the English language
they're proliferating out what happens
it like the gibberish that he's talking
about there was a lot of proliferating
slanderous news previously
no that's liberating oh that's your
Trump milk brain impression made more
sense than seven newness they're their
shadow banning him they're their
inhibiting the the full expression of
his tweet his tweets just want to they
just need to want to fly a lot they need
to clear up the wings of his tweet stop
blocking my expression tweets which
they've done and then they're they're
proliferating out things that they agree
with with the algorithms that they
develop they need to come clean where
they are content developers shadow
banning I've been shadow banned to wait
Twitter is not a public square I've been
I've been doing it wrong this is like
going outside and yelling stuff it's not
a public square and they've been
proliferating if they want to be a
Content developer what is that I don't
know yet any any of that even means what
is a Content developer I think he's kind
of co-opting the antitrust critique of
like Amazon being a platform and like a
producer at the same time like they're
stealing a lot of these different sorts
of like work Twitter doesn't have like
Twitter's not putting out its own
content seem to imply that they he's
like they said that
don't have accounts like this look at
the news section that they're always
trying to trick you in to clicking on
but I won't but I mean are they they may
drive you to certain places but they're
not in the business of like he is he's
suggesting that time winner is actually
making these bot accounts as because
they're trying to inhibit his First
Amendment right I mean what doctor said
yeah that is what he's implying with
actually literally no evidence well but
this is this is what gives away the game
here for the Republicans and it it
really I mean they're marshalling these
forces I don't know maybe it's just a
campaign tactic or maybe it's maybe
Nunez is trying to sort of protect
himself he thinks he might be have some
type of liability in the future but like
they this is this seems to me to be a
pre-emptive move to tell his own folks
that there's you know don't believe
anything you're talking about cuz
Twitter's actually gotten whole
operation that not only keeps you from
hearing my explanation but they have
BOTS that are specifically there to
attack Devin Nunez well speaking of bots
remember Nunez was pushing the whole
hash tag release the memo thing like a
year so ago and it turned out that that
hash tag was driven largely by BOTS that
like certain outfits would identify as
like Russian BOTS but who knows their
BOTS and their push and release the memo
the it's a very strong I have a feeling
we're gonna have a better sense but it's
honestly we're not going to fully
appreciate what this was about for
another year or two I think it's one of
those situations now of course here is
here are some examples of the Devon
Nunez that he says our BOTS that have
very creative but that that are
suppressing Devon newness is free speech
and as far as I can understand Devon
newness is charges so far as I can
understand he's claiming that Twitter is
has some type of algorithm that actually
creates these bots that are targeting
Devon
so here's one entitled Devon Nunez his
mom and is she disappointed it's not my
real mom right not now I have no mother
does not make Human Centipede jokes
about me Sean
Devon noonas mom seems to be responding
to a Natasha Bertrand she's a journalist
who writes about the the Russia
connections with the administration and
then Devon Nunez his mom not the real
Devon Nunez his mom but the the one on
Twitter that ostensibly according to
Devon Nunez has been created by Twitter
right so here's a helpful diagram to
explain their relationship and there are
three individuals Putin Trump and Nunez
that's the names on there they're not
you can't you wouldn't be able to
identify them except for the names
because they're all like sorted like
just sort of stick figure type of things
and PCs they're what non-player
character non-player characters right
and they they're they're each on all
fours lined up as if they were but
sniffers like dogs almost and be a bit
worthy yeah they're doing more than
sniffing the human centipede the human
is a very high I'm not familiar with
like interesting your sickness and maybe
demin unions has a point because we
clearly has to work things out with his
mom here but I do want to say that Devin
Nunez's mother
from what I can tell from watching
looking at this incredible graphic
design skills from someone in her age
cohort but highly vulgar movie taste yes
those kind of surprised me and I
actually can I can relate to Devin Nunez
on this if my mother did a human
centipede graphic targeting my political
party and myself I think it'll be pretty
upsetting
here's Devin Nunez replying to Fox News
Devin Nunez himself and the FBI saying
Devin Nunez this is again Devin Nunez
his mom your district is looking for you
question mark are you trying to obstruct
a federal investigation again question
mark you come home right this instant or
no more minecraft exclamation right now
stop being Magga you little
bastard I this is uh now I'm starting to
get the feeling and maybe it's cuz I'm
inclined that way because of my
background in comedy but this might be a
parody account
wait you don't you don't think that this
is I thought his mom was a Democrat a
lot of people are saying oh because I
just did the whole Minecraft thing cuz
Mayans you know I
Devon Nunez does not strike me as a
minecraft guy could be a little bit but
maybe I had heard from many people that
Devon unions his mom was a very talented
graphic designer and a Democrat here is
Devon Nunez responding to Donald Trump
for bringing much-needed attention to
our flawed environmental policies for
should be managed properly water should
be allowed for farmers to grow food to
feed people and Devon Nunez his mom
again says these two geniuses want to
teach us all about environmental science
never mind the fact that both of their
expertise put together is worse worth
less than a bag of dicks when we have
questions about hookers or Vegas strip
clubs will call you okay Devon Nunez
that's pushing it that just seemed the
sissies pushing it and especially God
keep some things in the family dicks
would be worth a lot actually if you
could get one together I would imagine
the just the effort involved in getting
a bag of dicks would be difficult but
why would Devon Nunez this mom imply and
not explicit but just imply that at
least you knew about Vegas strip clubs
or hookers in such a way or Devon Nunez
that's fascinating
so here is part of the lawsuit defended
Devon Nunez is cow newness is a farmer
right oh okay yes farms in Iowa there
that was a very bizarre story right yeah
a person who would Twitter's consent
created oh this is the idea that Twitter
gave their consent specifically to a
parity account created and maintains an
account on Twitter at Devon cow for the
sole purpose of attacking and defaming
Nunez Devon cow has 1200 and four
followers like Devon Nunez his mom
dev
Nunez cow I'm reading incidentally from
the lawsuit Devin Nunez is cow engaged
in a vicious defamation campaign against
Nunez that lasted over a year
Devin Nunez his cow has made published
and republished hundreds of false and
defamatory statements of and concerning
Nunez including the following Nunez is a
treasonous cowpoke as one of those I
have to think that a judge is going to
look at this and go excuse me counsel
are you telling me that Devin Nunez had
no idea this is a satire like our is
society's supposed to take Devon Nunez
is cow as a serious source of material I
mean I use does the mom one cuz I still
kind of think it is his mom I don't
maybe I'm missing something here but
that's clearly a joke well cows can't
carry right well you know his mom could
be a super talented graphic designer who
doesn't like her son's politics and
things he's less worthy than a bag of
dicks that is possible but the idea that
a cow would have the ability to just
even hit single keystrokes on a keyboard
is virtually unheard of now I guess it's
possible that as a cow walks through a
field you could get some type of like
stick stuck in one of their cloven
hooves and in that instance just and
that would be lucky or maybe the cows
like ah I've got this thing stuck in my
hub this is horribly you know I don't
want this here but on the flip side I
will be able to type now and I could
start a Twitter feed and because I have
this unique ability as a cow to actually
like hit one keyboard you know so you'd
be like you think these jokes might be a
little tacky but they take a long time
to find out this is also the case you
don't know if Jack Durst has been
invested in sort of bovine neural
networks to help get cows on to the on
to the platform
transcend the industrial abuse of
animals is to get them wired
there's work connectivity they can't be
beef it's the same stuff as a Peter
Till's case against Gawker right because
he didn't really sue them for outing him
although he made a big deal about that
he didn't really sue them for
mistreating Hulk Hogan he wanted them
gone because they made fun of him by mr.
hook I think people should be allowed to
make fun on powerful and like it's
ironic too because Twitter is actually
taking steps to protect the powerful as
we speak from getting free she owed when
they say dumb things this is and and I'm
quite convinced that this is part of at
least part of the motivation here is
we're going to work the refs and the
idea is that regardless of what's going
on in Twitter we're just going to keep
throwing suits at you and regardless of
whether these suits have any basis no
one wants to be a company that's getting
sued often
