[Music]
Flint Michigan is still in the midst of
this crisis with its water and this is
nothing new
there's poisoning a lack of water
quality across the country of course
disproportionately affect people of
color low-income people
structural issue in this society and it
is absolutely an issue of institutional
racism one of the really funny things
about Flint though is I understand how
in certain instances it takes like I
don't know ten minutes of abstract
thought process to say Oh while there
might be as an example local problems in
Baltimore right I'm not gonna go to bat
here to defend local Baltimore
institutions like the mayor Police
Department or the real estate developers
or anything else but you can also take a
couple steps back and go oh part of the
reason is city like Baltimore I might be
happening and having problems is because
of structural racism deindustrialization
under investments in cities brutal
racist policing policies and so on right
you you think a few steps out and then
you can have a structural understanding
of how the economy works how race works
and things like that now I would never
want to burden ben shapiro or any of his
fans to have to think out a couple of
steps through that process i understand
that that's not very logical doesn't
give you enough time with his fast
speaking isn't giving enough time with
his fast speaking and it's much more
comfortable to just tell simple bedtime
stories so that you don't have to
actually deal with any problems or deal
with our current history our current
reality or history but when you talk
about flint and you do this angle you
run up against some very basic problems
this is ben shapiro okay so it's
environmental racism Iskender racism in
that country okay then marianne
williamson steps in and marianne
williamson actually makes a pitch that
again is spiritual in nature and thus
when it comes to issues of race is
actually more attractive here's mary ann
williams
putting the slavery reparations question
in a way that actually sounds more
reasonable than the way Democrats are
talking about it I assure you I lived in
Grosse Pointe what happened in Flint
would not have happened in Grosse Pointe
this is part of the dark underbelly of
American society
and the entire conversation that we're
having here tonight if you think any of
this wonkiness is going to deal with
this dark psychic force of the
collectivized hatred that this president
is bringing up in this country then I'm
afraid that the Democrats are going to
see some very dark days we need to say
it like it is it's big ok so again she's
wrong a flint is governed by minorities
I mean the folks who are the mayor of
Flint is was black at the time the folks
were involved in the Flint water crisis
were of minority descent it wasn't white
people cramming down a situation on
Flint by the way they're all Democrats
but what she's actually saying there is
more speaking to the heart and soul of
the Democratic Party than anything that
Elizabeth Warren just said it was ok so
that's interesting that he would frame
it that way I don't know I mean I
actually do think there's a huge value
in some of the ways that Marian
Williamson is actually talking about
those issues and I do think things like
Truth and Reconciliation Commission and
the reality whether it's spiritual
psychological or otherwise but the
effort to simply force and get people to
understand American history is very
significant so and it's interesting that
it's that even someone like Shapiro is
actually sort of forced to to understand
that on some limited level but that
being said we just got to get this out
of it Flint Michigan run by
african-americans huh in 2000 and and
just let's be clear here Flint's
population is being decimated for
decades you can go back to Roger and me
Michael Moore documentary about the
industrialization in 2011 Richards Rick
Snyder nerd that cares are tough one
tough nerd was his slogan forced flitter
Flint into state control he set up a
board of oversight and overseers which
had some diverse representation and they
implemented a brutal austerity plan on
Flint including
the changes to their water system that
led to the poisoning of the residents of
Flint it's shocking that Ritchson that
rick snyder and others haven't been
criminally charged so just to be clear
in this specific instance forget even
the broader structural questions of why
certain communities are poisoned and not
others which bench bureau has no grasp
of and no interest in in this one
instance of flint even that cheap
misleading disingenuous essentialist
dumb talking point isn't even true local
officials did not have control over
their water policies period full stop
I'm gonna have to shout out anybody said
that to slow my literary hangover
episode on Georgia was looking back on
the Spanish war because I think it gives
an insight into why Ben Shapiro might
like Marion williamson's approach here I
as this toward the end says behind all
the Bala who that is talked about
godless Russia and the materialism of
the working class and reminder George
Orwell for people who don't know wasn't
a huge fan of Stalin's Russia behind all
the ballyhoo that has talked about
godless Russia and materialism of the
working class lies a simple intention of
those with money or privileges to cling
to them did oh the thought it contains
ditto though it contains a partial truth
like we said with Mary Ann with all the
talk about worthlessness of social
reconstruction not accompanied by a
change of heart the pious ones from the
Pope to the Yogi's of California are
great on the changes of heart much more
reassuring from their point of view than
a change to the economic system that's
great he's missing Liberation Theology
which certainly hasn't changed the
economic system so this isn't I mean
this can be a false choice what
Liberation Theology what's the like
lineage of that
now basically Marxist priests in Latin
America right but think so they were I
mean like Romeo Oh fair enough like
that's later on this is in the 30s
that's fair enough
later on I mean but he was but he's okay
people like Doris Day who were you know
and I mean he's there were there was
always Catholic and Jewish socialist
I mean Gandhi's much more complicated
figure so and I mean it contains a
partial truth
alright fair enough you know what
in the 1930s is a brilliant argument and
you're right about why it would appeal
the Shapiro are a Jay Jay cool thing
