Trump and they're very concerned I think
about the numbers for Trump wrote an
op-ed I guess III can't even I don't
even know how to like characterize this
an op-ed was written with Trump's name
attached to it it was a putting the
stuff USA today it is so full of lies
and prevarications I mean it I want to
know if like I'm eligible to write an
op-ed that says that people are being
lined up and shot every dawn in the
backyard of the the White House well not
yet but when I did see the story about
the embassy inside maybe I literally got
an erection MBS is so cool
well we'll talk more about that in the
in the fun half but they are freaking
out a little bit and here is trumpet in
Iowa rally warning people of the
left-wing mob ahead of the midterms here
a here he is in Council Bluffs Iowa with
what's the green hats about do we know
is that I don't think it is I don't
doesn't know make America great with the
John Deere motif is that it alright you
have the chance to stop the radical
Democrats by electing a Republican House
and the Republican Senate Democrats have
become totally unhinged they've gone
they've gone crazy the Democrats have
become too extreme and they become
frankly too dangerous to govern they've
gone wacko you don't hand matches to an
arsonist and you don't give power to an
angry left-wing mob and that's what the
Democrats have become now if you're
asking yourself what does a left-wing
mob sound like well of course it sounds
well
slightly different than this mob at that
same speech
how about senator Feinstein that's
another beautiful
that's a beauty did you leak the
documents Wow right what no I
did we link didn't really
No
and I think that talking about Feinstein
can you believe yeah there you go folks
a rare of trailer Trump pence 20 20 lakh
all the women up I wish the Democrats
were an angry left-wing mob no kidding
that would be sick
that would be nice but it's pretty
impressive yeah I think that they're
going to lock their you know lock her up
is going to be that is their that's
their calling card got to play the hits
gotta play the hit it's gonna play the
hits but it almost reminded me of
drained the swamps in terms of how he
accidentally finds something cuz when
they started saying lock her up after
fine steam he had a second of like we
would add sheet yeah her to also
Pocahontas yeah I think he was pretty
excited about that I think he just
realized like oh my god if Warren runs
he's totally gonna do that yes we need
like a countdown clock to trump doing
that my opponent no III was gonna say
that this morning but I'm pretty sure he
did that in 2016 he already did of
course
