this is a good moment for a OC as you
know over the past I mean this happened
during the Obama administration there
was reports on strem extremists in this
country right-wing extremists and it was
because of the conservative outcry
censure attacks unfair attacks on on
conservatives it's also just amazing to
me like that somehow conservatism is
defended when it is in the simply in the
form of gay bashing but whatever and she
wants the ideas she wants to know why
this ideology which has created all
sorts of violence is not considered
domestic terrorism of the Michael
McGarrity who is the assistant director
for counterterrorism with the FBI is
white supremacy not a global issue
[Music]
we've seen white supremacist attacks
that were clearly domestic terrorism
experts in fact the acting AG jeff
sessions even called some of these
instance dress domestic terrorism is an
incidence the Emanuel AME Church
shooting of black Americans in
Charleston and the Tree of Life
synagogue shooting in Pittsburgh of
Jewish people that those were only
designated and charged as hate crimes
not domestic terrorist incidents you're
not gonna find an actual charge of
domestic terrorism out there if you look
at Title 18 right you're looking for
well it says here that but at the San
Bernardino shooting or the Alando pulse
nightclub shooting they were designated
and charged as domestic terrorist
incidents they were they were charged
I'd have to go back and look they were
charged likely with if there was a
connection to a foreign terrorist
organization we'd likely fall under 18
USC 23 a or B so because because the
perpetrator was Muslim they are doesn't
it seem that because the perpetrator is
Muslim Brooke doesn't know that the
designation would say it's a foreign
organization not correct if you that is
not correct
okay can you explain yeah why homegrown
violent extremist who we or most of the
people we arrest in the United States
homegrown violent extremist self
radicalized born in the US it doesn't
matter what religion but the orlando
pulse club shooter meets those
qualifications and he is your doesn't
international terrorist because he was
following under the but he was homegrown
and self radicalized Ramos paces how we
work homegrown by extremist cases I do
the global jihad we worked in under
international terrorism that is correct
is white supremacy not a global issue it
is a global issue
so why are they not charged with foreign
because the tax needs Congress doesn't
have a statute for us for domestic
terrorism like we do on a foreign
terrorist organization like Isis al
Qaeda Al Shabaab could you see how this
could create issues and discrepancies
with how violent extremism by Muslim
perpetrators could potentially even if
it's unintentional but that there are
there are holes and there are gaps here
not through your fault or any one
specific person's fault it could be our
fault as Congress but could you see how
one could see how the way that we are
pursuing and charging white supremacy
particularly if they tend to be charged
with hate crimes and and where that same
type of violence committed by a Muslim
extremist could be charged with domestic
terrorism hate crimes and domestic
terrorism are treated and charged
they're different crimes and they could
be pursued differently with different
resource allocations can you see how
people would say that these are being
treated differently there you go we just
simply have legislation that yeah we
yeah nobody can do I mean this is why we
are not really addressing white
supremacy and the violence that comes
with this type of extremism and largely
it is because every time there is any
type of administrative bureaucratic or
legislative attempt to deal with it
there's these out cries that somehow
your your censoring or your picking on
on conservatives it's absurd it's
absolutely absurd
