[Music]
we have been on the Chris Coons beat for
increasingly over the past can be in it
for me you know Chris Coons sort of like
a an innocuous senator right but the
more the Democrats in the Senate and the
more the democratic party begins to get
more ambitious in terms of progressive
goals more ambitious about acknowledging
the structural problems that we have
things like hey a lot of places are
gerrymandered to the point where
democrats have to outpace republicans
you know by 20 percent to actually win
by five percent the senate is a body
that is controlled by you know 40
percent of the country and the more
democrats get involved in an aware of
this stuff and and democratic lawmakers
are willing to make some changes the
more chris coons has to feel like he has
to speak up so in some ways like this is
encouraging Koons came out and said like
you know if we take back the Senate we
should reinstate the the filibuster so
that we give them the opportunity to
stop us from actually putting judges on
the bench then he was out there trying
to gin up a war with Iran until somebody
pulled him back a little bit the other
day this is from a discussion that took
place a while ago I think right
oh this was over this weekend oh I
thought this was uh this is at the Notre
Dame Law School and they were doing a
panel on partisan politics in the era of
Trump now the title itself I find
annoying because the implication is that
somehow this era has become hyper
polarized
fact is is that it was pretty
hyperpolarized before is just a lot of
people didn't really realize it can we
get back to the Gingrich era no well
yeah I mean I'm saying that's the
subtext of like yes that beautiful
bipartisanship right exactly when John
Rich years when just the Republicans
were at one pole Arendt and the
Democrats were just basically hanging
around the the middle trying to placate
them Chris Coons has an interesting take
on it as to what has enhanced this
partisanship is it because after 30 or
40 years of assaults on workers on
attempts by Republicans to destroy the
protections that we had that started
with the EPA under a Republican
president the broadly the assault on our
government is that why because Democrats
have come to realize this because
there's a new generation that says hey
we keep seeing the Democrats just
basically roll over and work in cahoots
with these interests and frankly use the
Republicans as cover for them to do
corporate friendly things and make it
like they had no choice like Chris Coons
is that why there's the Democrats have
become more polarized and more adamant
about their positions to the extent that
they have well maybe but Chris Coons has
another theory we've let in too much
riffraff
I guess I'd also ask what you think
about the fact that you know in the good
old days we also had a Congress that was
a lot more homogeneous didn't have very
many women very few people of color
there were large swaths of the American
population that were pretty
systematically excluded from political
power and influence and so maybe it was
easier to get together when only some
voices were being heard in the political
system and now that we hopefully are
allowing more and different voices be
heard that itself
take some work to resolve and to find
compromise chris coons been thinking
about briefly say you're absolutely
right that the thing that has
contributed most I think in the Senate
to the grinding down of our ability to
function and compromise is that control
of the Senate has gone back and forth
with some regularity and it's within
just a few seats and so now I will also
say we have we have both leaders of our
caucuses and members of our caucuses who
are all too willing to go in campaign
against the folks who are the ones most
willing to compromise because those are
the ones easiest to defeat you know I
currently have legislation that I'm
trying to advance with literally all
five of the most vulnerable Republicans
so senator Tillis and I reigned senator
Collins and I sent right so senator
Gardner and I were just working on these
bills this week if you stop legislating
with the very people who are at risk of
losing their seat because their
bipartisan than how do you expect the
thing to get any better when I challenge
pausing for one second now just a little
bit of history the fact of the matter is
is that Republicans have punished people
for being bipartisan far more than
Democrats have over the past 20 or 30
years in fact I lamented the fact that
Democrats I'm talking about Democratic
voters place compromise is such a high
value over even like their desired
outcomes compromise that's changed
because there's only so many times you
can try and kick the football when Lucy
pulls it away and I think Coons has at
least as analysis goes I think he's got
a point here his Republican colleagues
attack those Republican colleagues who
are willing to work across the aisle now
I would also argue that these
Republicans that he's working with are
also in you know more or less
just as bad as those other Republicans
but continue how do you expect the thing
to get any better when I challenge my
more progressive colleagues about how
will your dreamed for vision of like
complete justice be accomplished their
answers are structural change get rid of
the filibuster pack the court these are
fairly extreme answers and I'll tell you
I think you're you're right about that
I want to believe of our country in
ourselves that a more diverse Senate
that includes women's voices and voices
of people of color and voices of people
who were not professionals but you know
who grew up working class and are first
in their family to go to school and so
forth that we can engage those voices
that they can be part of the debate that
that doesn't produce irreconcilable
discord I think history may judge
otherwise but why is she here raising
let's be clear on what he's saying here
okay he is saying that the more you open
up democracy the more problematic it is
period he is putting getting things done
between him and his colleagues has a
value above the idea of democracy that's
basically what it comes down to and
there is truth the more interest you put
into a room the harder it is it's going
to be to get to a solution but as a
value those solutions you have to look
at those solutions as to whether they're
actually good solutions because they
don't represent the interests of the
vast majority of Americans I mean so
like you know this is the thing is that
he's looking at he's looking at process
only because that process delivered the
results he wanted not because there was
something inherently good about that
process he's not concerned with the
process being legitimate he's concerned
with the outcomes that he's most
favorable to I have a feeling that Chris
Coons would have
real problem if only black males could
sit in the Senate I might be able to get
more done than to have yeah but only
only black autoworkers black male auto
workers will be on the Senate I would
actually be very excited for that
legislative package I wonder if Chris
Coons would then be okay like what we're
keeping the filibuster we're not gonna
pour PAC would love to see we're just
we're just gonna have black male auto
workers in the Senate and we you can't
believe how much we get done there's
another force like well we tried to have
Chris in the Senate but I'm not sure
that's gonna work at the end of the day
yeah
because he's gonna come in see this is a
few bald white guys in there but this is
the essence though this is the essence
of what people call privilege like the
idea that it is abnormal to have other
people in the Senate that the value of
having them there is isn't is
normatively off-kilter it's it's
different and that's causing problems as
opposed to we have a problem that if
we're going to have real democracy we
need to figure out a way of doing this
like it's just where you place the
emphasis on the value and it for him
it's very easy to say like it is a
little problematic with the women coming
in and the minorities and the pores and
which way doesn't really happen let's be
honest SOLAS not everybody in the Senate
is a millionaire I think except for well
I think everybody in the Senate is a
millionaire maybe there's one or two
that or not and for Chris Coons this is
the problem they're bringing in the
problem like you couldn't have a better
example of the white male grievance than
this it's just that it's dressed up in a
suit and it's talking about like its I
this is not about me and my personal
enrichment it's about what's done to the
process
by having all these other voices in
there for political scientists say yeah
yeah I wasn't sure where he was going
with it until he said history might not
look kindly upon it and I was like do
you think history would look more kindly
upon a society where most of the
population is systematically oppressed
underclass he does yes because he
doesn't recognize that fact he just
thinks that if it was just me and guys
like me and here we'd get business done
and that business heat from his
assessment the business of fine it's
absolutely fine how bad you have to be
with your perspective on this to have
Joe Donnelly the former senator from
Indiana come in and go like ooh wait a
second I want to distance myself from
that comment you're right about that
I want to believe of our country in
ourselves that a more diverse Senate
that includes women's voices and voices
of people colored voices of people who
were not professionals but you know who
grew up working class and are first in
their family to go to school and so
forth that we can engage those voices
that they can be part of the debate that
that doesn't produce irreconcilable
discord I think history may judge
otherwise but I appreciate your raising
both points I think the fact that we're
more diverse is one of the strongest
things that we could possibly have done
it is so much more reflective America
yeah yeah there you go I mean Donnelly
goes on to say exactly what a non
oligarch would say I mean I like the
Coons doesn't even realize I mean he's
saying this in public he doesn't even he
is so detached that he doesn't even
realize the implications of what he's
saying so detached he doesn't even
understand the implications of what he's
saying it is it's stunning
it's stunning and it explains like
everything you need to know about the
attitude of these people like I say just
imagine the
the senate if chris coons would be like
you know senator Coons for the sake of
getting things done we're just gonna
have blackmail autoworkers you okay with
that
oh whoa whoa wait wait a second yeah no
we're gonna be incredibly productive no
it'd definitely be a lot more efficient
yeah we'd nationalize GM huh effective
immediately responding to the splinter
responding to splinter Slynt a splinter
I guess found this video right they they
put it up following the publication of
this story Coons communications director
Sean Coit insisted Coons intent was
clear senator Coons is committed to
improving diversity in our politics in
Congress and throughout our country koi
told splinter in a statement it's clear
that in this conversation the senator
was talking about how difficult but
critically important it has been to
increase diversity in Congress and also
how far we have to go now he did say the
part about how difficult it's been I
don't remember him saying it was
critically important and I don't
remember him saying how far we still
have to go I think he C even said that
history is going to judge that it was
actually what we've created here
reconcilable differences now maybe he's
Pro irreconcilable differences but I
don't think so and like I say Chris
Coons had no idea what he was saying
he's so oblivious and frankly I think
there's I think I saw I don't know what
that percentage is but that perspective
I think is so widely shared by it's
easiest to do it as as white men it's
the elite Dirk Webb
yeah well it's easiest to do it as one
homogeneous group and it just so happens
that the homogeneous group that's
already there is white men that's right
not their fault that's right well that's
I mean on some level it's they they are
caught in a hermetically sealed bubble
that they just haven't gotten used to
the fact that it's about
pierced and by about I mean you know
over the next 50 years but III honestly
like that that Chris Coons thing I feel
like is one of those things that if I
had if we had they you know sort of like
a cash like with a hidden door you press
and you go in to get all the weapons
like that would be I would take that
video and put it in amber and bring that
out all the time to show people exactly
like this is oh this is the attitude I
mean to describe this attitude right
here where Chris Coons had no idea that
he was basically saying like it's a
liability to have all these different
voices and we are deviating from the
norm and that's problematic time to take
the power back yeah like you know your
dadís basically said it like someone's
gotta lose and it's Chris Coons is gonna
lose I mean maybe not Chris Coons but
the the Chris Coons i'ts
I don't know he is gonna be such a pain
in the ass if the Democrats take back
the Senate just become a Republican well
there'll be three votes he's with us on
everything except for the war on and on
and on that's what Bernie won't work Oh
his dad went to Harvard instead of uh
the the previous reasoning of like well
he's what those are procedural stuff
Bernie like shot Bob but guess what I
still want that guy to have health care
