so this is interesting there's two
things that are going on right now that
are somewhat unrelated on some level
although AOC is the is the thread this
is an occupation in Democratic leaders
Nancy Pelosi's office basically calling
for efforts to fight climate change for
a new Green Deal if you would
strangely attempted by Democrats in
pressuring Democrats bucking and as you
can see a OC is in the is in the office
and encouraging them do we have sound on
this
standing with allies because and I what
I hope we all show that this moment it's
not just about confrontation so a couple
of things about this one is sort of
related there's a lawsuit being brought
against the United States by by a bunch
of young people that Supreme Court last
week said could go forward suing the the
US government essentially for failure to
protect its citizens from from climate
change but the value of having someone
like ALC and this may seem somewhat
basic and obvious but we would not have
probably even read about that occupation
of Pelosi's office was it not for the
fact that she shows up there possible we
would have had maybe gotten a press
release but with there would have been
no mainstream news coverage that was
from ABC no sizzle no sizzle as it were
and it's not simply because she is a
person who's involved in this it's
because she is a congresswoman elect she
is a Democrat and she is willing to
pressure the leader of her party and to
do so in a public way and that's the way
that momentum and pressure builds on in
this case the Democrats and the
Congressional Caucus and this is the way
it belts and
ALC is going to be a pain in the ass to
a lot of people in the leadership and
the establishment and there's not a lot
they can do about it because she's going
to maintain her seat she doesn't need
their money I mean these are all the
constraints that they have and she's
already built you know a caucus of
support within the the house so this is
the way that you take power do it slowly
you build upon successes and and then
you translate into you know into getting
stuff done on issues now it's just a
question of urgency when it comes to the
Democrats you know how urgent are they
gonna be how dramatic are the steps that
are gonna be taken or at least proposed
at this point there's not Democrats are
in a position to implement this stuff at
least not on a federal level now another
story coming out of New York her ALCS
district she's in Congress doesn't have
a direct authority on this but again you
read about it she provides cover she
starts to shape the narrative in New
York as you know Amazon has decided has
chosen this is like an episode it's like
an episode of The Bachelorette right
Amazon has given us what do they do they
give the flower or something like that
or the ring the red rose Amazon has
given the red rose to a place in
Virginia essentially Greater Washington
metro area and to Long Island City
Queens has Pro has bequeathed I guess
half a rose to each that the new second
Amazon headquarters will come to your
state New York you're welcome
in exchange for up to a billion dollars
in tax incentives now understand that it
wouldn't be clear about this when you
give a company like that a billion
dollars or any company or any
institution frankly a billion dollars
worth of tax incentives you're costing
the state a billion dollars particularly
you know Long Island City there's not
like it's not like this is we don't know
what to do with this territory here
maybe we should have farmland or maybe
you know we're just gonna like this is
extremely valuable property community
garden much more productive for the
people of New York City nationalized
house well you would actually still get
benefits out of it and to give a billion
dollars worth of tax incentives cost you
a billion dollars and it's not you know
listen I I don't know what kind of jobs
are gonna be there but we're gonna hire
if they bring in new people all its
gonna do is raise the cost of housing
even more in a place that's already
prohibitively expensive to live and you
gonna drive more people out I don't know
if these figures are right but someone
was ballparking like a 40k per job
subsidy for a hundred and twenty K job
is going to just drive up prices you're
subsidizing the rent increase every 100
five dollars for supper a subway ride
pour right also this is another thing
just I gotta just interject this is
where we can say like attacking
rightfully Wisconsin and Walker for the
Foxconn deal and then you know a certain
type of corporate leaning liberal
reveals it's like oh it's just the sort
of brand identification like like
Foxconn is down market up Amazon's
upscale market but either way you're
just luring you know predatory
corporations with our money right and
and so there is a shift though because a
year ago or six months ago there was
really nice
a heck of a lot necessarily that you
could pressure you could bring to bear I
mean of course if people react in this
net but now there's actually something
that can be operable Democratic
Assemblyman Ron Kim announced that he's
gonna introduce legislation to slash New
York's Economic Development subsidies
and use the money to buy up and cancel
student debt dive on them haters it
would halt any Cuomo administration
offer of taxpayer money to Amazon and
here's the implications of the past
election there's a real opportunity for
this legislation to pass and to force
Andrew Cuomo to start making the
decisions the uncomfortable decisions
that he never wanted to make which is
why he's supported and midwifed the
so-called IDC which is basically a way
of throwing the Senate to Republicans
even though more Democrats had been
elected in in in New York I'm sorry just
one fact check I believe his name is
Amazon como now Amazon Cuomo Cuomo's an
O Andrew Amazon I am Amazon I am the
real estate industry I am a Wall Street
bank that wants anything anytime
anywhere anyplace now I mean you have to
look at the sort of the way that
everything is building upon each other
when a OC comes out and says we need to
you know put more stringent requirements
on Amazon we can't do this a big tax
giveaway my constituents are very
concern that this is going to drive
people out of the neighborhood and of
course it will right I mean if you force
Amazon to hire the people who already
live in that area that's one thing but
of course they're not going to do that
they're gonna bring in more people
they're gonna increase the pressure on
housing they're gonna raise the rents
for everybody around that's gonna drive
people out of
Long Island City and it's gonna cost the
taxpayer a billion dollars to do so and
so when she starts being critical of
this it gives cover for a guy like Ron
Kim he may have done it maybe he
wouldn't have done it without her I'm
sure but the bottom line is it just
increases the pressure and raises
expectations and that's what has to
happen across the board let's go to the
file so there's this report which we
will get to more later but I'm just
saying now from the independent and this
is I guess this is already well dated
unfortunately but there was a revealed
in 2013 Amazon used neo-nazi guards to
keep immigrant workforce under control
in Germany so just another just another
factoid Wow
