[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report folks on the phone it is a
pleasure to welcome the 19th and current
chair of the libertarian National
Committee Nicholas Sawa Nick
Nicholas welcome to the program thanks
for Avignon Tim so alright just will you
just tell folks what does what do you do
as the chair of the libertarian National
Committee are you like the party head
yeah I am it's the same position as the
chairs of the Republican or Democratic
National Committee's so you're the chair
of the national organization of the
party that controls you know the
national finances has a national
headquarters coordinates ballot access
party stuff okay and so now all right so
let's get some of the the mechanics out
of the way here if I was to run in the
libertarian primary what how would I go
about doing that is it too late well
it's not too late we nominate by
convention still so libertarian politics
is still real and not as made-up and
kabuki as the two old parties mm-hmm so
you would have to go around to state
conventions all around the country were
organized in all 50 states and convince
people who are going to be delegates to
our national convention held next May in
Austin to vote for you at that
convention we don't do binding primaries
in in the various states those are just
advisory you know or beauty contests
could I could I lobby these potential
delegates you know by phone by mail in
other forums yeah I mean its standard
political campaigning the only
difference is you're not trying to get
votes on a state sponsored primary
election day you're trying to convince
activists who are going to be delegates
to the National Convention that you
would be the best standard-bearer for
the Libertarian Party in 2020 are we
going to be debates there are debates
already happening among the candidates
who are seeking the nomination usually
those are at state party conventions
around the country there are some online
debates that have happened one of the
things that I've noticed is everybody is
really focused on the 37 people who are
running for the Democratic nomination
right now so that's eating a lot of the
oxygen in the room yeah by all means
send send the if you have video the
debates send them to us because I'm
upset that we have not seen them who who
has been debating who are some of the
who are some of the top libertarian
candidates at the moment this kokeshi in
there so right now Co cash is in there
there's Adam coquettish there's arvind
bora there's kim ruff there's a berman
supreme daniel taxation is theft berman
and then there's a number of other
people who are rumored to be considering
running and having decided to run yet
because we are still you know almost a
year out from the convention in austin
okay all right so we've got those
mechanics down I'm not sure what do you
think my chances would be in the I mean
to run if I was the gonna run I you know
every time we have a national convention
the delegates are gonna balance between
who is closest to the libertarian
platform and you know in their beliefs
and who is likely to have the largest
megaphone if they go out and get the
most credibility and earned the most
votes so where do you fall on how much
of the libertarian platform you agree
with well that's the thing I wanted to
talk to you about because I'm not sure
I'm fully aware of what the platform is
but to the extent that I am aware of it
I have a feeling not much now I wanted
to talk to you about it might be a tough
tough run for you well but I also I
gotta say I mean as popular as vermin
supreme is I may have a bigger platform
right I mean I could
Bewdley I could probably get on MSNBC as
a libertarian candidate in a way that
you know I understand Gary Johnson had
that trip but I so far I don't see any
big names out there who gonna be able to
do this yeah I mean the field is fairly
open right now but you know the question
is gonna be why should a libertarian
delegate want you up on that stage if
what you're gonna say is well I don't
really agree with my party on anything
but look at me I'm on TV all right well
I'll sell that for for my delegate fair
enough but you got to give me some
credit
Nicholas it because I'm not gonna that's
the way the way I'm going to approach it
I'm gonna try and convince the the folks
in the party that that there's some
policies that need to be changed like
probably most of them now I think like
on a foreign policy perspective I think
we're fairly close fairly close I'm not
sure like you know at least at least top
line it looks like we're close
obviously I'm for don't support Foreign
Wars and I don't getting involved in
other countries civil wars bombing em
and things like that indeed indeed
so I think we've got where we're a line
there I think our decriminalization and
legalization of drugs I think we're
we're fairly aligned I'm guessing I
don't know though you're not you don't
want to keep the racist war on drugs and
going that you want to stop that's
correct that's correct okay we're good
on those two we got to now it gets a
little trickier where are you guys on
single-payer health care do you think
the government has been really good at
doing things efficiently with your money
yes okay relative Frank like relative to
what like Verizon I mean what's that
what do you see as the quality of the
single-payer systems that we have now
either the VA Medicare and Medicaid do
those produce high quality health care
the V
is actually not just a single-payer va
is actually full-on socialized medicine
right that we provide
it's going actually if you look at if
you look at the surveys of people who
use the VA in terms and kill themselves
that's that's right that's right there's
a lot of people come back from wars and
have PTSD that's why if we go back to
the first plank that we agree upon we
don't want it's another one of the
reasons why we don't want to send people
to war I mean you know right that the
people who get treated by the VA have
the single are the singularly most most
complicated cohort of people to treat
because they are sustaining injuries
that doctors in who are civilian doctors
who just don't come across they just
don't have any experience and it
medicine medicine for people who've gone
through war is a radically different
animal in many respects and so the VA if
you look at satisfaction surveys of the
VA overall they're competitive if not
better than private hospitals a if you
look at polling on Medicare people love
Medicare they love it and people are
Medicaid actually Lowell and they don't
ask about how it works well how would
you assess how it works beyond whether
the patients are happy with it cost for
outcomes it is usually the way that most
reality I've seen working you know that
Medicaid costs almost 20 cents less a
dollar then private insurance does in
terms of delivering the exact same
services and then in fact you also
probably know that when private
insurance decides on trying to figure
out what is the most effective treatment
for different things in what they'll
cover they look to Medicare for that
data because Medicare is the only one
that collects all that data and has
enough of a
in which to assess it so by both those
measures Medicare is doing great that
that does not comport with the lived
experience of Medicare recipients but
wait I thought we just said if you want
any talk about polling that's fine when
you say comport with the lived
experience of Medicare recipients
wouldn't we be able to use polls to
judge their satisfaction levels and we
started with that that's the first thing
I told you he said that wasn't good
well no you would use patient surveys of
how they feel about the treatment they
receive not how the general public feels
about Medicare is an abstract problem
I'm talking about Medicare in terms of
the people who are on Medicare all the
polling of people who are on Medicare
give it high marks now that doesn't
necessarily have to do with the
treatment because the treatment they're
getting from private doctors Medicare is
just the insurance you know that right
right right
so I think I could go in and sell people
on the idea that a single-payer health
care system is the way we should go
Medicare for all and in fact the
Medicare for all that that Bernie for
instance is offering is actually even
better and is I think it'll be
appreciated by people even more than the
Medicare that exists now okay how would
that work with the 22 trillion dollar
debt that we have
I don't know how was the tax cuts work
with the debt how does our military
correlated when you don't cut spending
and neither the Republicans nor
Democrats have any interest in cutting
spending and you continue to spend more
than you take in in tax receipts yeah it
doesn't really work why what's not
working I mean we're putting our
children and grandchildren into debt was
that sustainable yes it is insane about
that well I mean it's easy the debt
we're a sovereign nation we can print
our own currency the debt that we owe is
really just to ourselves we did we gave
trillions of dollars to the banks I
didn't agree with it but we did
trillions of dollars of the banks in it
we just wiped it off the balance sheets
it's gone okay
okay so what happens when we just print
our way out of this what is that what
does that look like to you
well we wouldn't necessarily print our
way out of it we would just erase the
debt but to the extent that we print our
way out right so you can not all not our
debt well you're worried about inflation
you're worried about inflation and if do
you have an example of another country
that's defaulted on its sovereign debt
and what happened to them we're not
going to default on our sovereign debt
okay we owe it to ourselves we're not
going to default well we don't
OS ourselves but we have bondholders
that hold Treasury notes that are
separate from the I understand the vast
majority of the owned by the US
government
I thought the majority was owned by
China but really most of our sovereign
debt really come on now you're the
chairman of a major major US policy Matt
would you put up would you google for us
who owns u.s. debt put it up there I
would say China the last I recall was
somewhere I don't know around maybe nine
ten percent foreign investors own 30
percent US government owns 30 30 percent
wait it's a roll up there Federal
Reserve owns 11 percent US investors own
30 percent so we have China assuming
assuming Florida is the biggest holder
of our debt it's not going to be more
than like 10 15 percent so the 30
percent the five point seven three
trillion held by the US government well
guess what US governments can be fine we
can we can print our own money so we
don't need the money that we owe
ourselves we've borrowed okay how how
did that work for Argentina or Venezuela
how did how did what did out of won't
work for Argentina Venezuela
well Venezuela inflating your way out of
your well we're not inflating our way
developing on it we're not we're not
inflating our way out of it we could
just write it off okay you're not
comparing the economy of Venezuela to
the economy of the United States are you
no I'm asking you the question would
Venezuela fit in the hollow space which
is one of the scaping is the outcome
that we get if we print our way out of
I've already told you what they are way
out of it or default because what
happened in the country I told you
people who live here Nikolas I told you
what happens nothing what happens
nothing okay um do you have any examples
of someone else where they did this and
I think that happens the United States
quantitative easing
I want everybody who thinks that what
I'm talking about is not accurate and
what Nikolas is saying is accurate to
Google QE one two and three and look for
inflationary fears because I sat on a
stage on a TV stage with David Stockman
you know who he is right
Reagan had an office office management
budget one of these guys like these
Third Way type of guys who said that we
are he said the exact same thing that
you did almost ten years ago in the wake
of the the QE the quantitative easing
one that we are gonna head for VY Mar
and guess what happened nothing
trillions of dollars we gave the banks
and then we just burnt it off they said
fine keep it we just trade the money
back and what happens what happens when
we can't control the interest rate we
can control the interest rate the
Federal Reserve controls the interest
rates well the Federal Reserve can set a
nominal interbank rate what happens when
the bond market refuses to respect the
interest rate what are they gonna do
where are these bond where these
bondholders gonna go um that is probably
either the euro or the rent maybe I'm
sorry the euro are you aware of what's
going on right now in Europe I am okay
so you think that you think that the
bondholders are going to say at what
point do you anticipate this happening
I mean you don't know what you're saying
it's advancing because the president's
throwing us into a trade war with a
bunch of tariffs well win so you know
our ignoring your theory buyers are
you're listening to other countries
yours even if other countries they're
gonna start marking the market in
different currencies that are not the
dollar right which then lowers our
buying power these same power so you can
actually control the interest rate ten
years ago Nikolas okay let me ask you
this how much are bonds worth net what
are the interest rates that we're having
to pay to borrow money now are they have
they skyrocketed I mean the t-bill rate
I think is down into the like two
percent ninety these bonds are these
bond buyers Complete Idiot's because if
what you're saying is the case if we've
got this massive debt that he's going to
challenge us and and we can actually
talk about how expensive
medicare-for-all will be because it's
it's not nearly gonna be as expensive I
think as you anticipate but if it was
the case that these bondholders were
worried about it wouldn't the interest
rates go up according to your theory
well sort of the bond the bond price
goes down to reflect the wrist but right
yes the the perceived or the felt
interest rates through the economy would
go up right and why isn't that happening
according to your theory well it's not
happening in court because of the stuff
that you're talking about as the
government continues to ignore the debt
ceiling and print more money or issue
more bonds and keep selling more debt it
pumps money into the economy which then
allows them to keep the interest rates
low you can do that for a long time I
mean when you can use it for a long time
and not have a hangover when do you have
until you stop drinking right but when
do you have to stop do I should we stop
drinking I would say take a look at what
happened to Argentina
we're not Argentina we have control over
we have control over our currency we're
not tied to any one natural resource to
provide our but is that permanent is the
current
control permanence where we can issue
sovereign debt and people will want to
buy no no I mean that you wait I have a
feeling climate change is going to be a
much bigger problem than then our
preeminence as a currency failing is
going to be particularly
bondo holders agree with me because
otherwise you would see a commensurate
rise in what they require to take on
more risk but they don't so who are you
gonna believe the people who are
actually in the business of buying a US
debt or you but let's change for you
let's change for some yeah let's shift
Medicare for all you're afraid that it's
gonna cost how much I it's gonna cost a
lot I mean government when you have a
single-payer for a service you have no
competition in that market which is
going to raise the cost of provisioning
the care get some economies of scale for
being a large buyer but there's no
competitive pressure to do anything
better are you aware of the term of
monopsony yes I'm aware of the term of
monopsony okay explain to people what
that is a monopsony is when you have one
buyer of a good or a service in the
market so only one one group or
organization is the the sole buyer of
the product correct and what is that
buyer that buyer have what kind of power
do they have in terms of of the cost of
things theoretically they have the power
to set what price they will pay because
they're the only buyer the the normal
supply and demand stuff doesn't work
exactly right what happens instead is
you have a steep drop from a willingness
to provide the service to this single
buyer at a dictated price to I'm not
willing to even participate in the
market anymore because the single buyer
won't pay me enough so what you end up
happening is you don't the problem you
get with a single payer so let me just
explain what it is okay shortages and
scarcity because if the same
Meyer says my price is going to be so
low doctors get out of the market or
okay so just to be clear a single-payer
system will actually can actually
control costs more but the danger is
that they'll control cost in such a way
that it won't be profitable enough for
doctors to be doctors right that's what
your C fantasy Danna or the National
Health Service in Britain and you see
some of these exact national how service
and Breuer is like the VA right you're
conflating two different things because
because the National Health Service is
actually all the doctoring Medicare for
all than it isn't no right if you
 you're making a very very
severe error of category okay you know
help me understand okay
in Britain under the the National Health
Service if you're a doctor you're check
your check you're an employee of the
government everyone around you is an
employee of the government in in a
single-payer health care system you the
doctors all work for either the hospital
or themselves but they get checks from
the insurance company in this instance
the insurance company is the US
government so why would you keep the
insurance model if you're trying to move
to a single-payer system I think
ultimately do you manage to take the
worst of big health insurance companies
you know padding their bills and
third-party payer and all the distance
and is there and combine it with a
mandate that you know forced everybody
to buy this crappy product you know it's
the worst of both worlds with any the
product to go ahead health economists
will tell you that the product got well
that's not true I've talked to a lot of
health economists but the product got
better because of
of basically a minimum standard for what
constituted health insurance I will
agree with you it was a bad way we
shouldn't subsidize this owner who had
to buy health insurance for my employees
the product got significantly worse to
the point where the only coverage that
was affordable had such a high
deductible that it wasn't really
insurance at all for anything other than
catastrophic care and that's why it was
so unpopular
you had no rescission company little
crappy insurance it's more appropriate
it's actually got a 50% more than 50%
approval rating now but but that but
putting that aside for a moment we know
that there's no such thing as rescission
anymore there's no lifetime caps we know
that it can't be that but that all makes
it actually get out of the market that's
why I lost my insurer from year to year
right which is why you and I agree on
this the only good part about that was
the expansion of Medicaid this is why we
need to go to a single payer and then
your fear is we're going to have doctors
who are going to get out of the the
business because it's not going to be
profitable enough for them
