[Music]
you
[Music]
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any Elise
they are unanimous in their hate for me
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it's Thursday May 9th 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a SAM slash Michael
slash gang Thursday this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we're broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on today's program
Lee Phillips and Michael ruse or ski on
the People's Republic of Walmart and
summers A's does the central planning of
Walmart proved that there's nothing
innately wrong with central planning
interesting interview that Sam conducted
with these guys Duncan on von mises
dunking on von mises and is Walmart that
great global capitalist predator
inadvertently making a case for some
form of socialism that's a fascinating
interview Donald Trump jr. has been
subpoenaed House Republican House panel
approves a contempt for bar even as
Steve minuchin oka is refusing to
release Donald Trump's taxes the New
York State Senate passes a bill allowing
allowing Congress to get those very same
taxes why don't why don't get Murano
toad in a car to prison in a Venezuelan
crackdown which sort of makes some sense
as these people have been trying to
in-state a coup for several weeks HR
McMaster says the public is fed war
weariness narrative that hurts us
strategy good this is great in a again
we're still at war in Afghanistan that's
longer than World War two
we're still killing lots of civilians
there speaking of us strategy the EU
rejects Iran deal ultimatum and regrets
us sanctions as sane people in the world
scramble to avert the war drums being
pushed by Pompeo Bolton and Trump AOC is
partnering with Bernie Sanders on her
first major piece of legislation in
Congress this is on capping credit card
interests great bill potentially very
important political signal and Bernie
and AOC have worked together to back
striking uber and lyft drivers I hope
everybody backed them yesterday as well
election results pouring in from South
Africa where it looks like ANC the
African National Congress has crossed
the 50% threshold that it will need to
govern without a coalition and
registering some confidence in the
leadership of Cyril Ramaphosa Facebook
co-founder Chris use says it's time to
break up Facebook as the obvious policy
answers to continued to present
themselves and potentially a script for
a second Aaron Sorkin vehicle social
network part 2 the break-up Denver
voters approve the decriminalization of
magic mushrooms and FAL yeah this is a
very important policy area people should
absolutely have the freedom to explore
their own consciousness that's actually
a very exciting initiative all that and
more on today's majority report Sam is
on the road or just not here I don't
even know where he is he couldn't be
sleeping which actually as much as I
give Sam a hard time for being the for
day a week man because you know gives us
a hard time for like missing a day I
will say he probably should get more
sleep so I hope he's getting yes I hope
he's getting sleep like
 the man should get more sleep and
you can tell when he's just like you
would define your politics as oh my god
I'm such a sleep monster I feel so bad
for him when I could tell he got like
zero hours of sleep do you do you have
an easy time falling asleep though no
yeah I don't know he's I falling asleep
is a challenge for me too I wonder if
that part of it probably is this job
definitely the key is to just game until
like 2:00 in the morning and then you'll
fall asleep immediately when you go to
bed see I can't I need to slowly start
putting away all electronics and going
towards like books or taking a walk or
whatever but as long as like yeah if the
phone is really a cursive thing alright
let's um let's start with this piece of
sound this woman Rachel Campos Duffy I
am totally unfamiliar with her my
understanding is that she's part of some
horrible couple that got their start on
reality television and now they promote
you know extremist propaganda and her
husband's in Congress is that true so
this is and this has been a problem for
right-wingers for a very long time
because whether you're ein Rand or
whether you're the Fox and Friends couch
or whether you're you know obviously
Mitch McConnell or Donald Trump or the
Koch brothers a Paul Ryan or whoever you
are there to valorize wealth at the
expense of all other not only human
values which is literally human
attributes there's nothing else to
concern yourself with in life and
certainly nothing else to respect and I
think human nature's a complex thing
it's not as if were born angels and then
sort of corrupted by society but we're
also not born monsters so human beings
are complex and one of the ways that
we've managed intergenerationally and I
kind of feel like Jordan Peterson now
but I think it is actually true is that
we do especially the kids we tell
stories where we try to instill and
shape
values and ways of responding to the
world so conservatives have a hard time
because a lot of children's stories
emphasize things like not being a prick
and if you're Rachel Campos Duffy and
the Wow I'm just looking at them in a
freeze-frame just the the ever
effervescent Fox and Friends couch this
not only is a problem for you're sort of
the spiritual death you're promoting
across the world in terms of valorising
wealth at all
all costs at all times it really is
borderline communist conspiracy Rachel
let's ask you a little bit about this
op-ed and the headline on Fox News is
finding socialism starts with a little
redhead what are you talking about there
well the topic is really that if you're
not talking to your kids about socialism
and this is the battle in our country
right now free enterprise and capitalism
versus socialism that's the battle and
if you're not talking to your kids about
it somebody is and it's not just in the
textbooks and the curriculums at your
kids school these messages and the I
call them the merchants of socialism out
there in the culture they start very
young are cartoons Jenna great
competition there are all kinds of
children's books out there look at the
the movies I mean when's the last time
you saw a successful entrepreneur not be
the villain in a movie for your kid
isn't Ironman yeah yeah first of all
regular Ironman is literally an arms
dealer but I think what this goes back
to and this movies already really pretty
old at this point was the lego movie
that came out several years ago and the
villain in the lego movie is a soulless
CEO who legitimately looks like Rip Mitt
Romney like I have no doubt like there
was a Romney in the storyboard so
they're still feeling very sore over
that in in a movie for your kids or even
for adults so there are lots of several
message out messages out there promoting
socialism but the good news for parents
is that we are our first and most
influential teachers
for our children so we have more
influence than they do but we have to
have these conversations and we have to
start early and I say one of the best
books to start with is the little red
hat it's the ultimate book about hard
work and personal responsibility
deferred gratification all the things
that it takes to really achieve the
American dream in America what do you
tell your kids about socialism because I
know you have some older kids you have
eight children and I know some of them
are in high school what do you teach
them Jesus well the first thing you want
to do is listen to them because they're
getting a lot of these messages and you
know in class discussions in their
textbooks but I say
Aynsley you've got to use all the time
you have in the car dinnertime if you
have a small business bring your kids to
the to your work and show them what you
do and how this works tax preparation
time tell them how many months a year
you work to give money to the government
before you actually get to keep a dollar
of it a lot of times kids don't know
these things tell them about how how if
you are even a middle income or upper
middle income business owner you're
paying a not insignificant portion of
your income in taxes because there are
people that are millionaires and
billionaires and global corporations
that are literally paying nothing maybe
you could tell them that but I'm sure
you'd prefer to exhaust your kids with
repeating the Little Red Hen over and
over again you matter and these poor
kids are in the car
and their parents start like blabbing at
them about Venezuela and like trying to
like dis instill basic human empathy
like you see a homeless person and the
kid has like the appropriate moral
response to be worried I'm sure this
person has totally messed up their lives
that person could have worked hard that
worked harder and and if you're worried
about them you know it's a liberal who
gave them a housing voucher that's why
they're homeless you want to read The
Little Red Hen again this is also
another thing I'm sure that would really
upset them and this is of course the
classic PBS children's cartoon Barney
this is an example of really kind of a
prototypical communist society and kids
having a pretty good time
[Music]
now did she charge brunch yeah I was
gonna say now that she say thank you
Barney please write me five stars
that'll be ten dollars now I need to go
to my janitorial job at the school in
order to earn my keep because again that
literally is the Dickensian dystopia
that these people on Fox News want for
all non oligarch children they want to
eat them out of life so that ever ever
shrinking margins can go to ever fewer
fewer people gusting just gusting those
other kids what you need to do is like
that classic Eddie Murphy routine where
Eddie said and we should have cut this
but the right answer according to Rachel
compost as I and Duffy as I understand
her Fox and Friends is and Eddie did a
great routine where when the ice cream
truck came there was always one kid that
couldn't afford ice cream and all the
other kids circled around them with
their cones and said he can't afford it
he can't afford it because his father is
an alcoholic and he's on the welfare
he's on the welfare that's what kids
should be doing and learning according
to Fox and Friends and Rachael Duff
Campos Duffy but this is the burn Barney
Bernie world right here 52% of American
Millennials would like to live in a
socialist or communist America yes yes
indeed sheer so it's good so basically
like these kids learning like the most
basics of moral development is a
strategic threat to these people's goal
to return to some type of fusion of like
you know sort of Blade Runner meets the
17th century yes
yes indeed his exactly wait'll she see
what's in wait till she sees what's in
the Bible Jesus was legitimately like
like all holy books you can read
whatever you want into it but really one
area where there is not super a lot of
room for interpretation is Jesus on
wealth policies he had a lot of message
discipline and seeing her with her army
of budding conservatives just makes me
you want to have an army of red diaper
babies to fight them your kids our kids
might turn out cool though I hope so
because I worry about kids adopted into
families like that that it's concerning
to me a little bit we'll keep an eye on
them one of today's sponsors is
Skillshare and anyone who goes to sk l
dot s h slash majority report three is
going to get i should say that again sk
l dot s h slash majority report and the
number three number three is going to
get two whole months of totally free
access to skill shares entire library of
super d super quality online courses and
tutorials Skillshare is a vibrant online
learning community that offers courses
on everything from design video editing
photography business technology cooking
and much more and everything in between
there are skills share courses for
everyone you'll have no problem finding
courses that will be useful to you in
both your personal and professional life
whether you want to sharpen your skills
with something you already love doing or
you want to learn to do something
totally new Skillshare has you covered
they have courses for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding Reb
development personal nutrition learning
new languages photoshop you name it i am
finally finally finally going to re
attempt
to pick up a second language it's one of
my great regrets and shames in life I
did pick up some Turkish when I studied
there but I wasn't able to retain it I
tried to study Mandarin once and just
wasn't didn't have the discipline for it
I might start I think I might start
closer at home and learn either Spanish
but potentially Portuguese because I
cover Brazil a lot you can get two
entire months free to access every
single course offered by Skillshare by
going to skl sh / majority or 4/3 just
think of everything you'll have at your
fingertips for two whole months that's
again that's sk l dot s h / majority
report three and we've put a link
underneath this video if you're watching
on youtube HTTP slash slash and the show
is also brought to you by simple habit
the majority report is being supported
by simple habit simple habit is a mobile
device that provides a massive and
diverse library of five-minute guided
meditations matt was just talking about
hopping on the train himself and the
majority report audience can try simple
habit totally totally free for an entire
week when you go to simple habit comm
slash majority there's a growing body of
scientific evidence look at Richie
Davidson's neuroimaging work at the
University of Wisconsin as but one of
many examples it can improve your health
it's showed to potentially even improve
empathy and other vital emotional skill
sets simple habit has over 2,000 guided
meditations specifically designed for
different parts of your day and just
about anything you might be dealing with
in life they have guided meditations for
mindfulness meditation for anxiety for
depression when you're having trouble
falling asleep meditations for when
you're wanting to overcome
procrastination or when you're having
something important going on at work
meditation design for parental units for
parents they have meditations made
specifically for when you wake up on
your lunch break or when you've just
gotten home from work or when you're
going to bed I as everybody knows I've
had different types of meditation
practices for
quite some time now mainly mindfulness
sometimes mantra practices and as I
mentioned earlier sleep is difficult and
I've been using this app to help me fall
asleep and it's been incredibly
effective
I like the arrange of options just even
that there are so many different
situations where meditation might be
relevant and I like how easy it is to
use different people are trying to
accomplish different things with
meditation and simple habit is able to
cater to just about everyone regardless
of what their goals are with meditation
or how much past experience they have
with meditation the variety of guided
meditations lends simple habit is what
sets it apart simple habit just won the
2008 Google Play award for best-selling
app it's available for iOS Android and
web browser and the majority report
audience can try it now can try it for
free for a week by going to simple habit
calm slash majority if you're watching
in YouTube we've put a link in the video
description we're gonna take a brief
break and we're going to come back with
Sam's interview on the People's Republic
of Walmart and then we'll take you to
the fun half
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program Lee Phillips a
science writer and Miha Rosa our ski he
is a writer and a union researcher and
they are the co-authors of the People's
Republic of Walmart how the world's
biggest corporations are laying the
foundation for socialism Lee Michael
welcome to the program happy to be here
great to be here
so all right let's start with this and
you know maybe you can start or Lee
whichever one of you feels most
comfortable but this basically starts
with a I guess a failed assumption by
our good friends Ludwig von Mises and
Friedrich von Hayek who felt that
central planning impossible and
therefore we need a fully market-based
system is that right yeah I think I
think that's that's right in a way the
book is isn't really organized about
sort of a big thesis it's organized
around an idea that idea of economic
planning of rationally deciding about
production and distribution rather than
letting as you said you know market
relations dictate both and it's a way of
bringing up to the present the
calculation debate of the 30s and the
40s that starred people like muses and
Hayek on the right versus a sort of
cautery of left-wing economists on the
other side arguing for planning and
bringing up to date in light of both
developments in sort of information
technology but historical developments
as well and in light of the sort of fact
that we don't really talk about and that
the right doesn't like to talk about is
that there is lots of economic planning
that already exists in today's society
on humongous scales and it happens in
the Walmarts and the Amazons also you
know the NHS in other places
in our economy and it puts a lie to at
least a good chunk of the captivation
debate which from the right was premise
exactly on that fact that this kind of
huge scale of calculation is is
impossible
so we already plan but we could be doing
it very differently democratically elite
I mean but I mean elaborate on that
notion of just like what are we talking
about when we say we're planning I mean
what like in what does that mean and I
guess maybe the best way to start is
like you know tell us a little bit about
Walmart in that respect because maybe
it's too hard it was too hard a hundred
years ago eighty years ago to imagine
something so large being so centrally
planned but right give us why is Walmart
an example of this well so even though
Walmart exists within a sea of prices
external to its to its doors internally
it's entirely planned it's so there
isn't an internal market there there
aren't you know managers don't tell you
know dough don't sort of have an auction
to see who's gonna be the lowest - to be
paid - to move one box - from one shelf
to another shelf it's a it it it doesn't
use market mechanisms internally now
this is very interesting because I mean
probably the strongest arguments would
be the right has ever mounted against
the left against the idea of socialism
is is is that it it is very very
difficult to to plan at scale that that
be one of the aspects within the the
calculation debate with the challenge
that you know across the the course of a
supply chain there are there's an
infinitude of variables and the price
signal in the market basically
compresses that or caps encapsulate that
or most of that and to replace the
the price signal with non-market
mechanisms with planning would require
basically an army of bureaucrats to to
refer to replace to both discover all
that information and then to to to
calculate it so you know this is
actually a really really good argument
but the the the problem here is that if
if the if the argument is that planning
at scale with and you know any larger
than the smaller variables is it
possible then then then then Walmart
shouldn't work because Walmart is this
vast internally planned economy on the
scale of a you know if it were a country
you know would be a Sweden or a
Switzerland all right that's the thing
that people need to understand that
we're talking about a massive massive
enterprise and to what so me how what
makes it what makes Walmart an economy
as opposed to an enterprise within an
economy and then I want to talk about
that notion of of being able to plan or
maybe we should start actually with that
let's start with that notion of being
able to plan because I just want to
tease this out for people don't sort of
you know spend a lot of time with these
concepts the idea that the right has is
that we don't know where the equilibrium
or how to make something this large
function it's almost trial and error and
the market basically is a process of
trial and error in a way is that and it
naturally comes to a point of
equilibrium is is that the theory and
then and then talk about why the
internally in in Walmart its it's an
economy as opposed to like just an
enterprise sure so yes in a way that's
the theory I mean the funny thing is
that that theory isn't borne out in
practice and in so many ways we have so
many ways that the you know so many
market distortions and x-plane allottee
isn't that things that the left talks
about all the time you know from
monopsony in the labor market creating
wages that are you know quote unquote
too low at equilibrium too
things like you know the price of
dealing with climate change not being
included in the price of a fossil fuel
so even the even that image of itself
correcting sort of equilibrating market
is one that you know as the right likes
to say works in theory but but fails in
practice and that's part of the but
regardless the point that they were
making is exactly that that the market
is is this mechanism that's able to sort
of correct and take all of this
information and and compute it it's
funny it's funny today to read sort of
Hayek in the forties where he talked
almost mystically about prices being
action at a distance which you know in
the age of smartphones and
telecommunications network spanning the
whole globe is it sounds kind of it
sounds kind of quaint you know we have
action at a distance in our pockets on
scales kind of unimaginable
Hayek and it also speaks to the sort of
to the way that his political project in
a way worked that our imaginations have
been sort of have been capped have been
you know we have they've been foreclosed
after decades of neoliberalism and the
debates that we used to have in the 30s
and 40s about how we organize the
economy how we organize social life sort
of on you know you know in a much bigger
way not whether we you know tinker with
this aspect or that aspect there used to
be really really live debates and then
to bring that up to the up to the
present to your question about about
Walmart I mean something like
organization like Walmart starts to show
that these debates should have currency
today because Walmart yeah Walmart is
much more than just you know a store
where you go and buy products we can
speak to this a bit more to but they've
basically when you look at sort of
operations research and and economic
research around Walmart they've
firma fide that's the the word these
researchers often use the entire supply
chain so they've really integrated more
and more and more of the supply chain
into something that begins to resemble
one firm rather than a series of sort of
contracts between between suppliers and
it's based on again these operations
researchers you know not not known
firfer lefty political views focus in on
the aspect of of trust first you know
first of sister there's there are a lot
of you know there's there's there's some
pretty cutthroat means to get people
into into these kinds of networks but
then there's trust that guarantees that
the information within these chains is
actually reliable and corresponding to
reality and it's not just the price
signal passing thing passing things
along but what starts to look like you
know a sort of planned planned supply
chain that goes further and further
closer to closer to the source source of
our products so Walmart is you know is a
big production distribution chain really
late so I mean what I mean is that what
we mean by an economy I mean that that
we have all these players they're they
basically come into the family they may
be you know specifically Walmart or they
may be you know an enterprise that is
like exclusively deals with Walmart
right and and so is that I mean what is
it that makes it what is it that we're
looking for that makes it I mean I can
see the size of it right but yeah we
wouldn't necessarily describe it as an
economy if it was just one massive store
right or would we I mean what is it what
what elements is it is it is it the
logistics is it the the supply that the
purchasing and the producing I mean what
what are the actual elements that make
it an economy and
and how is that different from say like
even like you know I don't know the US
military on some level right right okay
so we'll I mean why not describe it as
an economy I mean it is a national
economy it's not nation state
it certainly doesn't manufacture and
produce all possible items in an economy
it the required by Isis rather required
by our society but also no nation state
does that I mean the only nation that's
that's that attempts at I don't think
they really do deserve what we call
autarky trying to create a trying to
reduce everything in a single Society
would be North Korea but you know all
all um all national economies produce a
certain amount a certain amount of goods
and services while other iconic that
other countries produce other goods and
services so I mean this I mean it's sort
of a semantic discussion whether I mean
it is it's country for sure nevertheless
the important thing for us here is that
if it is the is the this very strong
argument from the right within the
calculation debate that you should not
be able to plan at this great scale and
what we really wanted to do was use
rather use traditional you know public
sector serve counter examples although
we do do that with the National Health
Services no UK is one of the examples in
our book we wanted to use some like the
best example the capitalism had to throw
it you know Walmart is the largest
company in the world Amazon is this this
is marble of logistics and distribution
and and and prediction so we wanted to
use the best examples from from
capitalism and the other thing is that
often the argument is even from the
right maybe you can see that okay well
maybe you can plan some large entities
like iron production or coal coal mining
because you know with a very small
number of inputs and so that's they
possibly you could do that but you
certainly couldn't plan something along
the lines of of consumer items because
there's just so many more variables
involved so that was another reason
we wanted to use Walmart and Amazon as a
prime examples was again this is you
know these are very much consumer facing
entities and and and so we're we're the
the idea would be that a socialist
government could adopt essentially these
strategies and or not even necessarily
these strategies of a Walmart but
Walmart is almost a proof of concept on
some level that you can have an
enterprise this big and it can provide
goods to this many people well plan yeah
sorry yeah go ahead and you know okay
sure
okay I'll say I'll say that yes exactly
it is I mean in the book that's that's
the role it sort of plays the kind of a
kind of proof of concept the importance
is the scale and the the degree to which
prices matter less within that sort of
as you said within that family within
within Walmart and the use of all of
that extra price information that again
some of their computing power enables I
mean the flip side and the economists
have sometimes talked about you know
they don't really like to look inside
the black box of the firm because it has
this sort of planning element that goes
against so many of the traditional
arguments but when they have they have
called it called Walmart or other large
companies islands of conscious power
which is a phrase from from an early
collaborator of Kane what we also say in
the book is that it's equally important
to remember Noam Chomsky sort of twist
on that phrase which is islands of
tyranny so they're a proof of concept
for large firms can be a proof of
concept for just sort of the fact that
you can plan in that the market isn't
the be-all and end-all of social
organization but the way that they do
plan is technocratic highly
authoritarian in a way you know if the
Soviet Union is the traditional kind of
reference points for planning for a lot
of people and the bogeyman of the of the
right we kind of wanted smear and tar
Walmart and Amazon with that same brush
that these are basically you know
private fiefdom they're they're
dictatorships internally they also use
authoritarianism you know looks
different than the USSR in many ways but
it is it is a place where democracy goes
goes to die where we spend so much of
our daily lives and that's you know a
place where what the boss says goes and
it's a very particular kind of
authoritarian finding that happens under
capitalism so it's a proof of concept
but its application for the left in
terms of what it would look like in in
daily life and what is what a full
expression of sort of democratic
planning would look like is limited in
that respect well I want to I want to
just put a pin in that idea that it's
also that it that it arguably is a
cautionary tale on some level right and
in swing around to just if you and I
don't know who's better suited to to
discuss this Lear Mahal but Walmart
didn't have to act like Walmart they
could have acted like Sears right and
Sears is was different how so when when
Edward Lampert took over Sears the I you
know known as crazy Eddie because he was
such a admirer of the Objectivist
quote-unquote loss for an rant that it's
such a believer in the free market that
when he took over and looked in the you
know the the box that was with Sears he
you know just you know to see that it
was entirely internally planned he
basically you know thought that Sears
was communist missus and horrified by
this this notion they thought that he
could he could quote-unquote fix Sears
by introducing an internal market market
mechanisms within the within the company
so that what this meant was that
different departments would compete
against each other and he thought this
would result in greater efficiencies and
and greater profitability for the
company overall but what ended up
happening instead was that because these
different these different departments
were competing against each other they
were no learning interested they had no
incentive anymore to share information
information became proprietary and and
secretive this resulted in massive
duplication irrationalities such as you
know sort of the the tools department
getting their their wares on the front
page of the Mother's Day flyer because
that it was more of an interest to them
but even though that was undermining the
profitability overall the company which
was really sort of tantalizing about
that is is how similar that is to a
market society as a whole where each
individual enterprise each individual
company is is is engaged in an activity
that's rational for itself for it to
maximize its profitability but that
undermines the the viability of the
society as a whole I mean that's the the
central ten of that libertarianism right
I mean each person acting in their own
best interest gives you a a better
outcome to the whole and if you ever
needed a comparison of that of two
similarly situated I guess economies if
you will Walmart shows you that that's
not the case you know that you can do it
a different way and Sears show you the
problems of doing it that way yeah yeah
yeah well so so and how is Amazon
different from Walmart where does Amazon
add into this equation in some ways it's
just another example I mean it's it's
the main the main thing is you know
taking that use of sort of information
technology to to the next level and
taking the level of sort of calculation
or taking the calculation problems that
it's solving
sort of to the next level where you know
Walmart only has to get goods to X
thousand stores Amazon is getting goods
to you know X millions or tens or
hundreds of millions of individual
consumers so you can see how the sort of
again the sort of calculation problems
in terms of resource use and all of that
become exponentially greater and in some
ways what Amazon shows is that while
some of these problems should be and
some of them really are kind of you know
some of the resource allocation and
resource use problems really are kind of
insoluble in terms of a really perfect
solution in Syria and in fact it's
insoluble but what it shows is you can
get you know a solution that's good
enough and again in a way that isn't
just using prices but is increasingly
using lots of others you know types of
information in order to to plan and to
come out with you know the best places
to put to put warehouses the best way to
route courier is the best way to do you
know X Y X Y Z and again things that
calculation problems that should be
really really too vast to compute but
they get the solutions that are good
enough and the real value in Amazon is
you know one it's sort of cloud
servicing talk about that but two is is
really the underlying you know it's not
really the warehouses and things like
that it's really the underlying
algorithms that are doing the background
work I mean the other thing that Amazon
shows and again and you know has in
common with Walmart and with with
basically almost all capitalist
enterprises is that then it uses that
same information technology to create
you know increasingly dystopian working
condition you know if you think about an
amazon an Amazon warehouse it's it's you
know it this is starting to get to those
levels where people aren't taking
bathroom breaks
you know there's ambulances Park Park
parked outside on on on hot days people
are getting fired if they're not you
know they're not meeting
these really draconian quotas and again
it shows some of the problems of tablet
signing from the left perspective in
that you know we have some tools here
that are that are useful that are useful
to any project I would like to use
timing - - - you know - to achieve
social goals but that would really want
to transform it you know it's hard to
think of someone you know voting
themselves into the role of Amazon
warehouse worker in the way that that
looks currently right or whatever you
want you know whatever Democratic means
you have for making decisions but it's
you know it is still a very top-down
plan that ends up in in this place right
and when we talk about the the
exploitation of a Walmart or an Amazon
theoretically right that is I mean if
you were to apply that to society at
large there wouldn't be that
exploitation which is borne out of like
sort of I guess a rentier class that you
know shareholders needing to get their
value from that worker that doesn't
exist right when we talk about society
writ large because that value is shared
amongst the workers as opposed to the
value created by those workers goes to
the shareholders yeah that's right and
and we have a set as a society we have a
different set of values different set of
sort of goals rather than just profit
maximization so some of that might be or
bathroom breaks longer we can't or
relaxed pace of work and and the
trade-offs of that compared to say
producing more of a particular item or
delivering it faster now maybe we would
want to but we would at least be able to
deliberate a society which of these
different targets we want to we want to
achieve there's a multiplicity of them
rather than just a single target for
shareholders which is maximization of
profit I want to I want to come back to
this question as to how we democratize
how does how does hey how does you know
I mean and we'll get back around today
that's really the question but Lee while
we're here
why don't we talk about the Soviet Union
and you know how it this to this extent
this planned economy was functioned in
the Soviet Union one of the interesting
things about this of Union is that it
was not planned
straight out of the gate if you if you
do if you look at the economic issue the
Soviet Union planning service came in
fits and starts many many years after
the founding of the Soviet Union
often in response to two bald Maxo just
a collapse of the economy and it took a
long time for for even after the the the
ordering the the stolen
counter-revolution to develop the the
sort of plans the irony there is that
sir it compared the you know the right
will make the argument that one of the
problems in the calculation debate was
that because it's impossible for humans
to replicate the you know are
bureaucrats replicate the the price
signal there will inevitably be
shortages those shortages will result in
chaos that chaos will only be resolved
through to the to to authoritarianism
and that's their explanation as to why
the serve Union was authoritarian ie the
the planning led to the authoritarianism
if you look at the history of the
Soviets actually the other way round
entirely
it's the authoritarianism undermines the
planning and that's and that's very
simple be simply explained by the fact
that you know if you're petrified of
being shot or set to the gulag if you
don't meet your particular target you
lie and say to your superior
or actually we met this target or we
surpassed it and so the information in
the system is has a weaker fidelity to
reality so it's actually the other way
around it
the authoritarianism undermined the
planning rather than planning leading to
authoritarianism I think we're gonna be
talking to an author of a book about the
the cheating scandal at that school in
Georgia and the public schools in
Georgia when they were under the gun
about race to the top I mean it's a
similar dynamic there I guess where
you've got certain benchmarks and the
easiest way to attain those benchmarks
is to lie about it
yeah so so I mean but is the idea that
the the argument that was made in terms
of a critique was the idea that the that
the planning led to the authoritarianism
because the planning was so rigid that
that that it that it no that is not that
is rigid but that that humans would not
be able to or even computers would not
be able to to to to calculate and or to
represent information in the in the
system in the same way that the price
signal does that it was never it was
simply impossible therefore it would
inevitably result in in in in in
mismatches in shortages and the
authoritarianism to maintain the chaos
that came from the failure of the
ability so the argument was that human
beings don't have the the ability and we
don't have machines that have the
capacity to predict what the needs of
the people will be and at what cost
and therefore you will get a subsequent
to that you will get chaos and you will
get up evil and the only way to put a
cap on that would be to have an
authoritarian state to keep people in
line even though they're they are
fundamentally feeling that their needs
are not being met
yeah and it's a kind of fundamentally
undemocratic argument in the sense of
saying you know we don't not just at
this moment but generally people do not
have the capacity to be able to sort of
make decision
over social life together they either
need you know according to that argument
yet that kind of authoritarianism of the
Soviet or or you have to impose market
relationships where there's a criterion
that makes tons of you know totally
irrational decisions like look at the
production of fossil fuels right you get
profitability that structures the
behavior of everyone from from
capitalists to workers and that you know
you sort of adds the side you sort of
hand over decision-making power to to
also to this other kind of you know
blind criterion and that you know as as
a matter of of of course then also and
they don't say this part you know leads
to all of these authoritarian workplaces
as well by the way well I mean but that
was that was sort of I mean they were
back to mount pellerin right and Devon
music's and Vaughn High where they
they're basically saying like look
somebody's got to be in charge and we're
the most competent people to be in
charge essentially and so you know if
the authoritarianism is going to come
from us it's gonna be far more
benevolent as long as we you know we get
our kickbacks essentially and so well
okay and humanity is so flawed that we
have to bind ourselves to the mat and
we're going to do it with with the
market and we don't actually trust
ourselves you know as a collective to to
make decisions you know yeah absolutely
if you if you look at their arguments to
this day I know libertarians you know
scratch the surface of women they will
admit that they don't support democracy
they don't think it that they basically
they think that people are too stupid to
self-organize and therefore that is why
we need markets markets are rational and
in fundamentally an anti-democratic
philosophy mean my sense is that made
that the the Mont Pelerin folks to were
arguing that you know there'll be
someone there'll be people like us who
will also be sort of like guiding things
just a little bit and as long as we you
know keep the control out of the hands
of
we don't want things to get too
sovereign as it were right in and so
okay so but how do you then how do you
do that like I mean the examples that
you're using when you talk about Walmart
when you talk about Amazon Sears went
awry but the similar dynamic it was just
a wrong choice made by an individual Sam
Walton theoretically
and I'm just using I don't know who
exactly would have made these decisions
at Walmart but couldn't couldn't the
response to be like yeah well Walmart
even as planned is that economy is when
we talk about Walmart as an economy it
was planned by non democratic means and
there was goals that were set up that
were very rigid and were very specific
whereas if you were to open that up to
democracy in some fashion the goals
would be more diffused and all those
elements that allow you to plan for a
Walmart wouldn't be there because of the
democracy what's the response to that I
mean in many ways that's the you know
the the million dollar or million labor
token or whatever you want to say
question I mean I think I think it's for
me one of the way one answer is is
simply the negative that it's it is a
bit weird for me to think that this
means that we have now of ensuring that
you know lots of sort of lower-level
individual decisions are somehow
coordinated with higher-level sort of
social decisions that this is the only
for the best
maybe not the only but the the best and
only possible like really long term way
long term way of doing things right that
and and that the cost of this and we
have massive irrationalities now again
you know I hate you know I'll bring up
the fossil fuels just because that is
really the generation
struggle in that you know the a lot of
this is a result of the kind of
irrational production the kind of
incentives that that capitalism creates
I mean we talked very briefly about
Elinor Ostrom in the book was the only
woman to ever win the the sort of fake
Nobel Prize for for economics that you
know the Swedish central bank's prize
but she looked at sort of institutional
design she pushed back on this idea of
the tragedy of the Commons which is
usually the thing that's kind of brought
up as the background to this to this
question right that if you leave it up
to people to manage a common resource
and they all have and it's you know and
they all have their own goals and
there's all these different things that
they might want you basically end up
destroying that that resource and the
and the typical example is that you know
the pasture field for the village
pasture field where everyone just gets
their cows out to graze you know there's
no price there's no sort of feed gate on
it and and you know in a couple years
it's gone Ostrom went back and actually
looked at what did these institutions
look like in fact that's a very nice you
know again theory coming from from the
right but what did what it actually
looked like was that you had lots of
different institutional designs and
mechanisms and ways to basically
generate incentives and generate
behavior that aligned individuals with
collective goals and some of those might
have been you know again if we're
thinking about 15th century England or
whatever some of these might not have
been the best mechanisms but the point
is that humans have the capacity to draw
up lots of different institutional
structures basically right not everybody
we need to say what yeah couch eppard as
it were and or if the couch Shepherds
sort of you know organize amongst
themselves and unfortunately like I say
and at that time it was like oh if you
over graze you're gonna get ostracized
from the village right it wasn't like if
there is a $5 per day fee for
for grazing and if you can't afford it
too bad you know you're you're not gonna
be able to be a shepherd it was like
well we're all gonna have to somehow
deal with this and then you'll get you
know ostracized if you break it again
some of these might not be the best ways
but we've throughout history we've had
ways of dealing with these kinds of
collective action problems and it's kind
of crazy to think that the sort of the
the way that subjugates all of our
decisions to private profitability is
the only like long-term feasible or
desirable way to do this that we
couldn't that we couldn't decide and we
make decisions between different kinds
of you know abuses all the time you know
even even though elections or whatever
you know we have some very limited forms
of democracy but they still are able to
produce results where we're taking lots
of different aims and somehow coming to
a let me let me ask you both this I mean
if this if this if the People's Republic
of Walmart basically makes the case that
we now have the capacity to to as as
society to centrally plan that it can be
done and theoretically the the next book
right I don't want to give you guys but
the next book is how do we how do we set
about not just assessing what society's
goals are but to implement that it seems
to me that the the interim step is for
people to have a certain awareness that
these are political choices right I mean
that's the that they're that these are
all choices that we as a society can
make and we need to have that awareness
that we're that that choices are
constantly being made so that we could
then say okay and now we need to we need
to make adjust that we need to just
develop a democracy machine that will
allow us to sort of set this agenda now
that we have the tools to do it
yeah and I'm yeah
the important thing there is a we write
that like it's not going to come from
somewhere on top and it's not that
there's now a machine that exists that
we could you know sort of take over but
it's something that we can Co co-create
and and I like that I mean in some ways
we actually have job we've literally
made that joke that this this is the
first book in that that it opens all
these questions for a second and the way
this first one is about calculation and
the next step is to talk about all these
sort of coordination problems and all
that and that involves even more talking
about that kind of bottom-up democratic
organizing would be necessary to
implement didn't find anything like this
and there's also news problems I think
that we're still at that kind of baby
steps stage in the sense that our you
know imaginations as I said before I've
been sort of so foreclosed that it's
important to just say you know there's
lots of planning that already exists and
it's not so controversial an idea I
would just add that already in society
however limited or constrained our
democracies are they're still enormous
leaps over sort of previous feudal
societies and you know some countries
are more democratic than other ones
there are you know Iceland is a
unicameral country the United States has
all sorts of sort of semi-feudal
carbuncles like the Electoral College of
the Senate and you know so already even
when we say that the next question is
well what does that democracy look like
there are all already in societies there
are better and worse versions of
democracy and we should sort of be
building on those rather than imagining
that something has to be cut from from
entirely new cloth it's about an
extension of democracy from the
political realm into the economic realm
and we already have some examples where
where that works so much better than
authoritarianism I mean do you think I
mean are there any proposals that are
being floated around now in the
political discourse that you think also
function in the same way to
show that that type of central planning
is possible obviously on a more limited
scale but that that are in the mix that
could be applied like it is single-payer
health care a example I think like that
I think it is I mean especially in the
American context one of the chapters in
the book is about the the NHS the
National National Health Service in the
UK the chapter is called nationalization
is not enough so in some ways it's a
cautionary tale or a tale about how even
the fact that something is you know
state-run planning doesn't doesn't
automatically excuse it from saying from
critiques of it not being democratic
enough and not involving patients or
Kurds in the actual co-creation but it's
a huge leap over over what currently
exists in the US which is this kind of
you know again showing really the
rationality of a market-based system
when it's applied for something like
like healthcare where you have such big
gaps in simple you know and just simple
access to health care where when the NHS
was created the first thing was to
create this national system where at
least people had access and then in the
1970s they you know there were these
interesting experiments that started to
lay the groundwork for introducing more
democratization I won't go into it you
know that there's a few things that we
bring up that opened the door to more
sort of co-creation by workers and
patients that were effectively shut down
you know in the 80s and 90s where you
actually had a kind of mini the same the
same idea as as Lampert in fears applied
to the NHS we had all these market
relationships sort of imposed internally
to the NHS which while being still a
single-payer system now internally had
all these sort of webs of contracts
between producers and purchasers and and
in the u.s. it would be a huge theft
just to get to that national system
where you could say again it's not the
insurance companies deciding who's going
to get what care or and the amount of
money in people's pockets deciding about
what kind of coverage and what kind of
care they can get but some kind of
social process that takes all of this
and you
and again takes all that information and
is able to to make decisions in a
different way
maja roswarski Lee Phillips thanks so
much for your time today we will put a
link to People's Republic of Walmart how
the world's biggest corporations are
laying the foundation for socialism at
the majority dot F M website thanks
again for your time great to be here
thank you my time fascinating interview
I'm gonna read that book I'm right I'm
currently reading Bosch Garson cars of
course great new book he's gonna be on
tomorrow I could be wrong but I think
that interview was one big long dunk
session on von Mises and Hayek I think
there was some broader ramifications of
it but yes hey you can see the wheels
turning in Sam's head like I feel like
he'd be a really good big government
socialist well he's like look if it's
what if if getting rid of capitalism
means an incredible savage talking point
for a disturbed young man that called
this show to talk about deregulation
thank God
damn and I'm a socialist hello oh yeah
that literally is just like a tree of
branch of the different libertarian sort
of arguments right like central planning
doesn't work well what do you make of
Amazon or Walmart right absolutely
I mean that's actually I mean that's
there's a lot of ways in which it's a
very potent argument you know I think
true that we're both in a different
phase of capitalism in in the sense of
acceleration of environmental
destruction global supply chains like
it's very dangerous in terms of like
future viability or even relatively
immediate viability of human life
continuing to exist and then on the
other hand some of the conditions if you
flip them particularly from global
networks really advance a centrally
planned supply chains and Amazon and
Walmart you have some of those
conditions in place actually a
transition so
a post-capitalist economy we have the
productive capacity to make everything
that everyone in the world needs and
distribute it democratically the primary
obstacles are as usual political
definitely folks this Sunday we're going
to well actually I'm not sure what the
illicit history is gonna be quite yet
for the Sun they were probably gonna be
doing something actually very Iran
specific so let me just point everybody
back to Tuesday with ronique WA Allen
and Ben Burgess and all if you want to
get a sense I mean you can really at
this point I think get a fairly not all
of the patreon content but you get a
pretty good flavor of tea MBS with all
the clips that we have on the Michael
Brooks show YouTube channel and of
course the best thing to do is become a
patron get all the elicit histories and
primers get informed from Hegel to
Jamaica patreon.com slash T MBS Michael
Brooks show on YouTube Jamie this week
on the anti Fattah we have special guest
Katie helper of the Katie helper show to
talk about the 90s the politics of the
90s and the culture of the 90s and how a
lot of those phenomena kind of
prefigured what's happening now in our
political world she talks a little bit
about her journalism her interview with
Juanita Broderick
liberal liberal hypocrisy along those
lines with guard to Bill Clinton's
transgressions alleged and you know I
mean I believe Juanita Broderick but you
guys can make up your own minds about
that hashtag me too
yeah also we are doing a live show
tomorrow
me and Katie with along with struggle
session
Leslie Lee the third big big desi lien a
third fan he's he is the man great guy
Jake flora Matt Taibbi and more the
other guy from Soto session oh my god
Jax Jax
Jack Allison yes got some hitters there
yeah it's gonna be so good at
Littlefield tomorrow in Brooklyn at 8
p.m.
I saw a really cool tweet where an
awesome guy who said it was like before
February I had never been to a political
show that I went to TMDs in Brooklyn
then I went to TMDs in LA and now I'm
totally convinced that this is really
fun and I'm going to Littlefield's
hell yeah so there it happens we all
rise together and you just you never
think you I understand why generically
wouldn't be too excited to go to a
political live show but we actually make
them super fun oh yeah an obsession is
very much based around pop culture as
well it's it's like pop culture from a
leftist perspective so it's a fun show
yeah we're gonna talk about all kinds of
fun things that I definitely know what
all of them are already exactly live
show mood Matt what's going on this
weekend on the literary hangover the
song of heal witha by henry wadsworth
longfellow
or as i like to call it indian jesus
because it's basically if you look at it
it's a story of Indian Native American
Jesus type fellow who prepares his tribe
to basically hand off the lamb to the
white people and we talked about that as
a sort of very popular poem and as
problematic and also too liberal for the
New York Times at the time coming up
we're going to be doing some more George
Orwell for patrons the essay such--such
were the joys about his time at private
school that's in a couple weeks it's an
amazing title yeah it's from a leg of
William Blake poems I'm assuming yeah
it's very very not a good experience
it's eaten it makes you a man yeah hehe
it's basically it's not accurate
factually at all it's very it would have
been libelous if you printed it in his
lifetime and he didn't and we're also
doing Margaret Fuller who I don't know
if any you guys anything you guys are
familiar with her she's sort of the
first publishing feminist in America she
wrote woman in the 19th century she was
part of the she was part of the
transcendentalist sort of Concord she
was part of the Concord scene and and
she later went to Europe during the 1848
revolutions was the first
female correspondent for newspaper Wow
met Mazzini over there and became a
socialist during that whole stuff in
Italy no that's amazing it's also
awesome and of course become a member of
the majority report today majority dot F
M / become a member go to just coffee
co-op for all of your coffee needs and
check out the sponsors we'll see in the
fun half
you
you
here with the gang let's see let's take
one call out of the gate you're calling
from a 503 area code who are you where
you calling from
AJ cream car yeah and a truck okay I
know you're better go ahead man what's
on your mind the best way to address
inequality would be hypnotized ee okay
like 30 times lowest paid worker and
maybe cat all that like 500 million or
less or something
I was curious what your thoughts are on
that I'm sorry what
what is it time CEO pay to the lowest
paid workers yeah I mean I think that
that's a nice reform I'm more interested
you know I I really am interested in
like that guests in that interview and
Richard Wolf's work in generating
particularly actually if they're going
to be large-scale enterprises to
breaking them up into smaller bits and
seeing if they could be significantly
democratized I mean that's what I'm
that's fundamentally my politics but I
think yeah I mean obviously that's a
useful metric when you explain the rapid
explosion of inequality the last 40
years and it is I mean that sounds like
a war in reformed person sounds yeah I
think Bernie's more working on really
getting some structural reforms to our
economy so that that is less but I mean
I don't know though I mean you can't
legislate I mean I don't know that you
can let I mean maybe you could I don't
know what the legal implications of
mandating a private companies paid
structure like I don't I don't know if
that would fly I think you can I think
they've tried it in other places yeah
when I'm talking here constitutionally
yeah
I'm doubting with the Supreme Court I
mean I feel like just raising high my
top marginal race yeah it might just be
easier to I feel like that's the thing
is you just in the system equation we're
in there's all sorts of ideas like
Barney's actually been I think mirroring
some practice some ideas from labor in
the UK of using government funds to help
people buy businesses would definitely
have to be addressed yeah but the last
final thing I learned I asked is what
about the mint coming up with a couple
trillion dollar coins to lower the debt
and I know part of the debt is actually
just like Social Security owed to the
people but I'm not worried about the
debt I don't I don't care I the deficit
is not our issue
yeah worried yeah thanks for the call
man yeah the nominal debt doesn't worry
doesn't matter you just need to invest
it in smarter places yeah I guess
Pentagon and cruise most yeah I mean
that's the thing it's like you want to
deal with the debt then again I mean all
of these do you have the political will
in the capacity to make billionaires not
exist anymore to drain like there's a
quote I'm told it's apocryphal but
people ask and I shouldn't even use this
quote because it's not robbery it's
actually taking back stolen things to
begin with but Willie Sutton was asked
why do you rob banks that's where the
money is like the money is glutted in a
minuscule part of the population
structurally get that money back and
then we'll use that money to invest in
basic obvious human sanity like
single-payer health care like free
college like infrastructure upgrades
like transitioning to a post-carbon
economy but also look at using
government in such a way that could you
know again support the development of
things like a module growing economy
yeah it's like Brian from street fight
radio said your work made that money
that's your money and we're gonna get it
back right exactly and you know if this
kind of talk freaks
you out this ad that momentum put out is
very good momentum in the UK now again
anytime I use a piece like this I
anticipate I know from some people look
yes he's talking about social democracy
this is not the farthest reaches of
radicalism but that's totally fine
this type of work needs to be done if
that word is going to be used and we're
gonna decontaminate it and we're gonna
get people to think and amatuer and you
main way about politics this is a good
piece socialism worked anywhere it's
been tried in one country that socialism
has ever worked
the answer is everywhere wait why
socialism is pulling our resources
together
and using them for the common good and
it's been successfully implemented all
around what that could mean things like
publicly funded health care so if you
live in Britain and you like the NHS
then guess what you're a socialist oh me
no believe me look at how they describe
publicly funded health care in America
the socialist idea of universal health
care Britain's socialized medical system
health care all government provided god
forbid like England
do you like publicly funded teachers
police firefighters schools roads and
libraries think wealthy corporations
like Google and Amazon should actually
pay some tax to pay for these things
well then you're a massive socialist I'm
sure next time you ask someone trying to
scare you about socialism the ugly
destructive Marxist militant socialists
remember it's talking about you
socialist that's a good ad and I have
this and you know in a UK labor context
that is more formally true than means
you know it then it is in the United
States like we have significant Social
Democratic great social democratic
reforms that happen in the New Deal and
even the Great Society including things
like that are making your life tolerable
today for passed in the 30s and sort of
protected in the UK with things like the
NHS they have actually achieved some
advancement of dica modifying parts of
society and generating much better human
outcomes and part of the evidence
you know the counter veils all of the
lies in fear-mongering
about the NHS that you hear on Fox is
the fact that there was a poll that came
out a couple years ago that British
people rated with the NHS over winning
World War two as an accomplishment now
obviously they probably would have had
the NHS if they didn't defeat Hitler but
that should give you some sense of what
like actual people think of being able
to go and see a doctor when they need to
see one and the whole waiting list thing
there's waiting lists here too for non
emergency care and tens of millions of
people get no care and even people with
health insurance go bankrupt all the
time so get real get socialist it's a
wait listening is such a joke at this
point it's when it when it's clear that
god that it's like there's just not a
list cuz people just can't afford to it
like I can't get on a list to buy a
Bugatti right right I'm on the list
never wears my name is finally gonna
come up on the phantom list there are
some problems with the NHS I'm not gonna
lie but all of them have to do with
underfunding it alright as the Labour
Party slid into a modern neoliberal
party well the modern cuts I mean one of
the things I have to say that kept Blair
and Brown and power for a long time is
they actually Tony Blair tried to
introduce privatizations which was a big
problem
they actually put huge amounts of money
in the NHS which had been bled under the
Tories before them so even neoliberal
third wave labour put a ton of money and
even in 2005 at the height of the Iraq
invasion and discussed with them I mean
look again I always say communication
matters and political skills matter and
even at his least popular Tony Blair is
an effective very effective campaigning
politician but Gordon Brown had this
thing that he said the red lines the red
lines are NHS and there was one other
public spending thing that I don't
remember but NHS was one of their even
at their most right-wing to the point
where when David Cameron came to power
he lied he said the Tories would never
cut NHS spending he actually said that
they you know he was trying to actually
rhetorically
Tac labor from the left on the NHS that
is the power of universal programs right
there apt without a doubt it's also the
power of universal programs that even to
this day I mean there's a new book
that's coming out from zero books I
think called ten steps that destroy the
NHS it's not that like they won't try
but the NHS is still standing
even under the Tory onslaught post
financial crisis
yes Universal programs are very
effective yes
west coast comrade does Emma not have
the best interviews pajama boy comedians
like Nick DiPaolo aren't finding any
sort of culture war they're afraid their
wealth creativity's were on dry so they
dig in rather than evolving and
reshaping their craft in a way not
unlike that you'll see from Dennis Quaid
and the intruder now in theaters okay I
mean I bought you know it is it is
amazing cuz like I've never followed
Nick DiPaolo particularly closely but
he's not somebody that I would put in
the bracket of like yeah that guy's just
not funny he's got some comedic broad
comedic chops from what I've seen and
that was just like dude I don't know if
financially you're not able to hang it
up but there's like a sense of like I
was a brutal how unfunny that was in
addition to all the other things yeah
that was just sad sad sad very
low-energy leftist European the Danish
Prime Minister has announced an election
for the start of June the polling so far
as the Left parties getting 55 percent
combined but a YouTube Nazi is standing
an election and getting around two to
three percent was just luck well I mean
that sounds not bad yeah that's I got to
be honest with you if that's the future
then let's hope it holds yeah word train
boy Connecticut just passed a $15
minimum wage well that's terrific
oh yeah my home state's good for
something not much you're calling from a
seven six zero area code who are you
where you calling from I hate that guys
this is Kentucky Fried Conrad Kentucky
very comrade how are you what is on your
mind
I'm doing pretty good so I know this is
kind of bleeding into your show Michael
but I want to bring it into this one
I want to dunk on Nate's over for a
minute okay can you because we did cover
this in the TMB s postgame but as I say
to people like you know reset it for
people who haven't seen that yeah
there's anyone who's not like on Twitter
nate silver's basically been on one for
the past two weeks or so yes I'm trying
to remember the exact tape but it was
something like if I remember correctly
was something about how black people are
going to coalesce around Kamala Harris
four finger quotes reasons
something like that okay I didn't see
that one I saw the you know he did some
dumb like Biden Bernie or both old white
men which a is anti-semitic and B is
totally policy illiterate
the thing that's but the thing though
that people have been noticing about
Nate silver and we made this point but
plenty of people have made this point is
that he's going on these Twitter tirades
where it's like look he's you know he's
a right-wing corporate whatever word you
want to use he's a right-wing Democrat
hopefully we can find some of these
tweets and but his brand is is that he's
a stats guy and what he's doing in the
process of like in one of the tweets
that he put out kind of heralding Biden
and smearing Bernie he said that he
basically implied that policy isn't
necessarily important to democratic
voters now that same poll seventy-five
percent of Democratic voters said
Medicare for all was a very important
policy now like I take Sam's point that
he constantly drums in that people
aren't necessarily that policy oriented
and I think that that's true but I also
think it's not necessary to some extent
but I also think that some people that
for people in different geographies and
different class backgrounds their sense
of signifying
what's important to them even if they
interpret policy through a cultural lens
is different than most people in the
media so they might not because policy
focus neces aren't necessarily in the
nitty-gritty of policy but when Bernie
Sanders comes out and he's like the
truth of your life is that you're
exhausted and robbed that resonates with
a vast majority of people who frankly
are not living in an easy bubble of
affluence where you know they can afford
to as an example like look you can you
know not don't vote for Bernie whatever
if that's not your politics if you have
more right-wing politics or whatever to
hate Bernie Sanders unless you're a Koch
brother is bizarre
it's weird like it's it is a and and the
and an incredible effect of the
propaganda campaign of the of the
Clintons so what Nate silver is doing
though is he's none of these arguments
are even remotely empirically grounded
and he's using the patina of being like
the pointy-headed stats guy which I
thought already should have been pretty
significantly called into question -
just make assertions that fit with his
pre-existing ideological bias so you
know that's why it's been so exhausting
and dumb to watch him do this this is
the tweet you're talking about what's
interesting with Harris is that black
Democrats tend to be more moderate than
white ones corollary the left is pretty
white maybe she's have maybe she should
have been better off positioning herself
as more moderate although there's a
little still plenty of time to do that
now what is he talking about like where
is he getting that from well he could be
getting that that's the thing yeah cuz I
because that's kind of why I called it
here is that on the one level he says
stuff like this that has you know again
it's kind of like what you said earlier
Michael and and I am gonna like
shamelessly plug my podcast because o
for it episode three into deep we do a
deep dive into Nate Silver we talk about
his weird racial phenomenology voter
phrenology
Motors sorry yeah he talked about how
away was that - um you know like black
voters are apparently just going to go
to Kamala Harris or a Cory Booker and
there's he doesn't give an explanation
for it but it's implicit in what he says
but I did want to give an explanation as
to why he shifted from the data guy to
the really really quickly because I
think is actually really important the
relentlessness and it and look the
practical effect is that it is used and
I would listen to the hear the Bern
episode that that Bree did recently on
the erasure of black support for Bernie
in the media and how it functions and
all the voices that it just eliminates
from public discourse and in this case
literally primarily we're obviously
talking about people of color and many
women of color but this but this is
bigger problems than just this campaign
it's a huge problem in this campaign but
you have a ton of people like Nate
Silver who clearly have no intellectual
historical sociological philosophical or
cultural interest in understanding the
immense internal diversity of black
politics or anything else who thinks
that because you know he reads joy read
tweets that he has a sense of an entire
electorate which again by the way I just
want to spell this out to the extent I
know what he's talking about with black
voters being more quote-unquote moderate
than white voters again that might be
the classic thing that I have from the
polling I've seen that I say literally
all the time which is that most of the
electorate is not is either to the
center or to the right on quote-unquote
cultural issues there is no no talking
point even on that talking point even on
that talking point but he's actually
making it he's erasing like the younger
well they all second that's the second
point they all erased the younger that's
a given every of course he's erasing
younger but
all do that we can get to that in a
second but I just really want to
underline though that when he's saying
that he means that there might be a 55
year old voter in South Carolina who has
a more culturally conservative attitude
and also supports labor unions
medicare-for-all and is voting in a
Democratic primary so is not in fact
voting primarily on those quote-unquote
social issues so even that is a
fundamentally disingenuous frame and
it's also a very problematic one because
as you point out you can just as easily
sort of flip that equation and say like
you know what is the relative difference
between people under 30 versus people
over 60 in terms of supporting marriage
equality and if you slice that into race
that's telling you a different story
than slicing it generationally or by the
way geographically but he doesn't do any
of the news he's very ideologically
motivated in presenting this data and
the kind of data that he presents
definitely of course and just to get
this point in here because I saw
somebody somebody tweet this out and
they're like in the left is best fear
they were asking like why is Nate silver
like this wouldn't why did he become
were like why did he end up being like
the data guide to this thing that he is
now and I think there's actually a
really clear material it's reason for it
right and that's because he used to be
kind of like the sports analytics and
then he did some you know politics
statistics about five to ten years ago
but when ESPN sold 538 they sold 538 ABC
they actually sold 538 for less than the
value of a year's years worth of Chapo
trap houses patreon account yeah I'm
gonna I'm gonna get that I'm gonna get
that dunk in there but um it change it
may cause Nate's over to change the
business model sure and it caused him to
do more more content production and
that's the problem I think that people
have with nate silver is that he does a
lot more
intense production which means like more
articles for the sake of doing articles
that people can read and we can have
address right you should be doing like
these numbers explain why your baseball
cards don't matter as much as the guys
do you should not be trying to actually
write about things happening in Paula
yeah and when you're doing content for
the sake of doing content and you don't
have a whole lot of funding guess what
you do you do hot takes right I mean I
just made that's the mistake that's made
by people is that they like I guess the
danger that I see with 5:30 is that
people look at him again as the singer
core data guy for like I guess the
normies but they look at those takes and
they see this kind of like random
content he produces which is basically
like frankly a water just trash and they
mistake it by saying oh well this is the
data guy he's got a statistical analysis
that back side I think I'm the great oh
yeah I have like the ideas guy he's the
data guy but this is also another
problem but this is another reason that
I've always been so critical of the cult
of facts and numbers like those things
do not a political analysis make I mean
you can't build a you know a theoretical
model that is disconnected from
empirical reality but empirical reality
does not give you a theoretical model
and a lot of people like you know this
is the this is Ben Burgess this
is a David Hume thing there's is a
nought and you have a whole bunch of
people like Nate Silver who you know
because this culture frankly gives way
too much of a currency to numbers and
and very specific narrow skill sets he
has you know if if somebody you know
even even someone like Sam right I mean
maybe this isn't the case but maybe if
somebody like Sam set up a poll ngey
might be some like quant people who
would say like you're not a stat person
you're a commentator and you need to
have the cultural ability to very
clearly say to someone like Nate Silver
you clearly do not have the political
analytic or historical capacity to talk
about this stuff beyond doing numbers
models like that's what you're there to
do
by the way those are questionable as
well not to mention there are some
things that can't be measured by polls
at numbers when we're talking about like
the Marxist conception of value or like
historical dialectics or like world
Systems Theory are all these like macro
phenomenon people's real experience I
mean this is why you know it can it can
become on the other end but
this is also why this is why people do
focus groups and ethnographic research
this is why people actually have to sit
down and talk to people and understand
the contradictions and tensions in their
lives I mean Nate Silver has none of it
and we don't worry we will work to
undermine his brand steadily yeah
there's - yes real quick go ahead last
thing I'll say on this subject and again
we discussed it in the podcast Nathan
Robinson brings up this point and I
think it's incredibly important and it
should never be lost on anybody polling
data is always a state of affairs as
they exist and you know you can take
issue with how a certain like
methodology is done or all of that but
it's a state of affairs that existed at
a single point in time you can never
lose the agency that you can change that
you can actually change the state of
affairs you can actually change people's
minds and you can have people out there
in the political sphere who radically
reset the entire kind of chessboard or
what's available for us right and I
think that's incredibly important to
always keep in mind anyway thanks Mel
good day what's oppressing worlds that
like watch and read Cornel West don't
read Nate Silver just the I mean it even
matters just even on the level of like
look I was walking the office day
listening to a Cornel West lecture was
just like our blueprints even of people
that we like aspire to be like that see
really some point well why do people
don't do that why does it was inspire to
something why do any of these politics
you know consume
was reading it silver in the first place
because he was at the New York Times
right so we're at it we're at a point in
history now where you don't need to take
information from the main fund that
corporations decide like they're gonna
deliver it to you it you can go look at
like 20 hours of Cornel West lectures on
YouTube right now and like why do you
care about politics in the first place
what is the point of all this the point
of all this is I mean I guess some
people treat it like it's a game I
figure out how to do fantasy politics
but like the point is supposed to be to
make a better world yeah absolutely
aim higher aim higher watch Cornel West
don't ever take any of nate silver's
take that don't follow nate hash yeah
unfollow nate and like look the get back
to talking about like why kairi's like
shooting poorly in the playoffs like
dude do something even then I probably
still wouldn't follow Nate for that yeah
like I was gonna say I think all these
nerd know listen to the yeah listen you
know what
take that back listen to back to back
bod follow big waz for sports
ever since the stats guys said that the
whole hot hand Theory Fiasco are you
familiar with that which I said like you
can't have hot streaks in sports they're
all just sort of random variables and
later it turns out that actually maybe
people actually I think like what all of
us who have watched any sports can
witness with our own or any of us has
like in fact happens some of us who felt
you know what it feels like boy straight
down four straight three-pointers
yeah does it really count though for
doing that a playground somewhere I
don't understand sports analogies but it
is a reminds me of what Richard Wolfe
said about economics right how it's not
an exact science because the very act of
predicting something affects the outcome
like you can test how good a weatherman
is by you know see what whether he says
we're gonna have and then see if we have
that weather but economics is absolutely
not like that and neither is politics
well and of course the irony I mean
that's what Nate Silver's right
self-fulfilling problem that's what he's
doing I mean and that's the other
tension in this show like you know that
why it's like yes I agree with the point
about people's lack of focus on policy
but I also don't
want to reify that I mean there's a
reason we talk about policy on the show
so theoretically we're pushing for a
scenario where people are like hey wait
a second Joe Biden saying I don't have
time to come up with a health care plan
is a fundamental structural problem to
his candidacy and even the nuance of
Elizabeth Warren not being clear on the
need for Medicare for all and Bernie
Sanders absolutely being clear on it
actually really matters not just on a
policy level but a strategic level all
right
let's watch this from Jeremy Corbyn
brexit continues to grip the intention
of the United Kingdom it's even though
it's been punted until the fall I did a
video which you can check out on T MBS
on a sort of broader analysis and brexit
but the point that I always make is that
there is absolutely no guarantee that
the people's referendum would reverse
the result people really need to know
that on some level those who are
singularly obsessed with brexit should
be advocating an option where frankly
the Parliament just ignores the will
referendum and is undemocratic in its
approach I don't think that that's
viable and it's not the approach that I
would advocate but if you go and you
have a second referendum that affirms
brexit again then the crisis even deeper
and of course the crisis is already
existing the crisis in terms of real
people's lives in the UK goes back to
2012 when David Cameron's government
started pounding the working people of
Britain with austerity this is and
poverty is increased and so on this
Jeremy Corbyn explaining why you need a
Labour brexit brexit that would only
work for the richest those who want to
deregulate to slash public services deny
rights at work and still further it
would be a Donald Trump brexit leaving
us at the mercy of a reckless and
bellicose US administration Nigel
Farage's brexit is a brexit for
conspiracy theorists for those who see
Muslims and migrants or George Soros
the enemy only labor can see off the
Faraj snake-oil in this election
Faraj is that you Kipp leader who's this
sort of along with Boris Johnson and
others was the kind of prime engine of
the conspiracy driven xenophobic airhead
Tory exit campaign and he's exactly
right it is important though to remember
that as there were plenty of lies about
economic populism from Donald Trump
people like Boris Johnson lied that the
money that went to the EU even though
the UK actually has a great arrangement
with the EU the EU because they don't
have the euro and they have all the
advantages of being part of the of that
market so that's an incredible advantage
they have but they said that the savings
from leaving from brexit would get
plowed back into NHS they dropped that
lie literally 24 hours after it passed
but this was their bus this is the
brexit bus and again this is as with all
of these things of course xenophobia of
course anti-establishment blah blah blah
yes but you can't forget the economic
lies that these people tell and if you
don't think that those have an effect
you're also being blind to reality if
people wonder why I'm personally maybe a
bit cynical about that sort of Nate
Silver's or say Glenn Kessler Washington
Post fact checkers it's because I spent
the summer of 2011 in the UK working for
a fact Jake an agency called full-fat
org right and a lot of the most of the
fact checks were you know propaganda
 about brexit right and I it's
you realize you're you're I guess peeing
into the wind and a lot of this stuff
and like the season we fought on a
political ground and not on a sort of
discourse blog and look at you I just
want to read this case people are
listening then please go Jamie buddies
want to make sure everybody gets this
this is the tortoise was the brexit bus
with the slogan let's take back control
that was a slogan to the campaign we
send the EU 350 million pounds a week
let's fund our NHS and
vote leave now even as Tony Blair has
pointed out this is good you know the
Tories are gonna cut NHS through their
beg the brexit plan yeah it's a more
more clear version I think of what Trump
did as well to try to win in 2016 that
liberals still don't want to acknowledge
which is to include some elements of
quote/unquote populism populist
economics in his stew of you know racism
and xenophobia and like for a lot of
people it's probably not one thing or
the other it's probably a mixture of
things but it is a very potent
combination and shows the need for an
actual left critique of globalization
and neoliberal capitalism and the real
reasons why we're having all these
problems and it's not it's not
immigrants but I wanted to ask you where
where the left brexit currently stands
because as I understand I mean I don't
know a ton about it but we did an
episode on the Intifada as I understood
before it would preserve the free
movement of people more or less but
introduced some like elements of
economic protectionism like they have in
the Scandinavian countries I mean I
don't know where I know that what he's
proposed in Labour's continuing a part
of the customs union so that the trade
can generally still flow and I think
they've I don't know where they are on
free movement of people I know that
definitionally it would not exist in the
same way because that like the law would
just change I mean that that's like one
of the reasons why Ireland is in crisis
the whole the trick of Good Friday
accords is that there's an open border
between Northern Ireland and Ireland
right like so that they could all just
say okay like everybody's sort of
satisfied with this arrangement because
if you want to treat it like you live in
one country you kind of do because you
can just move and but you're still
officially part of the UK so I don't
know I mean I know more broadly the left
case for brexit goes back to like you
know people in the 70s and 80s who had a
problem with the EU and from the
perspective of socialism
which is fine I agree with that critique
but it's like it isn't on the table and
any type of real recognizable way in
modern politics so well that's not why
they voted for it I mean it might even
be by a handful of people voted for it
but it just wasn't like what pushed it
and what like the people behind brexit
are people that don't even want the
minimal standards that like the EU does
have standards it's the only
transnational organization that does
have standards like that they don't want
those they want the they want UK to be
like I mean not even I guess they would
probably say like Singapore but I would
I don't even think they're as they're
not strategically positioned like
Singapore I mean they're not really part
of a rising continent in terms of you
know a place and a country that's
already been trained in such a specific
way since the 60s to function as a
fulcrum of global capital so all they're
gonna do is just continue to degrade
their standards it's tough like you
really can't put the toothpaste back in
the tube where globalisation is
concerned no like unless you have an
autarky like they were talking about in
the interview like we're so
interconnected and we're so into
interdependent and like my hope is that
socialists can use these networks and
you know hopefully reform them or even
eventually overcome them but use these
connections to build something that's
not completely subsumed by the market I
mean that's why I think the very focus
at least idea on an idea level like he's
right because that's like he's like okay
we have this transnational
superstructure it has all these problems
it's destroyed Greece it's destroyed the
southern zone but the fight is to flip
it the fight is to flip it not end it
and I you know that's that's what I
think and I certainly think you know
like if Lula's vision and Chavez's
vision of like a Latin American bloc
that could function in a synchronised
way to counter to some extent counteract
the United States and improve standards
that would be a great thing absolutely
short-term flip it long term over
comment okay let's do it on
for a minute so Iran we spoke about
yesterday Iran has started to restart
parts of its program after a relentless
all onslaught so the united states first
through the international system in the
terminal turmoil by pulling out this
agreement about a year ago in a way that
was this should start at the beginning
of this video that was completely
illogical that was contradicted by every
single piece of evidence that the deal
was working that all members of the deal
were following along with it and in the
past several months with the deployment
of a fleet on the street the farm moos
as well as aggressively when they talk
even about getting tough with china as
an example they're talking about
targeting the chinese iranian economic
relationship and i have no doubt
following a pillar as a former CIA
analyst that the game of bolton and
Pompeyo is to try to agitate iran into
making one step that they could use as
an excuse for war this clip from friend
of both shows friend of mine Mike Hanna
at al-jazeera documents some of the
global reaction to this and I really and
it starts in the UK where Pompeo is
visiting really striking and really
worth noting that of course the French
and the Chinese who you'll hear from as
well or rejecting this but this
far-right Tory government also wanted to
preserve the deal the US Secretary of
State arrives at 10 Downing Street for
talks with a British prime minister the
staunch US ally deeply alarmed by the
Iranian announcement and making clear it
continues to oppose the u.s. decision to
pull out of the 2015 nuclear deal Iran
must never be able to acquire a nuclear
weapon
it's no secret that we have a different
approach on how best to achieve that the
UK has continued to support the nuclear
deal which is a key achievement of the
global non-proliferation architecture
because we believe it's in our shared
security interests Mike Pompeo insisting
differences over the Iran agreement
would
impact on the transatlantic relationship
we're on the same side we're on the side
of values driven democracy were on the
side of freedom we're on the side of
creating a nation for the Iranian people
where they could have religious freedom
and they can have a democracy but other
signatories to the nuclear agreement are
adamant the US must be held accountable
should Iran follow through on its threat
sure - amen open WA for a few months now
the deal that was signed in Vienna to
keep Iran's nuclear activities in check
has been undermined because exactly a
year ago the u.s. decided to pull out
from the deal and not respect it China
approves off the way that Iran has
thoroughly carried out its duty to
comprehensively fulfill the agreement we
opposed the unilateral sanctions
implemented by the US and its so-called
long-arm jurisdiction this is a war that
of course is gonna get pushed by Saudi
Arabia by Israel by the Emirates by the
prime forces those are the prime forces
along with trump of instability and
danger in the Middle East right now and
obviously I mean it should go without
saying of course Mike Pompeo Mike Pompeo
who's literally celebrating the
acceleration of a global climate crisis
Mike Pompeo who is works hand in glove
to support the Saudi endless endless
endless crimes and murders and savagery
of the u.s. is supporting in Yemen every
single day in spite of the efforts of
Bernie Sanders and ROH Congress Akana
and others in Congress right so
obviously him talking about the right
situation in Iran is a disgusting absurd
joke there's a new sort of fascist
tactic that Pompeo exhibits there which
is to act as if there is no disagreement
and that's you just have the have all
the outward signs that own we all agree
here I agree with Jeremy Hunt that were
on the same side like Jeremy Hunt
specifically in his most polite way
again far right Tory government
right-wing defense minister or foreign
minister saying we supported the goal of
not having Iran proliferate was best
fulfilled by the agreement that you guys
are destroying and Pompeyo just that's
the fun
never settled is it right it's south
carry when they do that right we there's
no disagreement here except for the
fundamental disagreement that my
counterpart just articulated and and
they know that Hunts not gonna be like
wait a second Mike I'm telling you we
got a problem here cuz the retina stop
the press conference that way it's all
it's all its stagecraft precisely and
and by and I will say on this sort of
you know
Pompeyo is competent I mean he's one of
the few people around who's at that
nexus of you know no daylight between
him and a Donald Trump in terms of
avarice extremism he might also have
overlap with pants in terms of a you
know a fanatical dangerous religious
worldview but this guy knows how to do
stymie he I hate you know I'm tired of
it and it's only on our side that we
talk about people get stuff done they
don't really use that rhetoric on the
side that gets stuff done unfortunately
but Mike Pompeo you know he's an
operator and definitely one of the most
dangerous people on earth today let's
continue then actually because this is
also Mike Pompeo I mean it's not enough
to try to instigate what would be I mean
if we had war with Iran I would say I
mean at the very least a lot of the kind
of meaningless and nonsense and
catfights and ridiculousness that people
get into all day might be put into stark
perspective because I don't even want to
contemplate like you already have a
slaughterhouses in Yemen and Syria you
still have major instability in Iraq and
that and that conflict cost millions of
lives and displaced millions of people
because of the US invasion if you had a
military engagement with Iran you I mean
I don't even want to put that out there
honestly I mean I you need to seriously
contemplate how catastrophic aliy bad
that is that leads to a world war the
way we're at that is one of the only
the recipe for our turns I mean really
and it's also one of the moaning
melodramatic scenarios where I could say
like you know what I actually could see
a path where that could lead to some
type of kind of broader you know
conflict but even if it didn't I mean
the amount first of all obviously goes
without saying but of course there's no
concern to these people you'll kill an
enormous amount of innocent people in
Iran but the Iranians while on one hand
the threat of Iran is ludicrous Iran
doesn't even spend the most of its
military and anybody in the Middle East
and they're no threat to United States
and anybody they would say otherwise is
either you know mentally ill or lying or
having fever dreams but they do know how
to operate in terms of you know training
gorillas in terms of fighting different
types of insurgencies and even in Iraq
in a disorganized way that was
splintered by all sorts of factional
variables there were times where we were
facing Shia militias or Sunni groups
without any kind of centralized command
structure and a government of Saddam
Hussein that had not a huge base of
support certainly not the amount that
the Iranians do not to mention no
international respect which the Iranians
do have under rouhani and Zarif to some
extent they were able to cause havoc and
killing huge amount of US troops I mean
if that happens in I mean Wow okay so
it's not enough to try to instigate a
global catastrophe like a war with Iran
of course Mike Pompeo along with John
Bolton is still trying to instigate
instigate a coup in Venezuela I watched
a great interview recently with a
Venezuelan sociologist in Caracas who
was very much I'm forgetting his name
unfortunately he was on with Sharmini
Paris and the real news I like her work
he had a strong critique of the
Bolivarian government and very much a
left critic of Maduro and Chavez and if
you want to watch some example of I
would say in his case more of a social
democratic critique but someone on the
left someone who absolutely opposes US
intervention but is totally dissatisfied
and disgusted with that government go
ahead and it's worth watching
he still is warning himself this socio
just that this action could lead to a
civil war in Venezuela and while he
doesn't he was criticizing some in the
US for in his view whitewashing Maduro
he still said of course your primary
obligation is to oppose us imperialism
and intervention so again without
opening all of that up it's important to
just reaffirm that there is no credible
person speaking from Venezuela including
ones who might absolutely loathe that
government or be critical supporters of
it or supporters of it they absolutely
exist who want a US intervention an
invasion Jeremy Corbyn opposes it
because he opposes these types of
actions pretty forcefully and in the
last couple of days Bernie Sanders has
strongly sharpened his position on this
as well and again always I absolutely
will always give props to Tulsi Gabbard
on her Venezuela stance here's Mike
Pompeo trying to demonize Jeremy Corbyn
and Bernie Sanders for trying to avert
another catastrophe that he's attempting
to engineer either interest yes they
have they have spoken
they have opposed every single coup
action that this government has
attempted since 2002 they are not even
supporting this why do not sense at a
time of unprecedented pressure on them
and if you want to relieve their
suffering a lift the sanctions and stop
economic and military terrorism and the
notion of Mike Pompeo using the word
disgusting to describe anyone else is
mind-boggling he's talking about people
who have not said a word in support of
Maduro at least in Bernie's case
opposing a coup this guy works every day
to support a cholera outbreak and
bombing school buses and nursing homes
and weddings and Yemen
I know that's even beyond pointing out
hypocrisy that's pointing out that
you're a despicable grotesque
less than human thing but let's finish
the clip time to see American League
leaders from this continue to provide
support and comfort to regime that has
created so much density so much
destruction I was in I was in Colombia I
saw those families who had to make
choices about whether to feed their
children on even days or odd days as a
result of their lift the sanctions it's
a direct result of you this government
has put pressure on two banks to not
releasing funds that are the Venezuelan
government's funds they've economically
terrorized the place release the
sanctions period that is so I mean you
know it's one thing to do the usual
typical where the United States
obviously always picks and chooses it
supported death squads and dictators
across the planet and then it condemns
other people for their human rights
record we all know this there's nothing
new about this but the juxtaposition of
by the way trying to set off I mean
don't forget Elliott Abrams the you know
PR man of all of the butchers of the
Reagan era is the point man for this
he's talking about anybody is anything
while he is backing Lee war on Yemen I
would use the word genocide again it's
not even hypocrisy there there has to be
a new word because you know hypocrisy
that first of all it doesn't mean
anything and hypocrisy is like a human
trait we all have hypocrisy we all
should like we shouldn't be more or less
with each other but that's that is
another like that is a that is just a
fundamental disconnect
that's just being completely divorced
from any sense of self or any moral
scope of the world I mean it's be its
next level I don't know if what I'm
saying makes any sense but yeah it's
grotesque he's yeah he's not talking
about the poor Venezuela when he says
the Venezuelan people ever to say the
least he's talking about the ruling
class talking about the middle class
about anybody he said I don't even know
if he's talking about any actual
Venezuelans sorry I mean a handful of
pliant right-wing Hunta people that will
do whatever the United States directs
them because there is on some level you
know I think on the Left we can't just
support governments just because they
find themselves in opposition to United
States right at the same time there's no
doubt that Iran and Venezuela also just
represent ideas that there are places
that aren't first world countries that
don't acquiesce the United States and
therefore in the mindset of people like
Mike Pompeo they need to be destroyed
there is something that is so raw and
imperialist about it that's undeniable
and of course their strategic
calculations and so on but some that is
as simple as that the left hand left
left handed less leftist since there are
real populist running well that preclude
Biden from any running on any sort of
populist messages oh by as Obama Clinton
didn't know we're gonna be real vague
about putting that himself yeah I mean
but also but like know like people are
gonna run how they're gonna like don't
you got to point out that he's full of
 and that by been like you know
Bernie's real like they're never gonna
it's not like Biden's gonna go home well
you know what Bernie Sanders alluded
with Warner running I guess I can't
pretend to be a friend the middle class
the guy the guy in 24 hours announced
getting the support of the firefighters
union and said he was a labor guy and
then did a fundraiser at a union-busting
Comcast house like that's who Joe Biden
is that's what most of the Democratic
Party is yeah you can't be a handmaiden
to a trade deal that was opposed by
every labor union and then go up and say
I'm a union guy
only you can because he did right and we
have to call that's the point they
totally can it's our job to point it out
but they can and they will
that's what Warren and Bernie are doing
with the policy proposals that they're
putting out right now they're just
literal landmines for Biden to step on
on his path towards the presidency and
all voters will react that's what it is
I want to be optimistic about that wha
this is good let's play this um Joe
carton Courtney is a congressman from
Connecticut yeah and he's explaining it
he's explaining the stop and shop strike
and the broader importance of the right
to organize this is a couple of minutes
but it's actually this is really quite
important let's check it out just wanted
to follow up actually I'm the
chairwoman's opening comments about the
value of unions in terms of the standard
of living of workers up in New England
we actually witnessed the value of
collective bargaining when 31,000
workers were organized with the United
Food and Commercial Workers Union and
employed by Stop & Shop a grocery chain
owned by a hold Delhaize a danish
company successfully exercised their
rights to strike over proposed cuts to
their pay and benefits it was an 11 day
strike and the company obviously
calculated that they could outlast the
union what was at stake was almost
existential for the middle-class way of
life for the people who work there the
employer proposed increasing health plan
deductibles from $300 a year to five
thousand dollars a year they had
proposed more than doubling health
insurance premiums they had proposed
removing spousal coverage for health
insurance they proposed eliminating
time-and-a-half on Sundays and they
employed they also proposed slashing
pension contributions for full-time
employees by half with the company
miscalculated was that in fact the
public would support the picket lines
that stood up in those grocery stores
again in all the New England states and
after 11 days the strike ended and the
UFCW
was successful in restoring all of those
out-of-pocket hits that workers would
have taken
and we're not even close to being offset
by any sort of modest wage increases
which were proposed so again from from
the standpoint of the people who stocked
the shelves and work the growth the
cashier lines who I met with afterwards
who again felt that they had taken their
own economic destiny into their own
hands by exercising their right to
strike it obviously paid off big time
for them so I know today mr. mr. Mehra's
testimony he was pointed to what he
believes the employers ability to
permanently replace economic strikers
carefully balances competing interests
the proact obviously would change that
to not allow replacement strikers just
looking at the experience of what just
happened up in New England were again
31,000 workers stood up for their their
way of life and their standard of living
this is excellent he actually really
presented that and articulated that
really well and also I like that look
that's the broader context when we
talked about the stop and shop strike it
was like don't go hold that line give
them your support because that is what
the the company's strategy is that
there's so much obvious basic
desperation in people's lives so they
can terrorize them economically but then
they're also we're so socially
fragmented and disconnected from each
other that we won't actually stand and
support a fellow human beings who want
to live a decent life not be you know
just endlessly rapaciously abused by
these companies and that was what the
people of New England did with stop and
shop and that's why it's an incredible
win and that's also why striking and
unions I mean there's no way we're gonna
get where we need to go without strikes
and unions period I don't see how that's
what humanly possible that's why that's
sort of the there's two things that are
sort of baseline when people want to
know what they can do to you know have
an effect is one like we say you know
vote smart but also right never cross a
picket line and support every single
strike that comes down the pike hundred
percent hundred percent support every
single strike and here's an example I
guess of Delta the airline
trying to do some silly propaganda
against unions uh you know gasps this is
Gil this is goofy but you know
union-busting as a private consulting
industry hired by multinationals like
Delta is actually a major business I
believe that was part of the business
portfolio of the lawyer that hosted the
first Joe Biden fundraiser I just were
always like to remember you know as a
Matt carp Prout that great Bernie
profile that just came out in the nation
the transformation of Bernie Sanders
it's a really good piece and he has one
very nice juxtaposition where he sort of
talks about how like I think was like
Bernie in his 30s or at 40 like maybe
when he first got elected to become
mayor of Burlington and the work he was
doing for land Trust's peeping people in
their homes and supporting worker owned
businesses and he said something like
and about the same age that Joe Biden
was writing letters to segregationist
senators to stop integrates good at the
same time that Kamala Harris was
soliciting multinational donors for her
lock people up campaigns Bernie Sanders
was creating a Land Trust yeah I think I
like I like that juxtaposition there so
this is a delta ad union dues cost
around 700 a year a new video game
system with the latest hit sounds like
with the latest hit sounds like fun wait
a video game system with the latest hit
sounds like fun
put your money towards that instead of
paying dues to a union and then there's
a gaming what do they call it a
controller gaming controller so of
course this wouldn't appear Michael but
yeah this wouldn't appeal to me it
literally I would be like what why do I
want I look at the trying to unionize on
our and then Sam slip this to mad now
doomed right exactly but these so but of
course the point being that without a
union you won't be able to afford that
gaming system begin with and you'll
probably be so exhausted from flying and
dangerous and hazardous tradition
conditions I mean this is why you join a
unionist so you can afford the gaming
system with the new game
and you can also negotiate for more time
off so let's say you play them let's say
you want to Wednesday's off a month as
you can play video games during the day
just the thought I don't have the stats
in front of me but I'm pretty sure
unionized workers the difference between
non-union wages and union wages is a lot
more than 700 dollars a year
yeah and also if you've ever heard
stories or seen reported stories on
people that are like airline pilots who
make thirty thousand dollars a year and
might even be dealing with homelessness
yeah kind of some good counter evidence
here Eric you really asked where the
squeeze comes down it's where this and
also like if you watch this if you see
this is a delta worker where do they
take you for like there's like a
you are cheaply and you're so
stupid that you can't even like I get
the like you know gut-punch arguments
like in jobs where it's like hey you're
so fundamentally squeezed that you need
like every five cents you know we're
we're exploiting you so much that you're
worried about paying for groceries so
you can play pay play on a fear and a
scarcity that the company has created
but this is still like hey man don't you
want more time like game like
they think you're an idiot this is a
great expression of what kind of loser
Delta thinks their employees are if
anything this would make me want to
unionize more exactly because you
how much time would it save if Delta
wasn't wasting their money on this sort
of right that's what I want how
about a company audit of all of the
money you're paying to some idiot firm
to keep your workers from having a
decent life just disgusting and
unbelievable alright we have two more
pieces of sound we got to get to before
we wrap up but I do think this is
important
what is the there the Sartre essay where
he sort of talks also about like I don't
want to wait open up a whole sort of you
know debate about comedy and so on but I
think that this is really obvious a
distinction between irony and humor
people being sensitive or insensitive
because this is the president of the
United States in an environment where
there was already a power military force
terrorizing migrants where children have
died in ice custody where families have
been separated still to this day not
reunited because of the racist terrorist
policies of this administration there
are insane crazy people at the border
deeply deeply damaged people living out
like Bruce Willis fantasies who you know
their own profound you know unease
fragmentation and lack of meaning is
manifesting and some sort of horrifying
fantasy at the border fueled by Donald
Trump and Breitbart and Fox and all of
the other sort of prime purveyors of
racism conspiracy and poison that's why
this actually matters and this matters
from the perspective of somebody who
both thinks Trump can be funny and
thinks that people need to like let's
just get on with meeting this
 or frankly impeach him or
don't you know this is part of that I
actually don't oppose impeaching Donald
Trump if they actually had a serious
path they were not messing around and
they were like you know what Donald
Trump and his administration are
regularly breaking the law and showing
disdain to Congress they are what we
this was made for right so what we're
going to do is we're going to impeach
him we're not gonna like this person
called that person and then we had a
hearing and then we did this and we did
that in the beautiful words of rushing
to tell him impeach the or
don't and if you're not then we've got
to beat him and that's it and I'm not
gonna freak out over every last this and
that but this matters because this is a
wink in my opinion this is a wink to
murder I mean when you have 15,000
people marching up and you have hundreds
and hundreds of people and you have two
or three border security people that are
brave and
and don't forget we don't let them and
we can't let them use weapons we can't
other countries do we can't I would
never do that but how do you stop these
people you can't there's not posit so
the person said shoot him from the
audience you can hear it okay but how do
you stop these people you can't busines
that's only in the Panhandle you can get
away with that step even the woman
behind him right to the left her she's
doing like the e right right it's only
in the Panhandle you can get away with
that step
oh you
these people are cheering so it's a
tough situation but these people are
cheering murdering on are migrants these
people are cheering somebody who said
I'm escaping a power military that might
murder me by the way I'll be covering
this later but there's an incredible
piece in Harper's reported piece on a
process that began I think in 2009 where
a former leader of one of the leftist
guerrilla organizations who had gone on
to run a small business after the civil
war stopped and dealt with gangs cuz he
had to pay them extortion and stuff and
then a former leader of the military
teamed up to create a peace process for
gangs in El Salvador that yielded big
results that guy is now in jail because
the current government has decided that
it wasn't a peace process it was a pro
gang scheme and violence has re exploded
in the interview in that prison he holds
the United States primarily responsible
for asserting that you need to get back
to get tough policies so again our
policy set is always at the center of
these things I'm saying like people make
their own decisions countries have their
own problems it's now all reducible to
one things but we're always involved and
you know so take somebody who's fleeing
that situation you at this point heard
endless amount of stories about what
that actually means they're joking about
killing one of those people I've just
I've just scrapped my way to get to the
us-mexico border which I already know
the United States is run by a
scumbag clown fascist who was empowered
a paramilitary organization to terrorize
people like me that they're totally
violating every type of norm on refugees
and I'm here because I literally have no
choice but to leave and other and maybe
get my neck slit
these people are joking about shooting
him in the face that's great
here is an and button by the way I mean
like literally like this is this is one
of the reasons why you should sometimes
reserve your moral outrage because that
does that requires moral outrage yeah
not everything does a lot of things
don't in my opinion but that's something
you need to be clear about that is
disgusting that is it that is a
cancelling of any basic human sentiment
you're supposed to have your wirings off
if you think that's funny it's such a
disgusting trope and it's an old one
that we've been seeing for many decades
does anytime any time that the
government needs to paint some people as
the other as less than human so that we
can kill them in a war terrorize them at
the border i'll chittim it to camp yeah
score some political points it's
disgusting and it goes back to that
genre spy camp of the saints in the
1970s that book in which the in the
immigrants to to the west which is by
the way a very recent concept and not
something that has always existed there
just portrayed as this like brown
invading horde and like the descriptions
of them are like some of the most
disgusting racist things I've ever read
and I don't think that Trump has read
that book but I do know that Steve
Bannon has read that book all the blue
cells one of his favorite books tucker
carlson has read that book and these
ideas are filtering into this
administration definitely or they could
all just be trying to have fun
former chief of staff to Senate Majority
Leader Mitch McConnell Josh welcome back
and good morning to you strikes me the
campaign kicked off last night you get a
sense of that yeah no question and I you
know I think there's a good golden rule
of politics it's the candidate it looks
like he's having the most fun is usually
the one that's winning and the contrast
there from President Trump in his rally
last night in Florida I mean everybody
seemed to be having a lot of fun and and
and you can contrast that with how these
twenty twenty years have been marching
around the country in this sort of dour
mood full of negativity and and so you
know I think you're right the campaign
is
and I think it looks like ourselves
right I mean it's very underrated Josh
it is it is and nobody does it better
than president trumping that starts with
the nicknames but he also just keeps it
light I mean he's got to be the first
entertaining rallies in the history of
politics I mean mostly these things are
pretty dry and it's all about speaking
of the partisans but I mean I think most
people can watch this and be entertained
well I think we had some fire in attack
use me I mean maybe Americans don't
appreciate the effort we put into art
and design but I think a lot of people
in the flames is the wheel yeah no you
wouldn't because you are
American pigs who don't like art didn't
even have any choreography there okay
yeah first of all these guys are
psychopaths and secondly yes the
campaign started you're gonna hear a
hell of a lot more of this absolutely
and thirdly chief of staff to Mitch
McConnell there's people to this day who
still want to make a distinction between
Donald Trump and the Republican Party
and you know who the leered lead person
in the country is right now who wants to
distinguish between Donald Trump in the
Republican Party Biden Biden
recognize how delusional and dangerous
that is and again just as Bhaskar
Bhaskar Sankara cut an ad for Bernie
Sanders at the point he made I'm making
for a very long time I think Joe Biden
probably would beat Donald Trump I do I
don't under my eye from the beginning I
think I've usually been warned in the
room who's like guys I get we all hate
him but this guy's super formidable as a
candidate but you know what after two
years of Joe Biden telling Millennials
he doesn't have empathy for them and
trying to reimpose the Davos agenda on
us all of the symptoms all of the poison
Bill Fletcher jr. right-wing populism is
the herpes of capitalism that stuff is
not going anywhere if there's it's only
gonna metastasize it does not start and
end with Donald Trump think
strategically if there's a route
historically if there's a route Joe
Biden could take to lose he's taking it
that's absolute that's also totally sure
that's also totally true yes and as the
Democratic Party I mean if anybody could
snatch defeat of snatch victory from the
jaws excuse me
snatch defeat from the jaws of victory
it's now our ass all right final call of
the day sorry couldn't get to all
callers maybe we'll try to get to two
but we have to run you're calling from a
Skype are you there oh hello hello hey
what's up what's your name where you
calling from low your on going on how
are you in what's what's I'm good I'm
good I'm good I have a list here so
these are the options you can choose you
can choose what I want to talk to you my
what I say to be non-controversial in
the office like I put him I'm going to
throw in a third way about the whole
situation my strategy for house and to
use classical in veteranism'
as like an actual quality platform or we
could talk about anti-semitism and
British politics hmm all right let's go
three a day three anti-semitism British
politics let's do it so basically I
think all Americans and especially I saw
that clip about and what Megan McCain
says all I see a lot of Simpson British
politics
she's just lapping up basically and I'm
sure you know how Liberal Party is being
attacked for being institution and
Semitic right and everything else and
I'm going to preface the whole
conversation by saying calls and some
sense doesn't exists but I think people
and people just see it as like a blanket
thing and not understanding their
differences of heart and Semitism
appears on the left and how it appears
on the right I mean I think one thing
that is very easy for Americans that
forget about the UK is that the Jewish
population here is a lot smaller and has
a lot less of presence in British
culture generally as compared to America
I mean when I think of America
what is persons becomes my one Jewish
black comedian because that's like a
thing that's just for every night so
everyone's so okay I'm sorry
let me just get let me just get so lucky
boy and so basically one critique that's
always brought up is I think and in in
the UK because there's not many Jewish
people around it
to say the wrong thing and not be caught
not the knobby question about that until
after the facts whereas I feel like in
the US and those kind of conversations
in the left or just generally are a lot
more the language used so you're gonna
say like the Labour Party is maybe pain
cuz I've always kind of said that I
don't think Jeremy Corbyn is an
anti-semite I do think that there are
some parts of the British left that are
not even in labor but I think that there
is some more actual anti-semitism that
actually exists in British politics than
here where it's pretty much entirely on
the right in the United States but that
Jeremy Corbyn is somebody who when he's
misspoken or said things that are
insensitive or miss certain cues it's
because yeah he doesn't have he's not
been around Jewish people and uh yeah
that's always been my read I certainly
don't read actual anti-semitism from him
no and I guess another way that
anti-semitism has been weaponized in the
UK is to implicate the Muslim population
very obviously the same thing that's
happening still on Omar yep has been
happening here for a while
in the sense so you are castigating
someone's religion by being de facto
anti-israel and not certain RTS or so
there I go again see what I did just
that and anti-semitic just because they
are anti-israel but then the reason why
that's even more compounded here is
again because we have less sort of
direct integration communication with
the Jewish community in the UK so
there's a lot more centralized and a lot
less of them then it's just very easy
for someone who is Muslim to say things
right even a few on Twitter I mean
that's oh yeah I know I get your point
so people expose your help exposure
helps that makes total sense and also
there's a huge campaign in both places
to just equate any criticism and
discussion of Israel with anti-semitism
but people also need to learn you know
to speak about that in a way that's you
know strategic and empathetic thanks for
the call man appreciate it
that makes a lot of sense last call of
the day you're calling from an 865 area
code who are you where you calling from
yeah this is cherishing Tennessee I get
a couple quick questions my generation
is about you just liquid IV let's skip
that because we only have time for like
one question so let's let's take up the
one question let's have anything to do
with that so that's also true I just had
a question about the problem-solvers
caucus you think that they're something
that we should be focused on as far as
trying to get Medicare for all pads
because I was just looking at who's a
member of them and who's not co-sponsor
of the Medicare girl go and 631 members
of the problem polish caucus are on I
don't know anything about the
problem-solvers caucus it sounds like a
very dumb niver sounds like a terrible
name for a yeah I mean raise problem
solvers caucus do anything you can to
you know discredit everybody involvement
especially got heimer who Ryan grim just
wrote a good article on the intercept
yeah yesterday I believe annoying to
self-anointed resistance to Rashidah to
Libya C and Omar wing of the party oh
 he's extremely in the pocket sounds
like the problem you're trying to solve
are like people's efforts to get health
care and privacy and make sure yeah god
himer specifically wants to make sure
Israel and Saudi Arabia are looked after
right but you know how a OC got in
trouble a OC got in trouble for wanting
to make a list of people to primary if
you want a list of people to primary
it's called the problem solvers caucus
yeah that sounds like a very it sounds
like we have some problems we could
solve by primary all those people all
right thanks everybody sorry no more
time for any more calls just two more
two or three more items leaf sage I'm
not a supporter of ubers practices but I
like to say they've made a big a
difference in the ability of African
Americans to get around before ubered is
well known taxis actively ignored black
riders uber zaps made the process using
company's customers race agnostic and
put in punishment for those trying to
buy abandoned back black riders
also taxis would never bother to patrol
black neighborhoods instead of only
patrolling city centers to decouple this
from uber the company and the technology
of ride-hailing which is like just GPS
plus you know map and the internet yeah
there are yellow cabs that you I also
just I hear I mean yeah that's also true
but I also want I've heard and granted
anecdotally I've heard from both I mean
I've heard from black drivers of ubers
that they deal with a huge amount of
racism but I guess that's not the
problem you're talking about but I can
accept I'm not sure but anyways ok I
just I'm sorry I'm truncating it cuz
it's a long message but she just
concludes or they conclude with ubers a
terrible company but it's done for a lot
of us a lot a lot for us I just wish
they weren't evil we talked to two dope
boys I remember having a conversation
Phil's talking about stuff like this
like yeah that's definitely like that
that problem is something that's
addressed by the technology definitely
doesn't you shouldn't think Travis
kalanick or whatever right that's the
other thing then use I mean here you can
yeah you could use the the yellow taxi
app for sure right
when I talk about that's a very
something it doesn't mean that you
negate that thing it means that you take
the positive things and build on it to
something new that obviates the last
thing so if there is one positive aspect
of ride hailing technology cool let's
keep that and let's use it when we have
like a worker owned cooperative
definitely qualms qualms I just caught
Tuesday's show being an is not a
logical fallacy as my new favorite quote
of all time I think it deserves to be
clipped and it would be a perfect collar
drop for when a caller gets managering a
debate I agree completely also mad I
mean we need to clip obviously Meghan
McCain saying maybe we have
disagreements and geopolitical politics
I mean come on Jesus Christ so that's
anything was begging for me into a drop
and I'm just even ignoring all of the
words she misused in that clip like
leverage yeah but would you get it was
the other one leverage and currency
credence a credence right
aggressive stupidity is quite a thing
all of our fans should listen to the
pitchfork economics broadcast great for
learning more in-depth about the
concrete concepts discussed here also
Chris Hayes is the latest episode why is
this happening as stephanie kelton on
explaining deficits and mmt the other
podcast roundup yes can say this I'm not
reading those anymore
those are not yeah exactly that was I
should have read that I mean we know we
have a bunch of fans who are big podcast
heads no that's great but it's just a
little like ok fair enough
Michael's Simpson impression of Sam hey
Michael in Canada the the person
credited with getting the universal past
most credited with getting universal
healthcare passed in 1965 Tommy Douglas
was voted the greatest Canadian some
years ago he's also the founder of the
new democratic party health is always
the top issue of elections usually even
today all right that makes total sense
but the final I am of the day sab
Gorkhas business card excuse me the
final item of the day regarding the
hatred of Bernie about a month ago
lawrence O'Donnell praised him on
Twitter for spearheading Medicare for
all reading the replies to that tweet
was one of the most horrifying
disturbing experience in my lifetime
look I mean first of all obviously these
are MSNBC viewers and you know look
people like Rachel Maddow I'm sorry
these are totally not trusted sources on
Bernie Sanders sorry they don't lie I
mean the analogy is like really simple
like look don't watch t MBS for a fair
treatment of Joe Biden or Amy Klobuchar
I mean be a ways to get any audience
yeah so so don't watch most of the MSNBC
lineup for any type of fair treatment or
any standards don't watch television for
news I mean I'm trying to be more
diplomatic here but yes I mean the main
answer is are you kidding me Jesus
Christ
turn on Amy Goodman for Christ's sakes
or you open a book or open a book god
forbid to get over this concept of
politician
as like celebrities or like people you
like or like people you want to have a
beer with like no you're trying to
express your power through whatever
power you have through your vote to get
the policies path that you want but I
found a story but I also think that's
the other part too is that you know a
lot of people particularly like again in
that you know some of the I think
overall even if you were in the upper
middle class Sanders agenda is best for
you
that being said I think that there are a
fair amount of people who identify
upwards versus downwards and they
identify with the Democratic Party
because of some very important social
attitudes and some other just and some
just basic cultural signifiers they
don't care about justice they don't care
about poverty they don't think about
people not having food health clothing
and shelter they don't then they
certainly don't
I mean god forbid you think about the
United States impact on the rest of the
world and so it's easy to absorb all of
the just silly propaganda about Sanders
but I mean yeah that's one of the
reasons I just don't indulge in so many
criticisms of him is I have never seen
in politics such an incredible
disconnect between I never seen somebody
disliked for so many just fatuously
disingenuous stupid nonsensical reasons
I mean look some seventy seven-year-old
powering himself around the country to
get you health care is a pretty good
political leader so I think we're gonna
just need to Browns in that reality a
little bit well I do understand that
there are women out there who just want
a woman president but that's not the
most important thing to them right now
but I'm not even talking and they think
that Bernie is standing in the way of
that and then they project all of the
other that they've ever had to
deal with for men on to him which is
obviously not his fault but you know
what to those people I say you want to
you want to be woke you want to support
other women you want to support people
of color prove it support the person
who's going to do that
see you tomorrow there was it's
narcissism see that
to get to where I want
no son
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
[Music]
