so here is Eric trump on Fox & Friends
and look Eric Trump is not that bright
and he's also to be fair to be fair he
is been raised by a pathological liar
who's a bad person but nevertheless Eric
could do what I can't even remember what
Tiffany did right and she wasn't a
Tiffani what was her name
what about her the saw the songwriter
Tiffani no well who's the Trump that we
don't that's because she was birthed by
it right I'm saying but Tiffani has been
able to shuttle off to the sidelines we
never talk about her anymore
this dude could do the same thing but
instead he goes on Fox & Friends and
makes a total ass of himself look when
you're on Fox & Friends and you're you
you're sitting there with Steve Doocy
and Ainsley Adams and Brian Kilmeade and
you're the dumb one you've got a real
problem about why he's asking cabinet to
enforce all of the departments to cut
their budgets 5% listen to this I'm
gonna ask each of you to come back with
a five percent budget cut from your
various departments whether it's a
secretary and administrator or whatever
why is Donald Trump asking his
department heads to cut their
departments by five percent first off
this is a drop in the bucket it's not
going to impact the the deficit in any
real way plus it's also for show they're
not gonna actually do this they have
made significant cuts to across the
board from different departments since
coming into office significant cuts in
services housing services services for
people living in poverty environmental
protection services
why is there why is the deficit growing
so much let's keep listening get
administrator whatever I'm gonna ask
everybody to come back with a 5% cut for
our next meeting I think you'll all be
able to do it and that's a response to
the deficit being seven hundred plus
billion dollars it's the highest since
2012 you knew who that is that's a
business guy all right I want 5% and you
know what next year I want another 3% in
there's a lot of fat there's a lot of
fat you see that right when he when he
renegotiated the f-35 program he saved
billions of dollars when he renegotiated
posit it's funny he says the f-35
program because they raised the defense
spending by about seventy billion
dollars per good Air Force one he saved
billions of dollars I mean that's the
real estate developer that's the guy who
got elected where you will call up every
contractor hey I do in my own business
in our business and trump organization
call up every contractor and you get the
best possible price you beat down the
price and that's why you have something
that I mean how many other politicians
would have done that we haven't done
none and by the way and that's why you
have a a 20 trillion dollar deficit I
mean the deficit okay pause it for one
second this is the business guys son the
deficit is not twenty trillion dollars
the deficit for 2018 is 779 billion
dollars now he may be he may be close to
right and saying trillion because by
2019 the deficit now understand this is
the annual budget not being able to
reach revenues not matching expenditures
is projected to be about one trillion
dollars I am looking right here at a
where is this piece I had it right here
it was a story back in 2013 I think it
was where the heck is this thing I can't
find it but they were projecting the
deficit to not hit a trillion dollars
it's going to hit a trillion dollars
between until 2020
three 2023 we're gonna talk about why
this deficit is increasing now I don't
care that much about the deficit I got
to be honest with you I'm more concerned
about why and where we're spending the
money but these guys think the deficit
is super important and they don't know
how to predict what's going to happen
they don't seem to know how to do math
so it's not a twenty two trillion dollar
deficit now we have debt right our debt
is nearly 20 trillion dollars but people
understand what the difference between
debt and deficit is deficit is the
yearly operating differential you're
spending on an annual basis more than
you're taking in debt is the
accumulation of that deficit over time
but let's listen to the businessman talk
away and that's why you have a a 20
trillion dollar deficit I mean the
deficit over doubled under Obama once
you understand that he truly into 20
trillion cause it now first off I can't
even begin to start to express this when
when Obama came into office the deficit
in 20 2009 was 14 was about 1.4 trillion
dollars because there had been a
financial crisis that's in 2009 okay so
if we're going to attribute that huge
jump in the deficit from 2008 when it
was about five hundred billion and it
almost tripled over the course of a year
and that is because revenues plunged
because we had a financial crisis
millions of people lose their jobs
they're not paying taxes the deficit
basically hovered around there it went
down a little bit to 12 trillion in the
next year I mean excuse me twelve
billion again
well uh 1.2 trillion 1.2 trillion and
then down to about 1.1
and then by 2013 it was at 600 billion a
2014 it's at about 400 billion 400
billion in 2015 2016 it jumps up a
little bit to 500 billion again but if
we're going to go by the business man's
numbers even though they're wrong in
terms of when crediting the deficit to
Barack Obama the deficit went in the
final year of Barack Obama's at 2015 was
at 439 billion dollars and it's gonna be
it four short years later it's gonna be
more than double so he's lying and he's
dumb so that is the son of a businessman
is there any more to that that's it
right it's funny how he started trying
to talk about his own business and then
he had to admit that it's it's the Trump
Organization the Trump Organization look
we screw over contractors all the time
and listen incidentally when you say to
the Secretary of Housing cut your budget
by 5% there's no other bids you can take
incidentally to deliver the same product
right like that's the thing it's like
they're not going to deliver the same
product they're going to cut subsidies
for people in housing less people are
going to have housing and it's going to
create problems in our society like
homelessness they're gonna build the
public housing and I'm gonna say you
didn't do a good job I'm only giving you
half take you to leave it right I
thought all the revenue they were gonna
raise from business and you know
lowering the corporate tax rate was
supposed to take care of this whole
deficit that's a good question Brendan
we were told under the Laffer principle
that when you cut taxes for corporations
and individuals and really is there a
difference at the end of the day no you
cut taxes for corporations what you're
doing
they told us was to create new jobs and
create new research and development but
all these corporations all did and they
told the administration they were gonna
do it when Gary cone looked out at the
audience and said who how many of the
CEOs here are going to invest their
their tax savings in research and
development and no one raised their
hands they knew oh you're just gonna
take it in stock dividends because you
guys as the CEOs are one of the major
stockholders and that's how you get your
compensation but the magic of tax cuts
according to Arthur Laffer at all that
was supposedly gonna save Kansas and
instead destroyed Kansas was that as you
cut taxes you are creating so much new
growth so much new growth that it will
generate so much more economic activity
that revenues will actually go up so you
cut taxes but the amount of people who
will be paying taxes and on so many
different transactions and whatnot it's
actually gonna increase revenue in fact
here's Larry Kudlow the chief economic
advisor of the Trump administration
telling us that when did he tell us that
end of June this year end of June this
year what's what hasn't he done they say
it's being done it's probably coming on
faster and it's throwing off enormous
amount of new tax revenues as the
economy gears up more people working
better jobs and careers those revenues
come rolling in and the deficit which is
one of the other criticism is coming
down and it's coming down rapidly growth
a lot of problems you've heard me say
the Corvair mm-hmm he said it since the
bush excuse me the Reagan administration
the growth in revenue was the this year
was the eighth lowest in the past 50
years and I'll remind you we are 10
years out from a financial crisis so a
lot of those eight years have
very close to the financial crisis that
we went through good Republicans can't
even do capitalism right well their
brand of capitalism does exactly what
it's supposed to do and so he was wrong
by the deficit by a factor of I don't
even know how to do the math on that if
you say it's going down and it doubles
how do you do the math on that I think
we know nobody of a none of us is
qualified right do that so we have the
lowest growth in tax revenues in 50
years in 50 years and the full brunt of
the tax cuts hasn't even hit yet it
hasn't even hit yet and the deficit has
doubled by their own metrics not metrics
that I necessarily even care about they
don't know what they're talking about as
recently as two months ago and we should
say there's no reason to believe that
the acceleration or the D acceleration
in the growth of tax revenues and the
acceleration in the rate of the deficit
is going to be anywhere where they
predicted because they were show off on
where we would be this short of time out
that their ability to predict where
we'll be even in a year it's completely
suspect it's stunning how bad they are
even at their own crappy stuff and
here's the bottom line
they are using the deficit now so we
start off with Donald Trump earlier
saying cut 5% from all of your
discretionary spending and Mitch
McConnell is already preparing to lose
the house by saying we need to cut
Social Security and Medicare this is the
game that they play we knew this they
juice the deficit then they make it like
the deficit is a national crisis then
they say the only way to solve this is
on the backs of people who depend
Social Security and Medicare to not live
in complete destitution in their old age
which is about 2/3 of Americans that's
the way this game is played rinse repeat
rinse and repeat
