[Music]
we are now we are in mid-march almost
and we are only about three months away
from the first Democratic primary debate
maybe a little bit less actually so this
is where we're headed and it should be
interesting and here is an example of
what won't be terribly interesting
although I think maybe this is I mean it
is I you know I've said this for some
time but it really is amazing
and we're gonna have to wait and see you
know what happens and hopefully after
2020 we'll be able to test this
proposition when we have a Democrats
having governmental control of both
houses and the presidency we're not
living in an era I think we're having
the house and the presidency is
necessarily going to help and we saw
this in the last term I think of Obama
where at the very least the rhetoric
changed in the Senate and in the house
caucuses to a certain extent we saw the
expansion of Social Security being voted
on in a resin on binding resolution of
course but we saw all the caucus members
in the Senate vote to expand Social
Security a dramatic turn from where we
were just seven eight years later
earlier I should say and in the
Democratic Party the rhetoric at least
like I say we've yet to see but you know
today you may be I think it's today or
tomorrow we will see the house vote to
make DC the 51st state the rhetoric has
not only become more partisan less
deferential by Democrats not across the
board but just but broadly and
also to the left to the extent that the
sort of moderate conservative who jumps
in the race when he goes on Morning Joe
John Hickenlooper the the champion of
fracking is afraid to say he's
capitalists here is John Hickenlooper
with Joe Scarborough this is pretty
funny and it really is getting people
together getting them to lay down their
weapons and then getting stuff done and
the locals I think most Democrats don't
care as much about the labels what would
you call yourself would you call
yourself a proud capitalist oh I don't
know I you know again the labels I'm not
sure any of them fit but I do believe
that you know that ability to look at
you know climate change and figure out
how are we really going to create a
sense of urgency and get people together
well we have methane methods one of the
worst climate pollutants that there is
and you know we're the first state and
it's so far the only state to really
address it aggressively right let me ask
you just I'll break it down even more do
you consider yourself a capitalist well
again the labels you know I have a small
business person so that part of the
system that we call capitalist I get it
I understand it I worked very hard you
know when you open your own business you
know when we first signed the lease in
lower downtown Denver to build our brew
pub it was $1 per square foot per year I
mean that was you haven't ever signed
one of those leases that is a red is
almost free and it reflects how bad and
how abandoned that part of the the
community was we worked for 70 80 90
hours a week to build the business and
we worked with the other business owners
in lower down to help them build their
business is that capitalism I guess I
mean so in that sense of eight building
community that's one way to do it one
aspect of it it's not all that it is
right I served on 42 nonprofit boards
and committees in that same 12 year
period right well so and
do you conceive yourself a capitalist in
these capitalism like they're both so
confused here they're both like wait a
second what he's gotta ask this question
three times
okay he's literally getting like there's
no doubt in my mind that the producer is
going wait Joe asked him why won't he
answer that question that's that's
supposed to be the softball question
right well just go back a little bit
it's so funny cuz it really is it is it
it's almost as if Hickenlooper was just
got going like what's the question oh
I'm sorry I'm just looking at some
polling here what he clearly has seen
there has been some internal poll where
they basically just said hey nobody's
ever gonna ask you this but you don't
say you're a proud capitalist and then
just coincidentally he gets asking and
they're both just completely confused as
to why they're having this conversation
continued boards and committees in that
same 12 year period right well so so and
do you conceive yourself a capitalist
and diss capitalism work well I think I
I don't look at myself with a label and
I certainly think that small business is
part of the solution I think right now
the way capitalism is working in the
United States it's not doing what it
once did it's not it is really not
providing security and opportunity for
the middle class and for poor people Wow
I just the same disingenuous this a
couple years ago that guy was talking to
a progressive audience and people are
trying to get him to commit to probably
even really minimal things cuz his
record as governor of Colorado is quite
conservative and he was probably like
well you know if you want to call that
progressive create an opportunity right
exactly and now he's doing the same you
know scarborough's capitalism love again
if expanding Social Security and
providing single-payer health care and
sure
to every American is capitalism sure I'm
a capitalist net tracking to Nicaragua
to have solidarity with the Sandinistas
makes me a capitalist then I don't
flinch from that label jail if listen if
nationalizing the refining capacity the
united states as well as the banks is
capitalism I'm a capitalist Joe holding
the criminal CEOs of fossil fuel
companies accountable while
nationalizing their assets makes me Pro
free market then you know I certainly
wouldn't flinch from that label Joe I
think we need to come together
common-sense solutions public-private
partnerships re-education camps to
teaching people a new set of do a way of
doing things is capitalism dead she's
ending d'Anjou you do a little bit of
manual labor because he's part of the
bougie huazi class that is destroyed not
only this planet country but the entire
planet makes me a capitalist Joe that I
and sure I think we got to find sated on
labels that's just fascinating to me but
I mean you know that is just that is
polling that is polling just like
internal polling just you know the bones
are showing a little bit too much there
this does seem like a good chance to put
out some sort of PSA to define what a
capitalist actually is which is not
nearly as subjective as they're making
it out to be in this clip right like a
capitalist is a boss or a property owner
who you know makes money off of the
working class so he he did answer the
question like really it's several
different ways when he's like yo so yeah
well I am a small business owner like
yes so the answer is yes you are
capitalist
yeah I mean I think it was pretty
obvious I mean that he is it's just he
won't he won't trying to pop to a 3%
instead of 0.5% right he's got to get
into that debate I just loved the idea
of like within 10 seconds of being asked
if you're a capitalist you're talking
about controlling methane that was all I
just so hope that marianne williamson
and pantry
on that stage and not john hickenlooper
folks
