I will see what get your reaction to
this this is one where he is again
trying to establish all the potential
threats to the nation that not having a
wall constitute right and he's got Mike
Pence looking really yeah Mike Mike
Pence looking really just so admiring of
his president and here's Donald Trump
who apparently does not think that we
are being invaded by a pack of wild
canines here is right here is Donald
Trump but before going any further I
want to address a matter of vital
national importance
you've all been seeing it reading it
hearing it border security every nation
has not only the right but the absolute
duty to protect its borders and its
citizens a nation without borders is a
nation not at all without borders we
have the reign of chaos crime cartels
and believe it or not coyotes go back
about the incident all right listen to
listen to what he says after that though
we have the reign of chaos crime cartels
and Believe It or Not coyotes I will not
surrender this nation to the whims of
criminal organization know how what the
term coyote literally thinks it's a
national type it's a type of you know
Green Acres is the yesterday oh yeah
Alley right singing the Green Acres
theme song I just but Judy you know we
don't have a slatted fence that coyotes
are gonna keep running through across
the across the border and we're gonna
have all these extra coyotes that'll
probably attack our livestock the bread
very gently over there yeah oh yeah
there's no there's more hold on without
borders we have the reign of chaos crime
cartels and believe it or not coyotes I
will not surrender this nation to the
whims of criminal organisations who prey
on the vulnerable who hurt women and
children and who spread human misery and
suffering human trafficking and massive
drug in flow must also be stopped it's
at a tremendous level what we're doing
and the incredible job being done by
border security ice Border Patrol local
police and the military the military has
been incredible and we stopped it to
process you wouldn't believe her but
we're stopping them in record numbers at
this moment there's a debate over
funding border security in the wall also
called so that I give them a little bit
of an out steel slats we don't use the
word wall necessarily but it has to be
something special to do the job steel
slats
I've made my position very clear any
measure that funds the government must
include border security no first off he
looks like it's not you can't make it up
like it's my favorite part is that he's
he's at once saying he's at once saying
we're stopping them in record numbers
we're doing it we're doing it like we
were doing it
it's never done before we're really
doing a great job right so why do you
need a wall like you just said like
we're stopping them in record numbers
why do you need a wall then and then
well I'm gonna let him off the hook
steel slats they know you have to even
say the word wall could you say all of
our military in Syria and Afghanistan
and they can sit there and and kill the
Coyotes like they can stand on the
border and tell the Coyotes innovative
thinking from the lesbian comes that our
common answer we need the
Coyotes that are come he is he is is he
gonna be out is he gonna be out if he
doesn't get out from this then
there's something wrong in this
country there's something wrong
in this country I mean combined this is
like this is it
and the fact that journalists have to
sit there and go will he mention the
Coyotes in the steel plants and you know
and they have to act like very the
president like he knows what
he's talking about
yeah it's like he's not even a real
person I agree with you JD it's pretty
 up it hit me all over again the
other day when I had to go to the
passport office to get a new passport
which was very efficient by the way you
know that's a an argument for government
really but there was a picture there's a
picture of the president in the lobby
and I just looked up and there he was
fly back in if you ever want to be a for
real like drop all of the radicalism and
just be a nice liberal when you would
fly back in the country and Obama was
there and you'd get back on the land and
you just like all right and now you get
to the country and this bloated are head
 people vandalize that thing yet or
or what it's right by it the security a
little bit look at that and like you
have to look at that most of the people
who work there are people of color
and I did not vote for him and they have
to see that face every single
day when they go into work I haven't
seen that I haven't I have not
experienced that I mean now that you
like Asian aliy you see that offices but
I don't think I could I don't think I
could handle it it hit me all over again
it was liking and living in an episode
of black mirror
it's brutal man it's just right now when
you know the infrastructure in this
country is like basically falling like
London Bridge it's falling down
you know at least your kids are old
enough now that you don't have to sort
of like shield them like I can't talk
about the presidency with something we
talked about it but he's just it's all
he's just like you know he says like
Donald Trump is a bad man and I'm like
you're right and he said he is awful
he's a horrible abhorrent disgusting
excuse for a human now let me let me I
don't want to get I don't want to be too
I don't want to be too nitpicky here but
the reason why Donald Trump has been
able to maintain himself in this
position is because everything he's
doing aside from being you know sort of
personally grotesque and you know
personally stupid and ignorant is
perfectly aligned with the conservative
movement and right very helpful for the
Republican Party which is why the
Republican Party has been so helpful for
him I mean this is this is what
conservatism leads to you know when
Donald Trump was running for office
we're like it makes total sense for
Republicans to vote for him because
they've been building you know a suit
that he just basically fits not you know
no not vice versa
this this existed before Donald Trump is
just
Donald Trump is the perfect
manifestation of it right this is like
if you could take all those people and
all their characteristics and put them
into one thing that would be this
 an orange piece of you know
some watches TV all the time
a baby doesn't give a about anyone
else but himself just once
money money money money has never done a
 thing for anyone else like Obama
they're showing he said of Children's
Hospital this guy's never walked
into a Children's Hospital and you know
what if he's a hospital
you should go to the Children's
I'm looking up I can't I work children's
hospitals that do a lot of stairways
there too
I can't believe what's going on like I
cannot believe the shutdown what did he
what does he have producers in the fan
go at me and it's all the lot it's like
okay so if we do this and we'll get a
lot of views um well do the shutdown um
and then you know it's like it's
ridiculous people find that
seven-year-old girl dead and this face
is still alive well we can only hope
that 2019 will bring some good cheer
Judy I hate to rush you off but we
