[Music]
wait we got one more call I'm sorry
folks I'm sorry I know this is really
annoying for everybody but this person
is holding calling from a 2:08
area code who's this where you calling
from hey how are you Sam is chasing an
Idaho
Jason Oh welcome to the program I'm a
big fan of yours they play your show at
the supermarket I shop at so I hear
pretty much everyday they do what
supermarket is that one of the big ones
anyways I know you used to be friends
with Marc Maron is that right
that's that's right yes I heard a rumor
I don't know if this is true but I heard
a rumor that he named one of his cats
after you is that true by any chance
could it be true I'm not I'm not sure I
don't I don't know if that's the case it
could be well I mean I just think it
might be because you know you're the
biggest boomer I've ever felt in
my life
see you later we did get him on a Friday
yeah that is that was from the guy from
not a show right I'm not even the show
even a shows Chris James yeah there you
go that was a good way to add now
Brandon really really stuck a like like
just through the lure out there he said
go to this number
it's a libertarian and that's why I
faked it up otherwise I would have hung
up I didn't know that well here's like
more than what most people don't realize
that Marc Maron's cat's name is boomer
so there you go oh so you were avoiding
asking what the name of the cat was to
go right into his trap I think well I
mean I I was you know I wasn't sure I
wasn't sure where he was going yeah not
even help out I that was a weird little
flashback because I was watching not
even the show last night check it out on
YouTube folks incidentally I'm not a
boomer
I'm late late gen-x no you're like the
most gen-x person who's ever lived
oh well thank you I appreciate that get
it why would you gotta be alright
