so Jamal in the last segment we were
talking about some of the deficiencies
with the the incumbent Democratic
congressman eliot engel this is a guy
who's been in power are in the the
Congress for 32 years he's voted for
just about every bad bill that you can
imagine if you're a Democrat in the Iraq
war fire deregulating wall street he
voted for No Child Left Behind he voted
for the 94 crime bill I mean this guy's
been on the wrong side of issues in what
you have told us is a very deep blue
district I want to go through some of
the issues that you support and that you
are promoting on your website housing as
a human right we don't hear much about
housing but we have a massive housing
problem in this country particularly in
New York City correct so NYCHA houses
400,000 residents and it's the largest
public housing complex in the country
NYCHA has been neglected it's under the
jurisdiction of the federal government
by the way and it has been neglected by
the federal government for about 30
years and funding and the opportunity to
bid to build new public housing stopped
in 1999 so because of this neglect you
have rodent infestations you have mold
and mildew
you have paint that needs to be get done
you have maintenance issues that have
been neglected
so people are living in squalor and
people are suffering and they feel
neglected
as a result of neglect from the federal
government so housing is a human right
and we promote and we push and we
advocate for not just the revitalization
of public housing but the building of
new public housing in alignment with
green technology and equitable zoning
that allows more affordable housing to
be built in different parts of the
district we shouldn't have when I go to
the store when I go to the Rite Aid to
pick up something late in the evening
there are people right here in Yonkers
who are homeless who are who are begging
for money that is unacceptable in the
country their claims to be the richest
and most wealthy
country in the history of the world that
is unacceptable for that to happen and
on top of that we have a problem with a
lot of people aren't getting the health
care that they need you support Medicare
for all we here Medicare for all a lot
as a as a term what is Medicare for all
mean to you well it means that we won't
we will no longer have tens of thousands
of people dying every year because of
lack of health care again health care is
a human right if someone is sick they
should be able to go to the doctor to
get well I mean this is again this is
America we play in a bit of richest
country in the world and we have people
suffering due the lack of health care we
also need to deal with the inequality
and the racism that exists within the
health care system as well
so when you look at something like
maternal and infant mortality among
developed nations America is the worst
because it's because of the inequality
built into the system
and when you look at black women
specifically they are two to four times
more likely to die during childbirth or
be victims of infant mortality so it's
Medicare for all that make sure everyone
has health care but we also have to deal
with the inequality within the system
well what so when you say Medicare for
all cuz we hear a lot of people use
those words what specifically doesn't
mean I mean I'm looking at your site it
says eliminate co-pays eliminate
deductibles premiums for all American
that involves vision dental mental
health long-term care and you call for
an expansion of social security I mean
this is is there a bill out there that
you think that you can support promote
jeyapaul's oh absolutely 100% that was
the bill I'm gonna mention it means free
it means single-payer it means the
government takes care of it we have the
wealth we should take care of the people
in our country and it's not about you
know I often hear the argument that all
people want to keep their private
insurance people don't care about their
private insurance they care about their
doctors and their nurses and the people
that care for them we're not talking
about changing your doctor we're talking
about just making sure all the expenses
are covered Kohl paid sir
dental eye whatever whatever you need
that's what we're talking about and I
should say that you also support a
restaurant just as' green new deal you
you talk about strong immigrant rights
and LGBTQ rights on your website but
you're a principal of a public school I
want to talk to you about what's been
going on with education really over the
past almost two decades now in this
country where we have had a so-called
corporate reform movement that has been
largely for the betterment I would say
abandon the Gates Foundation came out
with a report by Rand almost a year ago
basically saying like our whole idea was
wrong
we made a mistake that billion dollars
that we poured into the system and
caused everybody else to invest in that
way well yeah forget are bad we should
probably listen to educators has the
tide changed are we still feeling the
impact of that completely misguided
strategy about education we are still
feeling the impact because children are
still over tested in our schools we
still have annual testing in grades
three through eight which research no
research supports that approach to
closing the achievement gap or helping
kids learn so we're still doing that the
only spaces and where in which the tide
is changing is where parents and
teachers are fighting together against
bad policy since No Child Left Behind
actually before that since a nation at
risk 1983 Ronald Reagan public schools
and teachers unions have been under
attack and it's all a scheme to
privatize public resources they are
siphoning money for public from public
schools putting it into charter schools
allowing hedge fund managers to include
charter schools as part of their
portfolio as a way to build their wealth
so it's a private it's a private scheme
to take public resources away from our
public schools the tide is changing
because teachers and parents are working
together and fighting against that my
vision for public education includes
Community Schools which is a very
expressive focus on early childhood
that's birth through age eight making
sure we get we're getting the resources
to the families in the communities that
have been most elected not just by
education policy a bad policy like
redlining and things of that nature on
the other end at the high school level
we need more trade schools we need kids
to work with their hands and build and
design the new green technologies for
the 21st and 22nd century and in the
middle we need more progressive pedagogy
like Montessori and regular Emilia so
kids can become collaborative and
self-directed learners this is how we
tap into their passion and their purpose
and allow them to express their gifts
throughout their learning experiences
and then we should say now I mean the
the only upside I think to the Trump
administration is that the the siphoning
off of these public funds has been is it
couldn't be more explicit if it were up
to Betsy DeVos who basically has no
problem with public schooling as long as
it doesn't involve schools just public
money sent to parochial schools and
private institutions I feel like I could
talk to you for about an hour about
education but we're running out of time
so let me just ask you this what is your
strategy like you know like it seems
that AO sees a defeat of Joe Crowley in
2016 has become a a template for
candidates like yourself give me a sense
of what your strategy is to win this
primary so we've been very lucky from
the very beginning we've had over 400
volunteers signed up to be a part of
that campaign and right out the gate we
got out there and started canvassing in
every part of the district from Rai to
Riverdale to hasting on the Hudson to
Table City to Eaton wall to Bay Chester
to Waco well all over the district
canvassing we're conducting voter
registration throughout the district
we're knocking on doors in public
housing and places where people have
been neglected so throughout this summer
just in a couple of months we we have
over 400 volunteers we're not going to
be knocked on over 3,000 doors we've
made over 4,000 call
we're just out there and we're grinding
and we're talking to all the people
within the district and if we can
increase voter turnout by forty to forty
five percent which we believe we can we
know we have a shot to win this thing
he's not going to outwork us he may out
raise us and he may hold on tightly to
his base but he's not going to outwork
us and these volunteers are riding the
progressive wave that's happening not
just in the district but across the
country well people can go to Bowman for
congress.com that's Bo w ma n fo r
congress.com to get more information if
they want to help you out it's been
great talking to you I wish you good
luck
