here is another candidate about whom I
think this guy is gonna go a lot less
fur far than Kamala Harris in my
estimation and in many respects I don't
know why this guy I don't know why you
would need a Joe Biden in the race with
the Kamala Harris in the race but here
is Joe Biden proving that even though
he's only 24 months out of the office in
the White House he might as well be
decades removed from where the
Democratic Party is today and frankly
Americans broadly speaking because I
don't know if he is you know to give is
a-- today senate lately or the house or
any state houses or any any political
arena but this guy's a little bit toned
up now he is defending not just going to
a speech and supporting a republican in
michigan i think it was upton right but
it was also revealed earlier in the week
that he was paid a couple hundred grand
to do it and you know he wasn't paid to
do to to endorse this guy he was paid
and then he endorsed it there that is
part of like he delivered let's put it
that way
I get in trouble I read in New York
Times a day that I then one of my
problems is if I were to run for
president
I like Republicans okay bless me Father
for I have sinned but
but you know some right where I come
from I don't how you get anything done I
don't think anything down and so we
start talking to one another again well
I mean one of the ways that the Obama
administration got stuff done was by
having a majority a veto-proof majority
in the Senate and controlling the house
and having the presidency in fact I
think that's the only way things got
done as far as I could tell during those
years I don't know if he remembers
Merrick garland or the empty Supreme
Court seat but that is Joe Biden
basically announcing like look I may or
may not jump into this race but I can
assure you I am NOT going to in any way
have a sense of what's going on
politically right now well I'd also like
to take him up on his challenge and talk
about some of the things that he did get
done in a bipartisan basis in his career
like expand prisons like war right one
of the most repressive criminal justice
bills in history which Bill Clinton the
kind achievements you have great
achievements like help Shepherd the
invasion of Iraq under george w bush and
everybody look up the credit card bill
that Joe Biden wrote not only is it like
I mean it really is just like one of the
most naked it is just a one to one like
I'm a senator from Delaware the credit
card companies want this this will harm
tens of millions of people it's there's
no clearer example of just pure
corporate bagman ship but then also look
contemporaneously at Elizabeth Warren
explaining why it's one of the most like
obscene pieces of legislation of matter
what got her into the year right into
politics I think largely right
[Music]
