[Music]
let's turn to the democratic debate
because in 2020 because this just just
been announced literally three minutes
ago and this is a big deal and I'm mad
I'm a little bit mad but here it is
democratic debate night one cory booker
elizabeth warren okay bateau O'Rourke
Amy Klobuchar John Delaney Tulsi Gabbard
Julian Castro Tim Ryan Bill DeBlasio jay
Inslee so it appears that Oh Sanders
will be on with Biden on Thursday night
Sanders Harris Biden Buddha judge
Bennett marianne williamson swallow well
Gillibrand and Andrew Yang and governor
Hickenlooper I mean well I I know this
is hard to sort of absorb this quickly
but what is your your sense of this of
this breakout and do we know how these
were chosen well just I mean tell me
then where it was random like we watched
it they this was a random selection it
was a random section close to the
pressed but adopted keep that list up
for me we closed to the press but
campaign officials were there so we know
that it was legit what just curious like
I'm curious how was it not delaying what
was John the guy who got booed from
Medicare for all he's a loser
speculation
well yeah there's a guy in here at night
this is done randomly they took the 20
people who
qualified and then they randomly
selected the two nights
yeah I'm just curious how in the world
this guy qualified like who's supporting
him enough for him to get the percentage
you need to actually qualify versus like
you know I know senator gravel is an
interesting character but when you put
those two beside my side I'm really
curious who's supporting uh the end time
I can't you know that guy all I remember
is just how he looks and and that he got
booted from Medicare for all you just
said his name don't language out his
name again yeah John Delaney so that's
that's the very first thing that comes
to mind but then just how its divided I
know we have a really big batch right
but I think by dividing that batch up
like this you really are giving a
disadvantage you're really gonna be able
to prop up someone in that first batch
who should be shouldn't being propped up
if I don't have that list in front of me
but there can be a star that comes out
of that first batch that would not come
out of that first batch if if you put in
Bernie Sanders in that first batch right
and then you have Bernie Sanders versus
Joe Biden that's the race that everybody
wants to see that's gonna kind of be to
me it's gonna be a little sandbag
everybody's gonna focus on Joe Biden
might as well just be a two-man race
debate on that other side but I you know
put them all on one stage you wanted 23
people they we got 23 people put them
all on the same stage at the same time
and just let them fight it out yeah I I
don't know I think that would been 23 on
one stage you're not going to hear a
very it'd be chaos and people can hide
my first my first reaction is this is
pretty good for Joe Biden
and I'll tell you why I mean you know if
we focus on the top four contenders at
this point top five right we're talking
Biden Buddha judge Sanders Warren and
Harris not in that order obviously I
think the worst-case scenario for Biden
would have been on stage with Elizabeth
Warren because Elizabeth Warren has
shown that she is willing to go at Joe
Biden and she has shown that
she she can attack him on multiple
fronts she will attack him on women's
issues and on on on banking issues now
it's possible
senator Gillibrand will try and bust out
of the pack by going after Biden in that
way but and maybe Sanders was waiting to
debate but I interviewed him yesterday
on this program and gave him ample
opportunity to say the word Joe Biden
has got it wrong and it would have had
to be much and he studiously avoided
doing that and specifically on the on
the topic of you know can you can you
deal with Republicans etc etc so I don't
know that there's anybody you know I
think that Biden is gonna feel pretty
good about not being with Elizabeth Ryan
with that said yeah we'll see I mean I'm
looking at that list to see who is going
to go after him and there's a couple of
people who might but it's it's hard to
know but it should be interesting I'm
glad at least that that Biden is paired
with either Sanders or Warren you know
and I can imagine Buddha judge is going
to attempt to sort of like show Biden's
age in some way right because Buddha
judge it seems to me is not too
dissimilar in disposition and tone to
Biden right that's a good that's a good
I you know I even if Sanders as you were
saying it even if Sanders did go after
Biden there's so much baggage that
Sanders has so many people who you know
particularly establishment supporters
and Democrats they would not accept the
criticism they're there they're less
inclined to accept the criticism from
Santa
than they would Elizabeth Warren then
there would anyone else matter of fact
on that stage so when you gave me that
second batch and it's biting and Sanders
you know that to me seems like a golden
opportunity for for Biden to skate by
because even no matter how much no
matter how much Bernie Sanders throws at
at Joe Biden you know it's really it's
really the left versus as the
establishment and there's still a lot of
bad blood there so there's no mount
there's no amount of good points that I
think Sanders could give that would
really chip away at the establishment
support base of Joe Biden yeah that's
right I mean I think it's really I'm
looking at this list and there's it's
really down to Gillibrand and Harris to
see if they will go at Biden with any
type of intensity and you know they may
be a little bit concerned about things
like VP being a VP because they would be
I think senator Harris has got to feel
like she's on the shortlist for someone
like Joe Biden and same with Gillibrand
so I guess we will see what will happen
but those will be the the two debates I
mean give me your sense of what's going
on now in the election we have new
polling out from California that has
Sanders now in third basically a tie
with Warren but you know within the
margin of error but nevertheless
technically third Joe Biden in the lead
Harris fourth
Warren's second like I said I you know
Iowa is looking like you know Joe Biden
has lost some some strength there Bernie
has lost a little bit more strength
there according to the poll Warren and
Buddha judge are really almost
statistically tied with with not quite
with Sanders but pretty close what's
your sense of what's happening I still
have this huge question mark in my head
of why Buddha judges even in the
conversation I really just have credit
to his team
from making a no-name mayor into someone
who's a contender on par almost with
Elizabeth Warren like you said within
the margin of error but also you know a
lot of respect for Elizabeth Warren I
you know I think people thought that she
would not perform this well hell I
thought I really didn't know if she
would garner the support that she is
starting to garner now she's taking up a
little bit I think she's for lack of a
better word right now she might be the
sleeper she might be the one to really
break out I mean she has a plan for
everything and we're seeing right now
that really is resonating with people so
you know if she can survive the question
about her Native American heritage
because I'm sure that's gonna come up
again I think that's like the one thing
that's gonna sneak up on her maybe not
in the primaries let's say she got lucky
enough to win that'd definitely be
something that Donald Trump would throw
her at her every single day right which
means it probably will come up in the
primaries for that exact reason if she
could survive that if she keeps rolling
out these plans when math not there's
not a lot of meat on the bones of
everyone else's plans I think she can
really really do well I also don't know
why I mean I know the answer but I'm
just amazed at Joe Biden being in being
ranked so highly I mean I know he's got
the establishment behind him and I know
he's got a lot of support because he was
Barack Obama's best friend but at the
end of the day that he has like he's
really running on the fact that he has
no substance and he doesn't have time to
give us substance and he has so much
baggage with with just his demeanor he's
a very old school politician you know he
thought it was okay to touch people you
know that's not the time we're living in
and with the 94 crime bill I am not sure
why he is still there but I think Joe is
gonna be Joe I think we could sit back
and give Joe an opportunity to be Joe
just like the photo that came out with
him wagging his finger in the face of
that young lady right some mores he's
gonna do it to himself so I think we
just sit back and wait and the race is
going to ultimately be between I don't
know why but Budaj that seems like he's
gonna be a real contender Harris Warren
and Sanders that's if that's if Joe goes
ahead and
does what Joe does which is make some
ridiculous gaffes along the way well I
will reiterate what I said about a month
ago I anticipate Joe Biden being third
in the polls by September III may
September October ish I may have to
amend that to fourth
I think he's gonna drop at one point and
when he drops it's gonna happen
precipitously because yeah his support
is built on his supposedly being able to
beat Donald Trump and that's it and I
just I think there are more and more
things about Joe that it's that it's
gonna make it look like he's that's not
the case and yeah I think these debates
are gonna be pretty important in terms
of of I think these debates are gonna be
pretty important one last one last thing
about that is the fact that I think the
way he's going to lose the establishment
is by all of this talk of cooperating
with Republicans right he's really
pushing that I feel like he's over
playing that and more people it's just a
sense I don't know the data on it at all
but when you think about the
quote-unquote resistance and all of the
energy that people have put into
fighting the back against not only
Donald Trump at the Republican Party I
think he might be over playing this idea
that Democrats want to get back to
normal I agree I agree with that
I think the polling has shown at the
very least that we are at one end of the
spectrum for where it's been and it
should be even greater as far as I'm
concerned with Democratic voters wanting
to compromise with the Republicans
because it's clear there is no partner
there it is clear that you cannot
compromise for them and it makes Biden
it seems to me
look like he's out of it - yeah I don't
know if I would call them establishment
Democrats I would call them sort of just
partisan Democrats who are not
ideologically necessarily particularly
left but are are partisan and and and I
think I think you know
certainly Warren has been you know
taking that posture how Sanders has been
taking that posture of fighting against
these forces Sanders a little bit less
has been talking about Republicans it
seems to me but but maybe maybe he has
but it'll be interesting it'll be
interesting I think these debates are
gonna have a lot more impact on the race
then we've seen debates have in the past
at least for the Democrats been maybe
we'll have a chance to talk shortly
after those debates hey sounds like a
plan looking forward to it all right man
thanks so much folks check out the
Benjamin Dixon show on YouTube go go
subscribe to it right now
yes all right create that loves take it
easy take care go subscribe to it right
now so there it is
the list of who's going to be on that
debate ooh I gotta say I think that
there's more support for Bernie out
there than the polls are showing because
aren't the polls usually they talk to
likely voters and that's a tough thing
to predict when you have a candidate who
could potentially be bringing in a whole
new constituency particularly of young
people who don't always vote yup
possible has there been a big change
though in the it's possible that there
are people who are gonna support Bernie
that have not been counted nevertheless
we're also comparing pull to pull so
there's no reason to believe that the
polls that showed Bernie with 510 more
points in Iowa a a couple months ago had
counted those people and this new one
doesn't right like the point is is that
within those polls well there's gonna
drop the likely voters right no I
understand
and my
is that unless the models have changed
well in the same polling outfit isn't it
possible that his support among the
traditional likely voters has dropped
but his support among the unlikely
voters has gone up or was considered to
be unlikely voters the I mean I suppose
but it's still not a good thing for him
to drop under any sector yeah I I just I
don't want this to become a
self-fulfilling prophecy
you know well I don't I mean I don't I
mean with you know with as much as I
think that we have some power here I
don't think we have the ability to sway
what's going to happen in Iowa and so
it's you know I'm not too worried about
that I think it's quite possible that
the organizing that that Sanders is done
with in terms of Walmart in terms of
McDonald's in terms of teachers across
different states across the country it
could very well be that the from an
organizational standpoint they're gonna
get more people in the Iowa caucus
Warren put basically went all-in in Iowa
she bet everything on Iowa which was you
know we'll be able to tell later as to
whether it was a good bet or not but it
appears to have been a good bet
she could not afford to not come in
first or second or at close third in
Iowa I think she knows that but coming
in you know even coming in second in
Iowa taking some out of Biden if Biden
comes in first although I don't think he
is frankly he's gonna hurt Biden big
time seems to me Biden has to win Iowa
and New Hampshire or he's gonna have
real problems
but and then who knows I mean Sanders
Warren I would enjoy having those to be
the last two candidates standing
absolutely it would be great but we
shall see
