[Music]
bado is trying to replicate and copy
hope and change and it's fascinating
that like it's one thing to learn from
history 30 or 40 years ago but what
about history from like five years ago
or ten years ago or eight years ago so
first again I'll keep saying this you
have a literally a pale imitation of
somebody who is a historical
breakthrough period case closed
by definition at an extrordinary
political talent who meant something by
definition including also to all of of
course the evil forces that congeal by
trump and we know that both as a tragic
miscalculation of the variety where even
someone like Harry Reid will say to
David Axelrod essentially I'm
paraphrasing you couldn't say it this
bluntly but like Barack Obama really
underestimated how racist these people
are and then on the other hand the fact
that look in terms of reality we can
dissect this and that but the bottom
line is is that there was a Wall Street
global financial meltdown and the upshot
of that even with some decent bailout
policies and a you know stimulus
policies and with some slight
regulations the over 99% you know a vast
majority of the money from the recovery
has gone to not even the top 1% but like
the top fraction of the 1% while people
work more and work more and we've moved
into this Silicon Valley gig economy
which the Obama administration was also
a Bominable on they aided and abetted
the dominance of these companies
and so now here we are beta o rourke
nothing historical no breakthrough in
his being president with a more
conservative than average voting record
saying that there's some type of
transcendent civic spiritual space that
we all need to reconnect to and an on
Jared artis is on MSNBC explaining why
that's just not gonna cut it
in terms of the real world or reality
beto
only wants to be positive he doesn't
like being negative he doesn't like
naming villains he doesn't like being
against anything it's all about what
you're for and so I think the question
hovering over Beto is can he actually
deliver against those issues if he wants
to be just relentlessly positive when
you have a problem of foxes eating ends
kumbaya as a recipe for slaughter and so
I think he needs to figure out how he
can have that uplifting message that
he's committed to while actually having
a theory of the case of what's going on
in American life and who he needs to
actually dislodge if he's going to help
people on the questions he cares about
for what is that fight des moines recent
Des Moines Register poll had Biden in
Bernie way ahead twenty seven twenty
five percent had beto down at five
percent
and frankly look I mean there's two
pieces of key proof here one he's not a
billionaire but part of that dislodging
might be himself and his wife's real
estate empire that they inherited that's
a problem and specifically a problem
with gentrification in El Paso and also
just even frankly the I'll just be blunt
he might flip a Senate seat and get rid
of I mean he almost got rid of one of
the worst and most dangerous people in
the Senate and maybe he get rid of
another of the most worse and dangerous
people in the Senate and we would
support the hell out of him we would we
would do a propaganda for Beto on a
regular base 100 percent knock out
Cornyn my god and not and by the way not
to just knock out Cornyn - again I'm
keeping totally honest about this like
for a red state Democrat he's great and
the fact you know look part of it is a
self-fulfilling prophecy Beto's
incredibly charismatic he's got it
popular he's got some support he's got
some emails so of course he's gonna want
you know any politician worth their salt
wants to run for president
so when Jeff Merkley does a video saying
like hey I really thought about this and
I'm better off in the Senate on one hand
I want to praise him because I think
it's a lack of narcissism and
selfishness that really recognizes like
Jeff Merkley can be a great progressive
senator and of course there's also the
reality that like there ain't any
groundswell for Jeff Merkley to run for
president okay so look let's be real but
could you imagine of beta or orc let go
of the narcissism of the presidential
siren call and instead said you know
what I could really contribute by taking
out this and a race I might actually win
because I got to tell you I know that I
know the money's there I know the people
are in his ear but like I don't know
about this I don't know about this
well nothing to love him when he's
running against Ted Cruz if he's running
in a lane that includes you know if
you're really committed to a younger but
different progressive voice there you go
Buddha jag in that same kind of Lane or
if you want hey I want a charismatic
white guy I'm frankly Joe Biden has a
huge institutional advantage or if
you're also in the center lane but
you're like hey what the cory
booker calmly harris historical you know
breakthroughs i don't know
that's a tough sandwich they're just
from a strategic standpoint so we'll see
