[Music]
dave rubin has been doing a lot of stuff
since we've been gone and we got to talk
about a little bit do we have the clip
of did you pull the clip of him yeah the
one where he was on the interview in
Britain and clip of Anna I have that
available if we want okay yeah let's get
that to hilarious but there is a his he
hears the truth in real time there's a
there's a YouTube guy is this Tim bond
toast is this guy's desi so yep timba on
toast
CIMB aah and then dot on dot toast I
would recommend people go and watch
every one of these chapters essentially
a game Ruben's battle of ideas but this
is a segment from Dave Reubens battle of
ideas part three and this involves Dave
Rubin now look we played this clip I
think last week before we left about Sam
Sam Harris Sam Harris was talking about
Tommy what's that guy's name Robinson
Tommy Robinson who was well i if I'm not
mistaken was like arrested in Britain
for hate speech he's uh you know how
would you describe him I in my opinion I
would assess him in my view as a as a
far-right my I would say fascist would
be my anti Muslim particularly primarily
an anti Muslim activist and affiliated
with you Kip and others and the English
Defence League which definitely has and
also members of British national party
so I mean extreme far-right and at the
very least we know the British perceive
him to have been what guilty of
something I believe in citement Simon or
something I think there's something to
that effect and so Dave Sam Harris
you know it's talking about like this
guy seems perfectly reasonable to me I
only watched an hour-long video I'm not
from Britain I only watched an hour-long
video of him on on Dave Rubin but he
seemed perfectly rational for an hour as
if like this is a huge accomplishment
as if
there isn't a an extraordinary amount of
data and a nanoq data that shows that
what extremists do is attempt to get
into the mainstream and they know they
have to play to a more mainstream
audience and that's the way that they
basically you know create their sales
funnel and Dave Rubin is the sales
funnel list of the funnels when it comes
to basically sending people down and all
right rabbit hole
I mean look there is a dark web and the
things that happen on the dark web are
credit card numbers and Social Security
numbers get sold and racists hang out
child pornography right okay so the
intellectual dark web it's that they
think they're being ironic but the fact
is is what they are is we are the we're
the ones who basically genetically
mutate the dark web and bring it out
into the open so that people can see it
and follow it back down to its rabbit
hole and this is a perfect example of it
Dave Rubin either does no work about who
he has on his guests just looks at maybe
whether they're popular within you know
all triton and right-wing circles or he
ignores what he finds so that he doesn't
have to deal with stuff that's
unpalatable because he wants to sell
this to a broader audience here is a
perfect example of it as narrated by Tim
bond toast well as parodying itself Wow
well isn't it's powerful stuff and I
love doing this because I think a lot of
this it flips conventional thinking on
its head and whilst was speaking about
so tamiya there's another topic which
might have been of interest today's
viewers which Dave never brought up and
that is Tommy's controversial stance on
Jewish people posit no okay so he's
talking about an interview that he did
of this guy Tommy asada Meyer who is I
don't know is a YouTube guy or what
and so this is going into Reubens
you know attacks on people for being
anti-semitic good for him there's a lot
of tweets that he's put out there I'm
sure it's been if you updated it with
like the Ilan Omar things she was very
offended but here we go and that is
Tommy's controversial stance on Jewish
people recently Davis being fiercely
cracking down on anti-semitism on
Twitter dealing out some harsh criticism
for those who he perceives to be
displaying anti-semitic attitudes well
you might say if Dave thinks those
people are bad I can only imagine the
hard-hitting questions he'll have for
someone who has appeared in podcasts
with former Grand Wizard of the KKK
David Duke and denied the Holocaust we
don't have to go back that far doctor do
we can go right now to black lives
matter who started it cheers you as a
white man should want to push whites in
America to become to concentrate more on
education because Jews push that to
their people and then they push alcohol
to your people in mind they push drugs
to your people in mind choose or finance
and black folks genocide what's that
they're financing your genocide now I
know what people are gonna say they
gonna say what way to meet you can't say
that cuz Jews and the Holocaust and they
didn't choose to be and whole yeah they
did their what the Jews did the same
thing they literally could have walked
out of that situation and said we all
want to do it no that ain't what they
said for some reason oh they've never
closet I got a I have an idea how
about we just walk out of here let's see
there's it exit side in the other
direction maybe we can just leave now
but then we won't be able to apply white
and black people alcohol later oh the
dilemmas we're all gonna gather around
one of us is going to survive and it's
gonna be your job to sell the
and the Whitey's the booze and the pills
so sell the booze and your cousin he's
bookish Eli you write a whitey book
about all this their plans in place okay
so this is TJ sada Meyer like a series
of different videos very evocative ideas
provocative ideas
you know big idea I gotta tell you I
made as someone who not anymore but was
willing before the like mass incitement
against her to say that years before she
was a congresswoman she could have
phrased it sweet delicate more that
differently I think this is a quite a
stark contrast to Olano Mars ever ready
commitment to say I'm willing to learn
and I could do T Semitism right reason
although Dave never misses the
opportunity to go to bare knuckles on
Twitter for anti-semitism on the left
when he's in the presence of someone on
the right who explicitly pushes
anti-semitism and Holocaust denial on a
regular basis he avoids the topic
completely during the hour-long
interview Dave never asks Sotomayor
a single question about this Wow there's
one more thing which I want to show you
guys that is that now just contemplate
this let's I mean I don't know maybe
those are the only maybe those two
different interviews he did with David
Duke and that one time on his video he
you know said the Holocaust was
basically an opt-in situation for Jews
maybe you know Dave didn't know about
them and did maybe there was just no way
to find that like I don't even know who
TJ Sotomayor is but of course I'm not
inviting him on the show and you know we
don't do extensive like online research
of our guests now we have four to five
times more guests a week I think than
Dave does one would think that that
would come up in some of your research
what do you think about the Jews but
apparently even though Dave is such a
huge fighter against anti-semitism not
that much of an issue doesn't want to
scare anybody I don't want to get into
that big idea well as Tim bond choice
points out later in the video Dave is
self-consciously having conversations
with quote/unquote controversial people
but never does any sort of look into
what is controversial about these right
right web you can't say this stuff
anywhere else well what mind you ask him
why why can't you say that stuff
who's preventing you from going out
there and saying on YouTube like you
know Holocaust the nihilism but it gets
even better I wonder if they've brought
up any other things that maybe this guy
has an issue with this there's one more
thing which I want to show you before we
move on foreshadowing this interview
with Tommy Soto Maya Dave delivers a
monologue about how open-minded
conservatives are compared to the left
and highlights their acceptance of LGBTQ
rights do you know people on the right
who are tolerant of people who are for
gay marriage and who are pro-choice I
actually do plenty of them including
several people who have had on this show
when there is a disagreement I see way
more people on the right conservatives
or libertarians more often willing to
agree to disagree
rather than to defriend or to smear
let's not forget even Donald Trump got a
standing ovation at the Republican
National Convention when he talked about
protecting LGBTQ rights this is ironic
pause is it son that was a great
standing ovation that he got transgender
people now barred from the military just
today we had more attacks on transgender
folks rights but as long as you got a as
long as he got a clap for it
but going talked about protecting LGBTQ
rights this is ironic because as it
turns out Dave's conservative guests of
that episode Tommy Sotomayor didn't
actually know that Dave was gay on a
live stream months after the interview
one of so timaeus fans broke the news to
him and here's how he reacted Stephen
said they hate dave rubin because he's a
gay man with the wrong people oh maybe
this guy so demeyers anti-gay feelings
never came up that was the first time
maybe that people were aware that he was
anti is very interested in talking about
ideas
i mean--you reaction really fascinates
me can we talk about that you better
wash your hand what does that mean what
are you implying about it you know it's
really I don't know if we're gonna play
the fuller clip though or basically the
guy was on to like trash the black
family like literally like 1960s style
like conservative tripe nonsense so that
is what Dave's interested in he's not
interested in the Holocaust stuff he's
not interested in the homophobia stuff
but the core brand proposition of
trashing black people I would also add
that's the only with the circling back
to Donald Trump's got an applause for
protecting LGBTQ rights in addition to
the transgender ban in the military
trump administration is planning to roll
back protections for Jan transgender
patients while empowering health care
workers to refuse care based on
religious objections according to three
officials with knowledge of the pending
regulations and then this isn't
necessarily included I guess he didn't
get applause for this but the Trump
administration was asked by to pass a UN
resolution to end sexual violence in war
apparently the United States said no
we're not going to do that they passed a
watered down version diluted by the
Trump administration because you don't
want to get overly overly uptight about
sexual violence during war if where is
it end it's a slippery slope it's a
slippery slope you start doing it more
than all of a sudden you're going to be
doing domestic and peace civilian life
