Oh
you
[Music]
CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Alisa
they are unanimous in that hate for me
hey we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex the majority
report with sam cedar it's Thursday May
2nd 2019 I'm Michael Brooks on a Michael
Thursday and this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program Ben
Burgess
he teaches logic and philosophy at
Rutgers University and he's author of
give them an argument logic for the left
we take leave of our feelings because
we're always in our feelings has left us
we're always in our bags to talk about
facts and logic in the cause of
socialism with a great Ben Burgess
excellent new book that you can preorder
from zero books the US military might be
is on the balls of its feet footing with
regards to Venezuela this is extremely
disturbing Juan Y doe is saying he needs
more military pressure to effectively
mount a coup in Venezuela Donald Trump
and other administration officials
continue to make threats against the
Venezuelan government William Bar is not
gonna go speak to the House Judiciary
community committee after Kamala Harris
washes him and the Senate Judiciary
Committee hearings moderate Democrats
fret about their vote for bill bar
because apparently is it's just too
naked for them you should be fretting
about a lot more yeah I would say if
you're Joe Manchin you should be
fretting about you're basically the
entirety of your public career as well
as your daughter's private career look
up that career emails show that the
Trump administration had no way of
linking separated kidnap
children from their real inking them
with their parents after they had been
kidnapped and that there are dozens that
have still not been reunited after the
terrorist policy of kidnappings a 16
year old boy migrant has died in US
government custody in Texas and a Newton
judge is the return to court on May 30th
on charges of helping immigrants elude a
nice officer so facing criminal
consequences for doing the right and
basic human thing the Trump
administration is bringing McKinsey on
to check out the student loan system and
we can already tell you what the one of
pry would assume many but the one
certainty of a continued policy if
people judges elected president
Christian Gillibrand has a plan to give
every voters $600 to donate to campaigns
in a Leon fest sorry beta I would focus
more on the getting them health care
versus getting them currency to give
campaign on but here's money yeah yeah
gift cards you can exclusively spend on
our campaign right how about a gift card
you could exclusively expend on I don't
know your house or your health care
dinner O'Rourke says he won't take
fossil fuel money but he already has
there is a second a second boring as all
anything Colorado Democrat who's running
for president I refuse to even say his
name Hickenlooper at least that an
entertainment value you can look it up
Jeffrey Sachs says that US sanctions
have devastated Venezuela Lula da Silva
says Brazil is run by lunatics and that
and much more on today's majority report
we're all here
sans Sam how's everybody doing well Matt
as well Jamie how are you I'm alright
today pretty good Brendan I'm feeling
more powerful as the white centrist
Hydra of 2020 democratic
it's gross I understand that like I get
Sam's perspective and I think it's it's
right that like if everybody's running
it's less humiliating to lose but I have
to start thinking that like when Seth
Moulton starts in it like I don't know
where this wall
Erick's well it doesn't it just at a
certain point become like him Ryan you
know this kind of embarrassing you know
like the twenty first person to hop on
should feel a little bit embarrassed
it's like guys sorry like Joe Biden like
sorry he's got that Lane guys it's so
overdone he's definitely a better
politician well I think the other thing
I'm keeping an eye on is the Democrats
that are running for president when they
should just run for Senate in their home
state there's a guy Steve Bullock in
Montana who's looking like he's gonna
run for president bet O'Rourke of course
Vader or crime should run for Senate
yeah like I'm tired of like and it's
like that class of Democrat that's
telling us we need to be very serious
about the Senate guys oh yeah yeah Glass
Houses oh why would I take a Senate seat
back from a Republican when I could run
for president and lose miserably
it's right I mean it's I had to be I
want to do one honorable exception of
these candidates and I do think jay
Inslee the governor of Washington whose
governing who is polling at I saw a poll
from New Hampshire where he was one I
think there was maybe one other person
maybe like Julian Castro or some other
you know something like that who
deserves no respect who literally no
person said they were voting for like
his zero was like zero like the zero
point zero but jay Inslee is the
governor of Washington and his campaign
is totally climate centric so I want to
give like honorable honorable mention to
jay Inslee so far of these like he's the
only one that I can see where it's like
oh there's an actual justifiable
distinct Lane but we can add like the
Bennet Hickenlooper Ryan I'd I recall
the same guy like there are literally
done dn't
yes
Hydra they're the same guys used to
learn the difference between these
people because there is not one yeah I
was gonna say what would you learn their
names maybe Seth Moulton I guess is like
a car alright mass accident but I've
never even heard him talk so I'm just
assuming that and sois wells you know
very like energetic he swallows like let
way less cool than those crabs and Stein
brothers and he reminds me rest but I
have a lot more respect for the clear
present signs would pull better than he
would no doubt all right speaking of
people whose contribution to public law
we just talked about negligible
contributions to public life let's go to
someone whose overall impact in public
life might be unintentionally positive
because by how absolutely stunningly
relentlessly horrible she is she's both
good for us in terms of the analytics
and numbers and is a literal walking
living breathing case study against all
forms of inherited dynastic power of
course I'm talking about Meghan McCain
and Bernie Sanders as he continues to do
look we know that he's the leader on
inequality on health care on justice
when no one else was talking about these
issues when actually people were
fighting for the other side of these
issues like Joe Biden but now we're
gonna have to acknowledge that he's a
leader on foreign policy the Yemen
resolution is actually historically
groundbreaking the trumpet ministration
continues to support a genocide acam
pain there his leadership spin massive
in that regard and I would actually say
asserting the right of universal
suffrage is a radical absolutely
necessary
politically extremely risky and you know
cynics and cornballs like Cory Booker
will take shots at him for it but it's a
brave brilliant stance that every single
person in this country even if they're
in prison should have a right to vote so
props as always to Bernie Sanders and
Megan McCain is not happy I think you
should be given the death penalty I mean
that's where I'm at with this on people
who act i or i american soy food in your
mind domestic terrorist yeah terrorism
is here yes of course
what
those guys just school's up also they
should try molesters what Bernie Sanders
said is going to be turned into a clip
there will be you it upset me how do you
vote Abey and I didn't have brothers
that serve multiple times and I don't
watch my brother deploy when he was 19
to fight this crap
to have them come here and give the
radio can we all do an eye-roll contest
this is mine that's just like an assault
of just like there's something about
there's there's very you know weirdly
she reminds me of Thomas Friedman in a
sense that it's both just like this
aggressive stupidity like it's like it's
not just that I'm really really really
stupid it's that I'm like we're like
that's what a Thomas Friedman column is
like it's just like oh my god I have a
bad taking a bad taking a bad taking
boom boom boom like Thomas Friedman goes
to the mall
Thomas fruit and did you see that it's
exactly except he did it's real one did
too but and did you notice how I always
forget her name the good person that's
next
yes sunny you know so Sony's trying to
point out that like this actual this
happens in Vermont like the policy
dimensions of it and she's just like my
mother
he said bulldozing over like the actual
point of the conversation so I guess you
got to give her some props to mention
her brother instead of her dad yeah it's
good to mix it up a little sometimes
yeah mix it up she should just keep
talking always I think she's socialism's
best advertisement I could not agree
more he definitely makes our jobs easier
yeah she makes our jobs easier and I
think at the end of the day if you want
to know why we need a Sanders presidency
and some fundamental structural change
just watch a couple of clips of Megan
McCain because no decent society would
allow that to exist I mean in a good
society with tax inherited wealth maybe
Megan McCain might have had to like you
know I don't know work some like actual
regular jobs and like learn to be like a
decent human being and the way she says
you know this is gonna get clipped
guess what Megan is some
who clips these sorts of things for
propaganda purposes be my guest
go ahead and clip it go ahead clip away
you know what else is gonna get clipped
yo that's what also is getting clipped
on a daily basis while you say these
relentlessly nonsense takes MAOIs bernie
protect your loved ones with the peace
of mind of life insurance you think you
can't afford it
chances are selectquote can help you get
it for less than a dollar a day
selectquote comparison shops up to ten
highly rated companies including
prudential banner life Mutual of Omaha
and others to find you a company with
the best rates for example select quote
could find a 35 year old man a $500 a
$500,000 policy for under $19 a month
that's less than a dollar a day a cup of
coffee a day cost more than that select
quotes breakthrough terminology allows
them to quickly match you with the best
insurance company to match your policy
Plus quotes are free select quote could
save you time and money get your free
quote at select quote comm slash
majority that's select quote comm slash
majority for your free quote don't put
off protecting your family another day
select quote comm slash majority get
full details on the example policy and
the example policy at select quote comm
slash commercials your premium could
vary depending on your health issue and
company and other factors not available
in all states how do we find Brendan for
this job how do we discover Brendan
crystal ball was it well Oh crystal you
know you work with crystal ball yeah I
thought that I he was left on Sam's
doorstep by it was like he was like a
little little Irish president he's just
like I could do a video clip in sir
like how loud wait so if I give him a
new potatoes a day and milk
you'll clip the videos that Michael and
Matt won't do because they don't work
hard enough John Stuart jumping into a
fly jumping into a cab rushing scene I
was abandoned by my previous patron I
don't watch how much 10 hours of cable a
day sir if you could just give me hope
keep it's actually a great character the
Dickensian majority the image are your
foot just like mr. cedar was a good
master an elliptic one who ever gave me
rules when uh that's a better use of the
Jordan Peterson voice no of course in
reality Brendan was discovered by zip
recruiter we all know that finding the
right people is incredibly hard and then
managing the volume of applications the
I mean I'm starting to experience this
myself and you know as well and it's
very hard to keep track of the specific
skill sets you need but also obviously
things like culture fit but there's a
place you can go where hiring is simple
fast and smart a place where growing
businesses connect to qualified
candidates and that places zip recruiter
zip recruiter dot-com / majority zip
recruiter sends your job to over 100 of
the web's leading job boards but they
don't stop there with their powerful
matching technology zip recruiter scans
thousands of resumes to find the right
people the right experience and invites
them to apply to your job as
applications come in zip recruiter
analyzes each one and spotlights the top
candidates so you never miss a great
match
zip recruiter is so effective that four
out of five employees who post on zip
recruiter get quality candidates through
the site within the first day and right
now our listeners can try zip recruiter
for free at this exclusive web address
zip recruiter comm slash majority that
zip recruiter
dot-com that's Z AI p r e CR u ITER comm
/ majority ma j o r ity zip recruiter
comm / majority zip recruiter the
smartest way to hire and we also got to
talk to you about door - long day at
work
tough day at school still stuck at the
office treat yourself to a meal you
deserve on demand from your favorite
restaurant with door - door - connects
you to all your favorite restaurants in
your city just use the door - app to
choose what you want to eat and your
Dasher will bring it right to you
wherever you are with over 30 of 310,000
amazing restaurants that's a huge amount
and over three thousand and three
hundred cities across the u.s. and
canada door - lets you order from your
local go twos as well well as favorite
chains like Chipotle's Wendy's
chick-fil-a and Cheesecake Factory let
dinner come to you with door - right now
our listeners can get five dollars off
their first order of 15 or more when you
download the door dat door - app and
enter promo code majority report that's
five dollars off of your first order
when you download the door - app from
the App Store
and enter promo code majority report
again that's promo code majority report
for five dollars off your first order
from door - we're gonna take a brief
break and we're going to come back with
Ben Burgess author of gives them an
argument logic for the left
you
welcome back to the majority report
joining us now is Ben Burgess he's
author of give them an argument logic
for the left available for pre-order
it's published by zero books he also
teaches philosophy and logic at Rutgers
University can be seen regularly on the
zero books channel a YouTube channel
doing logical deconstruction of
right-wing arguments you can also hear
him on many different podcasts including
in a weekly segment on t mb s called the
debunk which you can find on that
youtube channel as well Ben thanks so
much for doing this how are you I'm good
how are you doing well um make sure that
when I talk there isn't a little bit of
an echo I think it should be fine though
but just make sure um so then let's
start by setting the parameters of this
book I guess you know if you're like me
and I think us generally here I guess as
much as I hate to admit it we probably
do use logic and facts and our
argumentation but we also have been so
put off yeah it doesn't feel good to
admit but I guess it's true but there's
also the fact that these words and
probably a lot of words that are
actually you know signify pretty good
things like I don't know or phrases like
freedom of speech or god forbid even
like open exchange of ideas these are
actually very defensible concepts in not
just a liberal sense in a socialist
sense in a very broad I mean if you read
a Martius and he wrote a great book
called the argumentative Indian I mean
these are tools that you could find
literally in any culture on earth for
you know basically Youman communication
and and sort of figuring things out they
have been totally toxified by the sort
of modern internet right wing obviously
most famously figures around the IDW and
you know propaganda figures like ben
shapiro how did these words become
toxified
in popular discourse and what do you
mean when you use when not only when you
use this but when you actually teach it
and you teach it professionally yeah so
I think one of the big villains there
you know long before the IDW was iron
Rand who made a really big deal
about logic all the time although like
so for example in her book Atlas
Shrugged the sections of the book are
named after these basic logical
principles like the law of
non-contradiction and there's always
this vague implication that if you like
understood enough about logic are you
cared enough about logic you would agree
with ein Rand about you know capitalism
why socialism is bad and why altruism is
bad and all those things even though
there's there's really no connection
whatsoever which which is also something
that carries forwards the guys you're
talking about like IDW figures like ben
shapiro who you know who makes a big
deal about logic they New York Times
famously called him the destroyer of
weak arguments and which by the way does
that make through a copyedit sorry go
ahead
ire of weak arguments that would
definitely have gotten a red circle in
an undergraduate paper it would and one
of the things that somebody like me
would write at the margins is if you're
going to make this claim I'd really like
to see some examples right and there
aren't a lot right so for example in
that article just go on that tangent for
a second the only example that you
actually get in that article it's called
the cool kids philosopher about time
Sapiro
of him destroying a weak argument is
he's at a Q&A on a college campus and
this 20 to 22 year old girl is
challenging him in the Q&A about his
position on trans rights and he says hey
how old are you and she says oh I'm
22 and he says Oh could you just
identify as being 60 and she's flustered
for a second and then he kind of
bulldozers over her and talks over her
and makes his point and so if this is
like what you do right you know you know
you're the destroyer of weak arguments
at the standout example is that you like
momentarily flustered at twenty
two-year-old so she wasn't quite sure
what to say about your silly analogy
then that doesn't really seem like
you're you're backing up to the claim
which is one of the reasons I think it
is important to to detoxify this
language because right now a lot of
people on the right get a lot of mileage
just out of saying the words right you
know they use these almost like magic
incantations Faxon Roger logics
you know exactly if they get a logic
facts of evidence even though
oftentimes they're very confused about
like what these words even meaning that
very often the sort of people that you
run into anybody who's ever argued about
politics a lot in social media has run
into your kind of basement-dwelling
libertarian trolls who love to throw
around accusations of logical fallacies
and they love to do it in like this
really rapid-fire way right like that's
what's really impressive for them that
they can do the instant diagnosis of
what's wrong with your argument now when
I talk about reclaiming logic for the
left that means two things one of them
is showing what's wrong with these
right-wing arguments and oftentimes they
are actually very bad arguments because
they can coast by because so few people
push back on them in the way you know at
least in ways that I'm suggesting that
they should and you know that we make
more explicit arguments for our
positions but also we claim in the way
of doing logic because if you're just
kind of listening to what somebody says
and coming up with a snap judgment about
what's wrong with it then you aren't
really carefully thinking about it and
so if the point of these tools right the
kinds of things you know you mentioned
that I would teach the class like logic
reason and persuasion class at Rutgers
the if the point of these tools is to
just be like a way of scoring points you
know and you know making you know make
yourself look impressive to you know
your fellow trolls and and and making
people feel flustered or I'm sure what
to say I'm sure that's a good way of
doing it but if the purpose of these
tools is to reason better so you're more
likely to get things right then that's
exactly the wrong way to do it well
that's okay and then you also have this
critique which I think I mean a lot of
us fall into in various ways but I think
it's true that like both snark and moral
condemnation are totally valid modes of
communication but they can't be the only
modes and the left has kind of fallen
into a sort of over reliance on those
two tactics which I agree I've been
persuaded by you so then let's go back
to the bench Bureau because my impulse
when I read that is to make fun of his
voice and just call him a transphobic
twerp and move on explain why that
analogy is bad why is actually the
tactic that he used to flustered that
woman why is that actually not rigorous
argumentation yeah so when you talk
about gender and gender identity like
the small part that he's right about is
that one internally consistent ways to
use words like man woman gender etc is
to mean like to use the word woman to
mean anybody who's chromosomally female
and as an adult human and you know use
the word man to mean biologically male
adult human and that's one internally
consistent way of using using those
words but of course it's not the only
internally consistent way of using those
words that you know we can you know
because obviously there are people who
use them consistently and coherently in
this other way to talk about gender
identity and gender expression and you
know an analogy that I find really
useful that's that's not original to me
but comes from a trans woman who is a
philosophy professor Sophie clays
Chappell
at least that's what I've seen it is to
adopt a parents so one internally
consistent way of using the word parent
is to exclusively refer to something
biological yeah so you know the or words
like mother or father you know that's
the sense in which we use these words in
a sentence like the DNA test came you
know came back and you're not the father
but as I'm sure you've heard many times
before you know it's a great relief but
but yeah but like clearly another
consistent way of using these words is
to refer to somebody who has the legal
or social role of a parent and you can
insist on I'm just using it in your
preferred way like you know we could
imagine you know we could imagine some
bizarrely bigoted school principal who
refused to allow adoptive parents to
participate in parent-teacher
conferences because you know because
parent has a biological definition and
that's just what the word means rocks
don't care about your feelings but you
know clearly there's nothing about the
by you know the biological facts or
logical consistency that dictates that
choice that's a lot less obvious in the
case of age that there's an internally
consistent way of using words like 60 or
22 that's not tied to chronology in the
same way there might be some people make
that argument but I don't think we can
just assume that right that they have it
there are certainly some obvious dis
analogies like many trans people not all
of them but but many trans people will
talk about having you know like if
somebody as a trans woman they might
talk about having always known they were
a woman and I'm not sure that it's
coherent to say that you always knew you
were 60 years old right that seems like
part of what's built into being 60 is
that before that you're 50 90 or 58 and
just to tie this into what you said
before that it seems to me that look
you know me pretty well at this point
I'm not anti mockery right
I'm serially guilty of mocking people
and there are certainly things in the
world that deserve moral condemnation
but the reason not to just respond to
the bench Shapiro's of the world with
those tools is one then when he makes a
ridiculous spurious argument like this
thing about gender identity and age if
you only respond by you know saying he's
a bigot and you know making fun of his
ridiculous voice and all that then you
have left anybody who's not sure what to
think with the impression that we don't
actually have a response that this is
such a knockdown argument that you know
like if we never get around to saying
what's wrong with the argument then
people will understand it would get the
impression that we don't actually have a
good response to that argument and we're
going to lose winnable people and then
the other problem is that if mockery and
moral condemnation are our only tools
then when legitimate tactical strategic
or policy differences come up on the
left those are the tools that we're
going to turn on each other
and that gets that gets very ugly that
gets very alienating that I think a lot
of regular people very understandably
want absolutely nothing to do with
left-wing spaces that are like that
internally totally of course no they're
super toxic and repulsive and I think
yeah and people need to understand when
there is actually like a real legitimate
range of even really vigorous
disagreement you know inside context
where there actually are legitimate sort
of shared political goals and
orientations I and I just want to use
briefly like this isn't just in this
sort of like you know okay like yes
left-wing twitter is toxic whatever like
all twitter is but this is also like
there's many factors but one of the
reasons that you know Padilla most the
left-wing party in Spain recently
underperformed was because I mean there
was actually Spanish police units trying
to undermine them in a very disturbing
case of political sabotage
so that's a very important thing to
cover but there also was just and you
know Nando Vela talks about this just
this sort of typical almost sort of
stereotypical sort of like breakdown of
internal left cohesion inside the party
and like serious you know really really
ugly and in some cases clearly
unnecessary infighting that undermined
significantly their electoral prospects
for you know basically advocating some
form of genuine democratic and socialist
politics in Spain so it's it matters a
lot can you then get us into the other
big problem
there's dis analogies then there's also
the is a distinction this is something
obviously that comes up with a lot and
the problems and sloppiness of someone
like sam harris is thinking but this
clapping it also gets i think really
importantly though cuz this in a way
sort of weaves some of the broader
objections that come up like no of
course we can't just you know we do need
to have other commitments in our
reasoning um including like you know
ethical ones yeah absolutely and the
yeah the IDW who you're ready to book
about all of these guys are are guilty
of making massive logical leaps about
the subject right you know i mean
certainly the main you know the the core
villains you know peterson harris
shapiro all in the roadway do this right
so when ben shapiro says that facts
don't care about your feelings
his implication is that the right gets
its policy prescriptions from facts and
the left gets it from you know the way
we feel and this is this is a very
common this is very common idea the
right in general and this is and this is
particularly something that all these
guys in the IDW
have you know like just routinely have
problems with so
this is a distinction that's made by the
great enlightenment philosopher from
Scotland David Hume who talks about the
distinction between facts and values is
a nought and so this is something that
logicians sometimes refer to as Humes
law it's an actual law of logic that
says basically that in order for an
argument to be valid in order for the
conclusion to follow from the premises
if the conclusion is about right or
wrong good or bad what we should do then
there has to be a premise like that -
you can't go straight from some factual
claim to a claim about what we should do
there's always some kind of any kind of
inference like that there's always some
kind of implied value premise right and
and this is something that these guys
don't like to talk about like you know
they like to say you know if for example
right
you know ben shapiro is talking about
how you know tough you know criminal
sentencing laws supposedly reduced the
crime rate and you know the only reason
that people now see you know like even
Joe Biden now Nia seems to me to run
away from this is that you know support
for getting tough on this is now no
longer considered work right you just
had an article The Daily wire making
this claim well you can't go straight
from even if it's true that's actually
an incredibly dubious factual claim but
even if it's true the causal claim that
he's making
nothing follows about whether or not you
should actually have these tougher
criminal sentencing laws because there's
also this evaluative component right is
the only thing that we care about lower
crime rates do we also care about about
the rights of criminal defendants the
you know that's do we do we care about
civil liberties issues that might be
raised by this and sam harris as you
mentioned is particularly bad on this
because harris will actually claim that
his his moral his moral beliefs
can be directly derived from science
which is just total nonsense right
science you know facts in general can
tell us how to get to the goals we care
about right once we decide what to care
what we care about
then of course all kinds of factual
information can be relevant to how that
we can best most efficiently achieve
those goals recognition we want to care
again we want to close the racial wealth
gap should we just be looking at rhe
distributive social programs that are
Universalist disproportionately benefit
minorities or should we also be
advocating reparations if we have
real-world examples we could point to
where either these policies were tried
then of course that could be relevant to
that argument but first we have to
actually have the goal of closing the
racial wealth gap right so what the
facts can tell us is how to achieve the
goals we care about the facts can't tell
us which goals to care about in the
first place and even though the people
who who pretend that they can make this
huge deal about the rhetoric of logic
you know logic of facts facts and logic
logic facts of evidence this is actually
a logical principle that you actually
can't do that
and so how does that actually intersect
then with you know cuz we joked I mean
Matt and I have a bit about how we're
work what was it we're gonna create the
first purely emotionally driven
artificial intelligence that's the with
the left wing robot that cares nothing
for facts and logic sits just emotions
period but you know my understanding too
and I wonder if this does that give some
of the kind of potentially you know
neuroscience of people like Antonio
Damasio maybe potentially reflects you
missed in the sense that can you even
make these hard and fast distinctions
between logic and emotion right like
that sort like to me like you know even
outside of these of these political
subcultures there's I guess the you know
like the kind of like pop culture
Star Trek ideal of well you know there's
uh what is it a Spock Spock can think
perfectly logically and in an emotion
does not interfere but it seems like
that as far as we understand in terms of
how people actually work as human
systems the emotional and logic
components are not as divided or as
separable as you know somebody might
make it in a thought experiment yeah
well look I've always said Star Trek has
a lot to answer for
because it's given generations of
television viewers the idea that logic
and emotion are somehow in conflict
which they're not right so it's of
course it's possible to be so upset that
you can't think straight right right
that's obviously you know in a moment
right that's obviously possible and of
course there are lots of reasons you
know why there are situations in which
it's important to calm down so you can
think strategically about how to achieve
the goals that you care about but that
doesn't mean that you stop caring about
those goals in the first place that
doesn't mean that you're no longer
emotionally invested in the pursuit of
justice or you know or equality or you
know any of these things because if you
didn't care about those things in the
first place you know you wouldn't be you
know you wouldn't be engaged in this
reasoning and of course yeah I mean I
it's not that you know it's not that you
just turn off one part if you know one
part of your mind while you're doing the
you know while you're while you're
reasoning even if that were possible I
don't know that that would be desirable
you know that's that's really that's
really not that you know not the point
at all right you can you know you can
care very passionately and appropriately
about correcting injustice and also
thinks very clearly about how to get
there right now and and this also does
this though at some point whether we
like it
loopback - you know and I've brought
this up with you before I like the Carol
Gilligan example that she did it you
know her work on spheres of care right
and and just to you know simplify it
that basically the dissent and she has a
lot of other you know again there's a
lot more to her work she's she's
brilliant psychologist but the one
simple thing I'll extract for this
conversation is like self care community
care world care and those sort of like
realms of moral imagination sort of
correlate with different levels of
psychic you know at least capacity to
empathize capacity to you know again
just expand your sphere of concern and
it just seems to me like yes of course
you know there's argumentation there
serious there's there's political
difference there's you know all of these
but there is this like I don't know what
the difference between somebody who you
know sees like a a homeless encampment
in LA or walks by people and so freezing
degrees in New York and then you know
recognizes that there's a hundreds of
millions of dollar
pent houses you know billions of dollars
of real estate that isn't even used and
just registers that that's just
absolutely morally revolting versus
somebody who either you know doesn't
notice it or maybe you know in the
Randian sense has sort of built some
type of like you know bizarre horrifying
dystopian counter scenario where that's
actually really healthy and really just
you know to me there there are just
there those are expressing different
baselines upon which you start in an
analysis I don't know I mean is that
escapable I mean yeah not that people
can't be persuaded but isn't that the
part of it where it's like I don't want
to say they're right because it isn't
like a feeling but it's like you come to
things with you know a particular sets
of convictions really broadly defined
and part of that is going to be
you know how you relate to that example
of like the homeless people really
unused real estate yeah that's exactly
right
so absolutely it is true that you know
that what you you start with is that you
care about certain outcomes that you
know that or you know you're bothered by
certain realities so you know so you
want to correct them but of course the
important thing to emphasize here is
that that's just a screw for the right
is for the left right you know it's not
that it's not that like we care about
about certain you know certain outcomes
and our politics are driven by that but
there's somehow you know being driven by
you know by facts you now by you know in
that in that ridiculous Sam Harris
extreme you know they're extrapolating
their values from science somehow which
is logically impossible anyway so that's
that's not it right they also have goals
that they care about right you know that
they have fit like one of the things
that might drive you to that Iran kind
of view is well okay for example if you
are actually an R and then I think the
fact that you know that she came from I
think a fairly well-off family in Russia
who had their stuff taken away by the
Bolsheviks you know or certainly at
least you know I don't know that much
about her family background but you know
that she she saw this happening and she
thought that was morally outrageous
right you know like that this is
something that's very that's like
libertarians often tend to come to their
politics from a starting point of
clearly you know if it's outrageous it's
unjust you know it makes me angry that
anybody might try to take my stuff or
even that anybody might try to take
anybody's stuff like you know that like
me you know even if you're you know even
if you're like the libertarian who you
know has a working class job but you
know has dreams for ratio Alger dreams
or whatever right so in you know and
then
sort of say okay well they have this
moral intuition that that's bad and then
it goes you know and then they start
they start reasoning about it right and
that's not even a criticism right like I
think that they have bizarre alien moral
intuitions you know from my perspective
you know but then I I think that I think
that's take you know you know
expropriated property so we don't have a
society where some people live under
bridges and some you know nice buildings
are remain vacant you know because you
know Russian oligarchs are just using
them to park their money you know that
that expropriation to fix that would
obviously that would clearly be just but
it's inescapable that you start off with
with some moral intuitions you start off
with some goals you care about before
you can even start to reason about how
to achieve those goals now the people
who who feel absolutely nothing about
that scenario that you described it you
know the combination of pet has list
homelessness those are people I'm under
no illusions that we can win over right
we're not going to uh and you know I you
know I'm I'm a socialist I think that
generally speaking most people who are
certainly in the one-percent but you
know let's just go there are with some
exceptions right but most people who are
in that position are going to
rationalize the justice of its
themselves nothing we face could
convince them right you know there's no
there's no moral argument we can give to
Jeff Bezos
that will lead to him correcting the
conditions and Amazon warehouses you
have to fight for that but the process
of fighting for that involves winning
over a lot of people who aren't
currently leftist and and so some of
those people might even be currently
swayed you know even in complicated
centrist ways or just you know
complicated waves like you know they the
sort of guy in the street who doesn't
watch the majority report whose three
favorite politicians or Bernie Sanders
you know Joe Biden and Ron Paul right
you know there's just no
you know like but in complicated ways
people I do think you know they did you
see they do share some of our moral
intuitions but they're also somewhat
taken in by some of the some of the
stuff that the other side says right you
know they do think that there's
something that is screwed up about the
combination of pent houses to
homelessness you know they're not immune
from feeling that but they sort of you
know they did because they've heard it
so much they sort of think oh that
wouldn't be okay to take away people's
stuff in order to correct it and so
those are the people I think that you
can win you can't win all of them but
you know the more of them we can win
over the more successful we're going to
be and that involves yeah making
arguments but some of those arguments
are going to be appealing to their
underlying values you know like that
hey you agree that this is really bad
right well you know which of these is
more important to you that you know Jeff
Bezos gets to keep as his fortune or
that like everybody you know everybody
can go to the doctor you know anytime
they want to right all right and you
should trust your moral intuition of the
obvious answer to that question yeah
exactly and you know and I think that
sometimes when people on the right do
give sophistical arguments that that you
shouldn't I trust that if all we're
doing is saying they're bad they're bad
they have really you know whiny nasal
voices they're bad or bad then I don't
think we're using all of the weapons in
our arsenal to counter that right you
know if people if you can sometimes if
you can show people yeah the reasons
they're giving you for thinking that we
we have to accept this actually don't
make sense you've done their own terms
you can kind of break it apart that's
that doesn't mean that like everybody is
going to be magically convinced but you
know by what you just said like the
reaction you know in an Aaron Sorkin TV
show to a stirring speech but it does
you know but it will get some people
thinking and some of the people who are
winnable can be what over that way
and certainly if we don't if we don't
try to show what's wrong with their
specious arguments then we're
preemptively surrendering I've got a
front where we really don't need to
surrender I agree with you completely I
just in the last couple of minutes and
this I will say I mean obviously in some
ways this is the sort of center of my
book and a much broader I mean using the
IDW in some ways as a case study to both
advocate for a certain kind of synthesis
of cosmopolitanism and socialism
globalism and socialism that I care a
lot about but then also more broadly
that you know and and this is I don't
remember where this quote originated at
the moment but essentially in plenty of
people have made this point but the
distinction between the right as a
naturalizing project and the left is a
historic izing project and this is the
way in which by the way even people who
take that very kind of like you know
internet quiz view of politics where
they'll say like oh no no like somebody
likes you know sam harris is really you
know center-left because i don't know i
have some quotes somewhere where he
supported some progressive taxation or
something like this whereas my argument
is that no like all of these figures are
fundamentally on the right and to me a
big part of just fundamentally being on
the right even if your politics or you
know I don't know say you know wind up
being some version of like a Clintonian
Democrat or something is if your
fundamental starting point is that
whether its scientific or religious or
mythological that there are sort of like
just these innate truths of things that
can't be you know altered now obviously
some things do have anything the truth
of things that can't be altered and
we're not advocating like a blank blank
slate view of people of course but on
the other hand like no there's nothing
that says don't that's not the plan that
majority report year one no oh well I
mean yes that's more TPMS your walk but
I mean even that's not a black slate
view that's just a year one view but
that's an for station but you know but
that you know there's nothing organic or
an8 about an extreme income inequality
or anything like that or really you know
that that that and by
that's another dis analogy right like no
is everybody gonna have the same height
or ability to like play basketball well
or tennis well no does that get
transferred to therefore some people are
gonna have billions of dollars of assets
and other people start no that's
actually a really ludicrous horrifying
dis analogy but um that being said you
know and and I sort of Center it in the
exchange that you know when Sam Harris
was really going about for the bell
curve and advocating what I would
certainly deemed to be both within the
field but also more broadly
you know discredited and racist IQ stuff
he in his debate with Ezra Klein and
Ezra Klein of all people is saying look
I mean historically we have a lot of
examples of basically European guys
sitting down and saying you know we've
devised a quote-unquote objective system
that shows that were the best like who
woulda thunk it and Harris I'll
paraphrase gay you know he got you know
got very triggered and basically said
the history was believe the word was
irrelevant if I recall correctly and you
know to me I can't think of anything
including a lot of uh you know actually
really bad like neoliberal and woke
takes I don't like where I don't think
the history is anything other than
probably the most relevant so where does
that kind of you know not allowing them
to also not only misuse logic but use
logic as like no we're never gonna talk
about anything real we're only gonna do
sort of like extended mind games with
each other so we're never gonna actually
talk like will do sort of like our read
of popular science and economics maybe
and then a bunch of imaginative
exercises but we're gonna leave
ironically the entire empirical playing
field almost always you know Shapiro's
different Shapiro obviously kind of
gives more of those sort of 1950s kind
of view of history but in general that
you know that comment the history is
irrelevant
to historical inquiry or unimportant to
to logical exchange what's the answer to
that to bring history and context to
logic in facts yeah so I'd say that a
lot of that is just a category of
mistake that you know people a lot of
the people who most valorize logic on
the right give you the impression that
caring a lot about logic means that you
try to like derive everything from like
three first principles but of course
that there's there's absolutely nothing
about caring about good reasoning that
dictates that attitude and in fact I
would argue that carried about with good
reason it should be that you don't go
there right because oftentimes there is
going to be a clear logical relationship
between some you know political claims
some well you know like some attempt to
apply a moral principle politics and
historical facts sociological facts and
a historical argument is an argument
sociological argument is an argument if
you want to reason well the goal of
reasoning is to figure out the truth
then you should be looking at anything
that might be relevant to help it figure
it out and it's often very revealing
because just to take an obvious example
of a case where the history is very
relevant right we were talking earlier
about libertarians who think that it's
just wrong in principle to take away any
of you know like Jeff Bezos has a moral
right to every send to his bank account
and you know and and it's just stealing
if you take if you take it give it away
for you know redistributed programs for
example and that you know it then you
sort of interrogate them a little bit
you say well okay but why right and of
course they can't say because the ideal
way that a society should be right D
this thing that we should really hope to
end up at is some people have billions
of dollars and can talk to the senator
anytime they want to
and some people are working all day in
the warehouse
if they're even lucky enough to have a
job because even even they wouldn't say
that like that's the that's the ideal in
statement we would aim at so what they
end up saying is that well we should as
long as things came about in the right
way right as long as you weren't you
weren't violating anybody's rights you
you know this you know all came about
through a free market what the
libertarians lost for Robert knows that
cause capitalistic acts between
consenting adults then no matter how
unequal the outcome is it's okay but
then of course the obvious response is
but wait a second that's not what
happened
right like even you know even in Europe
capitalism emerged from feudalism and
you know with this massive process of
enclosure and people being forced off
their lands that's work in factories and
that's pretty cozy and consensual
compared to what happened in the new
world where capitalism was literally
built up by the labor of slaves on land
stolen from genocide victims and
strangely enough so a lot of the same
people who will use this kind of
libertarian argument whatever in-state
you end up with as cool as long as it
comes out of the right way suddenly go
all Sam Harris the history is irrelevant
would you start bringing up how it
actually came about right right right
or or you know again that's a that's a
it's you to bring up another example but
I remember it you know you and in
exchange which I don't I don't remember
some some some youtube-channel kind of
saying like well actually you know
Richard Wolffe as an example his ideas
of workplace democracy we actually have
a lot of examples of coop models being
very effective whether we're talking
about modular grown in Spain or
Cleveland in Ohio and the guy you were
debating sort of went from like saying
like well that's just the most
ridiculous idea in the world that you
could have a bottom-up workplace - okay
I don't I don't please enough with the
examples actual things happen - yes I
would like to get back don't appraise
with what let's talk it into the weeds
ya know this last place you'd want to
get sir
ironically for like the whole empiricism
gang so ironically I guess I leave these
conversations I usually do with you with
the sort of horrifying realization that
I'm a nerd I like to actually talk well
keep worried the cracks disguised as
well thank you very much
I shall pen burgess the book is give
them an argument logic for the left it's
available on pre-order from zero books
it's an excellent book and obviously go
check out his books on the his art his
videos on the zero books channel you can
hear him on T MBS he's actually gonna be
the guest on T MBS this coming Tuesday
you can also hear them you're gonna be
on Ralph Nader's podcast right yeah I
don't know when the podcast actually
airs tickets a pre record but I'm gonna
record that on May 29 just before the
book comes out awesome and you're you're
on a lot with the great David Feldman
everybody check out David Feldman's
podcast I love that podcast Ben is there
going to be an audiobook I hope so I
have I have talked with with Doug Orr
editor at zero boats about that and and
he wants to do it it's not planned yet
there's gonna be a paper book as an
e-book in the sturdy first and I hope at
some point thereafter there's gonna be
an audio book cool yeah that's the only
way Matt's gonna read it no I might buy
the Kindle version I have the actual
paperback book and it's very it's also
the cover art of David Hume in a in a
powdered wig shush invention Pierrot is
one of the funniest things I've seen in
quite some time
it's extreme out to shout out to Ryan
Lake who is a philosophy professor at
Georgia State and and he's also a does a
regular philosophy themes webcomic
called chaos pet who's the person who
drew that cover art well it's a great
work and I'd also just like to say in
the spirit of this more expansive kind
of wrapping up Ben and and others like
him are another prime reason why the
capitalist classes want to completely
drain all funding from any type of
humanities social science and public
occasion because kids our eyes to work
in a factory or if they have any talent
you know like producing weapons
oh yeah critical thinking not needed for
the economy of them you not good don't
like what I'm sure you I'm sure you saw
Bolton arrow wants to cut off all state
fund into philosophy and sociology
departments in Brazil yep I sure did
you got to protect Western civilization
how to protect Western civilization
people could think then Burgess
everybody order the book give them an
argument logic for the left Ben thanks
so much
alright I appreciate it
seriously guys it's a really great book
and I would check out on T MBS YouTube
channel all to debunk segments they're
very fun we use specific quotes from
everybody from Jordan Peterson to Nancy
Pelosi
and Ben will explain why they are not
being logical sounds good in a friendly
and inviting way though
right in a slightly less mocking way
than we typically do although that's
usually there too well usually been sort
of does a great job and then he's kind
of like hey can I a mock everybody now
he earned it yeah yeah you earn the
mockery yeah then it's like now it's
time for the adults it's all about
different I mean all approaches are good
I think just going direct to mockery
when you have an audience that basically
knows you know Ben Shapiro's array and
Sam Harris they're racists
it's a monster and then you know your
opinions
these are opinions yeah and you're not
literally amongst our opinions matter
who knows maybe these are factual
stately don't know Binion's can be facts
this is a fluid world I have no clue no
idea but it's nice to you know for the
people who might want to you know see it
taken at face value for at least a
moment be like can we actually daddy
construct can we deconstruct and and
have some fun become a member of the
majority report today majority dot F M
slash become a member that's how we pay
the bills that's how we give you this
great content just coffee co-op
fair tape fair trade tea coffee or a
chocolate a win for us a win for labor a
win for the environment
a win for the coop economy it's great
stuff it's an amazing company be
associated with spread the word that
southern majority report happens on
Tuesday on the Michael Brooks show we
had the great anti kasparian that was
awesome we had an incredible time and
the main show and the postgame for
patrons also dr. Mita al-hasan joined us
she was brilliant talking about Algeria
Sudan Malcolm X she also requested that
she be on 80 MBS Sam Harris tribunal
mm-hmm which bench Burgess also so she
knows she's very sort of in tune with
the poetry of the show she is very into
when she suggested a well the joke
started because Malcolm X suggested that
actually Islam could be really good for
white people and I said I don't really
know somebody else with that take two
but never mind that's my might know well
I actually all kidding aside I don't
really advocate religion but III
definitely I was I advocate Islam for
Sam Harris and that led to a lot of an
expansive exploration he reads the Quran
the same way fundamentalist right yeah
seems like a lost soul maybe I don't to
become a Muslim because if he reads like
that it could be very bad knots
not Sufi Muslims like we don't want him
on our team that's okay then there is an
illicit history of humanitarian law and
the ICC in Africa with Kristin Pierre
Anderson this weekend patreon.com slash
T MBS go to the majority report YouTube
channel and subscribe and new next live
show gonna be announced pretty soon
Jamie not only what's going on with the
anti Fattah and also what's going on oh
one at the end of this month in may you
need to register to vote if you're in
New York you must do that if you are not
registered to vote by the end of May you
cannot vote in the Democratic primary
you cannot register you know your
opinion and you need to register as a
Democrat if you want to vote in the
Democratic primary because it's a closed
primary and speaking from somebody who
had to register to vote in New York
after and North Dakota doesn't have or
didn't have voter registration when I
lived there the first time they might
get you a weird rejection
I got a weird rejection the first time
it so get it in early so you get the
confirmation get in early get the
confirmation be very aggressive with
them and make sure that they have all
your right information because you
obviously if you're in New Yorker or
anybody you don't want to be missing on
a voting in New York Silla is incredibly
ridiculous and antiquated and horrible
voting laws and it should be automatic
same-day registration but anyways that's
another conversation devoted and you can
have a good effect they are and by the
way if you I mean obviously we got this
huge presidential race coming up but
there's a whole bunch of I mean you know
satisfying it was to knock out a the IDC
right wing guy and progress replace him
with like a good progressive oh you like
help fight the Amazon miry what's his
elder my brother my really good good
dude so we're eight so it matters on all
sorts of levels or even when you come up
short
it was awesome to campaign for Jabari
Bridgeport as an example for City
Council all right sorry about that Jamie
tell us about the show but also there's
the DSA thing too right indeed okay this
week on the anti Fattah we are a little
late posting the episode because my
husband screwed up the sound recording
but it's coming out later today i we
have indeed we have a roundtable with
noted bread tube content creators
non-compete the serfs and means TV oh
nice yeah so I was away at the drone
festival over the weekend so this is all
Sean I'll read what he wrote we
discussed the sociological and
structural reasons why the alt-right has
gained near hegemony over YouTube and
other platforms and what anti-capitalist
content creators are doing to fight back
the serfs give a cautionary tale about
being deep platformed by a coordinated
right-wing attack and how tons of people
including the majority report family
helped pressure Google into giving them
back their Channel
lastly special guest Nick presents the
vision behind means media which aims to
build a collectively owned and operated
left media cooperative as an alternative
platform that will help
is the means from our corporate media
overlords very so they're the ones who
did that very viral ad for AOC yep and
they also did another I want to always
give honorable mention because even
though unfortunately it didn't work out
for him but they also their ad for Kanye
Lange ran in Hawaii was amazing yeah
they do really good work and I think we
love the surfs we love sir yeah and it's
very much like all different kinds of
leftists on this channel
it's very pan leftist operation so
everyone from like you know TSA people
AOC types to like anarchists and
communists and everybody awesome
yeah oh and also I'm glad you reminded
me
yes um we are having a fundraiser party
for the North Brooklyn DSA this weekend
I'm gonna put a link to the tickets in
the blog post that I'm gonna write after
the show you don't have to come to buy a
ticket so if you don't live here you can
still support the work we're doing but
it's gonna be super fun I hope some of
you guys can come and hang out and dance
and have a good time we have a live band
we have a communist drag queen named
comrade Barbie it's gonna be amazing
Sam and I might stop by that would be
very nice like as a team probably not as
a team no are you guys wingman now they
go everywhere they go yeah I you see
them walking through Brooklyn hello can
I engage you in an argument
do you see he'd be a real hit Matt yeah
literary hangover the most recent thing
published is just for patrons but if you
want to know why Orwell was very
skeptical of the Popular Front basically
his dividing line comes to he goes to
Spain for the Spanish Civil Wars
fighting with the anarchists and the
trotskyists specifically in Catalonia
and he's he's sort of uh he sort of buys
the idea that you might want to stop the
revolution a little bit to you know
fight the war but his problem comes when
it the revolutionary gains are being
reversed and I think actually that's
sort of a good
approach to take two popular fronts in
general that not a single thing is done
on behalf of capital in that time of
Popular Front otherwise its you call it
off because it's basically just a
handmaiden to fascism at that point
absolutely I love it all right I'm not
sure I just want to do a heads up I know
people get very intense about the AIIMS
but I'm it's not opening so we'll see if
we can deal with that but we will see
you in the fun half
[Music]
you
welcome back to the fun half apology
still have not gotten me I am open let's
take a quick call hello is that our new
technical difficulties you're calling
from a 5-1 7 area code who are you where
you calling from hey Matt for me Matt
from Michigan
yeah can you hear me now I can yeah go
ahead Matt what's on your mind yeah I
was calling because I know that uh hello
now I think you fell into Lake Superior
oh sorry Matt callback no matter yeah
are you there go ahead yes yes I my head
that was touching out yeah I know Matt
said that he wanted to hear about
podcasts that were from like just
general States and whatnot uh-huh go
ahead yeah local coverage what's yeah
well you got buddy yeah so uh you guys
kind of inspired me a long time ago it's
been a long project I'd call them a
couple different times trying to find my
way and we finally are launching a
podcast called flak racket radio it
looks at Michigan politics or like a
socialist lens and with a specific focus
I'm a really bad media that covers it
also will be launching later this week
and you can follow that black just the
same way that spelled need like
manufacturing consent Fla K radio that
little nervous noise it's good go ahead
just black racket radio on Twitter just
black racket radio and all the links
will in there thanks so much man
congratulations Michigan to listening to
it thank you and I appreciate the
Chomsky reference Chomsky reference is
good you're calling from a three four
seven area code who are you where you
calling from hello excuse me three four
seven or you hear me yup can hear you
you mean you hear me okay hey this is
David I'm calling from Queens
hey David what's going on well really
want to talk about is um New York time
just released this article today it's a
dossier related to a Venezuelan
politician I'll see if I could hold his
name real quick mm-hmm he's the one of
like lebanese is that I forgot what his
name was right here I know it's a
Carrick Li Sami
okay I'm not familiar with them go ahead
see if he's like one of maderos right
probably is like Ottoman girls right
right hand men okay and it links him to
like you know the drug trade allegedly
he's um
sneaking like Hezbollah militants into
the country so I the Hezbollah stories
been around for a long time
I would I would that one I would have
they take with a major grain of salt now
if what they mean by that and there's
it's very well documented that there's
definitely connections inside the
Venezuelan government to the cartel
trade there's no doubt about that
and there's frankly connections with a
lot of governments in the region with
the cartel trade right so if if they're
saying that there might be distribution
networks that are connected with
Hezbollah in terms of like just sort of
general underground economy stuff maybe
that sounds plausible but the idea that
Venezuela is like secretly bringing in
Hezbollah fighters I mean that sounds
quite nutty to me until proven otherwise
that's not pretty nutty to me yeah I
don't know what are the are they saying
that they're bringing them in like in
the same way they've gone into Syria or
these because I've been hearing this for
years I think so it also says that
apparently they're like Gordon pounds
and pounds of urea in order to
manufacture cocaine and stuff like that
well that might be true I don't I mean
again there's definitely connection
between Venezuelan military and
government officials and drugs there's
also been you know the on the opposite
ends of the ledger
you know Alvaro Uribe who's the former
Colombian president there was I mean
he denied them strenuously but there was
diplomatic cables connecting him with
people like Pablo Escobar I mean the
truth matter is like cocaine is a huge
currency source and it's been you know
harnessed by both sides of politics and
obviously harnessed by the CIA so yeah
yeah and he doesn't know not gain
Hezbollah fighters because most of the
army has not yet defected and probably
isn't going to so that seems like it
would be a lot more trouble than it's
worth well there's a lot of I mean I
don't know again there's been this like
real long-term conspiracy theory I think
implying somehow that like Hezbollah
operations closer to the Americas and
the thing is like again maybe if you're
talking about underground like illicit
currency drug or money flows or currency
is money or weapons flows like I'm sure
there could be networks that's totally
possible and that's you know again
that's its own global business that
connects everybody on some level like
people should mean really realize how
you know the the line between
underground and overground economy is a
lot more blurry than people look and I
would go back as an example to Thai
eby's reporting on money laundering for
Mexican cartels by HSBC which they
admitted to and nobody had any criminal
charges but I mean a big part of the
British Empire was the drug was opium
yes absolutely so so I mean but the idea
that like Oh Hezbollah is about to
spring up in the United States because
in Venezuela is nutty thank you for the
call man all right let's take one more
call for now and then we'll do some
sound you're calling from Skype are you
there hello yes this is you hello hello
which game were you calling oh my name
is Ian and I'm calling in London hey Ian
what's on your mind
um hey I guess I have liked to be puppet
about you can choose Leila a primer on
going on in the UK or yeah one of those
two things which I wanted to tickle your
fancy well we'll get back to them as
well on a second what did you want - are
you talking about the defense secretary
giving
sacked by Theresa May and and or what
what's what's happening Lee give us a
little UK update so UK update it's kinda
funny because it's now a month after
Briggs it was supposedly meant to happen
mmm-hmm and it's really weird because
the whole culture political culture at
the moment is sort of defined by Briggs
it but because nothing's actually
happening we're even more now in this
weird dead zone of just every politician
is defining their politics by Briggs it
but then there are so much more
happening behind the scenes that isn't
being talked about and I guess the one
thing that this has given space to
growth is extinction rebellion I'm sure
that you guys know that you know there
were protests about two weeks ago and I
think that they were probably the most
successful how can I put it like
displays of public gathering and
solidarity that I've seen in a very long
time and I think that there are definite
I think extinction rebellion is the one
thing I would point towards to say that
the Occupy movement wasn't a failure bit
because I think you'd agree as well that
I think that one of the most important
things that came up occupy was the idea
of the 99% and 1% as well as sort of
introducing this culture of
decentralized horizontal political
strategy and planning and communication
and all that stuff I mean personally I
was introduced to this during the cuts
the austerity cuts in 2011 relate to the
student movement the Student Finance
we're going to increase uni fees and all
of that but I think occupy was the first
time this was introduced the mainstream
and I think another thing that is a real
sign of progress is two things first of
all they use the same techniques as
occupy but this time there was a
definite definite goal even if it isn't
offset and policy it's like whoa like
the world's fights we need to like do
something versus oh the 1% our
skepticism rhetoric I think normies
let's say you know don't sort of they
that's very easy to brush off whereas
saying whoa we need to radically change
the world
otherwise we're all gonna die is a much
more director thing and also I think I'm
not I don't know what culturally has
happened the past year or two years
maybe be a few David agro documentaries
have come out maybe all these reports
have come out but if I'm going to
compare this extension rebellion
compared to two previous public process
but having the UK specifically extension
rebellion I think a year ago and also
blacklivesmatter UK to three years ago
did a similar protest in and he's
through highlighting the fact that the
global South was going to be impacted
the most by climate change in that
instance it was very easily brushed off
the media was like haha black lives
matter UK black people aren't killed
here like they are in America and
everyone's like well firstly just
because we killed black people much less
in the UK doesn't mean that that kind of
systemic discrimination doesn't happen
and number two it's sort of broadening
the horizons of who's really going to be
impacted by climate change but I guess
generally speaking I think the last
extension rebellion really yeah I mean
it was that's great I think also Jeremy
Corbyn you know announced that he would
treat climate as a national emergency if
and when it becomes prime minister
that's a huge dent too and I agree with
you I don't I mean I think there needs
to definitely I think there are problems
with you know the sort of some of the
directionless organizing and I think you
do need actually some leadership and
some design I think that that's clear
but I also never thought of occupies a
failure I think occupy is if we get out
of this predicament occupy will be a
moment that people point to is being
really pivotal thanks Ian thanks for the
comment appreciate it
shouts to extinction rebellion
Gregory okay the AIIMS are open Gregory
from Oh as Gregory from Oklahoma as an
Oklahoma and I always get pissed when
people point to Kansas as the
trickle-down economics failure when
Oklahoma is an even better example more
importantly at least Kansas has raised
those taxes back since 2010 wearily only
continued to cut taxes since 2010 I'm
glad you've talked about how bad
Oklahoma is doing back in a video in
2016
love you guys fames Darwin Michael you
might recall that I provided on my
Marshall McLuhan moment some years ago
when I disagreed with Kellie Kerry and
stated that as even a Holocaust frit
even in a Holocaust educator I find the
phrase oven-ready beta kook humorous I
bring this up only to let you know that
I'll be on the doomed podcast tonight
with Matt bender at around 9:30 talking
about Holocaust denial interested mr
beauty should tune in that's a great
idea watch doomed with Matt bender and
themes Darla smart guys very smart guys
leaving great things what what didn't
Kelly like it was a really funny phrase
it was called oven-ready Baedeker I
think said in the right-wing Mandela I
think so it's like a bunch of Ivanov it
a beta Cox Sam Sita oven-ready beta
on the majority of the pot were whining
and bitching because we don't like
leadership
I remember that really embarrassing clip
where James Madison an interview it was
like it was so doubly embarrassing
because basically James Madison's mattis
Fallujah actually does have a record of
like almost certain war crimes if you
investigate it in my estimation he was
in an interview and they asked him the
like does anything keep you up at night
question and he literally did like like
the Clint Eastwood look I don't my
enemies stabbed at night and that was
already like okay do like your defense
secretary or general like come on like
don't don't do like movie like that
but whatever right and then the like
conservative pajama boy media like Cole
electively busted a massive nut and the
old I'm sorry no it's gross but the only
thing I could say like they lost their
mind that's like something out of a
movie they thought I was that and they
put out this one of the most
embarrassing like it was literally mad
as saying that in between like a bear
growling it was one of the dumbest most
embarrassing most cringe inducing things
I've ever seen in my life and I remember
together with Walter White going I am
the danger to I might as well have
totally you're in the mindset but I
remember I think there was like a couple
weeks we're right waiting until I was
like did you see Madison beast
mode to pay charge he's like I don't
 stay up they they're the ones
who stare I think that was
before I think that was in the oven
ready beta cook era so let's get to
Venezuela again ESMA does as Maduro and
the Venezuelan government is there cases
of corruption yes should they have tried
to update their currency policy Gregory
wilpert who has was a director of Telus
or who's now at the real news network
has criticized them for that directly
are there some human rights abuses no
doubt on conversely in Brazil you know
Lula's in prison and you know with no
evidence and wag widow is roaming the
streets calling for a coup so I think
that that's something to bear in mind if
you want to measure what is and is not
the responsibility of the Venezuelan
government you need to lift US sanctions
and stop trying to instigate a coup and
also end now a couple of decades worth
of economic subterfuge aimed from the
world's great superpower and of course
the prime imperial interferer in Latin
America against Latin America and now
Jeffrey Sachs who at this point in his
career is a very different profile I
mean it always should be mentioned that
he was you know a horrible influence in
Russia in the 1990s definitely
contributed to a huge amount of
corruption and human suffering when the
World Bank and IMF and wall street were
pillaging
in the 90s but he does great work and
he's on democracy now and he's gonna lay
out the reality of what US sanctions US
sanctions have done and do to Venezuela
so the US government has been trying to
strangle the Venezuelan economy
it started with sanctions in 2017 that
prevented essentially the country from
accessing international capital markets
and the oil company from restructuring
its loans that put Venezuela into a
hyperinflation that was the utter
collapse oil earnings plummeted the
earnings that are used to buy food and
medicine collapsed that's when the
social humanitarian crisis went
spiraling out of control and then in
this year is with this idea very naive
very stupid in my view that there would
be the self proclaimed president which
was all choreographed with the United
States very very closely a another round
of even tighter sanctions essentially
confiscating the earnings and the assets
of the Venezuelan government took place
now Venezuela is in complete utter
catastrophe a lot of it brought on by
the United States deliberately creating
massive massive suffering we know
there's hunger we know there's
incredible shortage of medical supplies
we can only imagine because we won't
know really until the dust settles and
careful studies are done how much excess
mortality there is but surely in in a
context like this this is a catastrophe
largely created by the u.s. because as
was said earlier this is an
all-or-nothing strategy what the US what
Trump just doesn't understand and what
Bolton of all of course never agrees to
is the idea of negotiations this is an
attempt at an overthrow it's very crude
it's not working and it's very cruel
because it's punishing 30 million people
that
a hundred percent correct and objective
reality and another thing that's very
important to underline there is that
those of us who oppose a coup those of
us who oppose economic warfare against
Venezuela are quite supportive of
initiatives from the Vatican from
Uruguay from Mexico for diplomatic
negotiations to update the reality of
the Venezuelan government and also at
the same time yes this is not going to
happen inside Venezuela because of the
Venezuelan people there is a critical
clearly a and they have tried so many
times at this point to do this going
back to the Chavez's era which of course
was even more ludicrous Chavez was an
incredibly popular leader and he did a
lot to improve the material conditions
of people while not you know making
broader strategic transformations that
you would need to you know dealing from
commodities but that's a challenge that
all of the pink tide governments in
Latin America along with us interference
faced but the configuration of the fact
that on a real politic level the
military is entwined with the government
the fact that indigenous poor and people
of color absolutely have not done better
even now under severe mo and no doubt
are not gonna do well under a us-backed
oligarch government they're not idiots
sorry
US imperialists and also I think another
contingent of people that is an
appointed out on my show the other day
she said look and she has family in
Venezuela and she said they don't like
when you call Maduro a dictator they
think he is a bad leader who has
economic policies they don't like and
they would like to see it change but
he's not a dictator that's a crucial
distinction yeah people inside Venezuela
don't support him so there's enough
amount of people that have Lilla they
just don't want an outside coup that
shouldn't be so hard for people to
figure out yeah if you were really a
brutal dictator Guido would not be alive
right now let alone free to come and go
as he pleases little free to release
another guy from house arrest again
again look at I'm een in Brazil you have
a
tonic hugely impressive president in
jail with no evidence in solitary in
this country where a guy's going on
periscope every couple of days see all
right guys
swoggle I know I'm just driving my
livestream all the cues about start uh
waiting for a couple more people to drop
in he's still running around and and I
think you know look the terrifying
scenario here and the very possible
scenario is us actual military
intervention there's a report today and
Guido is getting more and more brazen do
we have that quite a clip is that where
he I mean basically Juan Y doe is de
Miss saying he needs more military
support so the Craven this and the
transparency of this is getting clearer
and clearer and this is a report from
Business Insider that was released I
believe yeah this is from today the US
military is on the balls of its feet
about Venezuela crisis here's what that
means according to a former NATO
commander again we'll see this there's a
lot of different chatter coming in and
out and maybe you know this could be
disinformation to threaten the
Venezuelan government and make them
scared right so we don't know but at the
same time we cannot preclude this and
now we also have to remind ourselves
mean the Reagan administration caught
caught you know a huge easy propaganda
victory by going and deposing a
socialist government in Grenada now this
would be a lot harder to do in Venezuela
and then great but the idea of a right
wing administration deposing a local
government for you know good TV and
Trump's words you know in Trump's
understanding is is very much the norm
the Defense Department has said little
about them quoting now from Business
Insider the Defense Department has said
little about its planning a potential
action towards the South American
country where political and economic
turmoil have a mystery to the public and
led to international condemnation for
president Nicolas Maduro blah blah in
recent days however US navy admiral
Craig fuller the head of the u.s.
Southern Command which
overseas US operations south of Mexico's
northern border has said his forces are
a quote unquote on the balls of their
feet
fuller hasn't said much about what that
means but James stavridis a retired
Admiral who led Southern Command was a
NATO's supreme Allied commander
elaborated on Monday about what's going
on at the commands Miami headquarters
their job is to look out through the
entire hemisphere to the south
stavros said during an appearance on the
UU it show and I'm skipping ahead now
balls of their feets means they're
getting out all their operational plans
they're looking out for all of their
military forces deployed throughout the
region particularly maritime forces in
the Caribbean but air sea and land
everything now this also and there's a
couple of other things that I want to
just note here a group of Caribbean
states who are taking an enormous risk
and are absolutely treated as colonial
property of the United States in all
administration's and initially and this
is actually a big reason why there's
been this is among many reasons but the
reason there has been these massive
uprisings in Haiti partially has been
because of this Haitian government
subservient role in support of the Trump
administration's Kumaon going against
Venezuela
so there are Caribbean governments that
have supported the hawkish coup policies
of Trump and parents at the you know
Organization of American States and they
all signed up for the you know they've
backed them in the past however and this
is a report from Telus or Caribbean
nations have called for and recommit to
a peaceful solution in Venezuela and
they go on Boulton in a press conference
during the day called Venezuela's top
military officers including the
commander of the army and National Guard
to back wydo
warning of unsold consequences if they
didn't but Venezuela's Caribbean
neighbors who of course will face the
consequences of a invasion and/or civil
war in Venezuela more than we will
although in fact this will be another
factor in the border crisis and
terrorism against migrants of the Trump
ministration but Venezuela's Caribbean
neighbors including those that supported
Washington's tough anti Venezuela stance
at the Organization of American States
OAS all signed up to the Chairman's
declaration of the regional groupings
continuing preference for a peaceful
solution to the Venezuela crisis
chairman of the 13 member Caribbean
community
Kirby CARICOM dr. Timothy Harris worked
the phones Tuesday to remain appraised
of the situation Venezuela where
self-imposed us-backed interim quote
unquote president guido has called for
national uprising for a national army to
help him unseat nicolas maduro
harris who's also the prime minister of
st. kitts and nevis spent much of the
day in consultation with other caribbean
leaders and kuru becomes Secretary
General Edwin Luke regarding
developments in Venezuela where
opposition figures serving jail term
under house arrest is joined white on
street protests and participate in what
Caracas says was an attempt to mislead
soldiers at a military base in the
capital city so the Caribbean region
generally opposes this of course the
balsan ro regime has been supportive but
the Brazilian military has been much
more concerned about the escalation
Colombia's on board in Colombia's
governed by a hard far-right government
in the bolsa narrow mold
now the question about this though is
Trump I think has been obviously
belligerent about this from the
beginning and I think he does think of
Panama and Grenada and once a war but I
also think you know obviously this is
orchestrated by the pompei OS and the
Bolton's and you know some people were
tweeting out I think max Blumenthal
maybe some other people were tweeting
out him being on with trish regan and
again this is disgusting in every level
but he sounds kind of burned out on the
table i know there was a big NSC meeting
today and you get all your top people
trying to go through various scenarios
trying to figure out what to do next
really what are our options right now
mr. president well some of them i don't
even like to mention to you because
they're pretty tough but you know we see
what's what's happening with respect to
the hunger hee
don't see things like this anymore and
they don't want food I'm sorry
hypocrisy doesn't matter but this is an
administration that every day is
literally backing a genocide elaire war
in Yemen so I think you see things like
this and much worse but anyways go ahead
anymore and they don't want food
Maduro won't accept food I think he
should frankly I think it would be
better for him if he did because you
have people that are starving and
they've become desperate and you you see
what's happening on the streets and the
streets are very dangerous that it's
very dangerous for I mean frankly
everybody everybody and and we haven't
seen a scene like this in many many
years and when you think how wealthy
this country was Trish this country was
one of the wealthy countries not just
there but this was one of the wealthy
countries of the world and now you look
at what's going on where they don't even
have food where they can't get water the
water is filthy dirty and people are
getting sick it's a terrible terrible
thing look it's a tragedy and it's a
tragedy that's so close to home you know
four hours from Miami what do you think
about Nicolas Maduro well he's certainly
running tough but I think he's losing a
lot of control he really did go out and
do things that are bad it's an extension
of his his previous and previous was bad
that was unacceptable I mean it was
horrible and unacceptable it's really a
failure of socialism and I don't know
maybe this is beyond socialism but this
is socialism and you see what happens
now they're talking about it
for our country I can't believe it's
real you know when you hear some of the
things being said but they're talking
about socialism for our country that's
not going to happen especially with how
well we're doing but Maduro is he's a
tough player and positive there it is
there's the TEL now again and I think
the most investment he has is in the is
in the propaganda purposes against you
know people like Bernie Sanders in the
United States but he's a tough player
that's a support so yeah that's so how
likely are we to actually do a ground
invasion of Venezuela because or like
some air like fly some journal they they
thought about it in 2002 when they were
attempting a coup on Chavez but and the
opposition there was like oh yeah we've
totally got everyone on our side just
it'll be great and then they realized
that wasn't true and the US backed off
is that gonna happen again well the
thing in 2002 was it was so overwhelming
like again I mean obviously this you
know this is not Chavez era right like
there's way more discontent than there
was during Chavez but I mean what
happened 2002 is that they they arrest
the Chavez for 48 hours there was a huge
uprising on the streets and he talked
his own guards into letting him out they
were like they basically were like no we
don't you're actually cool they flew him
back to the presidential palace and the
people that led the coup fled the
country and the Bush administration and
the New York Times editorial page who
endorsed it were highly embarrassed this
is an image of a window given a speech I
think yesterday if I'm Trump I'm like
why do you not 360p like don't you have
HD cameras and there's God is but not
look like a tough day so you can someone
paint maybe it's a wallpaper and there's
some code Li for a paper yes two dumb
statues like this is not impress this is
not a that's a that's part of the
problem is they haven't found a guide to
the Trump can relate to yet to get it
looks like okay yeah guy on a horse then
we'll talk yeah
hey guys is one guido just gonna wait
for some other people to come in the
stream we're trying we're gonna go to
the Air Force Base for try for another Q
you are like the statues it'd be pretty
rad if the CENTCOM or southern comm or
whatever calm could maybe come back us
up here that would be thank you for
likes appreciate it trying to Dooku
it's fascinating to see them do optics
like this though right like to when it's
just not working because where should he
should be in the street or something
right like listen to me he's some in
some like nondescript
room that has no significance to anybody
with just some statues in front of him
and it's so bizarre looking it's it's
pathetic friends sad it's very sad and
again it's what if you were interested
in dealing with the crisis in Venezuela
you'd lift all sanctions and then you
would support trusted regional players
to broker a diplomatic process and part
of that diplomatic process by the way
might mean that people like Maduro get
ousted and the you know genuine Chevys
mow who've been marginalized and slide
lied by them could actually come you
know to power and their armies like the
communes like other you know again so
like I don't know if it's not about
beautifying what's happening there yeah
I don't know if people realize this was
and is to still some degree like a dual
power situation like there are communes
in Venezuela where people you know
Communists and anarchists have set up
like a dual power scenario running the
local local I'm peeing fairy in
articulate but of Edie and Maduro and
they they still support him critically
and he one of the left critiques of him
is that he hasn't dispersed power to the
communes quite fast enough but he's
dealing with a lot of really difficult
 right is and look and he might just
be a bad leader and a kleptocrat and
even it like that might be the case but
that is not I mean there's the other
principle at work here that like look
Venezuela is more interesting and the
history of the government of the
Bolivarian government is even if it even
if it was a failure was a noble failure
that has done many really good things
and certainly I defend Chavez but I also
again I'm not we're not doing spin and
propaganda we can own the problems but
you know there is like the other
principle at work here that kind of is
pounding with people it's like I opposed
you know I didn't want a regime change
action in Syria and I offended a lot of
people because I was not willing to
pretend that Bashar al Assad has not
killed hundreds of thousands of people
and has not engaged in extrordinary war
crimes that look far bit as of course
again I'll always say we've committed
war crimes in Syria the Saudis have
committed war crimes that Marat teased
the Russians and Assad okay now Saddam
Hussein invading Iraq is probably still
one of the worst things that happened in
our lifetimes now Saddam Hussein there
was a left defense of Saddam Hussein so
then as well as way more complicated and
there is a lot to defend about the
Bulevar a government but there is
another element to this where it's like
people come at me with all this stuff
about then as well as some of which i
think is and wrong some of
which is I think actually correct
and very damning all of that in in a
situation like this is totally secondary
to opposing a u.s. coup period case
closed
it's not that complicated case state
Senate Michael what does left-wing
George W Bush think of Biden so a hint
either a fundamental change or you have
continuity which will lead to more
Empire let's do let's let's play a
little bit more sound so this is just
probably wait what is this beta one so
him taking a fossil fuel pledge not to
take fossil fuel okay we'll get to that
in a second let's do this bar stuff
first so look again does the fact that
built I guess let me kind of revisit
first and reset the Russia thing I still
think in my view the critique of the
deployment of Russia in media and
certain Democratic Party circles
particularly in 2016-2017 stands I still
and of course this broader investigation
especially if it's frames as we've
always said if you talk about it like
Goodfellas not the mnsure you and
candidate this report was going to
reveal a lot of stuff and you know bill
bar
obviously misrepresented the molar
report I mean Bob molar is not writing
this letter because he wants a you know
a good ratio on resistance Twitter he
thinks his work has been misrepresented
now is this / - so again as so many
things of Trump it's a question of
degree not kind and I don't think that
you know attorney generals and other
administrations have obviously you know
play for their team
bill Barr is a guy that you could trust
and take it face value is I mean why you
take any of these people face values
extraordinary but when you go back to
the fact that the guy literally got his
career started in helping put out the
iran-contra affair which still to me
stacks is a far more significant
far-reaching scandal than this should
say something he's refusing to speak in
front of the House Judiciary community
committee because despite the best
efforts of Lindsey Graham and other
Republicans to continue this spin and
obfuscation and lies this was a bad day
for him and the primary takeaway of the
bad day we're not gonna play all of it
we'll play some more of it tomorrow was
Kamala Harris who really I mean this has
her in her element she crushed it and he
did not like it Barr has the president
or anyone at the White House ever asked
or suggested that you open an
investigation of anyone I wouldn't I
wouldn't yes or no could you repeat that
question I will repeat it has the
president or anyone at the White House
ever asked or suggested that you open an
investigation of anyone yes or no please
sir the President or anybody else seems
you would remember something like that
and be able to tell us yeah but I'm
trying to grapple with the word suggest
I mean the open discussion that's
exactly right is depends on what the
word suggests suggests I mean there have
been discussions of matters out there
that they have not asked me to open a
investigation
they've suggested I don't know I
wouldn't say suggest hinted I don't know
inferred you don't know okay she's got
you covered scumbag idk I love that she
went through all of the different like
words that you could worm out of your
way with that hashtag bully the right
people hashtag bully the right people
it's incredibly well done I think also
you know I think White House did a
little bit better but like the amount of
Democratic senators that will still say
like and you will promise a you will
return to this committee is mind-blowing
it's like they will lie and they will do
whatever the they please and that
is the only tactic that is gonna yield
anything which is just like ruthless
clarity so she did a very good job on
that I will as always make my usual
pitch which is of course obviously I
support Bernie Sanders because I'm
progressive but you know I if you were
voting in the centrist Lane which I
would encourage you not to because we
need to do real big things for this
world but if for some reason you've
found your way onto our YouTube page you
found your way in YouTube page like what
can you exile Biden and buddhic edge and
vote for Kamala Harris like come on but
I don't I really I do not understand
like that is the no-brainer centrist
center-right choice in my view anyway
yeah go ahead the fact that this many
mediocre white men have piled into the
clown car after Kamala Harris and
Elizabeth Warren is ludicrous and it
shows how far we have not come I think
to me is like that that is definitely
part of it but I'm talking like you know
also just like like look I'm very able
to acknowledge that Joe Biden has real
political skills I find Budaj edge I get
why elite people are excited about him I
think his skills are actually not gonna
be broadly transferable but like it's
also that like calmly Harris is good at
this right like you know like frankly
like even on these other levels like
look Elizabeth Warren has the substance
I don't think she necessarily has the
same like skillset
also I think she's on the center-left
and progressive side versus the centrist
center-right so that's why she needs to
be vice president for eight years and
it'll train her to be President I like
that and then there's you know and then
there's you know and then to me like I'm
sorry like Booker and Gillibrand Leonor
O'Rourke I mean sorry like their mama
yeah these are just not but like Hamlin
Harris is good like I I just I anyways I
just don't understand if you're in that
Lane she's the obvious choice here she
is with you know she's a talented
politician and a clear communicator when
she chooses to be I mean obviously she
obfuscates on things but they all do
except for Sanders and Warren this is
her with Chris Matthews and this is just
an opportunity to do Chris Matthews
impression I guess the question is once
he's testified before mr. mowers guy of
the Special Counsel investigation how
can he now say I won't make the same
testimony in public claiming executive
privilege I think it is sort of like
virginity kind of thing once you start
talking and then you say oh I doing it
anymore you can't do it once you've
started so I understand that so
executive privilege works once you're
giving it up you can't grab it back how
do you sit did an excellent job of
pointing out that there is no I think
valid reason why he should he being in
the Attorney General should object to
Donna McGann coming before the United
States Congress and testifying
okay fine whatever play it safe but back
to the Virginia I think yeah but back to
the virginity thing there were a lot of
girls in Catholic school various tactics
but we realized at a certain point it
was like father Coughlin said it wasn't
a detective County was the attention to
that's how we say to diabetic God's law
it's time it's Aquinas anyways you're
very smart
thank you I actually thought it was
gonna be what you know like sometimes
with Chris Matthews is kind of jolly and
he's using like insane metaphors and
ridiculous and he's just sort of like
and he's just like all right virginity
think the great job today Camilla thank
you
that was
he's just like oh alright fine I guess
I'll be the only one to use an obvious
metaphor everyone's a critic everyone's
a critic
sorry I can't ruffle papers and do
boring anecdotes from the 70s to explain
why Donald Trump is secretly a KGB agent
certainly great if everything just
became a Rachel Maddow sub suite didn't
he look sort of like someone who's never
used a prophylactic before okay yeah I
guess I'm the only one who's seen that
sure you gotta spice up the material
somehow sure dude if you are voting for
a center center-right candidate vote for
Carla Harris Jesus she's my she is the
there's the first and second choice then
there's like the I'll just say Inslee's
my third choice because like why not
climate change good stuff and then
there's like the all right dude gun to
your head nobody you like is running who
do you vote for and Harris is the total
 no-brainer for that I'm sorry
he's not on our side but I respect her
in in sort of fantasy sports there's a
concept called the replacement level
player right a player you can always put
on your roster who's just sitting out
and not picked up but they'll just be
sort of a neutral feeling that's Kamala
Harris Biden and I just talked about
Biden Biden's worse than that
Biden Biden is going backwards like it
someone's like America's not ready for
to go really hard left like Biden's not
Brian's not going at all left Biden is a
lurch to the right no Biden's own
politics are centrist politics and he
wants to compromise from that with the
Republicans absolutely look I I'm
naughty but to me like that all could
describe Harris as well in addition to
her record in the car circle state I'm
so mine is like purely just like we're
just getting down to the level of like
you need to replace Trump and who will I
find to be the least annoying to be
talking to me for four years and Harris
and Harris yes yeah literally that's it
so actually on the merits like I think
her record is horrifying I mean look at
the piece in The Huffington Post about
what happened to parents of the truancy
stuff but I you know like who would I be
least embarrassed to have representing
us on the world stage
yes when you force Jamie to talk like an
NPR host that means that your choice is
commonly Harris of that pack and I will
by the way for if it was down to two
I would picked Joe Biden over Pete
boutique edge one of them didn't work at
McKinsey sorry
one of them's one of those blue-collar
that's a choice that I would pick Biden
not because I think booted judge is
probably operated enough to maybe be a
little bit better than Biden who it
might have some old boy loyalties but I
think by denied respite ins competence
to be true more than I drew I exactly
that's another thing too I actually
relaxed ability flexibility which are
not supposed ability except when you do
do you see so I'll tell you what I'll
tell you probably the only person who
dislikes people judge more than me is
probably beta or work beta or or ik I've
loved how fast and look obviously it's
still early and blah-blah-blah-blah-blah
he already looks a little bit more
bummed than he did he looks like a Rand
Paul like deep into the Republican
primary no he looks like he's getting
acquainted with life this is the first
time anyone's ever told him he can't
have something right so I think that you
know look again I'll do the usual
disclaimer that it's still early in the
process and things could change and blah
blah blah blah jinx that let's not jinx
it but but this was ridiculous
like this guy had a national brand
because he's got some kind of basic
vanilla charisma and he's a nice guy and
he was running it's Ted Cruz repulsive
human being on planet earth and we also
have a guy John corn and John Cornyn's
the guy who tweeted the Mussolini quote
right so it's like dude run for the
Senate you're a conservative Democrat
but you'll get we would have done a
handful of videos I'm like hey look at
bado
if it was running against Ted Cruz oh
yeah we would be doing he was running
against Cornyn according yeah yeah yeah
I told ya
so but no take it learn to take yes for
an
take yes for an answer but the siren
calls and the delusion and the
narcissism of running a presidential
campaign I was just born to do it like
he said at the end of that Vanity Fair
proof wanna be in it
were you like born to poll at six and
seven percent good wiped away by a mayor
and a vice president with bad Botox
because that's what it's looking like
so not turning out too well for beta
O'Rourke and one of the core substantive
raps against him gonna make sense he's
from Texas has been that again by Texas
standards decent environmental record by
what is absolutely scientifically
necessary to to to cover catastrophe not
good and by National Democratic
standards was leaders like Bernie
Sanders and Elizabeth Warren and jay
Inslee uh not good the amount of money
he's taken from the fossil fuel industry
he gets that so here's his video I
wanted to let you know that I've signed
the no fossil fuel money pledge and I've
done it in large part because I was
asked to by students that I met at
William and Mary when I was in Virginia
students young people activists and
advocates that I've met all over the
country who understand that we don't
take PAC money we don't accept help from
corporations or lobbyists or special
interests but given the enormity of our
challenge right now to ensure that we
keep this planet from warming to degrees
over pre-industrial revolution levels
because of the fires the droughts the
floods the costs in human life the devil
produce and that we need everybody on
board to meet this challenge head-on we
don't want there to be any real or
perceived conflicts of interest so in
accordance with the pledge we returned
any money we've received over two
hundred dollars from any fossil fuel
company executives we will not take that
money going forward and we continue to
try to be the largest grassroots
campaign in this country all human
beings all fellow Americans all focused
on the same goals including confronting
climate change before it is too late so
too though
students especially those at William and
Mary who spent the time to talk with us
to have the conversation and with whom I
spoke yesterday thank you for your
advocacy for your leadership on this and
I look forward to working with you going
forward oh my god even with the serious
video the hands he just can't stop so we
could tell he's a little deflated cuz
he's not standing on anything right he
should be standing on that little desk
in front of the couch so okay the sludge
reports though that here is the problem
the proton I'm quoting on the problem is
however he's already accepted money from
to oil and gas CEOs this year as well as
from a state lobbyist for from Chevron
sludges review of the O'Rourke
campaign's first quarter of campaign
finance report shows that the promising
presidential candidate has already
received the maximum primary election
contribution of 2,800 from Antonio San
Antonio R Sanchez the third president
and CEO of the Houston base Sanchez
Energy and chairman of related company
Sandstrom Sanchez midstream partners and
2,800 from Antonio R Sanchez Jr's CEO
and chairman of the privately held
Sanchez oil and gas corporation in total
O'Rourke's campaign has received twenty
two thousand four hundred from eight
executives at three companies all of
whom have have all of whom gave the
maximum allowed amount on March 29th in
addition he received a two hundred fifty
dollar donation from Patrick Ilyn a New
Mexico State lobbyist for oil giant
Chevron lookup Chevron in Ecuador this
guy should have ran for Senate you know
it would be ridiculous I think today
it's not like our cup of tea but I think
you know he's got some political chops
and he doesn't seem like a terrible
person but this was not the time for an
empty center-right candidate with oil
contributions is it inconceivable that
he doesn't like pivot to running for
Senate and that would be the bit
honestly you hear this Beddoe do it now
yeah honestly and then we'll get back to
the decent things you've said about
Palestinians we've talked about debt he
has done some decent conservation
efforts like yeah like you can abort
this mission but assuming he does it
it'll almost be worth it just to watch
his face gets sadder and sadder as he
realizes this is not gonna happen
and you know what depressed bado can get
it I'm here for it breasts bade I was
just
by the way Beto Beto announced a was God
oh yeah I sort of well it's not a green
new deal it's sort of green deal light
sort of thing Greg Carlock who's a
researcher for data for Perot is that
data for progress data probe data
progress a deal of violence yeah but
anyway he did a long thing here where
it's sort of saying you know he said
Beto's plan is less specific and less
ambitious in the green new deal or
medula specific sectoral investments but
does not listen any sectoral targets and
basically calls it like it's basically a
neoliberal approach you want to set new
standards and the funding on this for
decades
well that's the thing is like and then I
saw one defense of this saying like this
better to sort of takes it as if we're
not going to win the Senate so you're
gonna need to do a lot of this through
executive action but you know what I
mean Green your deal baby
yeah Beto's really seems to be moving
towards this like john muir aesthetic
campaign which I find very strange hmm
all right so some guy what happened in
Union Square this is a fun thing you
know sometimes things like this happens
and - now who is this person that got
eggs what is this actually
Jovie Val he is a Nazi he used to see
yourself identified nuts he was proud
boys he used to be like kind of vault
light and then he went full fash like
he's wearing a swastika this year yeah
he's wearing a swats okay so he's self
identifying it this way yeah and someone
I know has met him and says he's an
 okay and someone else that maybe
a lot of us know in a certain sense met
him at Union Square yesterday so what
do you feel threatened
[Music]
[Applause]
now those wholefoods eggs or farmers
market eggs I mean not a lot he looked
right before he did it to like do Perdue
just carrying home a grocery small food
and if you look closely there are
actually three eggs in his hand yeah he
triple egged him each that's like some
really good good backhanding I think
this is I think the eggs are good middle
ground for people who were you know
maybe a bit squeamish but say Richard
Spencer getting punch but I think if you
are walking around Union Square sayin
nasty stuff were in swastika you know I
don't know bolo tie I don't know what
that was then guess what you can expect
an egg buddy yeah it's perfect because
an egg doesn't really hurt you so you're
not gonna get sympathy from anyone not
even you know the Liberals who are all
like ooh auntie fun has gone too far
like no you just look ridiculous and
everybody laughs at you it's wonderful
we have a shot of the triple egg spiral
that is that's some video games that's
actually beautiful with the clock this
sort of mosaic in the background that's
yeah and I I may or may not know the guy
who threw the egg but if I do I'm very
impressed with him cuz he seemed like
more of an armchair communist and less
like he had that kind of stuff in him so
he can do it so can you
actually uh Jared Holt of a right wing
watch has an article on our friend Jovi
vol here fallin Mogga hero Jovi Vagos
1488 that was in March for 2019 so yeah
apparently recently he's had all of his
social media accounts I think in the
past few days
as head of social media accounts taken
off - for you know being a Nazi
so I bad week for a Nazi so it's just
good week for everybody else
yeah and it also shows once more how the
quote unquote all light or whatever is a
feeder to harder forms of white
nationalism and fascism you're calling
from a five to o area code who are you
where you're calling from
hello hello yeah this is you what's your
name where you calling from
oh sorry my name is Joel from Arizona
hey Joel what's on your minds hi I want
to talk about a debate they just sort of
I don't mean like academic debate where
people write papers back and forth I'm
just talking about about the idea of
sort of the concept of life debate and
how much value it happens okay um I so I
was recently watching a debate between
Peter Hitchens and and Judah okay
everyone sorry everyone has a pundit who
they just hate more than anyone else for
you it's probably day prove him no I
don't need the eruvin or all the Reuben
brings me a lot of joy I guess
personally sorry no but anyway so who do
you yes so so you tell us who you hate
but then let's let's try to make it into
a question all right brother okay sorry
so I was wondering how much how many
values you think live debate has because
I was watching a debate and I was
listening to Peter Hitchens make a point
which the the concept of it was
basically that if the Empire loses
territory it can't be expansionist and
it you don't have to worry about that
Empire
okay well it's an already dumb point if
you're representing
directly that's a very dumb thing to say
in fact I've always thought Peter
Hitchens this was a reactionary but a
lot more clever than that so sounds yeah
yeah yep the gist of it was that since
the Russian Empire lost a huge amount of
territory after the Soviet Union
collapsed
let's split something longer lock it
into that just what so the question is
do you think live debates are valuable
and I think that live did yes well I
think I think you know because as an
example I think Gigi I have watched more
that debate I think he did a great job
with Peterson
even actually down to the fact that he
was polite and didn't go in for the kill
I think that actually was very smart
very well played so I kind of am you
know I think it's like like anything
else
I mean sometimes yes sometimes no I mean
but you know I mean I don't have a
strong particularly strong feeling about
it one way or another but it does seem
that it actually can still shine a light
in a good way at time yeah I appreciate
the call Thanks I'm a reformist when it
comes to live debates and not a not
abolitionist I think first of all the
crowd should not there shouldn't be a
crowd a live crowd to feed into anything
people say because then it just turns
into a demagoguery affair it should be
there should be a moderator that the
people involved in the debate and then
no one else I agree and that's how the
presidential debates should be - there
should not be crowds at presidential
debates at all I honestly like it would
have been amazing to see Trump debate
without a crowd in right 2016 prime oh
he looked terrible exactly so I think
that from that perspective there there's
non logical stuff like that creeping
into these live debates and it's mainly
about rhetorical performance on the
other hand like I like I like a lot of
these and even without that they are
about rhetorical performance like I just
also think like you got to go in knowing
like what it is and you know unless it's
you know and I actually think I have to
say I think said one of the reasons that
people also kind of enjoyed the gee Jack
Peterson thing was because it in a weird
way it was like even though it was this
like prime for what that is
quote-unquote entertainment event it was
it was actually kind of uh
mutually respectful in a way that
actually sort of played well and I think
even again I think I think the fact that
Peterson the fact that he couldn't pivot
like Michael Eric Dyson in my view just
it just wasn't like it just was like
okay Michael Eric Dyson made some lines
that are satisfying just you know our
side to some extent but Peterson could
just go like a mind meld into that and
with this case it was just literally
like super politely and super friendly
but like seriously dude you read the
Communist Manifesto in preparation to
debate like a world system philosophy
like if I read like a young op-ed from
1945 and came to you and said I'm ready
to talk about young you would be like
what are you talking you're supposed to
be an expert on Marxist totalitarianism
and that's the first time you picked up
one of his easiest to read public yeah
and also a scientific 10th graders right
that is not read that in high school
philosophy and economics that's a that's
literally like that's a campaign man and
he didn't research any of the sort of
like details around the publication or
write production of the manifesto like
he is a charlatan there is no question
about that like the idea that wrote the
Gulag Archipelago I mean he doesn't have
no idea i mean i think i think search
you can be a good-faith charlatan like I
thought I think his level of expertise
at for someone who wrote The Gulag
Archipelago introduction for Penguin
Classics it's it's a joke and it's it's
a it's gonna be funnier one there's it
becomes more evident yeah and and if you
look like I've waited a little bit into
the lobster boy subreddit and some of
these lobster boys recognize that their
daddy got owned and now they're taking a
second look at him he's taking a first
look like their new daddy slow slow
voice you jerk and like I don't agree
with everything that Dziedzic has said I
do think sometimes he says things just
to get a rise out of people and he
speaks in these weird dialectics
so if you take one clip of him it sounds
a lot worse than it actually is
but he has said some really shitty
things about trans people and immigrants
but like I understand that this debate
was not necessarily for me and if he can
get Jordan Peterson's fans to abandon
him that's at least one step towards my
kind of politics and maybe I can scoop
them up after that yeah and I'm a big
I'm a GG I just wanted the only thing
I'll say about Jack I don't want to open
up this whole debate but I do think it's
like important to note that and I guess
where my basic dividing line is is like
nothing he's ever written or said
actually implicates the rights or the
protections of anybody and that's my
bottom line like that's you know so and
his critiques and things he's point to
again Dziedzic is somebody that you
actually you do literally need to put
him on content in context like this is
not sam harris this is somebody who
really actually does require highly
attentive reading and yeah he's written
some dumb political op but oh that's
brilliant all that stuff aside to
Jamie's point about the people in the
lobster if that goes back to what we're
talking what about with Ben Burgess and
I'll give them an argument so I think
because we can we can sit here and say
you you bought into Jordan Peterson well
you're a hopeless case get the out
of here and that's true for a lot of
those people but there's also a huge
like hundreds of thousands of those
people who are just neophytes and are
dipping their toes into sort of politics
for the first time in their and actually
all again another word that's been
destroyed but like ideas and being
interested in books and interested in
thinking about the world and that's a
good thing and it can be harnessed for
good for great ideas and politics I I
could do with like fewer potshots
against the evil social justice warriors
but again that's like probably the only
reason Peterson agreed to talk with XI
Jack in the first place I will say this
though about G Jack's
I agreed with critics for this is what
I'll say is because Dziedzic drew a
distinction between that and Marxists
and frankly I can appreciate that a
little bit no and they are distinct and
I think he also you know again actually
I think when he I mean this is a this is
actually something I'm using in my book
but I think the difference between
recognizing that a lot of times
rhetoric is actually still assuming that
you're like the universal subject who's
bestowing like look at how enlightened I
am versus like actually going into like
a genuine common global human effort
that is not from a place of moralism and
performativity he was a hundred percent
right about and I'd like to see a lot
more of that frankly so I actually liked
that critique
I mean sometimes it feels but straw man
II like the reason I mean I've said this
before the reason I disagree with social
justice warriors quote-unquote is not
because they care too much about trans
rights it's not because they're shrill
it's because they are liberals without a
materialist critique things nobody yeah
I know and everybody's on the same page
in terms of Rights
I have interesting a headline from the
Washington Post
this comes from the Washington Post
writing a good headline see if you'll
see what I'm shocking Facebook bans
far-right leaders including Louis
Farrakhan Alex Jones Milan innopolis for
being dangerous so the Washington Post
agreed in that Farrakhan is a right-wing
well done
well bit done being able to disaggregate
there though I will be signing a protest
letter to get him back on Facebook
that's a travesty it's one of my heroes
right there it's it's my right-wing
bunker mate as we said in the LA live
show you're calling from a360 area code
who are you where you're calling from hi
my name is Dan from Seattle hey Dan
what's going on what's on your minds so
I wanted to talk a little bit about like
logic and how it's used okay and and
maybe I have an idea of how morality is
constructed and maybe you guys can shoot
it down so logic is sort of like an
analog for causality and it's an
abstraction that we use to solve
problems mm-hmm so it's useful in that
regard okay and then the way that we we
construct morality and communities right
so we sort of like try to make accurate
predictions about how our environment is
going to behave but we can't do that
with people because people have free
will so
we sort of like aggregate into these
communities where we can predict the
behavior of other people and then those
are our moral communities right okay
sounds good so far
I don't I mean I don't really have this
sure I guess I was just kind of curious
if like that like model is like a
logical construction or if that's
completely off-base like from your guy's
opinion I don't know what do you guys
think thanks so much for the comment
appreciate it
do you guys have any thoughts on whether
that works or not can you repeat the
question I'm sorry I call back sorry
actually but call back honestly even
though we didn't handle it well call
back when I'm here I don't think that
that's a Sam call yeah bong rip time do
we still have that a lot all right I
want to do a few more I just wanna play
tattle on Omar sound do we still have
that that's the only list I do I want to
play that do we still have it yeah all
right let me read a few Jay cool didn't
Megan McCain his brothers served to
spread democracy around the world I
don't understand not that kind of
democracy he knows
capitalist democracies Colin from
Nebraska Warren Buffett sure I
don't know what the specific context is
but I'd buy it
billionaires Ian from London so glad I
finally got on the show I ended up
chatting ten minutes about working
working under my Venezuelan manager at
work before I realized you hadn't
interrupted me and I was cut off
something to share next time left is
best I'm sorry about that man classes
creative I know we're very concerned
about the Democratic primary but can we
start talking about the possible tactics
for the all too great possibility of
Trump and validating undermining the
elections if he loses
well cross that bridge when we have
everybody yeah I mean that's not the
primary concern we do I look I will say
this I again maybe I'm too cynical about
things like bill bar or you know Bob
Barr just
like you know of course a propagandist
and lawyer you know in terms of the
president and of course the executive
branch being out of control and of
course the system being totally corrupt
I think if Donald Trump loses the
presidency I find it exceedingly hard to
believe that the Armed Forces and Secret
Service will surround him and keep him
in the way yeah it's not just about the
individual you know motivation and you
know criminality I would be terrified
now there's a there's literally like
people should be a bit more scientific
about what it what the deep state or
even the state is and how it would react
to something like that right yeah
exactly
I'm so the system has proven to be
remarkably stable over time
unfortunately for there's there's
circuit breakers here okay Alon Omar we
stand with Alon Omar every day we've
obviously played these recent disgusting
clips of Ben Shapiro and Megan McCain to
relentlessly disgusting people
continuing to lie and smear and incite
against her I would use the word
incitement here she is at a rally in
Washington DC correctly identifying the
hate and extremism emanating from trumps
White House and how it harms both the
Jewish and Muslim communities they
forget that were the party of love we're
the party of commitment were the party
of inclusiveness what we are fighting
for is not for the few but for the many
every single one just this week when
we've had the attack in California on a
synagogue it's the same person who's
accused of attempting to bomb a mosque
so I can't ever speak of Islamophobia
and fight for Muslims if I am not
willing to fight against anti-semitism
[Applause]
we collectively must make sure that we
are dismantling all systems of
oppression and this is a person of
course who has never been and never said
anything other than she fights
anti-semitism she's criticized the
nation-state of Israel which in addition
to objectively being enormous ly abusive
and harmful to Palestinians is a nation
state and not a people and certainly not
in essence of the people queen queen
favorite member of Congress hands down
the hell yeah I want to say uh okay I do
want to speak to this for a year lud
they Silva was has been silenced in
Brazil and I'll keep reiterating the
reason I covered this the reason I
covered this is because I agree with
Noam Chomsky he's the most prominent
political prisoner in the world it's
also that you can't understand this
broader reversal on Latin America that's
happened going back to a coup in
Honduras in 2009 which was backed by
Hillary Clinton State Department in the
Obama administration and not understand
this broader reversal of fortunes in
Argentina and elsewhere Bolivia is
holding on a vote Morales has actually
delivered huge economic and social
advancements for the people of Bolivia
well of course not being perfect as no
one is in Ecuador Lenin Moreno has
totally betrayed that government running
on the party of Rafael Correa but
governing to the hard right
Lula again the pink tide as a whole
brought seventy million people out of
poverty forty million of those people
were in Brazil under Lula as presidency
where he also used unclaimed land
brought farmers on land
past wage labor and environmental
protection laws and also set in some
ways echoing like the non-aligned
movement a genuine independent
trajectory in Brazilian foreign policy
which even in some ways his ideas about
how to deal with the United States and
Iran would get manifested years later in
the Obama or on deal this is a powerful
leader an incredible and exceptional
leader who led in all the polls and was
silenced and put
jail was again zero literally the
sentences read indeterminant acts by the
same prosecutor / judge yes he served
Sergio Moro was served in both positions
because of a rule and Brazil that has
not been changed since the Inquisition
so he was both the prosecutor and the
judge and now is the justice minister in
junior bolsa narrows fascist and almost
certainly connected with the
paramilitaries that assassinated Mariela
Franco's government and you cannot look
again at all of these policy systems
including this attempt at potentially an
invasion of Venezuela
without understanding what has happened
to Lula and Brazil he's been silenced
he's been held in solitary confinement
not allowed to give press interviews
this is a place where politicians facing
serious corruption charges which actual
evidence are out on bail don't have
trials for years where people have been
convicted of trafficking and mass
murderer given television interviews he
was given his first interview publicly
over a week ago and of course impressed
everybody by how in command he is of the
political situation how articulate he is
about what's happening and also like
he's undaunted his wife brother and
grandson have died within a year it's
stunning we talked about within the last
two years we'll talk about it talks
about it more with Ana on TMDs but I
just want to briefly from a great report
that Brian Mayer put together in the
Brazil wire Lula said I'll stay behind
bars from 100 years before I trade my
dignity for freedom and then my mirror
goes on to say it's illegal to deny
prisoners the freedom of expression to
speak with members of the press in
Brazil this however did not stop former
judge and current justice minister
Sergio Moro from borrowing Luiz Inacio
Lula da Silva from giving interviews for
over one year the case which rose to the
Supreme Court after ruling forcing the
couture card atiba federal police
quarters headquarters where the former
president has been legally illegally
held in solitary confinement and
violation the Mandela rules since April
7th 2018 to allow the former president
to give 1/2 hour interviewed a to
Brazilian journalists it took six months
to implement as Morrow's Curitiba
cronies did everything he could to block
the process
Lulla said amongst many other things
Brazil's now governed by a group of
lunatics the elites have to engage in a
process and self-criticism unto how
balsa narrow became president I will
stay behind bars for 100 years before i
trade my dignity for freedom he also
spoke of how the judge turned justice
minister Sergio Moro and his Lodge of a
jot so a task force which had just been
blocked from receiving a 2.5 million
dollar gift of confiscated Prechter
brass money that was initially earmarked
for public education health systems from
the US State Department and you know
again he talked about the social
programs of the Workers Party he talked
about why bolson dinero would serve
salute a US flag and the sort of
Imperial sub servants II of Brazil and
their Polson ro asked any Democrat you
see running for any office what they're
going to do about the attack on rights
in Latin America and Brazil and
specifically to free Lula it's
incredibly important all right final
call of the day yes Stephen Morris
pulled out goodbye Stephen Moore
so Herman Cain baby let's get the cane
trained on the Fed let's get the cane
train let's do it
final call the day you're calling from a
405 area code who are you where you're
calling from hey Gregory from Oklahoma
how are you I'm all right
okay just get ready for school to be
wrapped up for the semester
congratulations
yep but yeah I yeah next week's the last
week I and also I think y'all read my I
in earlier this week I lost my job sorry
reason I'm not sure how sorry yeah here
but yeah so I'm kind of figure out what
I'm gonna do about five and you know
I've been watching the show and keeping
up with what y'all are doing you all are
doing good stop thank you very pretty
much all on tape I thank you look right
there we need some more Oklahoma
listener
Gregory yeah we do Gregory good luck
congratulations on finishing the
semester I'm going to read two Iams and
then we are going to be done see
Winnipeg Greg left-wing Bush seems like
the kind of guy who could have a beer
and seize the means of production with
yeah exactly
congressional baseball fan recently a
trailer was released for the Sonic the
Hedgehog movie and there's of course the
usual fan controversy back and forth but
what no one was talking about the true
controversy surrounding Sonic the look
of the character was based on the
Michael Jackson cover of bad while his
personality was based on the 1992
presidential candidate Bill Clinton's
get it done attitude sonic Sonics
nemesis dr. Bob I could not have a list
of an idea what any of this means
Sonic's nemesis dr. Robotnik was
inspired by Teddy Roosevelt I hope this
brings a whole new dimension to
everyone's relationship to Sonic is
canceled
I think tails was my birthday was my
10th century crazy liberal was my
birthday on Monday this is Tim from
Somerville left azbest hello I can't
find this so far
hashtag me too sorry I'm just it's going
off as you are
and the final I am of the day apologize
Canada telegrams I have to say that my
brain is still in the pub we mowed from
taking in so many high-level important
ideas over time I have to say that my
brain is still in recovery mode from
taking in so many high-level important
yeah Sam Rob from Austin Texas new
character one bro Godot Brian yeah I
mean it's kind of what it is hey guys on
periscope here trying for another coup
ah gonna wait for some more people who
arrive livestream
aw jeepers you--some us aw air force
support would be Totally Rad WTF was
bado doing sitting on a step with a
perfectly good table behind him not good
believe me not good
exactly not well he's not well he said
see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
I was just got
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is tickin
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made oh
the option
[Music]
