CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any evasive
they are unanimous in the hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday June 10th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today chief
Washington correspondent the intercept
Ryan grim on his book
we've got people also on the program
today
caught in a lie Donald Trump claims
there's a secret plan from Mexico to fix
immigration also on the program today
Senate tries a bipartisan effort to halt
Saudi Arabian arms sales John Dean will
testify the House Judiciary Committee
North Carolina fails to overturn the
governor's veto of the latest forced
pregnancy bill Donald Trump ends fetal
teaser tissue research at the NIH as
well as federal funding and a report
Google made four point seven billion
dollars last year off of news producers
lawsuits may follow and as part of a
broad Health Insurance Program young
undocumented
immigrants will be getting subsidized
health care in California and a massive
Brazilian leak shows that the supposedly
impartial prosecutor slash judge as if
that works Morrow was in the bag in his
pursuit of Lula and finally the white
house friendship tree has died all this
and more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen thanks for joining us
another another week of fun ahead of us
ladies and gentlemen glad you could
start it off with us and the we look
forward to your your being here I just
want to mention this is uh it's pretty
sad I did not know this guy but I read
his work quite a bit on various outlets
Salon The American Prospect he wrote
other places I just particularly
remember his pieces from there and also
on Twitter
Simon Malloy passed away he apparently
had an extended battle with colon cancer
he had been working at Media Matters for
about 14 years and he has a family with
with kids and whatnot and so there's a
GoFundMe to help support his family and
also a donation to the colorectal cancer
Alliance so we've placed that on the on
the the blog and on we'll put it in the
podcast description sad someone not
young in particular obviously with
children passes away and appreciate the
the work that he did Bill shame so check
that out
meanwhile let's let's turn to something
that is will raise your spirits just a
little bit more instead people are still
apparently interested in Steve Bannon
Steve Annan headed to Europe ostensibly
to sort of expand the Breitbart Empire
right wasn't that his agenda
well it wasn't bright part it was his
Empire has a global fascist as a global
fascist strategist but wasn't he gonna
do this as part of that part of
Breitbart in him how is he not it was
kicked out of bribe oh that's right you
know all that seems small to the move
even right okay so he's got this
movement and he went over to Europe to
see if couldn't jumpstart fascism over
there he having it had jump-started it
here and it may be not going necessarily
the way that he wanted it to or maybe he
knows that we got to go tit for tat and
tit for tat back and forth every now and
then he rears his head and media just
jumps at the opportunity to talk to him
I think maybe we are ending that era now
that is what is most interesting me
about this this moment here
from the Axios show Jonathan Swan coming
off of his conversations with the boy
Prince Jared Kushner apparently
interviews they in an elevator not quite
sure what's going on here but they seem
to be know okay they're not in an
elevator or some type of press
conference so here's Jonathan Swan
asking a Steve ban and how his program
to turn a Europe fascist is going I
won't talk to you about something that
you told the New York Times you said you
would offer populist parties across
Europe you know the quote fundamental
building blocks for winning including
expertise in polling data analytics
messaging and get-out-the-vote efforts
along with the development of media
surrogates campaign war rooms
a rapid-response yes quite a plan you
had there have you executed it we got
our lawyers involved and with election
laws in Europe I'm not so sure that we
can actually provide that how many how
many campaign war rooms did you set up
we had our overall war room but we were
told we couldn't do the worms either
sounds like you haven't done deposit
this is this is such a wonderful shot
Steve ban and his gut hanging out and we
well we didn't we had an overall war
room but that one we had to establish in
space because we weren't allowed to do
it on European territory I guess and
here we go we set up a digital right go
back just a little bit here cuz it I
love ya a Google Doc you know the editor
was like dude check out this cut as soon
as you says you haven't done anything
I'm gonna go to him with his belly
hanging out for the first time in this
interview good you executed it we got
our lawyers involved and with election
laws in Europe I'm not so sure that we
can actually provide that how many how
many campaign war rooms did you set up
we had our overall war room but we were
told we couldn't do the worms either
sounds like you haven't done me
no no that's absolutely not true if you
go back and talk to the individual
parties we've done tremendous who should
we talk to what do you think so baby
would say I think something has said hey
these guys are solid guys and they've
given us a lot of overall advice so we
spoke to salvini salvini said he's
spoken to you twice in his life barely
knows you well I mean is that true was
salvini he said that you'd only spoken
to you twice I think maybe three or four
times we've talked to salvini three or
four times I think a cynic might say
okay Steve Barron Trump purged him from
American politics cut him cut him off at
the legs and now he's taking his show to
a monastery he was hanging out in the
monastery trying to get crowds in Europe
I mean is this just because you don't
have relevance in American politics I
think I had by the way I think I have a
lot of robust shots in the pacing are
kind of reminiscent of the office there
it honestly that was
fascist David Brent you were in a
monastery now I mean Jesus yeah
there is that reminds me actually there
was a Harry Enfield did a mock
documentary in 1990 called CERN Orbitz
Smith and it is about an aging British
actor and for I think for the British it
was basically light parody for for an
American it was more satirical because
you don't know the specific references
and so things become a little bit
broader and it was there was a moment
where they had an interview where he was
on an interview program that was
reminiscent of that and there's a
British tradition of this where the guy
is saying to the to the actor like who's
clearly been drinking and looks like
Bannen in this you look at you you're a
mess I don't think so
well like you smell I can smell you from
here well that's too bad and I've been
having an affair with your wife and
she's a wonderful lover
oh good very reminiscent of that but
Steve Bannon hopefully that's the last
time we will ever cover anybody covering
Steve Bannon because I think that era
has ended
it was a blip in our but he was on just
two weeks ago on CNBC tag teaming with
Thomas Friedman about China policy so if
there's one thing Steve Bannon is good
at its media exposure if there's one
thing that'll eat meat is good as
exposing they have absolutely no values
or sets of his yes but hopefully
hopefully we're nearing the end we'll
see how he does when he gets into the
buckfast the what oh it's like this
gross alcohol made by monks oh well he
may already be there folks one of
today's sponsors is Skillshare anyone
who goes to sk l dot s h / majority
report for it's going to get two whole
months of totally free access to
Skillshare his entire library of super
quality online courses
and tutorials Skillshare is a vibrant
online learning community that offers
courses on everything from design video
editing photography business technology
cooking meditation and everything in
between
their skills share courses for everyone
you'll have no problem finding courses
that will be useful to you both in your
personal and professional life I've been
taking some cooking little classes
picking up tips everywhere I go and I'm
getting into like the data analysis
stuff for work that's interesting yeah
we'll see dot ah they have courses Dada
they have courses for entrepreneurs
courses for computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages Photoshop you name it
Jamie you could learn you could brush up
on your Spanish
I've been C like it there you go it's
already getting better I'm also planning
to get to the lucid dreaming thing I
have nightmares last night but I'm gonna
check out that lucid dreaming that's
what I really need to do you absolutely
should do that you can get two entire
months of free access to every single
course offered by Skillshare by going to
sk l dot s h / majority report for we
got a link of course in our podcast
description and under youtube you just
think of everything you'll have at your
fingertips for two whole months
that's sk l dot s h / majority report
for check it out all right we're gonna
take a quick break when we come back
Ryan Grimm
you
a back Sam cedar on the majority report
on the phone it is a pleasure to welcome
back to this program are you the
Washington bureau chief of the intercept
that that's right
the Washington bureau the Washington
bureau chief of the intercept and the
author of many books his most recent is
from Jesse Jackson to Alexandria Accord
Cascio Cortes the end of big money and
the rise of a movement we've got people
it just occurs to me that you're like
you're you the book that you wrote on
drugs was has almost like you've that
projects almost over well it this is a
nice sequel to that in some ways but
you're right you know and the debt book
was magic in a way that it managed to
completely transform the conversations
without anybody actually having bought
it
sometimes the cover can just do that
boom yeah that's right that's right
best cover in the last hundred years in
book literary history this I was just
telling you off air that I'm really
enjoying this I mean it is because a lot
of this not all of it but but a
significant amount of it was
contemporaneous from when I basically
entered into politics and began to you
know sort of have some access to some of
the players in this book and and
certainly people who were talking and
and stuff that I just had no idea was
going on you know and it's interesting I
mean it's it's super interesting and and
and and we'll go through it just let's
just start with we've got people is it's
a specific quote isn't it right
yeah it's ripped off from the kind of
climactic line in Alexandria Ocasio
Cortez's viral campaign ad in her she
said something like you know in her
campaign against Joe Crowley this is a
contest about money versus people
they've got money we've got people and
like so much what
she's great at like distilling things
down and I heard that phrase we've got
Pete they've got money we've got people
like that basically you know what's
about to find a point on the coverage
that I've been doing of the Democratic
Party in and and the resistance within
it for the last like twelve years or so
and so yeah I just so I lifted three
words of it for the title when you look
at the these twelve years that you did
the coverage and you start the book
during Jesse Jackson's campaign
I mean his first one I guess was in 84
but you know 88 he comes pretty close
and and and then I want to go back but
just to keep it just a little general
like is this a story of me because it
seems to me there's two sort of parallel
tracks that are more or less aligned but
not completely aligned of of ideology
within the party or with like sort of a
disposition within the party do you know
what I'm saying by that yeah yeah yeah I
think that's right and I think by
disposition you kind of mean the
fighting spirit yes the willingness to
take risks to say what you really
believe to put it out before the
American people and Trust and Trust in
their kind of judgment versus the
parallel generation of people like Nancy
Pelosi and Steny Hoyer and Chuck Schumer
who lived through the Reagan years and
internalized the idea that we live in
this irredeemable conservative
center-right country and that the only
way for Democrats to cling to some
modicum of power is to pretend that they
are somewhat conservatives as well and
so it creates a different disposition
and it's been interesting going out on
this book tour and talking to people who
actually read the book which is very
flattering and for so many
just say why won't these Democrats fight
it's not even that they are pining for
them to win even necessarily just one
there's want them to fight for something
if you if you put up a fight and you
lose you know at least at least you went
for it there's some dignity in that but
that's but that I think this position is
is a good way of putting it and and well
I mean I want to I want to circle back
but let's have part of this conversation
now I mean because you know during the
Netroots years right when you basically
started reporting and more or less when
I entered into you know doing whatever
it is I do here the you didn't and part
of it was because it was during the Bush
years right and and and sort of
flattened out any differences amongst
Democrats from an ideological
perspective right like I right I mean I
just remember like this sort of this
like donning on me like oh my god when I
was talking with Jonathan alter in a
green room at MSNBC and he's saying like
I don't understand why people are being
so chaste about Social Security and I
was like what you wrote a biography
about FDR are you kidding me like I had
no idea that you were that open to
cutting you know but but we didn't talk
much about ideological differences you
know right 15 years ago 12 years ago it
was you know you'd say good Democrat bad
Democrat you would say fighting Democrat
non fighting Democrat like how much of
that disposition is it and then I want
to go back to the the Reagan years but
how much of that disposition was is or
how much of that disposition is just
simply disposition I'm cowed and I just
you know and now I have a tenure I
learned some lessons you know as a as a
as a newbie and those lessons have stuck
versus ideologically I'm actually sort
of this way and I used the disposition
as a way of not having to deal with that
yeah I think it's entirely related to
ideology and the way that you can
and prove that in a way is to take a
look at somebody like rahm emanuel you
know he's known as a fighting democrat
and you might have been in that
off-the-record private blogger meeting
and I think 2005 was Bill Clinton or he
said I don't understand why you bloggers
are so tough on Rahm he's really a
fighter but who he was a fighter against
was the left right so he did so that
they do know how to fight Democrat
Democratic Party knows to this day knows
how to fight look at the nipple see and
the lengths that it's willing to go to
you know to crush insurgent primary
challenges before they've even been
launched and so the when when the
opportunity to go after the left
services then all of a sudden their
disposition changes and they do become
these these fighting liberals and so
that leads me to conclude that the
disposition is really just a piece of
ideology that they could they do know
how to fight but they're just accustomed
to not fighting for the lesson rather
rather against the left right and and it
but I I I don't know if that still fully
answers my question as much as like
they're afraid to fight the right
because that your argument is during the
Reagan years and and it's it's
interesting to peg it at the Reagan
years because I think a lot of times you
know like 10 or 15 years ago we would
have pegged it to McGovern maybe even
more recently right like this was a
lesson that people are living out from
McGovern era and that's why we called it
hippie punching instead of like you know
punching to the left it was hippie
punching at that time 10 15 years ago we
referred to that you know beating up on
the left you know and ostensibly like
the way that they did it but why why is
it the Reagan era I mean I remember
going into college and having my
government professor the government
professors address us on day one saying
there's been a realignment it was 1984
is the second election there's been a
realignment in this country and there's
been a monumental shift in the
identification political identification
of the
American public it was that basically
what scarred a lot of these people yes
and I think it's totally fair to link
from a govern to that like that was a
precipitating event and and certainly
you still hear them today like talk
about McGovern like literally to this
day they will mention you know if if we
do X is just gonna be McGovern all over
again but Mondale lost you know
extraordinary badly as well and the
reason I focused more on the Reagan era
is because not just you know wasn't
Justin McGovern lost you know but you
still had a kind of Rockefeller II and
kind of Republican Party at that time so
they they everything they stood for
wasn't being you know thoroughly
rejected whereas in the 1980s this was
the rise of the new right you know this
like insurgent Republican class comes in
in the 1978 midterms that's when Newt
Gingrich was first elected then followed
by Ronald Reagan who's a new kind of
Republican and at the same time
Democrats are rethinking what their
posture is toward their own coalition
and toward particularly big money and
corporate money and so it's in that it's
in that era that they have to kind of
reinvent themselves as this what becomes
this Clintonian party so that's why I
thought it was more more interesting to
focus on the on the 80s and and also
because yes like Pelosi and where these
others they did live through McGovern
but they were they were more in it when
when Reagan was stomping them you know
they were you know Boyer was I think
elected in 1981 in a special election
Pelosi was already a major fundraiser
Chuck Schumer think was elected to the
house in 1980 dick Durbin in 1982 Barney
Frank and 80 so these people are all
kind of coming into their own and their
professional prime at that at that time
what were they're watching everything
changed underneath them and I think it
was like Tony Coelho oh I can't wait
quello he gets
becomes d-triple-c chair after the 1980
election on the very explicit argument
that the problem Democrats had wasn't
political or ideological well it was
wasn't ideological it wasn't structural
it was just that they got out they got
outgunned by Republicans who figured out
how to raise more money and they figure
out how to pump that money into negative
campaigning and 30-second ads and dirty
tricks and so what Democrats needed to
do he argued was developed what he
called a PAC strategy which just means
fundraising today and go to corporate
America get a ton of money hire our
consultants like Republicans did and run
the same types of you know dirty tricks
campaigns with 30-second negative ads
and just match them dollar for dollar
and just kind of keep keep filling the
keep putting your fingers in the dike
that way and that was almost like the
the seed that ended up creating the
Democratic Leadership Council and this
whole wing now how conscious do they one
remember they won in 82 the huge midterm
wave after Reagan so they're like oh
this is it we got it we figured it out
figure this out I thought let me ask you
this how much was that
how much awareness was there and how
much debate was there around that time
as to the implications of getting
Democratic money that way right like
because it could be you know an
awareness of like I want to get us in
bed with corporate America or it could
be like oh I'm just gonna go you know
and hang out with corporate America but
I won't get in bed with them I'm just
gonna take their money right but but
inevitably what happens is one thing
leads to another you take their money
and then you have a couple of drinks and
then things lead one thing leads to
another and then you're in bed with them
and then you're in bed with yeah and the
argument they made was you're was along
those lines they quello said look yes we
lost the house I mean we lost the Senate
we lost the White House but we still
control the house and they thought they
had basically permanent control of it
because of the structure of and the
popularity of a lot of these longtime
Democrats
and so their argument was we're not
doing we're not compromising ourselves
here we're not giving anything to
corporate America but we control the
House of Representatives and so they
need to pay up like that's how this new
system works like if they want their
legislation considered if they want to
meet with us if they want to be part of
the tax reform that we're going to do
you know all the other work that we're
going to do with the public consent at
the Reagan administration then they need
to ante up and that's how they sold it
as not being corrupting as it's just
exploiting the power that you already
have a force a weaker entity to to pony
up but there was what I have gathered in
my reporting there was a lot of pushback
internally but the people who were doing
the pushback didn't have either they
didn't have an alternative idea right or
they didn't have the power to implement
an alternative idea uh what does quello
say today about that he says he has this
great quote where he says we didn't we
weren't we didn't necessarily sell out
it was more that we were bought in this
was his phrase and it's actually there
as he kind of parses it it's an
interesting way of thinking about it
that's a more dang lying right he's
saying that like we wouldn't take a pile
of cash and do something for MIT but all
of our strategic legislative thinking
was constrained and guided by the ring
the pack strategy that we were taking it
you're doing a housing bill and you know
this particular company or industry
doesn't really like it going in this
direction and you then you don't you
don't even need to talk to them you just
kind of don't go in that direction
you you you pursue the path of least
corporate resistance wherever you can
and so that ends up just corrupting the
process but without a direct quid pro
quo you know cash for a particular line
of legislation
did did he did he express regret I mean
I only ask you only focusing on
something this is heard of the small
because I think that dynamic that you've
just described is really the the hinge
that all of this turns on mm-hmm right I
know it easily right he's a lobbyist now
so no like he he and a lot of the others
feel and it's not a knob it's not an
obvious question but so he and the other
others feel like there was nothing else
that they could do right they feel like
they were chasing the the fascists like
they were at the gates they're inside
the gates and the the New Deal coalition
had broken apart and that you know
without a new coalition to put together
this was their only choice and that that
they did this and I made some you know
difficult compromises to save the
Republic from complete collapse though
that no there there is not much regret
now people who people who say that
people will will acknowledge the people
that talk to you from that arrow the
only knowledge yes if it was a lot more
corrupting or it was as corrupting as
people predicted that it would be and
more corrupting than its defenders said
it would be but many of them will still
say but there wasn't necessarily another
option now I the only other option would
be to get thrashed and then come back
from the ashes reconfigured in a
different way
right I mean because that wasn't right
and then they got thrashed anyway right
all right well then so all right so go
forward to to to Jesse Jackson because I
mean one can only imagine like if the
internet had existed in 1986 right like
what right we are history might be very
very different in a myriad of ways but
go ahead right let me just tell us what
happens I just Jackson there and Garret
and to that point Jerry Brown remember
in 1992 ran kind of an insurgent
campaign against Clinton and he used to
give his 800 number yeah you know he
would he would take more than a hundred
dollars from anybody and there was a
problem during a debate or if I remember
correctly - right like they tried to get
him like you can't say your 800 number
he goes I can't say my 800 number Jerry
Brown you know whatever was I can't
remember what but he's and they were
like do you can't do that I just did it
you know I like the way that you know
Bernie said go to berniesanders.com was
it was you know very reminiscent of that
but Jesse didn't have that and to your
point so Jesse Jesse Jackson and I would
have called the book from how Washington
to AOC if more people had heard of
Harold Washington yes actually he was
the yeah tell that story he was for
mayor of Chicago yeah he so he he runs
as an insurgent he's a member of
Congress he had the backing of
Democratic socialists of America the
young young Lords like a ton of radical
and insurgent elements of Chicago
politics they they run to take on the
machine you know with Jesse Jackson as
it's like lead campaigner and during and
I interviewed Jackson about this and and
he said that I think he got wind that
Ted Kennedy and Walter Mondale were
going to come in and endorse Daley and
Jackson begged them he said just stay
out like you have no idea that the the
vibrancy of this movement that we're
running like we don't need your
endorsement but just you know just don't
come in and bring the two most well
known Democrats to country and then
endorse our opponent and and Kennedy
said look we're old family friends we
don't have a choice we've got it we've
got to do it and Jackson said he thought
to himself this this needs to change
Ricky he's closed something like this
this liberalism is not liberating and so
they started he started seeing himself
and seeing that movement in direct
conflict with with the party
establishment even the kind of liberal
heavyweights of the of the party they
wind up winning the primary and then the
entire Chicago Democratic machine
flips and literally campaigns for the
Republican in the general election and
Washington manages to win the general
election but only by like four points in
a city that's a 92% Democratic and then
they and then they spend the next
several years going to war with the
Machine that still controlled to Council
for a little while but out of that
campaign Jackson and other black leaders
around the country get together and and
say you know we need to we need to do
the same thing at the presidential level
because there's just no other way that
we're going to get people to pay
attention to our interests and so he
runs in a very late campaign in 1984
that does surprisingly well even though
he got in you know I think after some of
the caucuses had already started and so
then he runs in 88 as a serious
contender you know that goes with Bernie
starting at the protest candidate and
then getting serious and more than 35
primaries and caucuses into the race he
dishes this stunning upset out to
Dukakis and Dick Gephardt in Michigan
and all of a sudden make Dick Gephardt
drops out and it's just Jackson and
Dukakis you know basically a delegate
tie and the Democratic establishment in
Washington has a complete and utter
meltdown at the prospect that Jesse
Jackson might actually become the
Democratic nominee at this point and
then what happens
okay they the whole fury of the party
comes down on him and and it get in me
and they are very explicit that the
country is not ready to elect a black
man a bees too
he's too liberal and see it not not only
would he lose the the presidential
election would basically be the end of
the Democratic Party know if he's the
he's the nominee that the the were the
the phrase is coming out of Washington
were just absolutely apocalyptic and he
was polling ahead coming out of Michigan
he's now
surging into Wisconsin and polling
significantly ahead and if he wins
Wisconsin you know that then then he's
on a roll with momentum heading into the
convention and and despite that the big
polling Lee he winds up losing pretty
badly in Wisconsin one of the one of the
first examples of pollsters telling
people that they're going to vote for
the black candidate and then and then
not doing so when they get into the
polling place and so from there he fades
but for about about a week and a half
if the country was you know facing the
real possibility that Jackson would
would have win the nomination and he was
doing it on the back of this argument
that kind of neoliberalism was
inflicting economic violence on the
working classes white black and brown
and that the only way to fight back was
to was to unite no farming like farmers
who are suffering from the farm prices
and factory workers and everybody else
against the growing power of capital and
Ronald Reagan so all right so let to
sort of like disaggregate a couple of
things because there's there's a sort of
an almost an analogous to track type of
fight that's going on here that's sort
of similar to the one that we talked
about you know at the top of this
interview which is you know in the case
of Washington and on some level in the
case of Jesse Jackson but it's it gets a
little bit a muddled because you know
the idea that I mean I think there were
probably people who and I'm not I'm not
being an apologist for this but I think
there were people who probably sincerely
felt like the country's not ready to
elect a black man to be president in
1988 and we've got to get rid of you
know I mean I remember quite distinctly
this election we've got to get rid of
Reagan even though it's George Herbert
Walker Bush who's running it's still the
Reagan era people perceived it that way
and there was a sort of like immediacy
but there's two things there going on
here other oh god well in the
the Washington case makes it a little
bit more explicit like how much of that
was this guy's not part of our network
and so therefore we don't like him
versus this guy's so you know his
politics because this also that the hair
Washington thing reminds me a little bit
of Martha Coakley when she ran for
Senate in in Massachusetts now she came
from the West and you know Massachusetts
there is a very much of an old boy
network in Massachusetts politics and my
understanding is that they basically
just said we're not going to give her
support in the general election against
Brown like we just we're walking away
and yeah and that I don't think was a
question of as much as like as much as
politics because I don't think her
politics were particularly you know
ideologically different from these sort
of these these establishment politicians
in Massachusetts but it's just like hey
wait a second we're not gonna be the
ones to get the largesse we're not gonna
get the job right we're not gonna have
the ability to call people and say hey I
want that low license-plate number
whatever it is like that's like how much
of it is just a machine that is distinct
from you know ideology and how much of
it is ideology when you see this dynamic
at play so he had all three things going
for him we're going against him
depending on how you see it you know
part of its race it's deeply racist City
on All American cities and races
Chicago's especially so you know
particularly in that in that in that era
ideologically like you he had the
support of the DSA because he because
they recognized is he kind of aligned
with a lot of there was a lot of their
politics and he was talking about he ran
on firing the police chief
I ran against police brutality you know
and he ran against the the kind of
economic interests that that ran the
city and and so
there definitely was an ideological gap
between him and and the Machine and then
thirdly he had the thing that you talked
about kid this this he wasn't one of
them
like he was yeah in a city that has run
on spoiled like they were going to be no
spoils to handout
no you know and it's one of the most
old-school machines out there you know
right you know how you vote determines
whether or not you get your trash picked
up and so that so that was a huge part
of it too but it wasn't just that like
with Martha Coakley I think you're right
it's more like it's just it's basically
just that there's real they've you know
the rest is nihilism right I mean we
care but in this case it wasn't all of
it all of it and and there's also that
parallel we should also say and I'm
jumping ahead again but you wrote a
piece about you know the the 2018
primaries that talked about the the
d-triple-c coming in and basically you
know being at odds with with with local
folk running for office or trying to
recruit candidates and you know I
combined that that the the reporting you
did there with the the I think it was a
status Kotwal and Lena Putnam I think
I'm getting her name wrong I think and
there was one other person who did
similar research and they were the the
stories were similar well you know some
of it involved ideology but some of it
was just like hey we're the experts and
we come from you know Washington we know
what we're talking about and you're
gonna do what we say because also this
is this is our business like this is how
yeah you know we throw money to certain
consultants and then when I move on to
my next job they get me my next job or
they help me out or their social friends
I mean people experience this in their
real lives all the time it's just that
the stakes are a little bit less public
ye-yeah and the best example of that
would probably be Laura Moser in that
Texas primary because she was not a
Sergent leftist candidates you know she
was part of the resistance she launched
this daily action app that let people
make you know a single texture single
phone call a day to resist Trump
she was Pro Pelosi she was just a fairly
you know Liberal Democrat but her
husband worked for revolution messaging
the consulting firm that kind of worked
on the Bernie Sanders campaign which
meant that it was the black sheep of the
Democratic consulting world and when
they attacked her publicly then made it
then that you know this miss made big
news it was so strange that this
Democrat the d-triple-c was attacking
and Democrat publicly one of their most
significant takedown points of her was
that she had used her husband's
consulting firm for some for some work
which was just a hilarious charge for
the d-triple-c to may because the exec
executive director D triple C's wife was
at the time getting a bunch of contracts
from the d-triple-c and this is like
that's that's how the d-triple-c
right does that's not an anomaly that
that's just what you do
and the fact that they highlighted that
to me was a he was a tell that that it
was that it was about the consultants
but like you said this is she was not
using one of us this is a threat to the
you know if if revolution doesn't just
do Bernie Sanders campaign but starts
doing winning House campaigns then
that's a threat to the whole d-triple-c
consulting Nexus it said this is that's
an important I mean I think a thing for
people to keep in mind that it that you
know I think we tend as people who you
know follow politics and are engaged
because of ideological reasons presume
that everything is bait that that that
based on ideology when sometimes it's
just based on I just want
my friends to be able to get paid
because that means that I get paid at
one point and that is that's I think an
important thing to understand at least
in terms of when you're looking at this
stuff and it also like you know which is
gets back again to that sort of central
hinge of your of your reporting here in
this book is that where you get your
resources from ends up being a huge part
of every decision that that you're able
to make at any and any given point and
and I I don't want to skip too much over
the Dean era but in many respects he was
the one you know Jerry Brown tried it
but Dean in the Internet age it seems to
me built the framework for I'm not
saying he himself but the people on the
campaign built a framework for the small
donors and so many of the people that
influenced our politics today in some
way particularly on the left and the
more populous arguments came out of that
campaign right right and and he sits
with what you were talking about less
ideological yes fighting spirit like he
himself wasn't terribly progressives he
you know heard that way because he was a
he was anti-war is from Vermont he was
dr. who was into universal health care
and so you take those things together
and you're like this guy's probably
aggressive we've since learned that
that's not necessarily the case but he
was one of the few people who was
willing to willing to go right at Bush
when Bush was at the height of his more
popularity and so that that willingness
to fight is what is what gathered so
many people around him and I think yet
that like that's a big difference
between his campaign and Jackson's and
you know Jackson didn't have the ability
to translate all of the energy that
exploded around him
two small dollars that could then be
invested in in TV ads and building the
infrastructure of a national campaign
whereas whereas Dean did have that and
so it took him from a huge long shot of
a candidate to I don't the front-runner
and presumed nominee for a while and
there was a pack rat society wasn't
electable story well yeah I mean it's an
interesting story too I mean in so far
as the you know the there was intense
dislike of Dean on the on the campaign
bus as it were like the press didn't
like him there was that was where sort
of and again like you you know this
point can't be made enough dean is a
perfect example of this dean was rather
conservative at least you know from a
financial standpoint and as governor of
Vermont and the dislike the dislike for
him was in many respects like the fact
that his campaign was the birth of I
think like the amateur journalists and
the you know like the the activist
journalist that came with the blogs that
the press really hated at that time I
mean really yeah with a white-hot
passion right it's it's hard to quite
appreciate how much they hated bloggers
at that time I mean you can kind of
sense some of it just in the rhetoric
around them pajamas and their mom's
basement eating Cheetos but yeah they
they felt like and also you know it was
all bound up in the they felt the
collapse of the print journalism
industry and the most obvious and easy
is people to blame would be the bloggers
you know rather than you know Craigslist
and all the other you know threats to to
the print the print industry they saw
these people as the ones that were that
were driving them
driving the amount of business and just
a couple of punk kids I've had no idea
what they were doing as far as the press
was concerned and it wasn't even just
that from a business standpoint because
I don't even think they were aware of
what was happening from a business
standpoint it was a status thing like
you and I you you know
Marko's malicious but forget mark so
smelly malicious you I'm trying to think
of what nate silver's hey you know
handle was like Paco something or
something on you don't have the same
authority to talk about politics as I do
and the idea that you know people are
reading you know Atrios and you know
some guy whose name we don't even know
and you know are ik waiting you know
Atrios with me who works in the New York
Times disgusting like I mean it was
literally that type of like personal to
the point where people thought that
Atrios was Joe what's his for Joe Klein
I think it was because they because they
wanted to imagine like oh there's no way
just some some boob is writing with this
level of insight and right so that's
what happens going forward from there
and and that's where everything starts
to take off right like the blogs that
are empowered by Dean Dean was empowered
by the blogs in many respects and those
people start to infiltrate different
offices and the biggest I think sort of
like dynamic change from a politician
because of that seems to me you write
about is Harry Reid mmm-hmm yeah and I
had always gotten that sense and so it
was it was nice to be able to talk to
him about that and and kind of walk him
through it
without prompting him and and he said
yeah that he he saw he went to the first
yearly Coast Conference and he said he
said I didn't quite know what this whole
thing was about but I could tell that it
was it was going to be big that there
was energy around it it was some
new and important and I wanted to be on
the front end of it rather than you know
the middle or the end of it and then he
ends up yeah hiring people out of that
out of the blogosphere into his into his
office and they start using the office
of the majority leader actually as as in
a weaponized way that the left has
always said you know that that uh
political power should be should be
wielded bunch of those folks are now on
the on the Bernie Sanders campaign and
and read very much shifted left on a
whole host of issues you know through
his interactions with the with these
bloggers current staffers and I don't
think people understood like he was he
was the guy who I think during to the
extent that any Democrat takes
responsibility for protecting Social
Security during the obama use because i
think a lot of the credit frankly goes
to the freedom caucus because they just
wouldn't they could not make a deal to
even though you know they could not take
yes for an answer but to the extent that
anybody does i read not only changed and
and you write about in terms of marriage
equality ultimately and Don't Ask Don't
Tell repeal which people forget was
repealed less than ten years ago I guess
now he was also adamant about Social
Security and there was a conflict with
him and Joe Biden tell us about that one
mm-hmm oh yeah that was and that goes to
Biden's
you know professed you know calling card
we know he's talks about how he can work
with Republicans and you know there was
a particular moment after the 2012
election where all of the Bush tax cuts
were expiring because they had used
reconciliation which means your
legislation can only be in place for ten
years that's the
that's the you have to give to get the
50/50 vote threshold and so if Democrats
did nothing then all of the Bush tax
cuts would expire and so Reid was
driving a pretty hard bargain with
McConnell and as he told me in a later
interview that's because he actually
intended to go over the cliff and let
the tax rates go back up because then
his argument was now we're talking about
tax cuts because it taxi lives gone all
back to their original spot now okay he
want some tax cuts
let's talk tax cuts let's do it let's do
a middle-class tax cut and make it a
huge middle-class tax cut trillions of
dollars I'm good with that and McConnell
wouldn't have to be calling for a huge
tax cut for the rich and Reid felt like
especially with Obama's 2012 reelection
that they were in a good spot to argue
that and at the last minute he gets
yanked out of it by the White House and
they send in Joe Biden and Joe Biden in
like a day or two cuts a far worse deal
than McConnell had even already agreed
to like McConnell had already agreed
that taxes on everybody over 252 making
250 a year would go back up and they
were saying they were sorting out the
details from there and as we know Reid
was gonna let him go over and probably
wouldn't even know given him that much
but Biden comes in and basically wipes
out the estate tax and says that
everybody making 400 and above so
everybody between 250 and 400 gets they
get saved by basically like them Reid
was like I'm gonna sell you this car for
25 grand and Biden comes in so I'll take
care of this I'm gonna sell you this guy
for 22 grand McConnell had already said
well I'll take the car for 25 grand but
I
also want car stereo and Biden comes it
goes I'm gonna give you the car stereo
and I'm going to give you the confer 22
grand and some colonist reaches onto the
desk and take this three grand back
exactly so thanks okay
why did Biden do that so that's a good
question part of it is he's not very
good at his job I don't think he's late
he's very lazy like that's that's a big
knock on him another is that he spends a
lot of time with rich people and so to
him like maybe increasing taxes on
people on the on the 251st thousand
dollar that you make on a year what
seemed onerous we just loves striking
deals with mcconnell and republicans you
know and he also wasn't too concerned
about doing a lot legislatively so Reid
wanted one reason you know one reason
Reid wanted to bring in that extra
revenue is that they're in an era of a
pay go where all of the spending you
know had to be offset somewhere with
some sort of revenue increase or
elsewhere and so you know letting the
Bush tax cuts expire gives you a ton of
revenue that you can apply to new to new
spending programs so that and Reid want
to do that Biden the White House didn't
seem that they were very pessimistic
about their ability to get anything done
anything through Congress so they were
sort of what good is the revenue anyway
well yeah it's I asked to read that
exact question he said you'd have to ask
Joe all right well so that I mean that
that takes us up let's let's briefly you
know we're a little bit I appreciate
your hanging with me here so we go
through this and really in many respects
sander sanders starts his campaign as
as a as an issue campaign he does much
better than he thought that he would it
seems to me and it seems like somewhere
around January of 2017 or 2018 or 60
excuse me 16 he realizes like I could
win this but it's basically too late in
many respects right for him to you know
you needed to go back in time and have
had laid some groundwork you know
because winning a campaign is extremely
difficult but what comes out of this is
a huge mass of energy that gets
dispersed into different organizations
and different techniques of raising
money and it shows that someone can go
and raise money without having to have
corporate interests and let's just just
tell us a story about the Justice Dems
which came out of which is like I don't
know third generation or second
generation sort of Sanders people and
and what what decision they made that
ultimately proved to be the right one
yeah what was cool about this crew is
that a normal campaign wouldn't have
hired really any of them for the most
part but the Sanders campaign and Becky
bond was one of them talked to me about
this said that you know they they had a
real hard time hiring professional
campaigners and consultants because
anybody who worked for the Sanders
campaign was gonna be blacklisted a
Clinton dominated party going forward
you know Jeff Weaver came out of you
know he had gone to run a comic book
shop retired from politics and came back
to run the campaign and then this this
crew that gets into what what they end
up calling distributed organizing which
is basically taking the Sanders
volunteer army and putting them to work
doing you know door-knocking text
messaging house parties and you know
turning all that energy into voter
contacts that team is people like
a key bond and Zach actually both Zach
in particular was in full with
influential nadine campaign so like you
said like that varies a lot of the very
same people who were involved in the
beginning we are still doing a lot of
this today then you had Corbin Trent who
was a food truck food truck operator in
Tennessee and you had Troy Koch
Chakrabarty who left Silicon Valley he
was an engineer at stripe payment
processor he became he becomes like an
engineer for this team and then you had
movement people like Zach mallets and
Clair Sandberg who I come out of occupy
anti-globalization movement not not the
kind of typical like work for a campaign
you know work for a state legislative
campaign and then a congressional
campaign that has that a campaign that a
presidential and so because of that they
all thought very differently about how
to organize the campaign and they really
had only figured it out like you said by
January something like 85 to 90 percent
of the voter contacts that their
operation made and they made millions
tens of millions came after and after
January so it kind of too late for it to
work but in in 2016 then after that the
campaign is winding down they could go
out and they form this new group that
they call brand new Congress where
they're trying to elect 435 new members
and they they go to Janke Weger and they
say hey you think TYT would want to the
TYT viewers would want to support
something like this and he's like this
idea that you're gonna run Bernie style
candidates in the Republican primaries
is nice but it's crazy because yes the
economic populism works with Republican
voters but they'd have to be anti-choice
it has to be anti-gay like we're not
we're not supporting candidates like
that that's not going to work that's
crazy he's like now the Democrats all
right that that could work and so they
say well what if we what if we split it
up and and so they carved the Democrat
so how can call them justice Democrats
and Jake said okay that you know that we
can get behind and so he you know he
promoted them heavily on TYT and and TYT
guru kolinsky as well got involved in
that as well yeah yeah huge and and they
pumped more than two million dollars you
know to kind of get them off the ground
and then their idea that they were gonna
run these candidates in every district
you know did didn't pan out they wound
up with several dozen and then all those
several dozen most of them were
struggling and so they they pivoted at
the end said listen you know let's pick
one and go all-in and they and they
picked Ocasio Cortes and then she you
know remained loyal to a lot of the two
to the idea and so you know her victory
speech that night talking about Ayanna
presley and cory bush and so they so
they ended up winning kinda presley cory
bush they did not and so they so they
going for 435 I guess they wound up with
a couple know they had also gotten in
behind people like where she had to
leave Manila Han Omar in blue districts
but yeah so this was without the Sanders
campaign you absolutely do not get
brand-new Congress or Justice Democrats
and you don't get because you Cortes oh
of course ourselves was and in many
respects that ends up being a very smart
decision right I mean to get her in ends
up having you know the that's a one
pound for pound that ends up being of
exponential win there yeah so okay so
ultimately where do you anticipate
things going right now I mean because
the idea is and I know that you've
described this as aspirational the end
of big money and I you know I heard you
talk at a a book talk and if anybody has
the opportunity to go see it say it's a
don't miss book talk I should say but
where does that lead now because we've
got Joe Biden does not represent that
right we have many of the candidates who
were struggling who started off like I'm
not going to take it does well like
maybe he is the end of big money I mean
think about imagine you're the you're
the donor class and you've already lost
control of the Trump wing of the
Republican Party and you're clinging
you're clinging to your relevance in the
in the Democratic Party and the man that
you're putting out onto the field of
battle in this in this climactic final
clash between the donors class and and
regular activists your horses Joe Biden
there's there's something symbolic in
that like it's it's representative of
the the weak position that the donor
class finds itself in that but this is
who they're who they're going to ride
into into the final battle but like I
said like if if voters Democratic voters
decide that he is the electable one and
then he's the smart choice to be Trump
and it will be less the big-money and
more more that that punditry that voters
engage in that will put him over the top
I think the only way that he stopped as
if voters decide that actually he's not
electable that he's a lousy campaigner
that that he can't he can't take a
political punch and that and that Trump
would actually you know manhandle him in
the in the general election if that if
voters decide that then I think they
start looking at some other options how
much are and we're sort of pivoting off
of the of the book a little bit here but
how much are the campaign's like you
know I mean sure there was obviously a
push the past week or two it's hard to
know which of these campaigns are out
there sort of like actively making life
miserable for for Joe Biden but I got to
imagine that you know last week I think
was what you know the worst week that
Biden has had politically since he
basically was picked by Barack Obama to
be his running mate and it was where he
you know had to reverse a position that
he had held for 40 years after two days
of criticism and say well it's because
of the Republican ain't I like it was a
pretty lame cover story actually a piece
of the piece the book rocked him back a
little bit - there was a I pulled up a
few quotes from him in this in the 70s
talking about you know I'm not I'm not
responsible for what my ancestors did
300 years ago you know this is you know
it's not it's not the white man's
problem - you know he shouldn't have to
give anything up because of you know
what happened so long in the past and
then he said you know the two-party
system is clearly gonna be good for the
negro in the south right which is after
the Southern Strategy like Nixon was
already employing
others the Republic the second party
strategy was to be more racist than the
current party and so it was a it was
that was a skeptical no no I was a
dubious claim to make at the time and
has not been borne out at all so then
you know that that kind of started him
off and then and then he followed up
with this item Edmond faceplant which
which like like that like if you're
the electable guy you can show that
you're good at getting elected well that
is like the meta story right because
with him it's all the meta story and so
every time he backs off a position it
shows weakness like there hasn't been
another candidate as far as I know that
has had to back off a position yet or at
least so publicly anyways and he had to
do that because it it suggested that he
had some weakness and when when that
starts to come out it becomes
self-perpetuating I think
right and if he loses let's say he loses
in Iowa that's that it's worse for him
than it is for anybody else right
because like you said like his whole
thing is that he's a winner
and and he should win the nomination
because he's a winner and he will beat
Trump but if you don't win in Iowa and
you don't have anything else then it
starts to fall in on itself you at the
book talk you had an interesting
assessment of Warren and Sanders in and
how you sort of you know come around a
little bit on on Sanders and and people
should understand that Elizabeth Warren
for people our generation I'm older than
you but our generation in terms of like
civic engagement in politics you know at
least professionally Elizabeth Warren
came out of nowhere and deftly not only
like fought off Republicans but also
fought off Democrats as well who were
hesitant to allow her to have so much
authority which in many respects she
sort of just like finagled in creating
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
just give me your your sense of how your
assessment of both those candidates and
senators has evolved yeah the irony is
that the centrist Twitter crowd is just
caught it calls me a Bernie bro
relentlessly with which is ironic given
what you said in that our generation you
know we watched you know we wanted
someone to be you know to have that
fighting spirit and to recognize that
one of the problems with Democrats is
that they weren't fighting hard enough
for what they believed and weren't and
and so she comes in and you know her
famous quote to the Huffington Post
about the the CFPB she was like you know
asked asked about compromising a
particular element of it and she said my
first choice is a strong
independent CFPB and my second choice is
for the Senate floor to be covered in
blood and teeth and that was her that
was her attitude that was her approach
and this was you know she's talking on
the record he's not is not her aide
giving a background quote and every time
that they would try to weaken the CFPB
you know she would push back and there'd
be there'd be public outrage over it and
they would back off the attempts to
neuter it and the fact that it got
through it all is remarkable the fact
that it got through with a single you
know independent director and and
funding that can't be cut off by
Congress's is truly remarkable and so we
saw her doing that sort of thing going
after Tim Geithner in public calling out
you know Democrats and Republicans and
at the same time didn't see Sanders
involved in much in the like post 2009
Obama era fight you know he you know he
ironically the thing he got pounded the
most for in the in the 2016 primary is
one time suggesting that somebody should
primary Obama you know out of
frustration over Obama's kind of deficit
hawkish Ness right in the 2011 2011
period but you know he that was you know
it wasn't like he was an Elizabeth
Warren it was constantly pushing him so
he got the worst of all worlds like he
didn't he wasn't really in it but then
he also got you know punished badly for
it in the primary because Obama remained
so so popular
Bernie's credit he got some significant
money for community health centers in in
the Affordable Care Act
he got an audit the Fed bill through
with Ron Paul but but beyond that he was
kind of like a non-factor he didn't use
his position either to leverage media
attention to progress of fight he didn't
organize progressives in the Senate and
to form a block to try to leverage
took one of most important fights during
that time was blocking larry summers
from being Fed chair yeah god knows what
calamity the world was saved from by
Jeff Merkley and Elizabeth Warren now
organizing progressive resistance to him
and enforcing Obama to drop to them and
so for people like like me we watched or
was weren't doing all this and then we
see Sanders presidential campaign taking
off we're like where's this coming from
and so it did take me a while to
recognize that kind of in spite of what
Sanders had done before
and also partly because of his
consistency and what he'd been saying
for so long as his and his the
disengagement that I didn't like was a
disengagement that also gave him an
authenticity because he wasn't part of
the system and so it took me a while to
come rally I did a real movement had
formed around him and that he himself
was start beginning to recognize that
and that he was know he stopped seeing
himself as a gadfly and saw himself more
as an actual political actor who who was
now on the world stage and had a chance
to actually succeed in making some
transformative change and so thing is it
hard for a lot of you of my generation
him to make that turn and to receive a
new Sanders compared to the old one
right I mean it really in many respects
was like that you know where he realized
and you know January of 2016 like oh my
gosh I did you know like I entered in as
doing a issue campaign
my understanding is he got in when he
got in because he wanted to make sure
that Warren wasn't gonna run and he
really pushed her hard to run and she
didn't do it she didn't do it in 20 and
that and that cycle right so he jumped
in to talk about wealth inequality and
then realize that this really could
resonate yeah and it also helps explain
why Warren ultimately didn't endorse him
because she liked Sanders they
both thought that he was in there to
raise the issues like I mean he was in
there to raise the issues and so if
you're in there to raise the issues yeah
they both thought they was there
exclusively to raise the issues not to
win right and right she wanted to be
able to maintain I mean the the the
power there right right because her
holds her whole game was that she and
she talked to Hillary twice probably
about this thing like you know I'm gonna
go to war with you over your personnel
choices like if you try to if you try to
stack your cabinet with what with Wall
Street types then I'm gonna do
everything I can you know in the Senate
to block them but I also want to be
constructive and I'll give you names of
people who who I think would be good
regulators and so Willis we can do this
one of two ways
and so she was trying to keep some
channel open between her and and Hillary
I think in hindsight Hillary should have
told her go ahead endorse Bernie because
then when she ultimately beat Bernie you
know have have Warren on stage endorsing
her after having endorsing Bernie it
would have had more credibility to it
well we could lie could we could drop a
long list of what a shudders when it
comes to Clinton's campaign just I think
nom frankly taken Warren as her running
mate would have been a smart move and my
understanding is that Warren was
interested in that as well but Ryan grim
it's it's fascinating there's so much to
be learned and the thing that I love
about this is that you know and I would
imagine even to some extent it would
have even more value to listeners is to
be able to compare what I perceived was
happening during throughout this era and
you know as recently as months ago
almost versus you know what deep
reporting tells me what's happening is
very important so that people can have
like a really clear diet assessment of
what's going on
and and what are the forces here it this
stuff is it's really fascinating and it
the reporting is impeccable and I
appreciate you coming on and telling us
about it alright that's nice you say
thank you alright we're gonna put a link
up at majority dot F M the book is we've
got people Ryan grim thanks again Ryan
talk to you soon thank you Mike check it
out folks honestly really and I haven't
gotten through all of it it's a long
book but really just really well
reported and just sort of fascinating to
fill in large gaps that we have in our
understanding of of history that we have
lived through because even when you read
these reports contemporaneously there's
so much that comes at you to be able to
sort of basically you know have a
compilation of all this reporting and
see it deeply reported with the the the
the value of 20/20 hindsight and going
back and asking more questions that were
left open during the contemporaneous
reporting it really is interesting and
you know important to understand as we
go forward I mean I've had people who
ask me I mean this is not directly
related to this but we did touch on it
what's the best way to argue against
Biden to people and the the the best way
is I don't think he can win like III
could he could win but I don't think he
could win I mean they you know like I
would say I would say risky risky choice
making an electability argument well my
whole point about not making an
electability argument is that Joe Biden
for the most part comes in first I am
making not an electability argument I'm
making an unelectable 'ti argument with
and it's well yes it is the argument I'm
not making a non electability argument
I'm suggesting I'm
I'm generating an electability
propaganda I mean I gotta meet people
where they are right if the majority of
people care about electability it's time
to build a case for his unelect ability
I would agree with that and Thomas
Thomas Piketty actually published a
pretty interesting paper or some
findings last year that the Democratic
Party of course ignored and he analyzed
a ton of data from not just from the US
but from countries in Europe saying that
actually a centrist candidate is an
incredibly risky choice in this day and
age yeah I I mean I I think framing it
in the context of ideology I mean is for
a Biden supporter is a mistake because I
they clearly are not open to that which
is why they've settled on Biden
I think they it's more of like he's all
over the place
he doesn't campaign hard he's not the
guy that that people think he is he's
taking a lot of time off I mean one
thing you could say about Trump is he
certainly loves the campaign Biden
already seems worn out it's only a
couple of weeks in I would also say that
honestly like to have to to to reverse
yourself on such a major issue so early
you know like like to be forced to do so
suggests to me that he doesn't have a
good sense of where he fits in
politically and that may be a big
liability in the general Bhaskar wrote a
good piece for the Guardian but the
title was if you care about beating
Trump attack Biden I think is it good
yeah that blueprint yeah I think so I
mean six months ago the problem with
making the electability argument is that
you end up creating Biden right well the
origin somebody historical conditions
change I wish it yeah data if you have a
ton of charts and graphs like the
pickety report does I mean I don't know
if these people are gonna look at them
but at least you have something to offer
rather than a hunch yeah but I don't
think that people responded
I mean most people I just think that
like you know it is which is awesome as
part of our new no dad on the show Paulo
no no George damnit of well but I'm
talking I'm talking the the the people
who listen to this show care about
ideology they care about policies for
the for the most part and they are less
likely to be people like I don't care
what Joe Biden stands for I just think
he's definitely gonna win and mmm how
you how you argue with those people is
different than how you argue with with
others it seems to me she way but that
could be your follow-up book arguing
with others by Sam cedar that was
actually in fubar but I could bring that
around how do something to that effect I
like how how to lose friends and
alienate people yes folks just reminder
this program relies on your support you
can become a member by going to join the
majority report com everyday maybe every
other day some days you listen to this
show you wonder how is it that it just
shows up like this well it's because of
our members and you can be one of them
for just pennies a day join the majority
report dot-com also just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off
today is Monday tomorrow will be Tuesday
Michael what will happen Tuesday night
very full show tomorrow night
Bhaskar soon Cara and Ben Burgess circa
both going to be in studio we're talking
about the ABCs of socialism the Finland
model the Finnish model we'll probably
talk about some electoral stuff in the
beginning of the show it'll be a shorter
interview but Glenn Greenwald is going
to be on to talk about this intercept
report on the loo law case which is
jaw-dropping I think probably mean
definitely one of the most important
stories in the world today but no
collusion oh actually yes literal
collusion oh if they if there was this
type of that law I don't get it I did
what any way I please
if time
permits we might touch on some other
things I will say that but it is going
to be focused on this story primarily
because this is one of the most
important stories happening the world at
this moment basically validating
everything that people like me have been
saying in a very disturbing way all of
that tomorrow I will just make a really
brief plug I'm very proud of the illicit
video histories we do which are for
patrons for comrade or both patrons and
then are unlocked and the first one that
is available on a YouTube channel is on
the Jesse Jackson campaign and rainbow
coalition which goes very nicely with
Grimm's interview as told by Bill
Fletcher Jr who worked on that campaign
patreon.com slash T mb/s Michael Brooks
show on YouTube thanks Jamie so Ben
Burgess did such a good job when Michael
had him on the majority report that we
had him on the anti Fattah this past
weekend and we talked about all kinds of
things why the left needs logic and
should not cede that territory to torps
like ben shapiro who aren't even good at
logic why Marx was a super messy
who loved drama but that did not take
away from the correctness of any of his
arguments I talked a little bit about my
run-in with an Elon Musk fanboy and we
also talked with Ben in a bonus that's
going to be up for patrons about the
YouTube controversy with you know steven
crowder homophobia whatnot and lots of
other stuff so check it out also I
cannot recommend enough history is a
weapon the last two-parter that Sean
matted on the 1970s I think it's a
really good companion to a lot of what
you talked about today with Ryan grim
and sort of the overarching political
economic and social reasons for the
neoliberal turn of the 1970s and it's
got consequences that are still with us
today so check it out Matt
the fun games have begun
yeah literary hangover had its one-year
birthday actually
hello congratulate me and we zoomed over
200 patrons mainly because people that
really want these this Orwell are series
I'm doing on the works of the essays of
George Orwell the nonfiction okay there
you go and it's definitely the way to go
yeah and have begun yeah okay and and so
yeah we did such such were the joys
which we talked a little bit about how
Orwell's dad made his money he was sort
of a upper-middle class because he
worked for the opium trade and that's
that yeah so he got to see that part of
empire and we talked about or well at
preparatory school and how he's bei
basically lies about and libels some of
his teachers in order to pursue
education reform so he's a good role
model here's a quote and you sir you're
a pretender why don't you remember where
that came it was that I remember now
this sounds like Michael Cohen sorta
alright quick break six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty see you in
the fun
for it all right folks six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty see you in
the fun
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man alpha males
are back back I love my alpha males are
back back back
almost has one
I am a total can we bring back the
eg dinnertime song yeah or a couple of
you put them in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break have
Markinson and the alpha males psych
Oh almost says what what
on the back
on the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
because
clocked alpha male
Oh
about there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100
happy birthday to me Jew boy
I have a thought expand to foil the
alpha males of alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price request
below I am a total
there you have it one reminded me of the
context I a parent that whole sketch was
apparently Nation of Islam Obama's going
on a rant about something and in the
middle apparently he goes he goes and by
the way why some and rush he's still
walking around those were the days
I heard salmon Rushdie's former security
crew has been protecting dave rubin
lately i mean when you think about it
can be called stupid a twitter and
having the Ayatollah of rond same thing
these could let hippies the Colette
Colette is like the BB the Ron guards
how does it feel to issue a fatwa on
someone well I mean I didn't realize you
know I know the unprotected class people
will accuse me of being part of you know
an ultra Iran apologist here but though
I don't speak for us I've heard that if
you translate the fought so uh correctly
it's I challenge you to a debate debate
me and they said of the Satanic Verses
this is not even an argument Adam Adam
it's an a Dom it actually is a very ad
hominem book very good book for the
viruses don't care about your feelings I
think actually from hiding yeah I only
talked about Bill Maher in a long time
but let's do he had on his panel Katey
Porter she is the California
congresswoman who is a disciple of
Elizabeth Lawrence and who has been
tearing it up one of the congresswoman
of the new freshman class who've been
tearing
in hearings particularly in her issue
silo you don't want to be a banker and
go in front of her committee even if
you're prepared I just think that you
just don't want to I think the best
thing you could do is if you're a banker
and that can be good like you know what
I'm actually leaving the business in
next week so I agree with you but here
is bill maher getting a bit of a taste
of that there is you know this putting
aside ideology this is indicative of
what we were talking about with Ryan
grim a little bit to sort of these one
of the elements of what we're seeing
from Democrats the sort of new era of
Democrats is that they know their base
of support comes from their voters not
just in terms of the the votes but in
terms of resources and they have more
latitude in the way that they can fight
for things in fact there's a greater
expectation that they will fight and we
see this out of a congressman who I
don't know that we would have seen from
her mind a congresswoman from a Congress
man either just you know five or six
years ago look I am pro-choice but I
mean I'm a little squishy and always
have been because they told my mother
after my sister very difficult birth she
shouldn't have another one so knowing
that I could have been on the cutting
room floor
but I get it as long as it's still in
you you your mom made her choice yes
we're all here with consequences of that
choice
we got we got a lot on the lot here
god bless her for having you I'm sure it
wasn't easy but the point is she and
your father and she made her choice
again I'm not arguing what you're
pretending I'm arguing for all of you on
this Katey Porter at the next Jeffrey
Ross Rose exactly can everybody agree
though that whatever you think of Bill
Maher total
rabbi right everybody this is a weird
defense of of forced pregnancy that like
I wouldn't be here if my mother had
aborted me he's just being a weird
contrarian and that's the thing with all
these free speech edge lords is they can
dish it out but they absolutely cannot
take it it that is absolutely true
smoking pot hasn't been edgy since the
90s bill well that's part of the problem
I think like you know once pockets
legalized in California like now no one
cares that you smoke pot and talk about
it got up there it's like dude you we
get like you support some progressive
taxation except global warming system
smokes pot it's literally ID in like
2002 right it's like it's like Crowder
on Ash Wednesday it's like look at me
I've got a bottle of whiskey let's go
honey to the phones she is pretty fine
uh calling from a 509 area code look who
got in the top of the list today I think
hey Pam yes I was right hello Ronald
Reagan how are you good Hey
as you know I'm something of a legal
scholar I am aware that you you've
you're a lawyer and that you know about
a lot of legal stuff but yes I don't
know
though her that you're a scholar but now
you know right and one of the things I
like to do is to look back and read like
old Supreme Court decisions like the
ones that got really wrong in order to
sort of contemplate this idea that at
the time the most brilliant legal minds
often fell short of what we would
consider sort of basic human decency or
even common sense today okay this is an
exercise to sort of be reflective and to
examine your own sort of hidden in plain
sight biases like what might they be
right right so as an example in 1871 in
Bradwell V Illinois the Supreme Court
considered an Illinois law that
prohibited women from practicing law and
the Supreme Court didn't even really
consider it a gender discrimination case
because like they didn't even think of
that as a thing and just as Bradley and
a concurring opinion said quote the
paramount destiny and mission of women
are to fulfill the noble and benign
offices of wife and mother this is the
law of the Creator and the rules of
civil society must be adapted in the
general Constitution things and so he
said it was perfectly legitimate for a
legislature to ordain what offices
positions and calling shall be filed and
discharged by men so that's terrible
right and in a in a famous case in 1927
buck V Bell the Supreme Court upheld a
mandatory sterilization law in Virginia
and this is the case where Justice
Holmes famously held that quote three
generations of idiots is enough and
actually the full quote is we have seen
more than once that public welfare may
call upon the best citizens for their
lives it would be strange if it could
not call upon those who already sapped
the strength of the state for these
lesser sacrifices often not felt to be
such by those concerned in order to
prevent our being swamped
with incompetence it is better for all
the world if instead of waiting to
execute degenerate offspring for crimes
or to let them starve for their
imbecility society can prevent those who
are manifestly unfit from continuing
their kind
now that's indices I'm thirty-five so
yeah that's terrible so now that quote
of Justice Holmes is sort of shocking to
our modern minds but I think as Jill
Rogen definitely pointed out the other
day there's still a strong current of
anti idiot sentiment that continues to
flow through our modern discourse its
way in ways that can't finish yeah in
ways that are virtually imperceptible
and I fear that one day we will sound as
offensive as the cases that I've just
cited so you know if you think about it
if you think about it dumb people face a
lot of the same challenges that other
protect protected classes do so
sometimes if you're a woman you might
not get hired because you're a woman and
if you're a black you might not get
hired because you're a black but think
of how often dumb people aren't hired
because they're dumb I mean that happens
yes without doubt I I would suggest that
happens a lot and you know Dave Rubin
you know blesses bless his heart he's
obsessed with ideas because he literally
just found out about the idea of ideas
and so he's it's all new really excited
about it it's all new to him and so you
know when he says he doesn't understand
how he could possibly be serving as an
introductory conduit to right-wing
extremism it's because he literally
doesn't know what any of those words
mean and I'm just afraid that you're
dunking on Dave Rubin in the way Oliver
Wendell Holmes was dunking on imbeciles
and that in 30 years I'm going to have
to explain to my grandchildren how I
Ronald Reagan could have been such an
active participant in such an ugly show
and you know so again you're going to
say this would be this is ridiculous but
if you sat down with Justice Holmes at
the time he would have said the same
thing so you know I just been just up to
my eyeballs and really big ideas yeah
now I think we do have I'm glad you
called in for this Sam my Robert where
we move forward here because I have a
sense that maybe what we're about to do
is not going to reflect Reagan's lessons
but maybe we should consider how we want
to be viewed by history before we
proceed all right
well all right so with that said in
Ronald Reagan we're gonna we're gonna
address your comments and I appreciate
your making them and I appreciate the
spirit in which you made them thank you
for your call so one of our callers has
called in and has suggested that it's
perhaps down the road we may look back
or history may judge us for taking Dave
Rubin to task because of is what other
people have deemed cognitive liabilities
or limitations by abilities a very
outfit thing but here's the thing now
and here is apparently someone on
Twitter did a physical representation of
what with Joe Wright Rogan was
describing we turn the sound up on this
- here it is dave rubin and sam cedar
dunking on them all time it's kind of
the same thing yeah okay so I wish I
could like I'm a bi I gave video frames
just so that I can put that on my I'm on
my wall in my apartment but people
should understand that to the extent
that what we engage in here and dunking
on Dave Rubin it is not because Dave
Rubin is not smart there are millions of
people who are not smart in fact
there's so many people who are not smart
we could do the show for infinity and
not cover every not smart thing and in
fact that would also argue that to the
extent that I think I'm smart or other
people here are smart we all have areas
in which we're not smart in and the the
thing to do at that point is to do one
of two things if you're going to speak
to an audience of people particularly a
large audience it is to educate yourself
and when we talk about Dave Rubin not
being smart it really is a second-order
issue that I have with Dave Rubin
because that's just his inability to
execute what I think is a very cynical
game plan or show or whatever you want
to call it I mean for a long time Dave
Rubin sold himself as being of the left
and he would list his credentials he
would list them I am a gay man married
to another man I am against the death
penalty I am pro-choice I am for
single-payer health insurance then he
would say but you know I'm also for
limited government that identification
of himself was fundamental to the
premise of his project which was to
expose how the left had gone off the
rails I'm left but the left has gone off
the rails now many of you have already
understood what was highly problematic
about the list which he would make about
his credentials one is that his problem
with the left having gone off the rails
as they became all about identity
politics
yet he brandishes himself as a gay
married man as credentials to talk about
how the left has gone off the rail with
identity politics but you can see how
that is problematic that's where the
credibility comes that's also one
element the other element is the biggest
expansion of government that is almost
impossible to contemplate in this day
and age and really perhaps for decades
as measured by dollars as measured as a
portion of the economy as measured by
really the the benefits that would
accrue to people or if you're afraid of
it you know the the horrors would be
single-payer health insurance to say in
the same breath I am for single-payer
health insurance and I believe in
limited government is essentially to say
I don't know anything of what I'm
talking about
in fact that saying I'm going to
critique the left for a political
phenomenon and I want to be upfront I
don't know anything about politics that
would actually be a more legitimate
statement than saying I am going to
critique the left on their politics and
I am for single-payer and and limited
government the the you're talking about
one-quarter of the US economy you're
talking about three trillion dollars a
year in in spending taxation if that's
the way you want to do it I presume and
to it wasn't until he started to get
pushback that he changed his story and
he just vaporized this
our healthcare and just went on about
you know it's limited the number of
things that qualified him as being of
the left and and as he attracted more of
a right-wing audience he became
squishier on pro-choice things because I
Got News for you
there's nothing about the biology of it
that has changed nothing not even on an
ideal level no and and then people you
know he started to hear some of the
critique of like you and he's now
threatening the New York Times
apparently with a some type of lawsuit
because they pictured him in the story
about someone's traveling through a you
tube to the alt-right gotta make a very
quick slide point let me let me just
finish this the critique of Rubin is
that he is a gateway to the alt-right
and the only time he's actually listened
to that critique is when quill at which
ostensible II was one of his biggest fan
clubs pointed out that like you on
multiple times have had people who are
completely out there like for instance
stefan molyneux who is you know talking
about race and IQ and about leaving your
family and that women make bad choices
and that's why we have bad offspring and
strange right-wing all try - stuff and
you have them on your show and you talk
about the two of you representing the
new center you are using an imprimatur
of being a liberal leftist whatever you
know whatever on any you've evolved in
terms of what the nomenclature is based
upon premise that is completely wrong
and then basically tell your audience of
who knows you know how many hundreds of
thousands a million audience whatever it
is this guy's just he's in the center
these ideas of race and IQ these ideas
that he espoused he's in the center
and you don't listen to that critique
although apparently let's put this up on
apparently in fact you realize that
there is a certain liability you have
about this and if you're gonna sue
somebody if you're gonna sue somebody
for saying that you're a gateway to the
alright maybe I should go back and
change some of the titles of my pieces
so a stefan molyneux race and IQ which
lived up there for how many years oh
gosh I should I can find it it's an old
video yeah for a couple years turns into
stefan molyneux on controversies like he
would invite people on who were
controversial okay if you want to be and
then ask them about nothing that has to
do with their controversy about how
crazy the left is yeah what's going on
in their brains yeah why can't we left
have this conversation and so how do
they do center and so the idea that you
do stuff like this and we point out like
he's bad at this it's almost as like he
has no idea what he's talking about and
he's just reacting to sort of like the
business climate for him at different
times which i imagine you know everybody
does on some level whether it's like
consciously or unconsciously you know if
every time we did a dave rubin story it
was a total dud on youtube i imagine we
would do maybe a little less you know I
mean if I said like let's do this clip
of Reuben and Matt said no one's gonna
watch it well I feels I don't think I
might do it but I would never say no but
I try to explain to people why we know
it's you Glenn Beck clips anymore I
don't see any Glenn Beck clips anymore
but I mean certainly we do stuff that we
know people are not gonna watch that's
the truth and that's about policy stuff
but but the bottom line is like that
seems to be the only directive that Dave
Rubin has and some
tweeted out I'll see if I can find this
and I thought it was a really smart
tweet which was can't quite find it now
but it was just someone tweeted at me
saying something to the effect of like
Sam and others like YouTube people like
ben shapiro whatever they understand
that this is where generation Z or
Millennials or they get their politics
like this is where they get it now and
that these fights are important and they
are important and I am certainly willing
to contend with any of these people on
the level of policy and intellect and as
if we're in an Oxford debating Club
although I don't necessarily want to do
the Oxford style debate because I think
that's a little bit alienated but I'm
also going to mix in some stuff like you
know Wow laughing at it because I think
it's ridiculous some of these stuff
what's Brett Weinstein's brother's name
when it's Eric Arwen's
Eric our Weinstein who is a person that
it has a reputation of being the
opposite of cognitively limited thought
that he was scoring a significant point
by pointing out that the New York Times
had done a positive profile of the IDW
about a year ago which is of course the
Barry Weiss piece and then this piece
that they just published on how people
get indoctrinated into hate and YouTube
and then just by using data
visualization you're gonna see IDW
figures in the algorithm process that's
not editorial that's math facts
quantitative rights the stuff these guys
are harping on constantly so but I just
thought that was very illustrative of
how in the process of making this
incredibly disingenuous point he's
showing that like an intellectual
subculture that is bill
a brand on making these really basic
rigorous distinctions is not even able
to basically distinguish between a
friendly editorial profile and a
journalistic piece that used data
visualization to talk about an algorithm
and I mean I would say you know the
algorithms actually care about your
feelings very much and that's a big part
of what the problem is here yeah yeah
you found that okay it's Brandon Knapp
apparently he is like he does like CNN's
like a social maybe I'm not a news
associate and I imagine he's younger guy
who realizes that like you know is that
cable news realize that you know it's a
lot of what's happening is happening on
online and he goes mostly political
dialogue for millennial men is taking
place on YouTube these days youtubers
like Rogan seeder Shapiro etc our
millennial political thought shapers not
Washington journalists or cable news
pundits understanding this phenomena is
in essential and that's basically you
know like why we pay more attention to
this stuff than we did three or four
years ago when I started it was
basically we would look at what was on
Fox News and stuff and maybe rush
limbaugh and then like basically there's
been a pronounced shift to online yeah
and and and part of it was a function of
when Michael and old Matt would do
Mondays and I've told the story a
million times and Matt would say like
hey I want to interview you know some
guy who's like a men's rights activist
I'm like oh dude that's not politics or
Michael's gonna a debate sargon of akkad
and I'm like what the hell is going on
with people and we were like Sam we're
interviewing the future policy head
coordinators for you Kip and the next
Republican administration right
yes we're can batting the future just we
will play this this hopefully somewhat
significant role at YouTube they will
literally be setting policies in fashion
apart just whatever guys go have fun and
one point you realize like oh this is
where this is happening and frankly it
is you know it's also understanding
one's limitations right and if I had the
ability to go out and impact a you know
thirty million people by some other
medium I would probably do that but to
the extent that I have a certain skill
set and a certain platform this is where
it makes sense for me to fight I do we
grow one thing about my debate with
Sargon which it's weird it's it's like
recycling again people are starting to
watch it again and comment on it I was
too respectful you have no idea what the
customs are no ha I had no idea what the
customs were in a Cod the funny thing
about ink to establish a certain rapport
yeah I couldn't you know it was still in
that phase where I knew all this stuff
was important and I knew it was
but I still had like a part of me that
was like I mean there's no way it's just
this it was nice to find our house it
was it was someone analogous actually to
the your block debate because it was
like I know this is ludicrous and I know
that this at the end of the day these
arguments just aren't historically forms
and they don't work but there has to be
something going on here that there's so
much heat around it right right yeah you
keep saying we just yeah oh here comes
he's they're about to drop some like and
it's it never comes more ridiculous now
we know from talking to Ben Burgess at
the very least that if you insult
somebody that does not necessarily
invalidate your argument and that does
not in and of itself constitute an ad
hominem argument yes go and I didn't
call him Carl of Swindon well it's the
funny thing about France but about that
debate was how everyone thought I was
ducking Sargon's audio so you can talk
over his spirits but really I was just
scrolling my phone on Twitter while you
guys like bet bicker at each other and
Skype and Skype and so I feel like days
after that I got Sargon people like what
sabotage the way I know Tory's about and
I you know I think obviously when you go
into a category with somebody's identity
it brings up a whole different set of
questions what I mean amazing that these
people want to have a rhetoric about
like it would be respectful and lied I
mean a Matt and I were harassed by some
of the most disturbed sad people in
human existence and the entire history
of our species for weeks because of a
conspiracy theory about a Skype
connection which apparently this Skype
connection would have allowed Sargon to
define a term that he refused to do it's
oddly reminiscent of her more recent
debate we had yes there are there are
these things do seem to run in tandem we
got into it with stefan molyneux just a
few days ago oh no did not and via the
anti Fattah twitter accounts to fund
mullah news did a tweet he said if you
promote multiculturalism without
promoting objective rationality you set
the stage for civil war so we said and I
quote if you promote white nationalism
while promoting your personal brand you
set the stage for a milkshake and then
he tweeted back and he said a communist
threatening assault not breaking any
stereotypes I see and then we said a
classical liberal evolving into a
quote-unquote race realist same and he
corrected us on calling him a classical
liberal but not on race realist there
you go there you go and like if you look
at the parallel construction of the
first two tweets in that exchange right
if he says that we are literally
threatening him with a milkshake is he
not threatening us with civil war and
the first one like I just feel like
those two things that's what civil war
will not stain your outfit that's the
different socks don't care about your
feelings we will fight the South the
milkshake is really really upsetting to
people yeah Dave Weigel did a great do a
dual screen shot tweet of Sam Harris
basically like with some maudlin I don't
remember but
Ultra melodrama about milk shaking which
I'll be the first to confess I don't
really have a strong feeling about one
way or another but like the type of high
melodrama not like hey I don't think
this is conducive but like oh this is
Orchestra this is like enacting an
assassination something just off the
truck auditions Harris said it and then
what Weigel juxtaposed that with in
defense of torture and just all right
exactly like seven literally reenacted
an assassination of the leader of
Japan's Socialist Party like a few
months ago with a sword well that was
the event that proceeded to be round
yeah I did that and that was a horrific
thing happen a live television a young
ultra far-right nationalist put a sword
through the gut of the Japanese
communist party leader while he was on
television nah man it's such a pretty
thing he did a milkshake him yeah
because then that would encourage other
people to milkshake and then yeah that
could lead to someone being killed I'm
not saying that there weren't some bad
noises however I think that before he
got sorted he was denying the unique
contribution of the Sun Emperor said Sam
Harris Japanese nasty remember all that
faux assassination that would go on back
in Shakespearean times where they would
throw tomatoes at the actors well I was
watching Sex in the City with my
girlfriend actually and there's a lot of
faux assassinations where drinks get
thrown onto is that right such a violent
show that would be so awesome
well some girls just like finally fed up
with all your why raise a glass
of water I do you like so now you're
sending a signal to everybody here I
could be killed there's a reason why I
won't i won't show saul three stooges
because of all the assassinations that
take place with the pie that's what
radicalize Lee Harvey Oswald yeah Three
Stooges is a pretty sadistic show I
think
do you have to actually get a make a
note for myself to start showing solve
Three Stooges what is this this is a
blaze a woman for the blaze yeah okay so
here is a blaze correspondent who is
as far as I can tell is not being
metaphorical here I mean we've talked
about how some people say that that
milkshakes are a metaphor or somehow
like a diagram or like an implication of
assassination I'm not quite sure that's
the case
but I am down for some type of
restricting who can get milkshakes maybe
some type of background check when you
go to McDonald's but let's move from the
metaphorical realm to the less
metaphorical realm and that is blaze
correspondent Lauren Chen is upset with
Teen Vogue for railing against forced
pregnancies and most recently and in my
opinion upsettingly there is this piece
as well just a few days ago Teen Vogue
released this article which detailed how
to get an abortion if you're a teen
without your parents knowing
I honestly find it really really hard to
defend what the West has become
sometimes just on principle I think
right now a crusade may be exactly what
we need
all right well just let's get let's just
catch people are caught up for the news
and we put up the definition of the
Crusades just so that people can see
exactly what we're talking about here
these were religious wars that took
place in the first couple hundred years
of the new millennium or the last
millennium and it was basically uh some
Christian on Muslim action a lot of
people died because they used swords and
other instruments and what's super weird
about the West where is she thinking
that there are like
who's she talking about now she talking
about like she thinks that we should
have Muslims attack Christians I'm not I
don't quite follow I mean in China
they're not abortions are not illegal
are they in fact in many others they are
mandatory
yes um they're highly favored where is
it that who's she hoping where she's
disappointed with West I mean she didn't
disappoint it with just the world
they're legal in Iran well they started
really strong by killing all this
Muslims and now they've gone soft well I
mean where who's she hoping this war
between who are the anti-abortion folks
that the the forced pregnancy folks that
she thinks are gonna take on those of us
in the West who think that we shouldn't
force pregnancies on women who is it
like is it gonna be literally the
Vatican blaze membership just sounded
good at the time
the Mudd Club that's well I am I for one
think that we can avoid this next round
of Crusades and basically just allow the
blaze to go to that other side the the
non west wherever it is that where they
will be comfortable I'm happy to to do
that but this is they're all looking for
their own they want to restore the West
to its original theocratic character as
they understand it that that direction
is gonna be leaned on so heavily I think
for the next couple of years the
monarchy no the West it brings us all
together this is we all everybody when
we say the West that's gonna get
everybody on board from the are far
right-wing
listeners to normal people but she's
saying that she has a problem with the
West but she's like no because they're
letting it you're letting it get soiled
yeah let the West
let the West get comedy we need that
lens of the West and that is the West is
getting is getting tainted by a lot of
ideas from I mean that's what happened I
don't know if it
don't know my monarchies but I think
that was the Spanish crown was like look
at what's happening to the West we're
letting too many Jews and Muslims here
yeah I think well and that's also by the
way there's a book what's oh man what's
the guy's name who went to jail for
illegal campaign contributions who makes
weird Obama documentaries Dinesh D'Souza
Dinesh D'Souza wrote a book years ago
where he suggested actually and this
would be more coherent that what people
in the United States should do is they
should look to partner up with
right-wing Muslims because they shared a
backlash to gay people essentially
story in the news Donald Trump had been
threatening tariffs on Mexico he was
going to impose a five percent tariff on
Mexican goods as of today June tenth and
then five percent bump every month
subsequent to this that they didn't do
something that was unclear that they
were supposed to do and it was centered
around immigration and he was arguing
that they needed to do something about
immigration in Mexico
well Mexican leaders said you know don't
put a tariff on us and ostensibly met
with the Trump administration they
announced an accord it was very shortly
thereafter reported that this Accord had
been agreed upon months ago maybe month
and a half ago and there was nothing new
in the accord and it was an
embarrassment for President Trump it's
unclear whether he just promised that or
they just basically came in and said
we're gonna do XY and Z and he's like a
great and he didn't know that they had
already agreed to do that in fact we saw
this dynamic quite a bit with like plant
closures and whatnot like where you know
a corporation announces we're going to
open a new plant because it's bad on the
Trump
and they had told their shareholders six
months ago they were gonna do that but
Donald Trump is uh out-of-touch enough
to buy it but then he realizes like oops
I've been duped or maybe I've been
caught in a lie and so he announces on
Twitter yesterday first thing in the
morning right Brazil oh no today
presumably after the after the reports
came out in The Times about the deal
already happening cuz that was a big
headline Trump announces Accord that had
already been agreed to a month and a
half big ago and so he writes on Twitter
we have fully signed and documented
another very important part of the
immigration security deal with Mexico
one that the US has been asking about
getting for many years it will be
revealed in the not-too-distant future
and will need a vote by Mexico's
legislation legislative body exclamation
point dot dot dot we do not anticipate a
problem with the vote but if for any
reason the approval is not forthcoming
tariffs will be reinstated secret plan
nobody knows about I going to be
revealed soon so this is embarrassing
for Donald Trump and so what's the best
way to move up in the world of the Trump
world well you go throw yourself on the
embarrassment grenade and here is what
the Acting Secretary of the Department
of Homeland Security did on Fox News
with whose's Bret Baier Bret Baier and
Bosma Kalinin okay and so this is Kevin
McHale inan here's Kevin McHale inan
falling on the embarrassment grenade
with bret baier but how much of this is
new all of it is new i mean we've heard
commitments before from mexico to do
more on their southern border
the last time they deployed down there
it's about four or five hundred officers
this is more than tenfold commitment to
increase their security in Chiapas
that's where people are entering from
Guatemala in southern Mexico
your predecessor secretary Nielsen
testified that these things were
happening to the House Judiciary
Committee there were talks about moving
National Guard troops to the southern
border with Guatemala you're saying this
is different than that it's very
different the president put a charge in
this whole dialogue with Mexico with the
terrorist threat brought them to the
table
the foreign minister from Mexico arrived
within hours he arrived the next day and
with real proposals on the table this is
the first time we've heard anything like
this kind of number of law enforcement
being deployed in Mexico to address
migration not just at their southern
border but also on the transportation
routes to the northern border and in
coordinated patrols and key areas along
our southwest border the president
tweeted this morning that stories that
said that this was not you know this was
not new as you're saying are false but
he said there are some important things
not mentioned in yesterday's press
release one in particular yeah I said
the president tweeted out that this
tariff has been suspended the secretary
munition pointed out that there's
there's a mechanism to make sure that
they do what they promised to do that
there's an actual result that we see a
vast reduction in those numbers and as
the State Department announced they're
gonna be further actions further
dialogue with my skull and immigration
on how to manage this Asylum flow in the
region which is you know a small
percentage of the total flow this is by
and large and economic migration that we
needed to stop with enforcement we need
to be able to repatriate people
successfully you're a pretender
incidentally that last long answer was
not an answer to the question of what is
the secret thing that we don't know
about yeah right absolutely
huh we did suspend the tariffs and that
is I mean that of course is something
that you know about of the things that
you don't know about are things that you
couldn't possibly know because they're
secret and we would announce them after
the State Department has done its work
on detailing various different plans
that are going on at this time so we are
very pleased with that progress I'm
interested in more in intellectual level
human in terms of ideas you know but
here's the thing
how can you say
it's gonna work with his people 100%
with his people gonna work and we know
that hi thanks people that's actually
you know Michael Wolfe I guess has a new
follow up to fire and fury which is
getting less attention and it's the same
you know thing but I actually think
Michael Wolfe does have value relative
to Trump I really do precisely probably
because he writes in such a sort of
gossipy way but he said that what Trump
shows and what really is unique about
Trump is that even like the most
scoundrel lying politician or CEO wants
at the very least and the interests of
self-preservation to not be completely
lying all the time because it's
stressful and he said but what Trump has
proved is that you can fool some of the
people all of the time yeah and that is
the whole baseline for how the thing
operates and and I'm convinced that he
he's not like you know I think there's
this notion that it's like tactical or
this and that I think it's completely a
visceral instinctual reaction like when
you know you catch a kid and they have
done something wrong and you're like did
you do that and they just go know who
did it maybe Kevin from downstairs or
across the street you know like are the
Mexicans really helping you yes exactly
he just gets he looks at the thing and
it says oh they know that I'm lying
about the New Deal
well there's special parts that you
don't know about and that will come out
soon but of course I can't talk about it
because it's secret and we'll see if the
Mexico does the right thing so there's
that I mean and it is effective not
because Donald Trump is unique or
special in his ability to do that I
think there's probably a lot of people
it's effective because of the way our
media environment has now split in it
had been moving in this direction for a
long time
but there are technological advances and
that have allowed people to self sort
not just geographically but
psychographically and I just don't think
as a society we have quite figured out
yet what to do with this new technology
right like I mean it's so much easier to
make these assessments when it comes to
like bioethics like to see the gulf
between where technology has led in our
ability as a society to sort of like
fill in these gaps like with surrogacy
there's still a lot of like legal
questions and you know a whole host of
things that we haven't yet as a society
been able to sort of catch up to in
terms of what we're technologically able
to do and I think it's just less obvious
to us because everybody can work a phone
and everybody can watch a video and
everybody can read something that we
haven't quite figured out as a society
how we're going to deal with this but
ignoring that is not the answer and you
know Donald Trump's people got the
answer they wanted he did it he he broke
Mexico's back so success meanwhile here
is someone else who I think is having
just a little bit of trouble of dealing
with certain realities and there are now
it appears to be greater calls not quite
institutional but greater calls within
the Democratic Party for various
candidates who clearly have not caught
fire and don't look to be catching fire
in the presidential elections to maybe
go back to their home states and at the
very least run in the Senate and the
very least pull resources why whether
it's Colorado or Texas couple other
states the idea of a formidable
candidate jumping into the race now is
going to pull a lot
resources from Republicans and capturing
the Senate is hugely important it's
gonna be very difficult to do it's
unlikely but it's not impossible but
here's Beto trying to respond and we're
in 2.0 now territory right or are we in
2.5 territory we're past 2.0 there could
be a 2.5 we could be a 3.0 soon beto 3.0
where he is talking about why it it
appears he hasn't caught fire but
sometimes appearances can be deceptive
it's just he used the wrong example look
there is a lot of time before the Iowa
caucus
we've never been guided by a poll before
if you were to look at the Texas Senate
race the first couple months after we
were in no poll was gonna say that we
were going to win that when I first ran
for for Congress in 2012 against an
incumbent and against some very long
odds no poll at any point said that we
were going to win and yep yet we did and
if I well here's the problem with that
of course he didn't win the Senate race
so those polls were accurate but he also
entered into the Senate race two years
before the election right I mean the
general election and he's only now what
are we six six months out less from the
Iowa caucus here is better O'Rourke in
Knoxville Iowa being introduced by a
local Democrat from Dave will calls him
quote a blank slate waiting to be filled
by our hopes and dreams man was alt-text
 you know I really tried to
keep it together here this has been very
humiliating it has not gone according to
my delusions of grandeur and would
say what is subtext and make it text it
has a tendency to look make certain
people look very badly oh man
the further this goes the more I want to
just eat bait oh if you want to come
over and cry a little bit and listen to
the cure with me my door is always open
I'm saying I can't get over the fact
that this is a mixed metaphor a blank
slate waiting to be filled you don't
fill it's going to like it it's just
gonna drip on the sides you shouldn t be
like a bucket waiting to be filled by
our hopes and dreams or a blank slate
willing to be drawn upon or projected or
you know and if we can just use
placeholder text for the actual text
that we use in our introductions we can
save a lot of time we could have we
don't give Dave Weigel the opportunity
to humiliate me that way
which would be great this wasn't what I
envisioned when I was on Vanity Fair a
couple of months ago here's what I want
to say no introduction you do it you do
it in your head think of what you want
that's the way my introduction goes in
your head okay so Who am I you tell me
in fact that's how we're gonna get
everyone involved in this I'm gonna call
on you and you're gonna tell me who I am
I was never that I did not think that
this was gonna happen the Senate running
the Senate buddy running the Senate
can't don't like him better than people
judge run in the Senate yeah run for the
Senate bro
it's alright I honestly like I ran a
week off I read that Vanity Fair piece I
was like I really want to like this guy
but when you get to the issue part it
was always sort of like whoa we're still
working on that
I read that Vanity Fair piece and I
thought wow what an it's gonna
be crying like a
baby in my arms in no time I was born to
do this to nationally humiliate myself
and then be comforted by a left-wing
podcast host that was the purpose of
this campaign show mama knows
California has they're getting very very
close to this they have apparently
there's surplus there and they are going
to be as they deal with their budget
bill they're going to be reinstituting
the mandate that used to be a federal
mandate and what its gonna mean is if
you do not have health insurance you
have to pay a tax however there is an
agreement a family of four earning more
than a hundred and fifty thousand
dollars and under it will also receive
subsidies will receive about a hundred
dollars a month from the government for
their monthly health insurance premium
bills it's not gonna make a huge dent
because premium bills for a family of
four can be seventeen hundred bucks
bucks a month up to but it's something
and it will also extend California's
Medicaid program to undocumented
immigrants between the ages of 19 and 25
so younger folks I'll be it cheaper to
cover then older folks it'd be nice to
get older folks in there but this is
ambitious for a state to do it's
covering this and it's one of those
things where Fox and Friends covers this
story by trying to demonize immigrants
and then they it's like the what was the
other couple of things oh this this also
was they had the same problem with the
billionaire who gave the money to to the
Howard class of 2019 when they
started you know ruminating they they
were trying again was more house I think
it was again to stoke me was more house
they were trying to stoke sort of like
white nationalist fervor and they were
trying to do it by talking about how
this guy was like he got bus to a white
school and that's where what gave him
all his opportunities and trying to
promote how whites are obviously clearly
better than non-whites but in fact
actually promoting busing because in
schools because of the schools and and
here is they're trying to sort of
demonize immigrants and work up a you
know folks in a lather like your tax
dollars they're gonna go to supporting
health care for twenty-year-old
undocumented immigrants who obviously
clearly came here before their you know
old enough for they were adults and then
they sort of slide like slip off the the
rails a little bit and get sucked down
the drain of like imagining a better
America and don't really realize that
they've just presented a vision that
none of them would ever endorse so let's
see if momentum can get backbone you are
one of these migrants they're getting
word go to California because you'll get
free health care benefits they're gonna
vote the Legislature's going to vote
this week they are pushing free health
care for these illegal aliens or illegal
immigrants ages 19 to 25 low-income
adults they're gonna is gonna cost 98
million dollars to cover about ninety
thousand illegal immigrants is that what
you want your tax dollars my taxpayer
dollars going to people that snuck in
here illegally are milking the system
and now they get additional additional
help yeah I guess big additional
benefits from be sneaking into
California and what would you know how
do you feel right now if you're doing it
the right way you're driving a cab
you're wearing a green car you have a
green card you're working the factory
have a green card you're hoping to play
it right you're paying all the fees
you're studying for the test and all the
these people that sneak in now get jobs
they can't be detained Isis push back
and now they get free dental health care
they get checkups maybe they're gonna
get free physicals they can play on
their local sports teams if you show up
at a school you get free education what
a great country well you know pausing
for one second
first off if that guy driving the cab
filling out the forms and this and that
lives in California and is also
low-income guess what he's eligible to
and he also can go get free education
they like you started to catch on this
would this is what makes a great country
the ability to access all these things
and not have to worry about them in fact
it sounds like in that scenario the
country be even greater if you didn't
have to fill out all those forms and
frankly even drive that cab they're on
to something I kill me I feel like is on
the precipice oh yeah one day he's gonna
wake up and go like oh my god it's been
right in front of me this whole time
comrade kill me done ironically Bob's it
can't be detained Isis push back and now
they get free dental health care they
get checkups maybe they're gonna get
free physicals they can play on their
local sports teams if you show up at a
school you get free education what a
great country well you know California
is a sanctuary state and so they know
you know if you're living in a sanctuary
of state you know that when migrants do
go to our emergency rooms they wind up
getting the health care anyway the state
of California is just figuring out okay
we're gonna go ahead and we're gonna
pull the trigger and we're going to pay
for this out of our state legislature to
the tune of almost a hundred million
dollars so in other words yes when they
go to an emergency room with something
that could have easily been treated had
they had health insurance and weren't
afraid to use that health insurance they
get treated and it costs thousands of
dollars and the state ends up paying for
it anyways there's
halting when they're talking about it
like all of them are sort of stuttering
over themselves and they can't quit they
don't quite know where the safety is
figure out exactly wait a second are we
supposed to make California sound
horrible for this and we supposed to be
happy that they're stuck with this are
we supposed to like make this sound like
a hellscape their kids might be on your
little league team
well that was funny was that they they
went through they made it sound like a
progressive utopia and an obvious moral
decision and then Comey tagged it by
making what sounded to me like a very
sound basically technocratic argument of
like well the money's getting shipped
out anyways and it's actually pretty
inefficient so we probably should just
have a public policy set up so that it's
actually accounted for in a budget
instead of just like randomly shocking
the hospitals like them every day it's
like oh that's a you know a lot less
high-minded and sort of you know moral
but actually that also sounds to me like
another very sound argument it reminds
me of the thing in the last two years
that sort of radicalized me more than
anything which was when I was in France
and the person I was with got sick and
we went to the hospital we're there for
like half a day getting like IVs and
tests and stuff and then when we walked
out they're like oh no your money's no
good here like just go ahead we got you
on this and it was just it was amazing
this very bizarre experience yeah you'd
want to live in a country like that they
need to get their talking points in
better order everyone's gonna be
speaking French at the hospital how you
gonna deal with that I mean look if you
don't speak French
I really need to speak French I went to
a hospital that did speak English first
there and they said it would have cost
about $800 for an overnight stay so you
should call them from a two one six
area code who's this you may have to be
the last caller of the day who's this
okay hello hello it's me
yes yeah my name is Ryan yes hello hello
oh hi yeah I'm here okay yeah go ahead
right in where you come from where you
come from in Concord Ohio okay what's up
yeah I'm just kind of calling I just
listened to Ryan grim and then listen to
the d-triple-c Blackledge from you guys
and I guess my question is I've been
kind of researching and I'm actually
part of one of the progressive groups
I'm an analyst or a kind of researcher
and I guess my question is I've been
kind of curious about kind of how to
knock off established candidates who are
minority descent because I feel like the
d-triple-c protects them really well and
I just feel like whenever you know
progressive run against time they're
like oh like how come you're running
against a minority candidate or just
openly because I'm black Latino or Asian
events are very established or very
corrupt so I think couple like an
example is like I think of someone like
lacy clay who Corey Bush is running
against and he's taking a lot of money
from I guess for-profit lenders and
things that heard the black community
I'm just kind of curious what your
thoughts are and just kind of trying to
run against a lot of deep established as
happening a minority good fun well I
mean I think it's going to help to run
somebody who looks like the district and
I mean you know I mean I you know we've
talked to Sean McElwee a couple of times
about this in the past and running
someone who looks like the district is
is who has better policies better
politics is the best way to approach
this I mean you know that's simply the
the reality right I mean they're you
know we have two different types of well
we have probably more but in terms of
representation in this country is that
we don't we haven't democratized it to
the extent that we should in terms of
race and in terms of ethnicity and
gender in this country and we have
Democrats who are corporatist in
they're bad Democrats and so if you're
gonna go at one of those type of
Democrats the best foot forward is to
anticipate I mean I don't know anything
about the race you're talking about but
if the candidate is is white that I
could tell you right now without knowing
anything about the district or any of
the people involved that that is going
to be a critique and it's going to be an
uphill battle and surely there must be
if you want to defeat a an establishment
candidate you you try and narrow the
issue sets and so if it's a
predominantly or a significant
percentage of black folk or Latino folk
and in a district er go with a candidate
who's black or Latino and who has better
politics than the establishment
candidate I mean that's that to me seems
fairly straightforward because it is an
argument I don't I mean it is an
argument like you really want to lessen
the number of of black people who are
holding federal office I mean right yeah
I mean that's pretty straightforward and
in the data you know according Shawn
McElwee the data backs that up yeah I
think no I mean I agree with I think
it's just it's difficult because like
when you have yeah progressive
candidates and that are of color like I
feel like they're just easy hurt
established stielike so for me because
I'm black or Latino even though they
support policies that have hurt people
oh yeah minority community and I wonder
if this kind of like was it maybe if we
can kind of take the whole taking
corporate money it's almost in a way
like promoting racism because in a way
like you're taking money from for-profit
prisons
or for like loan shark companies that
proportionately affect minority
communities that we can kind of do in a
way that can shame those candidates yeah
well I mean I would start I would start
instead of saying a taking corporate
money I would just start with what the
problem is right like right for I think
you know for a certain segment of the
population taking corporate money is is
problematic in and of itself whether
it's from Pepsi or private prisons but
if the issue is guy takes money from
private prisons go directly to that
right like you know that is a better a
way to you know make that case when you
have you know right you know and you
have the carceral state problems that we
have in this country that's a better way
to make that case rather than sort of
make it more obscure by saying corporate
go directly to it I mean any argument
that anybody ever makes the key is to go
directly don't have anything extraneous
because the person responding is going
to respond to the extraneous part so if
you say you're taking corporate money
they're gonna turn around and say and
what you mean is you're taking money
from private prison business they're
gonna say oh yeah I'm taking corporate
money I'm sorry I'm taking money from
Pepsi who have a wonderful internship
program that blankety but you know and
that's what they're gonna do if the
issue is private prisons make it about
private prisons if the issue is about in
one issue silo at a time you will
activate the activists in that who are
care about that issue and they will go
out and start to help you but you also
have a have a candidate who's gonna
deliver who's not going to be you know
an uphill battle so I don't know if the
candidate you're talking about is is is
white running in a in a seat in a
district that is you know has a majority
of black folk or has been you know a
liable because we have a problem this
country where black people are not
represented in the power structure and
so right now the person oh yeah another
person I was talking about was lacy clay
um and the one that was running against
um with cory bush and they're both
african-american oh good and they're
both in st. louis yeah there's one of
ryan groom was talking about okay well
so good so i mean i think you know the
bottom line is that's you hit issue by
issue where they're where the incumbent
is is is is weak in your mind and then I
would also say anticipate what the
arguments going to be the concern that
people are gonna have which is that the
incumbent has been able to bring us
largesse because of the because there's
seniority because they've developed
relationships they know how to make sure
that this this district gets funding for
the school or this district gets funding
for that and I think the argument is for
the Challenger is that like I have a
plan to get money here and I have been
in contact with various members of the
blank committee and this and that and
this is my idea and I will fight for you
he may bring in dribs and drabs but at
the end of the day the net is a negative
that has to be the argument I super
agree that progressive candidates need
to be connecting up issues of identity
with economic issues because they are
connected right and the Democratic
establishment has done a very good job
of trying to pretend that those things
are separate in recent years but they're
absolutely not and and those things
should not be off the table like it's
disgusting to me that working class has
become kind of a dog whistle for white
working-class when the vast majority
people of color are working-class
because the vast majority of everyone is
working class so something like you know
when Obama bailed out the banks in the
2008 subprime mortgage crisis this this
crisis was the single biggest hit to
black wealth that we've seen since black
people began to be allowed to own wealth
so if P
well don't make those connections like
and I think they're getting better at it
I think Bernie's getting better at it
too like we we need to be making that
case all the time
appreciate the call thanks Ryan all
right thank you that's it for phone
calls sorry
we're already going late I'll take bunch
of IMS what what is this what was this
Donald Trump sound should we play this
yeah we'll play the Bernie marching with
the McDonald's workers tomorrow what's a
butt for for a what Sam's but for for
pooping silly Thank You JB is it safe to
say the d-triple-c is a consultant cabal
nate silver was known as poblano right
right right yeah I think that's I think
that's fair to say Brock from VA can you
guys go around the room and name one or
two of your favorite news outlets what
would be a good source to buy a
subscription and help support good
journalism I let's just do one quick or
one or two like I tell you that I pay
for a subscription with a Jacobin and
I'm going to and now the American
Prospect because day and is over there
oh are we doing new sources we pay for
um you know what means TV is doing
something very ambitious right now and
they're raising a ton of funds to create
an actual leftist newsgathering
organization as well as an entertainment
channel so I support giving your money
to them I don't have any other ones but
also audible subscriptions because
audiobooks are good too but yeah for
news Simms Greg from Oklahoma
congressperson presidential candidate
Tim Ryan followed me on Twitter
yesterday so we chatted in the DMS also
Congress person wrote Kahana followed me
yesterday and got to see congressman Deb
headland speak at the collar Albert
dinner the Saturday and I got to take
picture I had an amazing weekend
congratulations Gregory loved it Sebby
gee do you think ben Carson gave himself
a lobotomy time from Canada on the
debate Friday I wonder how Glenn
Greenwald feels about benevolent
overlords controlling the flow of
information when it comes to the Snowden
files as an example you should have
Barrett Brown
to shed some light on that question yeah
I gotta get I gotta catch up with him
class create abandon has also been
kicked out of his monastery Vox reporter
on June 1st the Italian culture of
ministry revoked his ability to use the
historic site Kentucky Fried Chicken
sorry for the devil plug in a weekend
but we had a great
we had Shaheed Betar on the 2d podcast
and it was great conversation about his
run against Nancy Pelosi it's currently
trying to get on a thousand individual
donations to his campaign Michaels
butthole getting more radical by the day
how fast can we democratize all
workplaces in the US and replace all
cars with self-driving ones I don't get
that bullfrog by and really should
primary Trump is a Republican at least
to swing that political center back over
one night
lemon stand last Wednesday in reference
to media companies needing more staff to
appraise tone and content and thus
better decide what gets be platform not
Sam made an analogy to restaurants and
called for hiring more waiters how
contemn contempt phille is that of
health inspectors all right I gave from
Atlanta Jamie was marks not the Regina
George of the young Hegelians
oh my god totally heretical Christian
with Steve Crowder being called out from
being an absolute big at the outright on
their social media trying to claim
George Carlin for their ideology Sam
snuff flash sitting congresswoman
eviscerates shitty talk show host and
before I don't know what that is Oh
snuffs - ELISA Ryan Grimm is a lot more
positive about the future of money in
politics or lack thereof than his last
name would suggest three more Sasha
Greyjoy as a way of thinking about Biden
his legacy I'm wondering what you think
about Biden centrist effect was on Obama
do you think that Obama would have been
more radical if he had had a VP other
than Biden though unlikely they
constrained me a lot every time I wanted
to nationalize the grid Joe come in and
said now Mia
good day mr. C during company looking at
congressional calendar trying to match
up dates with an article I'd read the
other day started wondering how much the
Speaker Pelosi is attempts to stall
versus moving to impeachment hearings is
a nod to Schumer McConnell to give cover
in time for a two-year budget
to pass and avoid another debt ceiling
fiasco and the final I am of the day
Sebastian Gore Kings the Monster Mash
everyone of Dave Rubens video should be
called ideas with Dave Rubin and friends
question mark alright see you tomorrow
to get to where I want
no son
I was I just got
feel any better
yeah
take it
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option will get paid
laughs we tried
the teacher takes you
babe
