everyday casual Friday that means Monday
is casual Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday
Wednesday casual hump day Thursday
casual Thurs that's what we call it and
Friday casual Shabbat gommage our day
report with sam sita it is a Friday June
21st 2019 I'm Michael Brooks this is a
Michael Friday this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program the
great ana kasparian executive producer
of host of the young turks we're gonna
be talking about the week's news and the
previewing democratic debates a new lie
about Bernie and much more than the
great Corey pine author of live work
work work died journeyed at a savage
heart of Silicon Valley and a host of
the not-safe-for-work
of the new excuse me the news from
nowhere podcast is gonna be joining us
with a movie recommendation maybe some
UFO talk Matt apparently there's a lot
of activity world yeah
aliens aren't visiting a spoiler alert I
literally don't know anything
stop getting psyops that's what I was
gonna confront Corey with stop because I
am i heard a cool story though the other
day about a dolphin saving a guy's life
but there was no extraterrestrial link
it was just a dolphin me everything ever
will be what and there never will Donald
Trump is he the one keeping us from the
greatest catastrophe imaginable in the
Middle East well apparently has him now
he called
off a strike against Iran he went on of
course to blame the successful Obama
nuclear deal with Iran for the crisis
were in but he did call off the strike
[Music]
migrant children described the neglect
at a Texas border facility in grotesque
detail even as several children have
died the Trump administration argues in
court that migrant the Trump
administration's argued that to detain
children do not need toothpaste and soap
as part of their ongoing war on children
and terrorism summer camps tensions run
through the Biden campaign as his past
working with relationship with James
Eastland comes to the forefront turns
out there might have been some
substantive reasons having to do with
school desegregation as to why he and
the arch segregation is big it got along
so well
the Oregon Governor sends police to find
missing Republicans war continues
saudi-led genocide in Yemen as peace
talks have pretty much sort of been
fully disrupted Nancy Pelosi does not
have a OCS back in her accurate calling
of detention of concentration camps what
they are more than 70 police officers in
Philly have been put on desk duty over
overt racist and violent content Britain
suspends approval of arms sales to Saudi
Arabia the corrupt justice minister of
fascist government J herb Olson ro in
Brazil Sergio Moro is getting grilled in
the Senate as evidence continues to
emerge of the obvious political
imprisonment of Lula they Silva all that
and more on today's majority report is
all the desk duty in America's police
stations being done by overly aggressive
racist cops
apparently so if they had to remake beat
cops you'd have to turn sam and benjamin
and to nebbish bigots which would
actually be a very fun 2019 gloss on it
maybe they're the last cops allowed on
the beat because they're not bigots well
that's one angle for one season which
would be hilarious
then the other angle would be that
they're not bigots but they're scared of
going on the beat so they have to write
a bunch of yeah they're the other
writers just like I don't know uh uh uh
I don't want to protect these these
black ice and then they go to the family
Seder and they're like how could you say
that you were raised to support the
civil rights movement it's like you go
on the beat or it's just they like to
desk duty is such a easy like ride you
just get to collect check and write
right so every time they're about to get
rotated off of desk duty they have to
find a new bigoted taker
like we should actually bring the show
back here this is not bad it's got some
potential so just a reset and we're
gonna talk about Iran more with Ana but
Donald Trump ripped up the Iran deal
Mike Pompeo and John Bolton have long
sought a war with Iran the
administration in general has a beyond
cozy almost joined at the body with
relationship with Israel and Saudi
Arabia and other extremist forces trying
to provoke this and they've charged Iran
with attacking oil tankers they've never
provided any evidence they have sort of
tried to sort of tell a big lie about
Iran al-qaeda links even though to the
extent that we do have Declassified
intelligence about Iran and al-qaeda
it's basically mainly al Qaeda figures
sort of complaining about Iran and Iran
basically allowing temporary status for
some al-qaeda people but not allowing
them to communicate with other members
of the group and thinking of their own
strategic calculation of how to use
al-qaeda not to mention the fact that
Iran is fighting al-qaeda adjacent
groups every single day in Syria through
its own proxies like Hezbollah Donald
Trump apparently he's saying publicly
that his concern over 150 people is what
led him to call off strikes in the last
minute
obviously you know one I mean of course
you know one I mean look what he does to
children in this country obviously this
is nobody who cares about human life but
I do think that this is an area where
objectively speaking Donald Trump has I
don't know why but he's got a fear or an
anxiety or an instinct or some type of
understanding that it may be even just
on a workload level that this would
require time and focus this isn't
threatening people on Twitter this isn't
you know doing your Cagney impression
you know before you get on Air Force One
this is really serious and it absolutely
will be catastrophic and the real
fanatics and the real nut cases with
regards to these issues the pence is the
Pompeo is the Bolton's they want it they
don't care they are happy obviously to
see plenty of innocent people die in
Iran they're happy to have poor and
working-class people be sent over there
and be killed have their limbs blown off
they're still in the afterglow of the
millions of lives that they helped loss
lose in Iraq and you know Greg Gutfeld
in addition to being very unfunny is
actually a good doorway into the mindset
of right-wing I wouldn't even say
armchair warriors I mean less than
armchair you know people like Marco
Rubio who are adults in positions of
power whose understanding of the most
important matters of war and peace
really do come down to like Bing Bing
Bing Bing Bing and you know telling like
stories to themselves about aircraft
carriers and they think that the world
is I mean we said that during the
debates during the Republican debates
that literally people like Rubio were
just fetishizing aircraft carriers I
mean the extent they could get into
specifics of anything it was talking
about different weapons systems the way
a seven-year-old would if they got to go
on their first you know naval ship on a
tour it's pathetic and dangerous but
also pathetic and stupid here's Greg
Gutfeld
this is now just a video game and I
think that's good news we're now on I'm
sorry I have to sand this I feel like we
should just replay it this is now a
video game and that's good news
so the thousands of people that have
died from drone attacks across the globe
since Bush accelerating under Obama and
accelerating under Trump that's good
news this is now just a video game and I
think that's good news we're in and
we're now at a time where it it doesn't
matter how large your population is
because the population is no longer
expendable in war it's now about the
machines that you have drones and are
now replacing bones so it'll be stuff
versus stuff and fortunately for us we
have the best stuff and if we have the
stuff up there doesn't matter what they
have down there we control them if we
have a sky of drones and so then how do
you retaliate alright how do you
retaliate to something that isn't human
like we you know they took 160 million
dollars worth of machinery from us we
have to do that which means either
hitting some parts of their Navy or
refineries or whatever you find out you
retaliate with machines but I think it's
good news because I think we are moving
away from through hurling bodies and
bodies that's a good that's good can I
disagree slightly no you can't do all
right I mean look he's obviously a very
dumb guy and even just the you know
machines example Donald Trump was able
to understand that as an example you hit
an oil refinery you will kill human
beings then that also begs a further
question that if we were going to accept
the demented logic of this that security
is guaranteed through a swarm of
unmanned killing robots hovering over
the Middle East then why do you need to
do anything you're right you know what
yeah and and by the way it is true that
fundamentally Iran poses absolutely no
security risk to us in any conceivable
remote manner they have never indicated
that they have any desire to hit us in
any way
shape or form certainly husband ah does
not theirs
forget that's us with the Europeans Iran
has mostly normal diplomatic relations
with the Europeans the Europeans
obviously see the United States as the
belligerent aggressors in this situation
they have real security and real
strategic differences with Israel and
Saudi Arabia Israel and Saudi Arabia
oppose both profound dangers to Iran and
those are the types of problems and
challenges that in a sane diplomatic
environment you'd be working out so but
I I mean in a sick way he's basically
saying once again yes Iran actually does
pose no threat to us and so that should
be the upshot of all of this right they
pose absolutely no threat to us anybody
that says they pose a threat to us is
either a mental you know is deranged and
having fever dreams is stupid or lying
and usually in most cases all three one
of the reasons Guernica was so a such an
atrocity remembered in the Spanish Civil
War in the 36 was because they attacked
populations for the first time with
flying vehicles so it's not like a
Gutfeld saying it's no longer on the
table like it could be very easily on
the table again and in many parts of the
world it's still very much on the table
without a doubt and also look I mean
look at Yemen there's no right question
that in a place like Yemen or Pakistan
that you could absolutely correlate
activity and interest in groups like
al-qaeda with the fact that for what you
is a video game for what them is their
family members getting wiped out in a
robot attack that we on the delivery end
don't even know the people that were
killing they could just be fitting a
behavioral profile and is Brynn that's
so bad and negative shoutouts to all the
Warhawk liberals with their galaxy brain
takes that they're tweeting at Trump's
that he's like a coward for not just
lighting up 150 Iranian people like this
one guy tweeted you'll never be 1%
if the man Obama was witch-like okay I
got to stick up for Obama for a second
and remind everyone that he made the
Iran nuclear deal that's right but also
like if Obama were to follow through and
kill a bunch of people like that
wouldn't make him good no of course not
no these the the types of total the
absolute idiots on one end an Adam
Schiff who ran with Mike Pompeo as
assertions about Iran without any proof
as well as yeah I mean just the kind of
garden-variety morons that would tweet
stuff at Trump I mean these are they are
to say the very least part of the
problem and then that's just the liberal
version of Gutfeld
which is that the rest of the world
including human beings flesh-and-blood
human beings or all just a proxy for
your own particular neuroses and
fixations that you're working out on
Twitter including whatever the like
 issues you have about your
manhood that somehow Obama and Trump is
a dick measuring contest that can be
manifested through killing or on ian's
and you know precipitating a
catastrophic military engagement anybody
who's doing that or bring in the whole
Russia piece are stupid are dangerous
our reckless are immoral and should
never be taken seriously on anything
yeah here's a good rule of thumb don't
try to nag Trump into killing more
people yeah I would say that's that's
that's a pretty solid one and if you
recognize that Trump is a deranged
incompetent racist and so on you know
probably a good idea to not encourage
him to wage a war that could be the most
dangerous thing to happen on the planet
it's the thought not that this is about
efficacy but this is a common delusion
in the war liker sort of genre which is
like we can just do this with our air
power which is what we tried to do in
Vietnam which is it's also what the
Nazis thought they could do to Britain
right but the v1 rocket now right you
have the best stuff we have the best
technology also and I mean
excuse my language but yes we killed
three million people in Vietnam I mean
we did in a quantitative air war which
is a genocide genocide all campaign that
was also by the way precipitated by a
lie about intelligence
look up gulf of tonkin alright we got to
get to Ana's let me tell you about who
is sponsoring today's show x cent spent
in traffic is not exploring creating and
having fun
use boosted to get where you need to be
faster designed to provide a luxurious
experience boosted's vehicle grade
electronics skateboards and scooters are
the modern solution to your
transportation woes with a 22 mile range
and a max speed of 24 miles per hour
boosted is perfect for both running to
the store and traveling across town and
with five options to pick from including
their new scooter the boosted Rev
there's a perfect electric vehicle
that's tailor-made for you starting at
61 dollars a month with financing it's
no wonder that boosted was one of Times
Magazine's best inventions of 2018
there's no better time to change how to
move because right now boosted is
offering our listeners seventy five
dollars off of the purchase of an
electronic vehicle when you use the code
majority a check out go to boosted
boards calm and use code majority at the
checkout that gets seventy five dollars
off of your vehicle that's boosted
boards calm promo code majority at
checkout for seventy five dollars off
we'll be right back with ana kasparian
you
michael brooks on the majority report
joining us now is ana kasparian she is
the host a host an executive producer of
The Young Turks Anna thanks so much for
being here my pleasure Michael so Anna
we almost had a massive catastrophe
yesterday with Iran it didn't happen
because Donald Trump is like Gandhi and
was like there's a hundred and fifty
people should be talking about this what
do you make of all of this this is such
an incredible story because first off of
course Donald Trump is not Gandhi no but
to his credit and I never thought in a
million years I would give him credit he
seems pretty devoted to his base and his
base does not want these wars they do
not want regime change Wars the American
public in general does not want another
war and so he luckily isn't allowing the
war mongers in his administration
convince him or persuade him to launch
any type of military attack against Iran
and even yesterday after that drone was
shot down and I personally believe that
that drone was in Iranian airspace me
too you really downplayed it while at
the same time members of his
administration were fear-mongering about
it
and what do you the other thing that's
kind of amazing look yesterday I had I
had us play a clip of um of George W
Bush actually after the invasion of Iraq
still basically trying to kind of
obscure but also like defend the lies
that they were telling about the
connections between Iraq and al-qaeda
before the invasion of Iraq that's
incredible that they're bringing that
out with Iran especially just on a basic
level
I mean Saddam Hussein would not be close
with al-qaeda because of their very
profound differences just in terms of
secularism versus linked religious
extremism Iran is obviously Shia and
Iran excuse me Iran is Shia and al-qaeda
is extreme Sunni like what are you also
negative the process of like watching
all of these lies and all of this spin
and all of this hype like
it's like getting debunked in real time
in a way yes yes so what I find
fascinating is politics in America in
general is just a completely different
ballgame from what it was during the
Bush administration I mean the Bush
administration of course lied to the
public dragged us into this pre-emptive
war and part of the reason why they were
able to do that is because Americans
were scared they bought into the
fear-mongering we were just attacked oh
you know of course on 9/11 and that type
of fear-mongering resonated with people
now we've had you know obviously over a
decade or Jesus Christ like over two
decades of this nonsense your mongering
and these Wars and people are just
smarter now they're savvy ER and you can
play the same game for so long until
people finally catch on to what the lies
are all about and it's incredible
because while there's so much division
in the country the reality is there are
some issues that do unite Americans
regardless of political ideology one is
the issue that we talk about often which
is you know economic injustice but
there's also this notion that you know
there is a military-industrial complex
these wars are pushed by entities that
stand to profit from additional wars or
perpetual war and people are just
smarter now they're savvy er now we do
have real-time debunking and what was
also different this time around is that
our allies are not willing to play ball
they're willing to come out and speak
out against what the United States is
lying about we saw that with Japan after
the oil tanker was attacked and we're
seeing it with some of our European
partners as well yeah totally and it's
yeah it's interesting I mean McCrone is
a lot like Tony Blair in many ways which
is a total insult obviously but he's not
willing to blare it to this level like
he's not willing to be Tony Blair for a
war on Iran I mean just just briefly -
um you mentioned that yeah I mean part
of the reason they would lie about the
connection between al-qaeda and Iran and
try I mean first of all I think is
you're right it's just old-school
fear-mongering but it's also that Pompeo
was trying to set it that strikes on
Iran would be covered under this AUMF
which isn't the one passed right
after September 11th which they're still
using for global drone wars all of the
stuff and Barbara Lee finally got a sort
of I mean it will surely die in the
Senate but she actually has been working
to end this finally got it out of the
house I mean that's some progress to
definitely it's progress but it should
also be a lesson and a cautionary tale
for members of Congress because the
reality is once you're willing to give
up congressional power to the executive
branch and essentially go against our
system of checks and balances well that
power will be abused by the executive
branch and you also have to consider the
unintended consequences in the future so
I'm glad that Congress is fighting back
a little more I mean that date of all
people is fighting back and trying to
ensure that the Trump administration
does not move forward unilaterally this
is not something that we experienced
during the Bush administration right
yeah to say the least but I think one
thing that we did experience during the
Bush administration that we're still
experiencing is you know the atom shifts
of the world the you know dumb Twitter
pundits who think that the right
response the Donald Trump not engaging
in catastrophes to you know basically
call him like a whoops bag what is that
about
like how do those people still exist you
know the same people that are most
freaked out about Trump might be the
same people pushing the same propaganda
about Iran and actually trying to
instigate something like this well you
know obviously everything is political
and sometimes I think members of
Congress Democratic members of Congress
you know in their effort to
quote-unquote resist Trump will you know
make all sorts of stupid mistakes and
and the fact of the matter is there
should be positive reinforcement when
Trump does something right yes so if
Trump has decided to call off airstrikes
against Iran
you don't go on Twitter and start egging
him on you you should give him positive
reinforcement the last thing we need is
another war and so I think partisan
politics in a lot of ways has kind of
blinded some of these politicians like
shift
from doing the right thing and I mean I
have no problem keeping positive
reinforcement when he does the right
thing and I'm obviously a progressive I
don't want war with Iran and I think the
right thing to do is to applaud him and
you know continue trying to persuade him
to avoid this war without a doubt um
yeah I agree with you 100% and I think
yeah I mean and it's also you know the
other thing I think about people like
Schiff is is still that so much of DC is
still run on this you know this access
of like the defense industry and then
just this kind of like foundation that
pretty much no matter how reactionary or
dangerous their what they're doing you
know may or may not be but right now it
really is that Saudi Arabia in Israel
are just like the axis of the Middle
East and what's funny about Trump is
that on one hand his relationship with
Saudi Arabia and with Israel is totally
craven and you know but I guess it's
just his political instinct in this one
area where you know fair enough he gets
it on some level definitely definitely
and and back in the day starting a war
in the middle of your administration
would probably get you reelected but in
this day and age especially if he's
going to go against what his base won it
could really hurt him politically I
think that's part of the reason why you
have people like Tucker Carlson it
sizing him behind the scenes it's
telling him don't go through with this
this is a bad idea and don't listen to
the war mongers in your administration
absolutely so and and I think you know
this is definitely another area I want
to you know get into into the debates um
for a couple of minutes I think you know
obviously you got to give Bernie Sanders
a lot of credit out of 2016 he pivoted
really hard onto foreign policy to the
point where he's been the only Democrat
member of the Democratic caucus in the
Senate and 2017 to vote against Iran
sanctions which was a significant part
of rationing things up in this crisis um
and then of course all of his work on
Yemen which is huge and of course the
Trump administration is just grotesque
in that regard we're heading into the
you've got these two different nights
it's kind of awkward I think it's pretty
hilarious that marianne williamson is
there and the governor of montana isn't
and i I like that I'm totally not mad at
it because I don't yet hear from him I
mean what is your kind of general like
what are you expecting from these
debates what do you think what would you
like to see what would you not like to
see well I always like to see specific
questions and more importantly specific
answers in regard to policy proposals
and luckily you know we do have a number
of candidates who have come out with
policy proposals ahead of time and I'm
looking forward to that what I'm hoping
is that it becomes abundantly clear to
Americans that there are some candidates
who are all about political expediency
there are some candidates who you know
might talk to talk but they don't walk
the walk and it's just substance I want
to see substance I want to see real
detailed solutions for the issues that
we're facing today and so I think this
is my prediction
I think Budaj is going to suffer a
little bit from these debates because
you know he's this guy who believes on
running based on values as opposed to
detailed policy positions which is
ridiculous and so I'm really curious to
see you know how he how he does up
against some of the candidates who have
come out with more detailed policy
proposals I'm I hate the way that the
debates are set up in terms of like the
number of hosts that will be involved I
feel like that's just a giant like ego
trip that people are having and I'm
hoping that it doesn't distract from the
actual substance from the debate but
honestly like I don't want to predict
too much I just kind of want to be
open-minded and just open-minded to
these candidates what that says though
it's getting harder and harder for me to
not just outright endorse Bernie Sanders
like I want to be fair right I want to
hear I want to hear them out but even
before the debates there have been
policies rolled out there have been
votes there are records we can look at
and there's one person who's been
for decades and that's Bernie Sanders
yeah without a doubt yeah so I'm still
trying to be fair but at the same time
look the mainstream media is not helping
because the more they attack him the
more I want to rally you know it to his
side and defend him because the attacks
are just so ludicrous and while they
attack him with all these like
ridiculous smears they simultaneously
make excuses for Biden and his
willingness to work with some of the
most disgusting people on the planet
well that's the dynamic and I do want to
do this specific debunk with you because
this one that's coming out today about
you know this comments about Elizabeth
Warren and then the Vanity Fair headline
is like the quintessential like there's
a lot of people in the Democratic Party
and obviously amongst the corporate and
Democratic elites and makes sense in a
material sense why they have a hatred
and a fixation of Joe of Bernie Sanders
but then there's also just a lot of
people I mean you know who sort of
bought into this almost like you know
this giant apparatus basically still
running the 2016 campaign against him
and I think you this weird dynamic and
you know look obviously I'm I do you
know I endorsed Sanders I'm a hundred
percent with him but I I think you know
you you have this interesting thing
where Biden they'll make excuses and
spin for Biden even as you know even
today it drops in the Washington Post it
isn't just that Biden keeps using this
example of Senator Eastland who was one
of the most despicable people to serve
in the Senate it's that the reason they
had a friendly relationship in the 70s
among other things is that and I quote
this is Joe Biden writing to Senator
Eastland in June 30th 1977 I just read
this a couple minutes before we went on
air I want you to know that I very much
appreciate your help during this week's
committee meeting in an attempt to bring
my auntie busing legislation to a vote
so they built I mean even setting aside
what Biden is is you know dismissing in
terms of like just being clear about who
this arch segregation as big it was and
the fact that he weirdly keeps using
them as an example of civility or
whatever other nonsense he's putting
forward no they did work together in the
seven
they work together because Joe Biden was
playing on Northeast resentments and
racism against progress with race
legislation and you know some of the
same people are gonna minimize that are
gonna say you know that you know I don't
know Bernie Sanders phrased an answer
incorrectly on something in 2014 so his
whole you know his record of civil
rights completely erased and then I
think in the middle regardless of what
you think of Warren and obviously Warren
of course is is you know a good
candidate in many ways I'm having more
critiques of her recently but like she's
getting a total pass so you have this
like weird thing where Biden is spun for
even though he's just completely
irredeemable Warren is getting a total
free ride and then with Bernie it's just
constant well let's let's keep it real I
mean and this is this is my speculation
but I think that there's evidence to
back this a little bit so I think that
the establishment is purposely propping
Elizabeth Warren up and also giving her
the passes that you just mentioned I
think that they are doing this to drive
a wedge between progressives mm-hm and
you know if it ends up being against
Biden and Warren do you think that the
establishment is going to continue
giving war in a pass oh no they're
trying to divvy up the progressive vote
they're trying to do away with with
Bernie and they want to make this race
between Warren and Biden so they can
effectively you know destroy Warren's
chances later on that's the way that I
see this because the fact of the matter
is you have you know examples of op-eds
written by Third Way a corporate fact
so-called democratic think-tank right
that said things like Oh Elizabeth
Warren would be absolutely disastrous
with her populist policies that was just
in 2013 not too long ago and now I'm
seeing them prop her up do you think
that they changed their minds do you
think the corporations and the bankers
that fund them and their stupid think
tank genuinely change their minds and
now think that Warren is going to be a
great candidate no they want to drive
that wedge and it's for me it's
incredibly transparent
yeah that's not to say that's not to say
that Warren is a terrible candidate I
think that she has some policies that
are fantastic my favorite policy is what
she wants to do when it comes to student
loan debt but with that said you know if
you compare Bernie and Warren Bernice
has some significant strengths that
Warren lacks I agree with that
completely and I everything you said
including the fact that of course
they'll ship her you know when given the
opportunity but I do think it's it's you
know in the beginning of the campaign
you would read profiles and the Wall
Street people would say anybody besides
Sanders are Warren now they're saying
you know and the true hatred is on
Sanders and I think it's because even
though they of course they don't like
Warren and of course it's disingenuous
because she does have genuine bona fides
on Wall Street and finance which are
super important the systemic nature of
what bernie is offering they understand
there is not a place for them in it you
know even down to like people who are
just like failed Democratic consultants
and so you will see a complete war on
him and just this relentless
disingenuous 'no sand i want to just
we'll just do this one quick debunk
because this is just incredible right
like we're already at the phase where
you know bernie says the sky is blue and
like that's proof that he's a secret
reactionary like it didn't take that
long for this level of BS about him so
Bernie said in a conversation I don't
actually know the original source but
this is tweeted by Murray Marisa Barrera
on Twitter and Bernie said I think there
are a certain number of people who'd
like to see a woman president and a
woman elected and I understand that
which you know okay empathetic
objectively true then he added
Elizabeth's a friend of mine and I think
she's running a good campaign right so
this is like okay so first we have him
making an objectively correct statement
and then a courteous comment about
Senator Warren Vanity Fair headlines
Sanders Warren is surging because she's
got ovaries I mean I mean Vanity Fair
Vanity Fair has been doing a hatchet job
on Bernie Sanders that's that's one
example one other example was a story
that I came across and I tweeted it out
with the question how is this objective
because in the piece the writer I
believe her name is tina neuen wrote
something like you know bernie sanders
is like this old you know old
undesirable Socialist from Vermont like
I'm paraphrasing what she said but not
by much
I mean it was such a giant insult and
this was not an op-ed piece this was
supposed to be objective journalism and
that very piece was comparing Warren and
Bernie Sanders I don't understand why
that kind of stuff just slides in in the
field of work that we're in if you're
supposed to be objective why are you
including you know your opinion about
who Bernie Sanders is or how undesirable
he is it's just it's gross yeah I know
it's totally managed there I actually
like the reporting that they did
previously and and this time around I
just it's pretty bad it's a hundred and
I think like and I think that that is
also where you know you're gonna need to
start like I think we like the warrant
campaign does need to be held
accountable for some of this relative to
Sanders because Sanders consistently and
I know that people got all triggered
because there was one tweet where Bernie
Sanders put out a tweet you know
basically saying like look this
political piece is basically sewing the
Third Way is warming up to Warren and so
on which I agree with you is totally
dishonest but that for purposes his
campaign it's true that like at the end
of the day the main enemy of all of
these forces of corporate and political
malfeasance
they hate Bernie Sanders he's their
enemy number one because he offers the
most systemic challenge people freaked
out about it tweeted at him and and
complaining about it and it's like okay
you know fair enough I don't agree I
think it's a pretty legitimate thing to
point out but in general Sanders goes
out of his way and and the campaign has
been incredibly civil I think that if
we're gonna start being so nitpicky
about everything we have to say like hey
maybe the Warren campaign should you
know should put out a thanks Vanity Fair
we appreciate it but there's no need for
this sort of like weird
Aegeus borderline anti-semitic
editorializing to go along with praising
you could just praise the senator for
her good work you know like if that's
the game we're gonna play then Warren's
campaign should be accountable as well
yeah you know what that's that's
actually a really great point so I think
progressives absolutely should apply
pressure you know not in a hostile angry
way cuz I don't think that you
accomplish anything that way but apply
some pressure to have her speak out
because you know these attacks against
him are beyond unfair and the tweet that
got everybody so upset
including Chrissy Teigen didn't even
name Elizabeth Warren I mean Elizabeth
Warren was not named in his tweet the
reason why he shared that story that
political story was because there were
quotes from the VP for Third Way
indicating that you know what anyone
anyone but but Bernie so he is
essentially saying Katz has a bag there
against me they're fighting against me
specifically and they're trying to prop
other people up which is look these same
mistakes were made the first time around
voters do not want an establishment
Democrat period so I mean the way that
this is all going makes it clear to me
that these goons would much rather have
Trump reelected than have a real
progressive in office hundred when it
comes to a group like Third Way which is
you know just like you know total
mediocrity corporate laundering nonsense
I mean 100 percent because as soon as
you know because what because their
scenario is you know yes best-case
scenario you elect the Joe Biden or some
other candidate that will you know push
through legislation for all of the banks
and pharma and you know whoever else
funds these these awful places or Trump
gets elected and then we got to say well
the reason was is that Democrats didn't
propose compassionate debtor prisons and
that's our new initiative and then you
know here's like our next campaign to
make the party more corporate more
reactionary and worse for people and you
know and and that and Sanders is
fundamentally antithetical to that and
that's why you know you know frankly
it's you know and obviously this is this
is this is different because I think
like the Sanders campaign understands
you need to support an independent media
and so on and he's never gonna demonize
media in the same
way as but it's like you know you just
MSNBC Vanity Fair like these they're not
trustworthy sources for covering
Elizabeth recovering Bernie Sanders at
all they're not I mean you know exactly
and then you look if you're looking for
a fair shake for a beta or orc then you
probably shouldn't watch like em are you
know like fair enough but let's just be
like transparent about this stuff the
mainstream media you know from the weird
Politico articles that somehow like
Bernie Sanders cleaning up his credit
score reveals like his secret Jew eNOS
but also how could you be a socialist
who wants to have like indoor plumbing I
mean it is a czar it's relentless and
all of these outlets are not to be
trusted with coverage of Bernie Sanders
I mean that that to me is very clearly
yeah so I think I think the progressive
wing of the Democratic Party understands
that but I always try to be cognizant of
the fact that we're in our bubble and so
the important thing is to try to get
this message through to the larger
Democratic party and I'm talking about
voters I'm not talking about you know
elected officials I just want them and
it's hard because there's been such a
successful campaign to blame Trump's
election on Bernie Sanders so there are
Democratic voters and I'm just guessing
like Chrissy Teigen is probably one of
them well
if it weren't for Bernie Sanders Hillary
Clinton would have been elected and we
wouldn't be in this mess in the first
place but that's just not true
I mean so many young voters were like no
I'm just not gonna go to the polls I
have nothing to vote for and that's
really the heart of the issue here you
know we got to give people something to
vote for not something to vote against
which is Trump if that's not enough to
persuade people to go to the poll 100%
and then but and you know and all the
reporting that we have available
basically is that even though Bernie
Sanders has totally different politics
from Hillary Clinton and there was no
love lost between those campaigns for
obvious reasons that he worked his ass
off to get her elected president he was
flying across the country and giving
good advice that was ignored by their
terrible campaign yeah and I don't know
if you saw it
just yesterday he Bernie Sanders uh
issued a challenge to Third Way because
you know there's always this pressure
for him to unite the party unite the
party unite the party do what you can to
make sure that you know we're not
attacking one another unite the party
and so he's saying all right so let me
ask third way if I get the nomination
are they going to back me are they going
to defend me are they going to fight for
me and of course I I mean look we can
suspect what the answer is but I love
that he brought that up because he did
fight to get Hillary Clinton elected to
the detriment of you know his own fan
base like there were people who kind of
turned on him as a result of that but he
felt it was the right thing to do and it
sucks because he was in a lose-lose
situation you know you can't you know
you can't let someone like Trump get
elected but at the same time you know
the optics of backing Hillary Clinton
after you know that incredibly
tumultuous primary season was difficult
for a lot of his voters to stomach
absolutely in it we've got a couple
minutes left and I want to talk with you
like just a little bit about this
documentary that just dropped on Netflix
what I think it's called at the edge of
democracy and I don't know I I have to
say I mean Matt was joking with me and I
won't name any names but he's saying
that I'm I'm having my my my victory lap
moment on the Brazil story which I I
mean honestly it's not that satisfying
for me because Lula is still in prison
but tell me what you and this monster is
still in office but it's a new I mean
tell us about the documentary what you
think of it and just kind of you know
especially in light of all the intercept
reporting we've talked about this for a
while so I just want to know what you
think yeah for sure so I thought it was
a great documentary there were little
bits and pieces throughout that I was
unaware of so I thought it was it did a
good job in informing me and if it if I
felt that way I think others nothing
about what happened to Lula would be you
know certainly more aware of how a
democracy can completely crumble so look
it was kind of terrifying as well
because the parallels between Brazil in
the United States I always recognize
them but it's even more specific than I
previously realized so the
fear-mongering about transgender people
you know that we saw that with the
right-wing here in you know America and
that certainly happened in Brazil as
well and also look once you get the
results you've been fighting for as a
progressive once you get the economic
justice that you fought for the real
lesson here is that the fight has to
continue because the second you get
complacent you know you have this
right-wing movement growing behind the
scenes and they're going to overthrow
the system that you fought for so yeah
so my point is like there's always going
to be suffering there's always going to
be a fight because these goons and Wall
Street these bankers these corporations
the military-industrial complex they're
not going to give up let's say in a
perfect world we get Bernie Sanders and
we get an effective Congress a Congress
that actually you know works with the
executive branch and passes legislation
that provides Medicare for all that
provides a green new deal that provides
all of these things that we want you
think that bankers are just gonna sit
back and take it of course not
they're gonna rally the truth they're
gonna do what they can to fight back and
they're gonna play dirty so we always
have to be on guard on alert and we have
to keep fighting that's that's really
the biggest lesson I learned from
watching that documentary yeah I agree
with you 100% and I mean I you know
really will spell out I mean again I
think anybody who has you know any
ability to sort of look at this
analytically and now obviously with the
intercept reporting I mean it's you know
you don't understand that Lula is a
political prisoner you're you know I
don't know what we're you're you're not
I don't even know if you're out to lunch
you're out to something else but you
know at the process of watching on Dilma
was impeached and just when it was all
is all so incredible and I and one of
the scenes in the movie that really
stuck with me though is when the
filmmakers in the back of the car with
Lula and his wife after Delmas been
impeached and she's like you know are
the things that you regret basically and
Lula is kind of just like you know which
i think is so true is basically like you
know the priority was to make people not
hungry which he achieved I mean huge
reductions in poverty he's like look
yeah I wish I'd done I did more nine
families basically control the media in
this kind
three and we ended slavery a hundred
years ago and there's so many systems
here of of oppression but you know it's
like it's oh and and I in the same thing
he told glenn greenwald recently which
is like the we we are definitionally a
victim of our success and you know
that's what enrages these people even
though they did well even though we were
conciliatory and I think when you add
the u.s. dimension which I have no doubt
is there of you know the fact that all
of these corruption investigations have
basically led not only to the
imprisoning of Lula but basically to the
destruction of these incredibly
important state companies that provided
a huge amount of social money money for
social programs jobs and we know going
back to the Snowden revelations that the
NSA was aggressively spying on Petrobras
so well people will get really real
about this story and you know demand
other candidates join Bernie Sanders and
people I don't have no idea how people
like AOC have not immediately demanded
his release especially in light of the
intercept reporting it's it's pretty
yeah definitely I mean look III I think
AOC has a lot on her plate so I don't
think it comes from a place of malice or
anything like that maybe she's not even
really aware of the latest reporting I
have no idea right but I will say this
you know there was one part in the film
where and this is the part that I think
you're alluding to where Lula is giving
a speech and he does talk about all the
successes of Brazil but and you know the
the gold mining and all the wonderful
resources in the country and then he
every time he lists a success he follows
it with but our people are still hungry
yeah and that part of the film just
hearing him he's a wonderful speaker it
may be really emotional because living
in Los Angeles every single day it like
it's the most painful thing to walk down
the sidewalk and see how many people are
living in tents you know a lot of them
you can tell are they don't have mental
health issues although there are many
who are homeless in LA with mental
health issues some of them are newly
homeless because they've been evicted or
pushed out of their neighborhood due to
gentrification due to you know
rent-controlled housing big demolish for
these luxury apartments and right now we
have a hundred and eleven thousand empty
units in LA and we have 60,000 homeless
people like what how does that make any
sense
like we don't take care of our own and
that's essentially what he was saying in
that speech it just really hit me hard
he's he was always fighting for the
right things and sometimes when you
fight for the right thing you got to
play ball with the deplorable to get it
done and I'm not talking about you know
the Joe Biden rout of working with
segregationist I'm talking about hey
this is the system that that's that I'm
dealing with and unfortunately I have to
deal with this system and play ball with
the system to get the the main priority
in my you know in my entire like
objective done and for him it was
feeding feeding hungry and that's why he
goes in there and then it's reported in
this idiotic look it's corruption
meanwhile literally what you're saying
is well there's plenty of people in
Brazilian politics mostly on the right
who literally are corrupt in the sense
of like being like mafia members but
Lula accommodated a system to deliver
huge gains for people and it was covered
here is just generic corruption in a way
that aided fascism in Brazil and the
last thing I'll say is that other great
line he has where he's like if Jesus
came back and had to govern Brazil like
his vice president would be Judas like
that's the same mm-hmm and you know
people need to understand that and yeah
it's a really powerful thing to watch
and I and I super appreciate your
advocacy on this obviously and we'll
talk again very soon do you have
anything else any final parting shot on
Joe Biden that you want to get in oh no
not on Joe Biden I mean that there will
be plenty of opportunities for that I
will say though I really appreciate you
know the show you guys put together not
just majority report but your show I
don't have a lot of time to watch other
content you know I'm usually producing
all day long but you know you guys
provide an entertaining way of learning
about what's going on in the world
including some of these international
stories that get no attention in America
so thank you for having me and thank you
for the work you do and I thank you so
much talk to you soon
much appreciated alright guys um
edge of democracy I would definitely
recommend watching it she has pretty I
think even if you're just injured like a
kind of Politico you know that type of
like access to the main players is
pretty fascinating to watch I'm just
gonna call I'm gonna just confirming a
quarry that I'm gonna call him in a
minute
um but yeah let's take a brief break and
we'll come right back with Corey pine
you
back to the majority report
joining us now is Cory pine freelance
journalist author of live work work work
work die
a journey die a journey the savage heart
of Silicon Valley also hosts over the
news from nowhere podcast Cory thanks
for being here thanks for having me
Michael it's been a minute it's been way
too long although you and I actually
wait you did my show racin I did your
show recently and we did a but it was as
uh mainly we were doing that an art
Belle impression oh yeah I think that
one is unlocked because most episodes
are locked but I believe that one is
unlocked so please go check it out I got
a really good response from that
excellent as communist art bell
communist art Bell well you know it's
funny cuz I knew like I knew enough to
know who art Bell was it was this sort
of like pretty famous like I he was
interesting because I guess he was like
a conspiracy am talk show host but his
kind of shtick was like he almost didn't
necessarily believe in all of the
conspiracies he just sort of like had
like an open line for guests and callers
that were really into that stuff and he
certainly yeah unscreened calls and
that's just what people you know he was
kind of interested in it and that
cultivated that in his audience I think
his main thing was he didn't want to do
politics because it was a 90s you know
and like rush limbaugh was starting to
get popular and there was a big push to
do right-wing talk radio but you know
rather than go like an air America route
I think Bell was more of a libertarian
you know but a inconsistent one I looked
up as and I mean not that it means much
but I do think he adores the Obama at
least once so I don't know that his
politics were not great but they were
not like totally retro like they weren't
what you might think when you think
conspiracy theorist am talk show host in
Arizona they were it wasn't his main
concern you know I think he was doing an
entertain program first and foremost but
what's funny about it and what I got
into of my impression was my angle in it
was that and it makes total sense I mean
obviously people who listen to this show
well know all the sympathy in the
old for this but he not super patient
with his callers so there's just like
montages of art bell and it is really
funny because there's calls like uh uh
art I'm wondering if I you think the
pyramids are not actually an alien
honing device but a false-flag for
uranium mining and he's just like where
are you calling from
you didn't identify yourself you're an
idiot like he actually makes me look it
makes me both appreciate how great most
of our callers are and makes me look
super patient because that kind of a
good stable of regular and irregular
collars I got regulars are like show
part like those are not like the
regulars we have are so good that
they're not even like you know I mean
it's just the occasional like I mean you
know sometimes you want me first you get
like your libertarian idiots then you
have like your you know are you anxious
about something I'm anxious about and if
you're not I'm gonna get pissed calls
which I just don't have much of a
threshold for you know I hear that so we
doing a movie recommendation movie
actually why don't we we're gonna talk
about a few things though because I
actually why don't we were gonna do a
little bit of climate doom but we're
also gonna do a little bit of UFO stuff
just format and by the way they are
related which one climate doom and UFOs
yes so we'll start out so let's do a
little UFO okay we we can start with
that I mean I actually think the UFO
thing since we start with art Bell it's
a good segue yeah I think it's the
probably the most hopeful story out
there right now although you know your
night people are very cautious about it
and rightfully so because I don't think
anybody really knows what's going on but
Matt's very confident that he knows
what's really going on let's hear it no
I've got an open mind I'm listening no
you don't what's good what do you think
is really good yeah we have a journalist
I don't believe that this little green
men but let's see what coreopsis has to
say Cory well amen
just to recap a couple of stories that
came out in the last week or so there
was Politico had a story about members
of Congress getting classified briefings
about the UFO issue a lot of this kicked
off by the last New York Times story not
the one from whatever a year and a half
ago that really sparked people's
interest but a more recent one about
Navy pilots that had been encountering
these mysterious craft so some people in
the Senate including Intelligence
Committee minority senior member Mark
Warner had have received classified
briefings on what these things may have
been prudent on their port probably
because we're talking about craft that
the or objects I should say we don't
even know if they're craft but objects
that elements of the military and
intelligence agencies are effectively
confirming our real and these things you
know have been cited by trained observer
pilots they can do incredible things
like accelerate Matt Olson tracked by
some of the most advanced you know radar
and sensors that the US has so some of
the most advanced tech in the world
these things go like zero to twenty-five
thousand miles an hour instantly
terminate by iana dude that's my guess
they they do they do freeform climbing
videos and GoPros on things that are
taller the Empire State Building for fun
okay this is China
so that's here's here's my a lot of
people this is like the reasonable
speculation right the serious person
speculation is that oh this is some
classified military program if not
America's than some other countries in
the world I'm pretty skeptical of that
as an explanation because one there's no
evidence to back it up
there's been no leaks about this kind of
thing not saying it's an impossible
explanation but like if you're gonna
propose that it's some secret tech
that's been cooked up somewhere in the
world like let's hear an explanation of
what you're actually talking well
shishun ping is a great leader who has
an excellent plan for harmonizing the
Chinese system I'm not sure what part
you don't understand of that I think
it's a Jewish a thought probably well
anyway these things are demonstrating
you know non Newtonian physics basically
they don't abide by you know physics as
we're all taught about it in school so
the question is what allows these
objects to perform like that and I think
that whatever the answer is ultimately
there are hints that there's some
potential energy source out there that
can help with not only our climate
problem but a lot of other problems
we're facing so I think that's why I say
it's the most hopeful story going the
other development was Trump was asked
about it by George Stephanopoulos and he
said you know our pilots are great they
saw whatever they saw but I don't
believe that this is happening I like is
that that's basically my response that's
pretty much me and Matt is right it's
like hey look the pilots are great they
do a great job it's supersonic that's
great
totally don't believe it wait we have we
have this okay we're gonna play this
really quick about being briefed on this
subject you and I have we know we
disagree about that we have a whole day
I had to go and this before we go one of
the things you have as presidency access
to all the information right in the
world all the mysteries out there and I
was just struck in last couple weeks for
reading more and more reports of Navy
pilots seeing lots and lots of beautiful
is have you've done that
I think it's probably you know I want
them to think whatever they think they
just say I've seen and I've read and
I've heard and I did have one a very
brief meeting on it but people are
saying they're saying UFOs do I believe
it not particularly if there were
evidence of extraterrestrial well I
think my great our great pilots would
know and some of them really see things
that are a little bit different than in
the past
so we're gonna see but watch it you'll
be the first to know
incredibly reassuring answer no it's all
the facialist this is the moment he
became president president you know for
some reason with UFOs it's like the
opposite of astrology I'm super on the
skeptic end of this one okay aliens and
people are like why don't they just
announce themselves like like why don't
they land on the White House lawn it's
like can you imagine if you're an alien
and you come all that way and it's like
okay time to announce ourselves and
you're looking around and it's like
Donald Trump
yeah whoever's in charge of the United
Kingdom now you know I mean is not a
strong brand is not strong
all right Jamie what is the what's the
thing what's the what's are called posad
ISM okay what give us the I myself am
NOT an expert on posad ISM I just want
to preface it with that our producer ap
Andy at the anti Fattah is however
currently writing a book about posad ISM
it's true you can find him at space
pearl I know my men I don't think so in
terms of I think you do have some
experts oh well yes I mean I've picked
up some through the through the time
that I've been doing this with Andy
especially since he launched his
side-project Pro at Cole which if you
like commie art Bell that's basically
what protocol is you're a pretender so
Jay Posadas was basically just a regular
Trotskyist for most of his life right
however he got into some wacky er
theories towards the end and people kind
of picked it up and
ran with it since then especially right
now because there's an element of
catastrophism to Trotskyism that really
appeals to people at this moment in time
for reasons I can't possibly begin to
understand just kidding so the idea is
the space comrades are here they're
watching us and if they've evolved past
the point if they've evolved to the
point where they can have interstellar
travel right then they've probably
evolved past capitalism which was the
bottleneck during which they would have
destroyed yes yes during which was the
bottleneck during which they would have
destroyed their themselves and their
planet now if they somehow are
capitalists and we should be very scared
of them but if they're capitalists oh my
hope people are getting fit because
we're gonna have to go to some
mining situation somewhere he was like
your your yang books are not coming you
got some work absolutely vitam that
would be actually if you were capitalist
aliens and you wanted to will find like
your first group of expendable humans to
wipe out might get taken along no no we
would eventually but I'm just saying if
it was like hey these are probably not
gonna be cooperative people in
conditions to go work on interstellar
salt mines
yeah probably video game players that
are building a policy set on a thousand
bucks a month to play video games yeah
probably be a pretty I in the target
list
well she's speculating and joking calm
down people I think a lot of how people
could sieve of aliens especially
Americans is projection on our part
rightful because they're always
yeah like oh no there's some there's
some voracious race of creatures that
just uses up all of the resources in a
given landmass it kills everyone and
moves on like who does that remind you
of or they're like really pretentious
like sort of nice but way unnecessarily
convoluted and complicated so Corey what
do you think man you think well now
honestly give us
you're and we need a solution to it that
resists the imagination of a new kind of
pasta - a Posadas right there that's
what he said risks the imagination of a
new kind of possibility by the way is
communism and the space comrades are
waiting until we're ready and you know
hopefully they're going to uplift us to
communism with the help of the sea
comrades of course the dolphins before
we do column B path B to communism which
is a lot less desirable which involves
just a total global nuclear war wait
path a is the space comrades has never
happening photo I'm sorry well let me
just say that I would uh should look for
some good pragmatic Third Way leadership
no I just steal us forward uh but no
what do you think Cory of it all of it I
I think that space comrades is at least
as plausible as secret weapons program
that's so are you serious like what are
you actually saying here that's wild
well I'm saying here's my takeaway I do
think that you know I sort of been
mulling like what it's my next book
gonna be about I think I'll do something
on this subject because I think so it's
endlessly complex and fascinating and
I'd start I started out doing a magazine
piece like a year ago or more than a
year behind deadlines and I just can't I
I kept reported thing because I couldn't
figure out the hell's going on so I've
talked to all kinds of scientists I've
talked to military people I've talked to
people that think they were abducted by
aliens blah blah blah all kinds of
people I think there's a lot more to it
I think it's silly to write it off I
think what we're seeing is some kind of
government acknowledged certainly I mean
we've already seen that a government
acknowledgment that they've been
studying this more seriously
I mean I've talked to people academic
researchers and others who have been
looking at this sort of on the down-low
because it's such an easy subject to
mock but I you know with these sort of
confirmed sightings by the military
we're basically getting an annulment
that there's more to it and I think that
part of the reason that
maybe acknowledging it more is that
there are more sightings and you know
that's as far as how does basically it
is though in the I mean not saying that
this is it but I mean we do know that
there's a history of intelligence
agencies literally feeding and spreading
disinformation on UFOs or it's your
weapons programming so just just I agree
with you it you shouldn't just say oh
well this is clearly that again III buy
that actually all kidding aside but I
mean we do know the history here I mean
doesn't that play well here you know
here's where I'm at I think that not
only is something happening in the sky
and that you know nobody's prepared to
explain at this point there is also a
history of government disinformation
that's probably also happening right and
so it's possible let's say that you're
the you here's a theory I'm not saying
that this is what's going on but let's
say that you're in charge of the world's
most powerful economy in military and
there are objects buzzing around the sky
that are way beyond anything that you
control or any other sort of country run
by humans controls how are you supposed
to deal with that reality with without
people really freaking out right
I mean it's but it's something that
essentially undermines like the
government's claim to authority and
legitimacy if it's happening and they
can't explain it because if you can't
explain it and people are jumping to
conclusions like ETS
then what are like what are you really
offering in terms of security or
stability I mean I think it really you
know the existence of these objects
really threatens what we understand in
not just you know government but every
field of knowledge from physics to
psychology all the way down to biology
and medicine I mean I think that this is
something that is put as you know Jamie
was sort of indicating is potentially
revolutionary in a way maybe not because
its space comrades but because
it's gonna open up indoor understanding
of science and you know basically where
we sit in the universe you could open
read the Vedas to already understand
that we don't have a correct
understanding of this stuff that's what
I do the other thing that Modi take well
I'm like a leftist Modi that's why I'm
so hard and he gets me the other thing
that's so so relevant Hindu right here
dude Buju socialists all right go ahead
the other thing that's so relevant about
what you just said Cory like the
possibility of a new kind of science a
new kind of energy source is like the
preconditions necessary to build
communism would probably involve some
kind of new limitless energy source like
the Star Trek replicator is abolish
scarcity what is uh what two things one
a stray observation and I want to know
about what the dolphin thing is but I
think Mike from Florida shout-out to you
buddy I'm sure you're loving this
conversation Jamie what is the dolphin
part of the story well what is their
role in all of this you know I'm not
super well-versed in the dolphin stuff
and you know more I only seen
Hitchhiker's Guide to the galaxy sorry
Oh actually I'm gonna read it when I was
a kid what is that so is that the same
as posad ISM Cory no I don't think so
I'm not the expert on posad is amol
though I look forward to space proles
book yes I read that in Hitchhiker's
Guide to an illicit they they were the
more advanced life-form on earth it's
just that we didn't know yeah what is so
then bring this in relationship to you
before we get to our movie
recommendation of just the absolutely
dreadful news that we have on global
ecological catastrophe Cory because I
know that year I know that you're
working on a roundup for your show of
just where we're at with that yeah I was
on vacation for a few weeks and I and
there was just so much bad news I had to
put all the climate news in one episode
that I'm gonna be recording shortly yeah
so the biggest headline was
that the permafrost is thawing 70 years
soon earth and science scientists
thought it would the Arctic permafrost
which is really bad because that a lot
of methane stored in there and the
release of that is only going to
accelerate the you know climate change
effects so you know my question is and I
don't have an answer for this is if that
projection was seventy years too
optimistic what about the other
projections that we've been hearing
related to climate change because this
is sort of the critical one I put that
question on Twitter and somebody said oh
it means the canary is dead and I think
that that's pretty much the takeaway and
we are already seeing accelerating
effects I mean Chennai that sixth
largest city in India is out of water
you know literally out of water I mean
they turn on the taps and nothing comes
out and they've have been having to get
trucks come in and even that is becoming
untenable and that is going to get more
or so and more so I mean the Himmel
another headline recently last couple of
weeks Himalayan glaciers are melting at
like twice the expected rate and that's
the water supply for a billion people so
how do we balance like my question with
covering climate change is as always I
mean I've always have a couple questions
one is the kind of you know basic
argument which I think is you know at
least obviously you know on shows like
this and so on there's I think a better
understanding that you know the climate
question is ultimately not a question
about whether or not people believe the
right things or you know that type
obviously public disinformation matters
but that fundamentally we're not taking
this on because there isn't a critical
mass of people that are like well I read
the BBC summary of the report and by
golly this is bad it's because of I mean
at the end of the day I think it's
undeniable that it is about capitalism I
mean it's it's you cannot have the
growth incentives without you know you
need a redesign in the structure of the
economy in order to do this and then if
you want to take it to like a set you
know a less fundamental level the fact
that
okay you know like in the United States
we know that oil and you know natural
resource extraction companies own
politics
they run the system they run the system
in things as grasses and as obvious and
as clear as campaign donations but also
like the fact that they really can say
to states and municipalities like
alright well you want to do this but how
is it gasp you know how is a gas tax
gonna look on for consumers you know as
an example and actually I'm very wary of
something like a gas tax I don't think
that this should be done in a regressive
top-down austerity driven way so there's
that kind of like is it about really
understanding how this relates to power
versus like this facts versus non facts
conversation which is not gonna be not
gonna cover it and then the second part
is like what are you actually telling
people because it's sort of like okay
clearly one way of reading the science
and particularly if you have any
humanitarian concerns and you're
thinking about you know people who could
be affected by what's happening the
Hamal use the indigenous communities the
island nations that are already
seriously suffering a you know because
of this D already you know it sounds
more pedestrian but frankly think of
just even people like if there's a
massive heat wave in New York or in
London or Paris who dies because they
can't you know they don't have AC I mean
you know like this is all just raining
out every day how do you yeah I mean go
to that but I just like how do you
convey we have to do something about
this there's things that can be done
even though they will literally be
revolutionary things versus like I guess
if you just took the science you could
just feel like that's a wrap that's a
great question I don't know if I'm
qualified because you know honestly what
this kind of news makes me think is like
a it sends me into prepper mode you know
I'm like you know we're having
conversations around the house like okay
you know when we lived in Portland we
there's a big earthquake risk risk there
right so I was like okay let's get our
earthquake kit ready and you know we
moved that with us and now it's kind of
like climb
catastrophe kit all of these phenomena
that are related to climate change that
are already affecting people's lives you
know not just if you're in India but
like where we live in now in Alberta
just before when on vacation massive
wildfires I mean this is the regular
summer thing now and much of the west so
you know I think part of what needs to
be communicated to people is climate
change is real it's happening in faster
than we thought and that means that you
have to take steps in your life in your
day to day life to adapt that's another
really important question right because
if people take some of those steps to
adapt in a way that is community minded
and people are actually building bonds
like okay we need to adapt so I should
get to know who my neighbors are we
actually should be doing things like
community organic Gardens or whatever
else to build resiliency community
events all of this type of thing Thanks
community defense whatever it is
community defense and events whatever it
is versus you know I'm gonna go
stockpile a bunch of guns and seeds for
myself
you're already prototyping two very
different types of futures right there
yeah well the people that think that
they're gonna like a bunker down those
kind of Preppers are delusional I mean I
think there needs to be more of that
kind of culture or on the left that is
more about community right so I mean
that's something that I imagine you know
DSA groups or anarchist collectives
could start thinking about is like what
how do we you know not only an idea of
like how do you set up parallel
structures to provide for people who are
not being having their needs met by the
private economy or the state right but
how do you provide for people who might
be displaced or there will be a lot of
internal displacement and some of it
will be you know of a more hey I'm not
sure I want to do LA anymore because of
the pollution and the fires so I have
the resources to move myself across the
country I mean even that sort of like
you know non-emergency non-priority type
of thing that's still gonna being a lot
of people and that's gonna
you know housing resources and we need
to start I mean to me that's another
reason this is another reason that
something like the Sanders campaign is
so important because you need to start
prototyping that broad sort of socially
minded sense of interdependence and
policy because if this stuff starts to
play out in a heavily-armed paranoid
ultra socially isolated society I mean
know it's scary
yeah that's Rifle Association and
certain branches of DSA are already
doing a pretty good job at that
actually with I mean the name makes it
sound like they're just a bunch of
socialists who shoot guns but guns are
actually a very small part of what they
do and what they could seve of in terms
of community defense because right you
have to defend people against hunger as
well you have to defend people against
all sorts of things and for a lot of
people the crisis has already begun so
we are building these networks now and
we need to keep doing that and people
just yes yeah go ahead sir I wanted to
say that that idea of dealing with the
sort of immediate consequences is one
track of you know response that I think
people need to talk about on the other
track is you know what scientists are
saying as far as the bigger you know
global picture of you know immediate
stop to carbon emissions is not enough
they're saying now we need that then we
need to think about actually getting co2
out of the atmosphere because things are
happening faster than they expected and
it's worse than they expected so that is
you know a whole other separate
conversation so people need to figure
out what you know does that mean
geoengineering I think is where yeah
that's that's interesting because I'm
you know I maintain I just I'm sorry I'm
not gonna be you know I'm not gonna be
embracing nuclear I just don't buy it
it's way too big of a risk and I do not
trust you know I just don't trust it as
a solution I'm sorry I know it will
freak a lot of people out however on the
other hand where I'm much more receptive
the more I think about this and I know
like I haven't read it yet but Aaron
bass Donny's new luxury communism book
like clearly
there is gonna need to be some you know
highly technologically evolved stuff
that we're not even thinking about but
is actually become like like having the
exact or an asteroid mining I mean that
sounds ridiculous and then you're
looking like no Luxembourg is actually
figuring out basically a licensing
system on that in anticipation of like
that is gonna happen so ideal we can
have Luxembourg running it I mean that's
like that's I I think right the you know
the takeaway as far as the politics of
this is that you know we are generation
not our not our children's generation
but our generation is gonna have to lead
a revolution or we're all gonna die I
mean that's bottom line yeah and look
look at where there look at where the
Democrats are at like they're not even
anywhere close
there's no candidate that is anywhere
close to leveling with people about this
problem and I'm glad that some reporters
are starting to ask candidates like hey
since we're talking about national
emergencies 4bs immigration problems
that are problems really that we can
easily absorb these people like what
about a climate emergency right so I
mean that's that's a good step but it
needs to be more focused and more sharp
of critique that's actually in line with
the science and actually in line with
the phenomena that are happening around
the world q Tom Perez imminently
explaining to a young activist why I
know it's a big deal and it's real and
we're gonna talk about it it may be
proposed solutions from the mid 80s for
it I can't even laugh about that right
now it's so horrifying it's just the
worst it's amazingly yeah it's it's just
what ik yeah as these crises get worse I
think that more people are gonna have
less time for people like Tom Perez that
like not only don't know what they're
talking about but don't care to educate
themselves or address the issue
seriously like we just don't have time
for that kind of nonsense that's my take
it really does and in the chapter in my
book
among several things with Sam Harris I
do sort of correlate him with Steve
Pinker who isn't the prime focus of the
book but is certainly a player in this
whole you know sort of delusion set but
I really understand like when you watch
Steve Pinker sit down and get grilled by
Mehdi Hassan and basically saying like
pretty much how could you write this
book with all of your credentials and
all of your brand power and essentially
in addition to you know painting a
totally Pollyannish view of the world
which totally you know uses statistics
andand in a profoundly narrow way to you
know obscure the fact of the poverty
crisis and inequality and all of these
other vital things and then that
basically when it comes to climate
change you're pretty much saying like
hey like stop being so negative
capitalism and technology are awesome
and we'll probably figure it out and
Steve Pinker's basically his responses
you know essentially like you're being
negative Mehdi and you know at the time
and of course I think the politics and
the ideology of what he's putting
forward is obviously delusional and
disastrous and dangerous but you know
when you pour into the climate stuff you
get the emotional appeal of that of
those as matt says bedtime stories it's
like yeah now and that's even why I
start to actually understand why people
get so emotionally triggered about Elon
Musk because he is a personal avatar of
we don't need to reckon with anything
hard there's just some guy who will you
know just magically solve our problems
like a movie and what's funny is that
you know even at this point he he
finally comes forward with that that
that super project and it's literally
just like oh you built like a small
underground road okay that's great and
you know this is obviously not gonna
achieve anything people need people need
ya talk about it but I mean but I'm I am
starting to understand more just you
know the emotional fixation that people
have around a people like musk and
Pinker is because I mean you're not
completely you know you're not totally
in the Trump bolsa narrow like ya just
poison the rainforest like
cares let's just destroy life on earth
let's just aggressively destroy humanity
and earth systems you're there where
it's like well I don't want to be anti
science I want to accept what this is a
real thing because science science
science but then I don't want to deal
with any of the implications for
capitalism or for you know anything
serious so let me just get back into
like the magic gadget fantasy thinkers
an ideologue like I think he's he's and
the fact that he's not described as such
just kind of tells you where the
ideology of the sort of mainstream
middlebrow press that elevated him is at
as well I mean they share it it's a
hundred percent capitalist realism yes
it is definitely marked fish mark
Fisher's the capitalist realism as well
as vampire castle two big essays uh that
everybody should be reading my Marc
Fisher that goes back to pass autism as
well because like I think it was Mark
Fisher who said it's easier for people
to picture the end of the world than the
end of capitalism right or as Conrad
communicator put it on our show about
facade ISM it's easier for people to
imagine a world that will end than a
world that can change and that's where
the Posada stuff session with nuclear
war comes in now I feel like a lot of
people misunderstand the nuclear war
thing is something that they want to
happen to clear the way to build
communism in the ashes whoever's left
alive really but uh no they just think
that it's going to happen and then you
know as a necessary stage or as a stage
right we're not making value judgments
on it
people are going to rebuild and it makes
a lot of sense when you think about
climate change right because climate
change is another kind of disaster that
could end human life on this planet and
it's putting the same kind of pressure
on us right now
and and that kind of crisis hopefully
without killing everybody is probably
going to be the catalyst for real
changes and revolutions to actually
happen in the world
Cory Mighty Ducks three what do you got
for us what should we be streaming I
have I have a couple of suggestions one
and they're very different
but one I was on a long-haul flight and
my screen was broken right and my wife
in the next seat put on wallace and
gromit curse of the we're rabbit from
2005 I think the only feature-length
wallace and gromit film and these are
claymation characters for anybody that's
not familiar and I watched the whole I'd
seen it before or at least once and I
watched the whole thing on mute
basically because I it was her screen
and I realized like it's a movie with no
third act problem like most movies kind
of fell apart at the end you know but
wallace and gromit courser the weir
rabbit is perfectly paced all the way to
the very end and it doesn't fall apart
rather it all sort of comes together is
exactly what you want in a story and I
just wanted to give that plug for that
movie sweet if claymation kids movies
aren't your thing there is a movie that
I'm I was actually so I was gonna
recommend and then I thought oh no
there's no reason for it's just random
all the action movie but it's getting
remade into a streaming series on Amazon
I have discovered and it's called Hana
it came out in 2011 I think it was
Swedish has some kind of European
Hollywood Hollywood co-production but
it's basically Jason Bourne with a
teenage girl assassin instead of Jason
Bourne cool I love much more movies yeah
well this is better I mean you know the
first Bourne movie was great but the
other sucked and Hanna is like takes
that sort of conceit and goes in a
really fun different direction with it
that acting is all great most of the
actors are not famous the the villain is
played like Cate Blanchett however and
she's really good in it she's great
alik and the the protagonist is an
actress American actress from the Bronx
named
Saoirse Ronan and I think she's been in
some bigger movies since wasn't she in
Lady Bird yes and atonement I think and
a couple others but she is that she is
the team girl assassin chasing the CIA
evil mastermind played by Cate Blanchett
and it's really fun a lot of reviewers
compared to like a dark fairy tale and
it does have that sort of vibe but it
also has a lot of like a light and funny
moments that you don't see very often in
action movies and I heartily recommend
it I want to see Lady kill some people I
also gotta say kori I really enjoyed
what we do in the shadows I finally
watched it after you recommended it for
me and it is now a TV show that I've
been watching on amazon prime which is
absolutely hilarious it's a vampire
roommate comedy the movies very cool is
it the same cat I think the streaming
stories of Hanna is a different cast in
the movie I mean I yeah yeah I'm talking
about what we do in the shadows no it's
a different cast right then then what we
do in the shadows the movie oh yeah yeah
yeah oh okay
Cory it's a pleasure as always
um even when it's incredibly apocalyptic
it's always an incredible pleasure
talking with you my friends and I really
as always all I you know live work work
work die is the definitive like
treatment of Silicon Valley that is
still also enjoyable to read to
understand how's the Silicon Valley
economy works I would say between I
still still itself getting shopped as a
streaming serious
first pitch went down unfortunately it
should be that I'm actually you know
it's I'm a bit I think Silicon Valley's
actually gotten really good and I like
that show a lot I think more in any
of mocking Silicon Valley I'm happy with
and it's a great book so buy it and also
become a patron and subscriber to Cory's
news from nowhere podcast it's a great
show and of course you can hear him
often on T M yes we recently did and I
think we unlocked it an elicit history
of Bleach a bank from Hitler to Trump
which was wild
Cory thanks a million as always thanks
again and happy Friday everybody take
care gif oh let me just read this I am
briefly cuz we should have top line this
and it's funny god it God is a woman
Michael you beautiful tell
everyone to vote for Tiffany Caban for
Queens da on June 25th everybody
das are really really important offices
if you care about human well-being if
you care about fighting back against all
of the barbarism and inequities of our
criminal justice system and my
understanding is that she's absolutely
the real deal she's a public defender
she's running on an unabashedly program
you see some real gains with Larry
crasner in Philadelphia is an example
let's bring that to queens vote for
Tiffany Caban for DA in Queens huge race
get out there make that happen alright
folks of course become a member of the
majority report today that's how this
show happens majority dot F M click on
become a member page patreon.com/scishow
this Sunday we're gonna unlock an
illicit history of the Democratic Party
with Ryan grim that traces his book but
also has a great as we do it usually
with illicit histories a sort of sound
arc that correlates with a historical
conversation that we have from Jesse
Jackson the Jerry Brown to Elizabeth
Warren to Bernie Sanders and some really
interesting insights on the Sanders
campaign actually in 2020 which could
bode very well for it patreon.com slash
T mb/s Michael Brooks show on YouTube
Jamie so I feel like I should plug a few
episodes of the anti Fattah in light of
what we just talked about with Corey
pine our episode I believe two weeks ago
I don't know time anymore but we had on
a Nomura land recently who was also on
this show to talk about UFOs and
conspiracy theories and all that good
stuff we also got an episode of pro litt
call out of it where we talk further
with her about UFOs we have an episode
on facade ism featuring great comrade
communicator that is a while back in our
feed and also of course we had cory pine
on not that long ago i'm talking about
his brilliant book and silicon valley
and all sorts of stuff but this week on
the anti Fattah we had on our friend
Sophie wiener
she's the night editor at splinter news
and we talked about a bunch of different
things but mainly her new techno scene
it's a socialist techno Zen koan plural
it Ariat and talked about how the sort
of underground techno culture is a great
space to go in and radicalize people and
get them to think about the world in a
new way
also today we released a real crime
think hours also with Sophie Weiner
wherein we read a classic crime think
article about how the impetus to wash
and quote-unquote smell good is just a
capitalist conspiracy to keep you down
boo wrong thick news the socialist
revolution will be highly showered and
clean yeah I don't want to be in your
revolution word Matt the whole point of
having a revolution frankly is to be
able to bathe multiple times a day with
fewer time obligations with more people
or by yourself well speaking about
banging with more people yeah I like
this Camaro on the Blithedale wrote the
Blithedale romance episode and it's John
guns take a bath together no but we do
talk about the work of Charles Fourier
who was one of the original utopian
socialists before Karl Marx came and
said they were doing it wrong right and
one of his ideas he had this sort of
idea that we should be driven by our
passions
he's actual kind of a greatest good guy
but he also thought we should be able to
follow all of our passions he was for
instance really into lesbians he thought
after the communist rebels were like
Howard Stern sort of a French Howard
Stern of
token communism we
ya know there's like there's he was
apparently never pictured smiling or
seen smile that is really funny every
time you read about besides with the
exception of Oscar Wilde who really did
seem like a genuinely really fun guy
there's so many people when you go into
that like the utopian streak of
socialist literature you're always just
like and the idea of society was that
everybody would live in a never-ending
like game of cricket well and you look
at their pictures and hope
Posadas wanted to get rid of sex and
irony and humor so that's gonna be a
tough sell for a lot of people
yeah I'm Charles Fournier thought I'm
more reasons to tap the image of him but
he basically thought that once we we
need to develop these things called
fatal axes which is sixty one thousand
six hundred and twenty people and we all
have different different jobs but the
jobs are scheduled by like like every
couple of hours you do a different job
you follow the butterfly passion which
is you want to do different things kind
of way for you it's kind of like the
marks thing in the German ideology about
you can fish in the morning and I forget
kind of like that language can also be
replicated to redeployed for being a
TaskRabbit
yes so we are we get into Charles for
you who is sort of the utopian socialist
who inspired the brook farm that a
Hawthorne himself was on this is what he
looked like by the way yeah he looks
very fun and even like snack this guy
Alfred Brisbane who was a not Howard
Stern Howard Stern looks more fun yeah
he actually said that when he went
studied with him and never saw him smile
a single time so but interesting guy he
thought that we'd all end with like
these sort of sort of communistic orgies
and there'd be these lions would evolve
into like a form of transportation the
ice caps were two males because of human
activity but it's actually cool because
it's gonna taste like lemonade so yeah
some interesting ideas there oh and also
had ideas he's a big feminist who we
wanted to liberate women ideas alright
we'll see you in the fun half everybody
laughter Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube
I am NOT your employer I'm sorry we're
just going to get rid of you all right
yes
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I'm hoping more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the scroll fine
we could double dip
yes this is a perfect moment No all
right take a moment to talk to some
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber classic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump all of our asses
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
thank you for calling into the majority
report them we'll be with you shortly
welcome to the fun half how's everybody
doing
let's see I called into the system but I
don't it's a little funky not sure
what's going on I might need to call in
again a square Mike been offline a bit
due to work but listening live today
great convo with Anna she can be
progressive in pragmatic at the same
time bummer for Bolton sure he'll try
another n run for his desired war what's
the name of the Lula doc it is democracy
at the edge just released on Netflix
pretty good I have a few critiques but I
think it does give you the basic story
of the political operation against Lula
Dilma in the Workers Party yeah
have you any you guys seen boondocks the
cartoon yeah I watched that years ago I
never watched it way back when but I
watched like three episodes last night
it's pretty good yeah turn it down
if you don't mind yeah no that's a funny
show how many seasons did it go I don't
know but there's a new one starting up a
pair I think the new one I've heard is
not the same people though I don't think
I wanna see uncle ruckus like to win a
date with Candice Owens or something
I think uncle ruckus should definitely
be speaking at the next the RNC tries to
take a diamond in silks thrown I had
that exact thought I'm like this guy
would make so much money now oh my god
uncle ruckus would be cleaning up
someone just needs to convince Trump
that he's a real person and that he is
that person and then he'll clean up it's
a smart cookie checks in the mail uh
you're calling from a 773 area code who
are you where you're calling from oh man
first thank you this beauty Wally man
Lucci Wally Lucci bang how's it going
it's going good first of all I'm timing
it is a rebooted the boondocks there was
three seasons the third one sucked
because Aaron McGruder left and they had
some scab writers that weren't funny so
Aaron maneuvers the guy who created it
as a cartoon script exactly okay yeah
yeah no he Greene the comic strip the
comic strip and he wrote for the show
and he was he's a very funny yeah yeah
yeah he wrote almost every episode and
he's writing this new reboot oh he's
right anyway we bow then that could be
good then
cuz he's really funny yeah yeah oh
that's exciting first two seasons are
awesome do not watch the third feet and
you were warned okay got it
yeah it's up faster there yeah okay cool
yeah um but anyway the point of my call
was um I saw this coming
I thought that entire Cory pine
conversation was very masturbatory and
pointless the reason why the specific
reason why I think yeah very very
appropriate sound drop there the reason
why is is that okay so let's say for the
sake of argument I'm gonna simulate that
they are aliens with advanced
technologies coming to earth what
exactly is that we're supposed to be
doing to prepare for this weather we're
actually supposed to dwell maybe what we
should be doing Lu Chu Allah is not
calling it to national programs and
saying that discussing them is a waste
of time I don't
the eternal peace of the Federation you
know yeah yuichi wali for a guy who was
called in to like defend the honor of
like the amazing Randi or so you got you
got a lot of balls masturbatory
conversations that's what I'll say well
that's that's a different thing I do
like the amazing Randi but his the
person I think he may be boring worst of
all he he made excuses for some of the
rapey stuff that was going on he was
like so a woman she just expected be
sexually harassed shocking yeah he's a
Michael Shermer of sake so so wait but
wait wait wait so you know what you
think though that it's first of all we
talked about the climate crisis
masturbatory so you can't give us 10-15
minutes to talk about this bizarre on
flying objects huh Wow I used that term
I have two objections the first of all
when I get to the second one before I go
but I use that term masturbatory for a
very specific reason because it seems
like all these guys and I like quarry
pine but I'm gonna go after you on this
it seems to me like this masturbating
thinking about it is the entire point of
the conversation and there's no step to
just say it step one keep masturbating
and that's the whole point
well usually there is a point to
masturbating there is maybe if you
didn't know that that might explain why
you've been reading Michael Shermer all
these years but I mean to me I think for
a Friday subject where theoretically
we're supposed to talk about more fun
stuff occasionally and if people want to
hear about it if people are interested
and it is what it's something that's
very little interest to me to be honest
but I even I at a certain point of like
of this amount of coverage it's like
yeah it's kind of interesting it's kind
of odd and it's an easy it's a
conversation that you can jump off so
easily into
the climate crisis into people's crisis
of meaning people's need for Savior
figures also how our government relates
to these stories I mean there's a lot of
actually important stuff there
oh yeah the sociology of belief in UFOs
is a lot more interesting to me than the
actual UFOs themselves which are for the
record real Wow shots fired and I agree
with the first okay so they're real but
what the conversation they never went
anywhere near what are we supposed to do
about it
well I don't think there's that much we
can do about it while the other than
about community defense we talked about
I don't know we talked about Elektra
movement that's different from the
right-wing Preppers who just when a
horde canned goods and like shoot at
marauding urban gangs that they
fantasize about in their racist minds
like we talked about a lot of stuff I do
second points god I want you to make
those I find it very it's a bit of big
pieces office tree and it's very elitist
to be like okay this we know this is
real because the government is hiding it
and the government's hiding in because
all these other people are going to
panic if we find out that aliens are
real who is who say they're gonna be who
said that though that actually nobody
said that in the conversation no no I
mean well I mean that's not okay fair
enough but it was brought up that the
government is suppressing this no no no
what was brought up no no no this is one
you're actually this you're wrong about
the thing that was brought up okay which
is actually true and you should you
would find this I think really
interesting and you can I forget the
name of it but there's an Adam Curtis
documentary that deals with this is is
that we know that and and I don't know
how long a time period I think even at
least I think through the 90
actually it's documented that
intelligence officials I think from the
CIA were intentionally seeding
misinformation about UFOs on things like
online forums as a way of obscuring
basically in some cases are people are
seeing what I first said which is
weapons testing or other military
industrial complex things and
intelligence and military defense
officials were spreading lies in public
and subcultures to get people on a UFO
goose chase and not look at our weapon
systems in fact I remember this
documentary we played it on t MBS so
that wasn't that was what we were
talking about weren't talking about the
public freaking out we're talking about
the lies that the intelligence community
is spread about this which is to me
that's still the most interesting thing
to be honest well I heard something
about the heat government hiding it from
us because of people freaking out or
panicking was the exact word I heard I
mean whatever but I got a question cuz I
actually agreed that I think a lot of
this is nonsense because I think it
probably is either look if these things
are defined physics like it's probably a
measurement of how we're measuring these
things rather than there's actual craft
that are defined physics because there's
some little green men that long ago like
you're superseded capitalism and now
have amazing technology I don't buy that
at all I think like I we talk about
evidence like I think there's a lot more
evidence that this is either some new
kind of weapon or laser system or
whatever something that messes with
radars perhaps or it's but the point
were I think we defense to defend us
talking about it is the government's
talking about it and they're leaking all
this crap so I think we do need to like
- you know contextualize it for people
but I am very very skeptical that it's
some actual like little green men with
some amazing new light energy foresight
I'm gonna I'm gonna cop to the fact that
I I don't think it is a little griemann
either well you know I don't either but
I think that it's funny to say so
alright
but yeah the Sociology around
the politics around it these things are
all a lot more interesting than you know
well I mean it's all interesting but
like that's the most interesting thing
to me and that's like the genesis of my
interest in it I mean look Reagan and
Gorbachev agreed to pause the Cold War
in the case of an alien invasion
this this is a fact so these are these
are things that people think about and
the way that people react to them shows
you a lot about the capacity for
civilization on the part of humans you
know I had also I mean and I would also
just say from being around DC a little
bit there's plenty of people in DC like
just cuz DC is saying it like the the
real like if you watch men who stare at
goats as an example the real story is
that plenty of people in these positions
believe a lot of wacky and that's
another actually worse thing that's
worth talking about but gee Wally I love
you in spite of maybe even because of
your pedantry oh Lord hey you want me to
drop an eagle factoid on the on the
chatroom here the discussion they're
having sure they're talking about how
racist Star Wars is George's Lucas is
married to a black woman I don't know if
anybody knew that and when he originally
cast Han Solo he was difficult was Glynn
Turman you may remember from the wire or
Cooley high and he was convinced that
making Star Wars into and this is the
literal quote guess who's coming to
dinner would it be a bad idea so he went
with Harrison Ford well yeah so when I
down as I initially told my wife that I
was gonna fight for a black guy and I
realized when she wasn't around I said I
don't want this to be guess who's coming
to dinner in space so that we found yes
we found Harrison Ford but I also still
got credit for my wife for being
progressive because they did have the
first interracial kiss on screen no
another nerd fact they did not you
and now we're know this isn't happening
thank you I mean goodbye jerk is also
just a great example of fully automated
luxury space communism so there you go
so let's do some sound um
this is Laura Ingram with a sorry but
yeah this is actually pretty crazy you
know especially for me it takes a pretty
high threshold to actually do a sound on
somebody like Laura Ingraham she crossed
it with this one let's check it out
their slavery a poignant one what about
the descendants of Union soldiers and
then you get into this discussion when I
say who's next about whether there is
something unique about the African
American caged so what about Native
Americans for example would that be the
next reparations fine obviously both
white and black soldiers frankly took
this country from the Indians yeah well
yeah people would argue that the whole
world and I would that the whole world
has been reshaped by people taking other
people's land I mean it's called it's
called conquest I mean it's called you
know the Ottoman Empire had to shrink
back you know we had a totally different
map and throughout Europe in Asia I mean
that's just not the way the world is
they want to they want to live in a fake
world where you mean as Trump always
says you don't get do-overs no do-overs
that's it and it was a you know there
was an argument sometimes 1980s there
was a quote you won we lost that's that
yeah like around ascribing world
politics we won you lost that set it's
just I mean it changed Adam II whose we
Laura yeah I don't know who we is Wow I
mean but again what is actually kind of
great about this and you have the
intricacies of how you actually
implement these things in policy and
what's emphasized and how things are
done but we all know that there needs to
be a radical reclaiming of wealth and a
redistribution I always say reclaiming
because that's literally what it wealth
it's your well made that wealth and what
I like though
is that you know you'll listen to some
tortured economic justification for when
history starts or doesn't start what's
on the historical record or not on the
historical record or you know all of
these sort of facile arguments and
what's funny is that actually there's a
there's a good clip of Christopher
Hitchens arguing for reparations several
years ago and he goes and he says the
first line of defense is always these
ancillary examples here's a Laura
Ingraham giving an interesting greeting
to the Republican National Committee
what she's doing here might be
reflecting a certain political viewpoint
that I had a very much a we win you lose
politics but she's a white nationalist
she's just saying but I mean she's she's
but even even people that aren't white
nationalist I totally agree with you
that's exactly what she is a uh when
they say as an example like that nutty
Walter block guy that like oh well
that's just when history started and it
just happens to start right after the
genocide of the Native Americans and the
theft of all their land there's always
some version even maybe more pseudo
intellectual ones of saying precisely
what she just laid out which is that we
win you lose suck on it
yeah that's white nationalism that's
republicanism and that's ultimately
capitalist and if you don't think that
that's going to be applied to future
problems like climate refugees and all
that you got another thing coming well
it's being applied right precisely it's
being applied to children right now that
are dying in concentration camps
due to the administration that this
woman chills for every night and
policies she promotes absolutely I I do
think at the same time what she's saying
about the Native Americans right there
are no do-overs you can't put the
toothpaste back in the tube and she's
right in a way right you can't send all
Europeans back to Europe as part of a
colonial program and this is some of a
critique that I have with certain kinds
of anti colonial politics like we can
only move forward in time and the
working class
of every nation not just a particular
colonized nation needs to band together
to ultimately overthrow the tiny group
of people that's controlling everything
it's also literally the only possibility
of it's happening right like Marx
focused on the working class as a point
of power not for moral reasons but
because literally he was like this is
where all the bodies are there's no
there's very few other ways of coming up
with the sort of raw numbers you need to
actually shift political trajectory
that's another reason why the Sanders
kind of core argument is so important
speaking of these types of people
showing their true colors there's been a
lot of really important climate activism
that has been taking place in the United
Kingdom including some efforts that have
at least gotten as an example I believe
the Irish government to acknowledge the
climate changes an emergency and
actually some significant rhetorical
bones from the British right wing Tory
government but I think at the end of the
day we know who these people are we know
who these Tories are we know who
conservatives are we know their profound
lack of concern their aggressive
opposition to these solutions as well as
their violent entitlement so there was a
climate protester who made her way into
a banquet in the United Kingdom and
Conservative member of parliament Mark
fields did this when he saw her at the
banquet there's no sound to this there's
no sound to this but watch this this is
incredibly aggressive gonna go up grabs
her pushes her against a pillar actually
will go and he's he's literally dragging
her out by the neck Jesus one more time
here yeah gets up pushes her into a
pillar flips around grabs her neck and
marches her out all because she's saying
hey can you guys work to make life on
Earth inhabitable and that's what this
thug does
let's say let's actually continue sort
of the tour here of kind of fascism in
action so in Brazil there's a reason
that I was covering this story there's a
reason we were talking about Lula as a
political prisoner there was a reason
why you know I did a little bit of
coverage and I understood that the that
Dilma was it was a coup that the
impeachment was totally illegitimate and
I understood that obviously this lava
jato process was a political one to D
legitimize the left from very early on
but I think so many of us bought very
easily into a moralistic narrative about
the Workers Party there was not nearly
enough left solidarity with Workers
Party in their leadership and there was
a very easy simplified narrative that
was exported to the United States which
fits within the easy simplified
narrative about the Democratic Party
which by the way is more true of
Democrats so in other words if Barack
Obama did a tenth of what Lula did for
Brazil we would all have to admit that
Barack Obama was the best president in
US history
even with his imperfections and so on so
the accomplishments were stunning and
also the prototype of imprisoning your
political opposition and the
weaponization of the judiciary as well
as the press you already see an action
against Corbin you see in some form
against Sanders and I wouldn't be so
sure that you wouldn't see even in this
more radical form that we've seen taken
to an extreme in Brazil so we had a
corruption team that was lionized in the
press from the New York Times to the
Jimmy Dore show that was a engine of
far-right politics Sergio Moro the head
of it is now bolson arroz justice
minister and these new reporting's which
are ongoing from the intercept have
given full evidence to what was always
analytically obvious which is that Lula
as a political prisoner a lava jato is
corrupt right-wing hacks and now Sergio
Moro is getting at least the first
fraction of a political accounting
although of course
he's still backed by fascist thugs
president bolson ro still close
relationship with the United States
because again think of whose interest
this whole process is played into this
is a report from Brian Mayer for tell us
or again you got a read and a Brazil
wire and watch Brian Mayer he's been
right and clear about this from the
beginning this is him on Mauro's
appearing appearance in the Brazilian
Senate Justice Minister Sergio Moro has
answered questions in front of the
Senate's justice commission in relation
to the lava jato probe this hearing
comes as news outlet the intercept to
revealed through leaked
audios and messages that then judge
morrow allegedly worked in tandem with a
lava jato team to prevent former
President Luiz inácio Lula da Silva from
running in the 2018 presidential
election this included giving them
direct orders during Lula's trial while
he was a presiding judge during the
hearing Morris said he was the real
victim at his conversations was
illegally recorded and the real victim
and the real victim always the repeal
always the fascist response I'm the real
victim adding that a well-structured
criminal gun was behind it our
correspondent Brian Mayer has more from
Sao Paulo this morning Brazilian federal
Justice Minister Sergio Moro is
addressing the Senate he was called in
to testify in response to the
revelations published in the intercept
based on leaked social media
conversations that while he was leading
the operation car wash task force he and
his co-workers actively worked behind
the scenes to sabotage the 2018
presidential elections to jail former
President Luiz inácio Lula da Silva
with no evidence as they admit in these
conversations deliberately to prevent
him from winning the elections now he's
testifying in front of the Senate and
he's trying to play the victim card he's
saying that he's the victim of a crime
his his conversations were illegally
recorded and that this damages further
anti-corruption fighting this is my
Roenick claim from a man who spent five
years illegally recording conversations
from the president of Brazil from former
president Lula and from Lula's defense
team and leaking those things to the
media constantly so it's unclear now
whether these revelations will result in
Sergio Moore resigning from his Justice
Minister position but the fact is his
reputation is irreversibly damaged and
if he does stay on in this position it's
gonna be as a kind of lame duck that's
exactly right
remember that this guy was globally
lionized across the board and he's
nothing but again an authoritarian
right-wing hack whose sole purpose in in
de bolsa narrow position of this
authoritarian bigoted government his
first target was labor unions to apply
the same lawfare tactics to destroy and
D legitimize any sources of
working-class response to the austerity
and privatization programs of the BAL
scenario regime um and you know as Brian
said it's very important that he
regularly illegally wiretapped and leak
conversations every step of the way and
that one of the key revelations when
Brian says that there was no evidence
not only was there no material evidence
of the Lula conviction four days before
they went to trial the lead prosecutor
was emailing other people being like
this is really weak and basically
doesn't even fall into our purview so
he's a political prisoner join Bernie
Sanders and calling for freeing him now
and this story has big implications for
us both in terms of the parallels and
because of us support for these regimes
from the Justice Department from the
Department of Justice to the Wall Street
Journal editorial page let's let's
actually go on let's go to this
Stephanie ruhle
you know I was saying earlier with Ana
Kasparian
this is just an objective fact you
cannot trust quote-unquote mainstream
media whatever you want to call it a
failing mainstream mainstream media I
mean look I but I don't even want to
trivialize it because look Donald Trump
first of all the failing mainstream
media was actually enormous ly generous
to Trump
they gave him unending attention they
let him stream his hate lie rallies all
the time
CNN is you know CNN executives have
admitted that he was a massive boon for
the news business and I am no doubt that
all of these companies are actually
quite concerned about the notion of
Trump not getting reelected because he's
excellent for ratings in the bottom line
so I put them up against the wall yeah
bro fair enough
precisely but but that's the sort of
global pattern right so that's you know
and the way Trump criticizes the media
we know is as an authoritarian and as a
fascist who wants to undermine the press
we know that at the same time we also
know that yes in fact part of the reason
we're in the predicament we're in is
that mainstream corporate media has done
a horrible job of covering the real
stories that affect people's lives that
it regularly favors and airbrushes
corrupted companies and politicians and
so on and there's a lot of profound lack
of trust in these institutions which
they have earned through their own
failures and it is so distilled in the
just relentless petty dishonesty and
unfairness to Bernie Sanders to the
point where his campaign needs to be a
hell of a lot more aggressive about
going up against this stuff they need to
treat the New York Times and MSNBC and
Politico in the exact same fashion they
treated the Center for American Progress
which is like look obviously you're
biased against us of course you favor
other candidates of course you're gonna
be looking for everything that you can
to lie in distort about us because
ultimately we threaten you too because
of our systems critique of American
politics but if you lie so blatantly and
you go right to the edges of pure
the Semitism we're gonna hit you hard on
it and it's also incumbent on the
warrant campaign frankly if they want to
maintain their credibility as a genuine
reforming for us to say look we'll
accept all of the glowing press coverage
even if we understand that a lot of it
is cynical and from groups like Third
Way purely because they want to stop
Sanders and hate him so much we'll play
that that's politics that's fine if you
want to get the ancillary benefits of a
corrupted media process and corporate
think tanks that's fine but if you want
to maintain your Sheen then in the same
way that Sanders regularly praises and
gives a lot of respect to Warren which
is of course another thing that's lied
about and he's smeared on in the correct
use of the term smear then the Warren
campaign is gonna need to say you know
what we're making our campaign we'll
take the positive press coverage but
don't ever praise us in the context of
articles like the new yenna article in
Vanity Fair that make obscene comments
about Bernie Sanders appearance that
played to age and religion stereotypes
we're not interested in benefiting from
the smears and lies about a great
senator who we've worked with that would
be what the Warren campaign would do
with integrity this is Stephanie ruhle
you know again this is just relentless
and of course is all in the context of
defending Joe Biden who is a catastrophe
for anybody that progresses even the
most center-left values for God's sake
we're debating segregation in the 1970s
in the Democratic primary because of Joe
Biden but of course Stephanie ruhle who
is a bag woman for wall street will use
this as an opportunity to be petty which
is what MSNBC is almost always with
Bernie Sanders in the last 24 hours
calling on Joe Biden to apologize for
comments he made about working with
segregationists and it's the more people
hear about it some are saying well he
was applauding or celebrating that that
wasn't what Joe Biden was doing Joe
Biden was trying to make the point that
bipartisanship
is necessary he's done so working with
the deplorable of the deplorable z--
that's why he gave the example of the
segregationists working with them on
what Stephanie well I'm gonna actually
get to I think I'm gonna get back to
what they were working on in a second
and you know it's amazing cuz we were
able to drum this up with you know a
talented you know I think a good
hard-working crew but um certainly with
not the resources that Stephanie ruhle
has has at her disposal I am sure that
her producers could have picked a
printed a wopo piece that came out today
for her he's done some working with the
deplorable of the deplorable that's why
he gave the example of the
segregationists so why is it that you
believe he has to apologize I mean I
think the medium makes a bigger deal of
it than it is yeah I do I do because
it's one thing look when you're in
Congress you work with everybody I do I
think every member of the Senate every
member of the house works with people
who are very very different points of
view but I don't think you have to be
touting a personal relationship with
people who are very brutal sorry if you
disagree with me that's fine that's why
don't you over a four decade career had
to align yourself with people who don't
share your views on things you look at
your causes yeah absolutely just what I
said
absolutely I haven't sung as every other
member of the Congress but one doesn't
really count
you know what's personal relationships
or the making virtue out of stability
when it may be a necessity and not a
virtue senator thank you for joining us
he handled that beautifully and
perfectly and and and finally of course
some human justification at this just
ridiculous disingenuous line of
questioning and I know that plenty of
idiots with weird psychological issues
with Bernie Sanders will try to make
that into a thing because Bernie Sanders
is not the Buddha and doesn't have
perfect
quint you know absolute patience and by
the way the Buddha
would I'm sure also say with clear
speech excuse me ma'am
I understand that you're being totally
disingenuous here but I'm gonna finish
my point so and and let's just add this
really briefly just to summarize
Stephanie ruhle who spends most of her
time defending Wall Street executives
when she's not being disingenuous to
Bernie Sanders and of course the whole
you know I can think of I mean the MSNBC
lineup is obviously mostly totally burnt
biased against him here so Bernie
Sanders works with Mike Lee to stop a
genocide in Yemen and then doesn't
fetishize that overruns Joe Biden I'll
go back to this in a letter June 30th
1977 written to Jim Eastland I want you
to know that I very much appreciate your
help during this week's committee
meeting in an attempt to bring my antsy
busting legislation to a vote that's
what they work together Stephanie so
you're missing the obvious point because
of course you're disingenuous and biased
against Sanders that he's saying that
like of course we have a job to do here
but you don't fetishize brudos brutal
segregationist that should be pretty
easy to figure out but I'll give you a
pass on that one of course you're there
to smear Bernie so you won't figure that
out fine but then you gotta at least get
your producer and say well was as it was
um was Biden working on arms control
with Eastland you know as an example
just senator william fulbright from
arkansas was a segregationist he was
also one of the earliest senators to
come out against the war in Vietnam so I
guess if somebody said hey I worked with
Fulbright well you could say I worked
with him to end the genocide in Vietnam
even as his record in the South was
inexcusable and a crime against humanity
Joe Biden is fetishizing a guy who was a
brutal apartheid statist who he
partnered with on anti-civil rights
efforts in the 1970s so ma'am I
apologize but I think I disagree with
you on this this is that meme where the
two arms come together the two jack guys
with the fists and it's just like
Eastland
I didn't bussing legislate exactly
except it's two white arms yes two
jackets - and the thing about it is you
know we had this debate about whether
Trump is sort of a conscious liar I
think the more instant debate is whether
Joe Biden is the when he says things
like I'm the most progressive on this or
that and this that the way he's framing
hit his you know bless me Father for I
have sinned for you know saying
something nice about a desegregation is
is he saying like I work with people I
disagree with the problem we are having
with Biden is not that he works with
people he disagrees with it's he agrees
with people that we disagree with
especially things like school
desegregation we disagree yeah exactly
yeah
I mean everybody to the left of center
pretty much hates Joe Biden right now
liberal feminists hate joe biden for
being creepy Donaghy's e-codes hates Joe
Biden for supporting racism and
segregation and white supremacy we hate
Joe Biden for all of those reasons as
well as his economic austerity plans so
I just want us to remember this feeling
because it might not last forever don't
even think it's already here you're
calling from a five-three-one
area code who are you where you're
calling from thanks for taking my call
everybody this is John from Nebraska
John what's on your minds I don't really
identify as left at least culturally but
I tried to listen to opinions across the
political spectrum and I think that the
show is entertaining and you do a good
job thanks John but I had a had an
experience with Dave Rubin that I
thought you folks would appreciate it it
involves some interesting ideas ideas by
the way we were so good you didn't even
do one both Sarner Oh drop when Anna and
I were talking about Brazil that was
amazing it's really hard not to laugh
when I hear the word ideas now well one
thing Dave has accomplished is
completely deep it's just totally making
the word ideas a joke for
significant YouTube demographic anyways
go ahead what's the story well first of
all I was invited to a Ruben event for
free by some Turning Point USA people
promoting this event on campus I'm a
senior student okay average students
were weirded out by them due to their
cheesy propaganda was like these
stickers and buttons said right big gub
sucks right it's so cheesy and it was so
cheesy it's condescending it's likely
why you know nobody was talking to them
even as conservative as Nebraska tends
to be it's also just weird in a
contemporary climate to see a small
group of young people for some reason
think Milton Friedman or Mises are
Knobble rather than folks whose economic
models and promises to baby boomers go
through the floor right yes anyway
anyway I attended this event I have to
say and I'm being completely honest here
I'm not being cheeky but Rubin spoke for
an hour and didn't say anything at all
in that hour for an hour he simply said
bed he simply said that you can run your
life better than the government can
he feels so excited about so excited
about where the write has headed I'm not
sure why he feels excited about that to
me it seems obvious at least that the
write as it's currently in the state of
currently exists and it's pretty much
doomed right only I do have to say
though that there could be some funding
sources coming his way maybe that's the
thing is maybe we got to give Dave more
credit maybe he means super explicit
like maybe he means specific like I'm
really excited about the way the write
is moving money from the Iran
Institute's bank account into mine
that's an interesting idea I'd have to
say that something he said was
particularly revealing about both him
and those who came to see him yes what
was that the at the start of his speech
he first asked anyone to raise their
hands if they have had it if they have
it worse than their grandparents to
which nobody raised their hand and the
small crowd of maybe 75 to 80 people
that were pretty much overwhelmingly
libertarian right and you don't say
maybe it's 20-something conservatives
Ruben goes on to say that not once has
anyone ever raised their hand when he
asks this question it's either a lie due
to you know by many measures younger
generations in the USA being financially
screwed compared to boomers or it's not
a lie and it's actually just shines a
light on the echo chamber which really
makes the invitation of those with other
ideas as we would think feel like we'd
stumbled into a film the one I think
John I think you should be calling more
often John I think you've got chops as a
call but ambrose bierce of college yes
and i just want to let people know that
this is a good example of there is a way
to call and let me step back and give
you a lot of room and it's it's called
doing a good cause you do a good call
you talk without interruption feel like
Don Draper is explaining Dave Rubin to
us why do people love these shitty ideas
like they're interested in ideas but
there are none doesn't make any I waited
for the waited for the QA and they asked
people who disagree to get their first
question and that was very nice of them
I guess first question was a guy who
asked why he didn't have left people on
his show like Sam cedar and that's what
prompted me to it's like awful I
actually call in and tell my best
they're like Eevee did the best good
thanks for the advertiser said that hey
thanks man
props the University of Nebraska all
right Jasmine in response he said that
he wouldn't waste time with someone like
Sam so I guess you know you guys aren't
up for discussing ideas question yeah
what was your question I'd like to tell
you yes please
well it's a question I've asked a number
of libertarians and it's I haven't had
one really given me an answer to this
question before but you know this is
strictly and the Liberty you know
someone else to give you some kind of
concise answer but the question in a
nutshell I gave Rubin brief historical
examples of what I'm talking about to
give the the question greater clarity
such as I'm referencing a an academic
piece called the perfect colonizer and
it's about the role alcohol played in
colonial America good I love a good
picture like the sweat forming his face
where you even preset this question like
oh my god there's a lot of things I I
could even handle not building electric
lines next to water lines with Joe Rogan
and now we're talking about how alcohol
mister do better say that I'm interested
in the end of piece in this piece it
reveals that often Colonials would for
free because they're so nice throw
alcohol in with trade deals right but
full knowledge that you know this you
know don't like this will come back for
more also it'll spread alcohol is
amendment will you know tribal
solidarity will break apart and this is
all good for us mmm-hmm
and then went on to briefly talked about
the what up what led up to the opium
wars with British free trade policy
flooding China with opium Jesus Christ
and yours I I kind of feel bad for David
point God he's a very stupid man you
can't ask him these types of things the
last one I think this one is
particularly interesting there's no one
that would be a legitimate I just want
to say briefly I just have to say if I
asked Dave to answer like if I did a
video about Dave Rubin and the and tried
to get him to comment on the opium wars
I think that that would be a
justification for him to use the YouTube
Terms of Service against us just to mean
alright go ahead
well the last example I gave was no I
rarely hear people bring this up for a
citation so people do a New York Times
article entitled Mideast turmoil as
think it's like it's heddle main
headline as Mideast turmoil and it's
from like 2002 and then the sub headline
is something like fighting is Israeli
troops tightened their grip something
like that when Israel occupied the city
of Ramallah they took over the
television networks and then began to
protest pornography yep and I know
obviously obvious intent there is to you
know now you're captivated by the porn
you're not gonna fight but I think it's
about these or just use effects so
anyways you gotta get so what happened
so you gave him these things he knows
nothing about I give him these examples
and I okay if you're a libertarian how
do you differentiate between a
government which facilitates legal drugs
alcohol realization because it cares so
much about your freedom and one that
does the exact same thing because it
wants to enslave you now that's actually
an interesting and I was that's an
interesting intellectual
expedition so I'm and they've said I
don't know I'm more interested in an
ideas level first he goes
I don't know I don't understand what you
mean I believe that all right so so far
so honest okay I said well I mean to put
it in simpler terms
how are people more free if legal drug
lords pornographers or users or whatever
just free or incentivized to prey on
people I hear I hear a little bit of
what you said and you had a bit of a
cultural conservative streak in this
question but and this also reminds me of
Malcolm X talking about how they send
drugs up to Harlem to pacify us so what
did what did Dave say I'm not making it
that but he just goes he just goes
that's a weird question I don't like the
way that that's worded I think that was
very much evidence on this call I hope
this was I'm looking for right now I
hope I just have to say John Oki there's
there's two things I hope one John no
offense to you but this is so good I
have to hope that this is a real story
and then the second thing is a real
story that this has been recorded and we
can add this to the pantheon
it sounded that question there was a
turning you USA USA Facebook page for
the event and there was a recording you
can find it if you look up like
University of Nebraska leave us we'll
find it thank you for the call brother
yes yeah you kidding me now that we know
that Dave doesn't want to do ideas with
Sam we're free we're free now we can say
whatever we want
it's wonderful cadence and pace on that
call amazing I think I'm gonna have to
make that the last call of the day you
have to go I would buy it
it's like William T Bowman going up
against Dave Rubin I don't like the way
that questions free by the way if anyone
finds that before me send me a tweet all
right few Iams dirty 5:30 Mike my area
is saturated with libertarians and I do
feel the need to argue with them for
anyone else who feels the same need my
best advice to stay calm throughout a
conversation you discussion you have no
matter how insane it gets left is best
love you guys how do you stay I don't
know how I mean talk yes smoke some weed
meditation meditation exercise and weed
NBA 2k yeah
listen to Death Grips make them annoyed
I mean these are my experience people
with those politics are highly provoked
about and when their program when
they're like raving at you that like
they're like the reason that they want
like world like the world to operate
like Foxconn except that would bring
freedom and they're like upset that's
usually pretty funny to watch yeah you
got to maintain you always have to
maintain you have to maintain control on
the high ground it's going into the idea
dojo have your emotions calibrated in
the idea dojo we're all gonna go get
voice lessons to try to sound more like
caller now I could sound like that guy
you were doing I like I like Don
Draper's feelings on what's Don Draper's
feelings on how Jordan Peterson you got
anything for me I'll think of something
yeah that guy's got nothing on me I'm
the daddy why would a man want to look
up to a man who's a hysteric I don't
play I don't like talking about my
Petersen because of my own relationships
with my father my brains still in
recovery man yeah too many high-level
important ideas yeah tell Dave I can't
make it to the meet I think Dave would
be like a client that he blew off I told
Dave I can't make it there like Don
Draper would cause my brain is in
recovery mode from taking on so much on
Draper probably would like Jordan
Peterson like because of the way he went
messes up his life and his you know
yummy but he wouldn't like but he
wouldn't like he's the lost man with
daddy issues so probably I just had some
Mexican food and I have to say that my
stomach is still in recovery mode all
right got it fair enough
uh let's see all right I gotta get to
the final I am of the day I apologize of
course guys final I am of the day
[Music]
I found Chucky fried comrade okay we're
gonna read this I am and then we're
gonna play it as someone who's worked in
San Francisco texting I couldn't finish
Cory Pines book because it was giving me
too many flashbacks the show Silicon
Valley is fantastic though Jamie is
totally guilfoyle I think is a
compliment
I love the left-hand path my friend I
love that show oh my god are you
kidding me this is dave rubin getting
questioned by our new friend from
nebraska dummy dave and all of his glory
so what i'm referring to just so the
context is it's like hardcore Griscom
yeah holy it's Nebraska Griffith
Nebraska Griscom we need to get it we
need to fly million yeah TPMS alright go
during European colonialism in the
Americas free alcohol is often given to
native tribes as approved both to man is
speed up a little bit try to Solidarity
through alcoholism and to increase the
odds of more trades in the future when
vast mass of opium were introduced to
China through British free trade policy
the results were largely catastrophic
with drug addiction destroying common
families while making a large profit for
the English which when they resisted in
the opium wars came into fruition when
Israel occupied the city of Ramallah in
2002 Israel to control the television
networks to broadcast pornography I'm
with usually an attempt to pacify
resistance by manipulating people
through their passions I'm with you
every step of the way giving these
examples in mind how do you
differentiate between a state which
facilitates drugs sexual liberation
because it values your freedom in a
state which does the same thing because
it wants to enslave you okay so if I
understand the question correctly I mean
look I would say that everything that
I've laid out here would be to design a
state that doesn't have without
commenting on those specific things
especially the third one I've never
heard but let's so let's put that aside
because I know all of the ideas that
I've laid out to you have been the idea
would limit the state from doing any of
this in a truly free society that is
actually based on liberty an individual
individual laws and you know limited
purity and all of those things or
personal property and all of those
things the state would not be powerful
enough to do any of those horrific
things and this is sort of the
negotiation this is the Association that
everyone has to take so it's like right
now I would say to someone on the left
if you hate Trump if you hate Trump the
argument isn't we have to impeach him or
he's Hitler or any of those things what
you should be doing is actually fighting
for the principles of limited government
so that the guy who I love I knew I said
so awesome cuz you know that like
somebody set them in email three days
ago just like okay good that's a jujitsu
that's by your logic that's the Evan
McMullen or who might enslave people or
any of those things what you would want
to do is roll back the power on that
person so but I'm just not sure what the
question is I'm not for any of those
things I would be against the state
[Music]
allowing a lack of legislation allowing
users or allowing pornographers to run
as they see fit why is that good for
white human liberty it's it's a little
bit of a confusing question I would be
for I would be for letting people make
as many decisions on their own within
the confines of the law so if they so it
would be illegal and like right now it's
illegal you can't just bring so yeah
true but just because that is like such
a that's such a good sneaky college
question because you're like you're
basically saying like here's like our
contradictory examples that undermine
you're like that's just something that
you know at the very least if you're
gonna go around the country
propagandizing for your libertarian
nonsense right and corporate feudalism
you should at least have some basic spin
right
for an answer like that yeah because
it's it's it sounds really intimidating
but you should have some aunt like you
could just totally ride on well your we
I never said mandate I mean like you
could mean there's so many but I love it
just think I don't I knew that this is
beyond my capacity to understand and I
don't like it this is my initial word
salad doesn't work this is done an
ironic ly sort of where were the idea
guys cuz like that's something that I've
actually thought about and and seeing
people on the left grapple with when it
comes to things like legalization of
marijuana like are we just going to end
up as like sort of farmers on state-run
pot farms yes that's the ties people and
they'll get some like basic relief from
the oppression and does that undermine
like the broader kind of will to Liberty
yeah I mean that's actually a very
interesting question but uh Rubin is not
ready for those aren't you yeah woo do
we're interested in brain sizes why
don't you ever want to do guys why on
earth you'd ever want to do brain size
content if you're dave rubin is beyond
me
have a great weekend everybody peace and
love
to get to where I want but I know sir
I'm going
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made the
option
[Music]
break
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
