[Music]
you
[Music]
support for today's show comes from no
ordinary lawsuit a podcast that takes
listeners behind-the-scenes of giuliana
vers united states a constitutional
climate lawsuit brought by 21 young
americans against the federal government
the most recent episode examines what
the US government when the what the US
government the most recent episode
examines what the US government knew
about the dangers of climate change and
when listen wherever you get your
podcasts
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it's Thursday February 28th 2019
my name is Michael Brooks on a Michael
Thursday this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA
on today's program journalist political
analyst Milton al-ahmadi joins us we're
talking about the anti-austerity
democratic movement still rolling
through Sudan the violent suppression in
state of emergency declared by Sudanese
leader Omar al-bashir why did all the
same people who several years ago were
so worried about Darfur not worried
about a new crisis in Sudan that
implicates the global economic order
also touch on South Africa South Africa
gearing up for elections in May who are
the players as the new Cyril Ramaphosa
ANC reclaiming the heroism and heritage
of the liberation movement or is it
continuing to fail to deliver for the
poor but are there any alternatives if
that is the case Milton and I will
tackle it Donald Trump and Kim jong-un
have abruptly ended their summit in
Hanoi with no deal but apparently
there's still friends as we continue to
live in the fallout of the destruction
of the enormous ly successful Iran deal
iran's Foreign Minister Javad Zarif the
architect of so much progress in things
like the Iran deal
was said said a couple of days ago he
wants to resign president rouhani
refused to allow him to do so so he's
still there Michael Cohen in addition to
confirming all of the obvious
grotesqueness of Donald Trump that he
was reveal a fascistic threat in the
form of saying Donald Trump won't
necessarily leave power if he loses
power in 2020 Betsy DeVos is pitching
the new tax credit to support school
choice programs as she continues her
low-key rampage through public education
the Republican north carolina political
operative who was indicted on election
fraud might be facing new charges in
that case pakistan has released an
indian pilot slightly cooling down the
crisis on the subcontinent Venezuelans
might be profoundly dissatisfied with
their government but they overwhelmingly
opposed u.s. interference and coos
Cubans registered dissent but in an
apparently clean poll affirm their
support for socialism with reform as the
US administration also success suggests
that this broader far-right push in
Latin America
might also take aim at Cuba bado
O'Rourke why can't he just take out a
fascist in the Senate apparently he
wants to join the twenty20 field whew
boo-yeah Bhutto O'Rourke a transgender
service members testified before
Congress about Trump's possible ban
medicare-for-all push exposes corporate
lame Democrats as that bill moves
forward India's forest dwellers are
protesting a new government move against
the forest station by lying the
government self-proclaimed commitment to
Indian traditions and the United Nations
suggests that Israel committed war
crimes in Gaza even as prosecutors have
unveiled charges just a couple of
minutes ago a bribery fraud and breach
at the public trust
against Benjamin Netanyahu who will be
out campaigning with some of the biggest
overt racists in Israeli society all
that and more on today's majority report
let's get started the three of us are
here let's get started with people Missa
when we talk about sebastian Gorka and
look you know the guy is really
unimportant he's kind of back to the
like the terrify senior citizens at a
buffet in Palm Beach about Hezbollah
Circuit and he's got some dumb radio
show which you know I mean hey I welcome
anybody who wants to to call and share
your thoughts about him with him tell
him about himself on his radio show if
you're so inclined but uh Gorkhas back
he's back in the game he was at the CPAC
conference and I mean he really is the
most David Brent thing in the world this
is Sebastian Gorka talking about what's
really going on with the green New Deal
the biggest threat to America is not
socialism in Moscow socialism here in
America
poletik plans according to the amazing
victims of communism Memorial Foundation
they did a poll last year in which they
found that 52% of American Millennials
would like to live in a socialist or
communist America that yes indeed boo
yes that is why 44 0 Democrat candidates
in the last midterm election called
themselves socialists that is why
alexander Ocasio cortez oh my god he's
begging for a blue here has introduced
the green and New Deal
which is which is remember this one use
it it's a watermelon green on the
outside deep deep red communist on the
inside they want to take your pickup
truck they want to rebuild your home
they want to take away your hamburgers
this is one Starling dreamt about but
never achieved right you are on the
front lines of the war against communism
coming back to America under the guise
of democratic socialism which is just a
PC term for communism I want everyone to
take to heart Donald J Trump is never
going to let it happen and as he said to
Congress America will never be a
socialist country
just soak it in soaking it in is my
puppet this is my heroic journey paws
looking down with other members of the
America America first that's a great
name for a radio show have you heard of
it no check it out America first America
always god bless all of you can I ask a
favor before I go the boss always likes
this can you stand up and we'll give you
a thumbs up everybody
god bless god bless mmm America first
radio sponsored by webistics which you
might remember from season 2 of The
Sopranos it's not a very alpha way to
end a speech to take a picture for your
boss everybody we're going to crush
communist Russia socialists now if you
wouldn't mind can we take a selfie for
the balls when I say Alexandra Co
Cortese that just signal to stop booing
[Music]
we've been there's a new Amazonian root
that yours diabetes they've bought bloc
advertising look out then back your days
are numbered
now if you'll excuse me I rented a Lexus
I mean this guy's whole career it's
amazing it's like you get some like joke
degree and then you just you go on the
circuit and and it's somewhere it's a
cross of hilarious and terrifying
because in one hand that's not totally a
joke I'm sure there are a lot of like
you know concerns seniors at the Palm
Springs luncheon for saving democracy
from Islamic terrorism and this buffoon
goes up there and basically you know
terrifies a bunch of 80 year olds that
be sitting on the beach and enjoying
their their golden years but instead
he's there going like you what you don't
realize that what you're on your way to
get your macchiato
Hamas is watching like shooting tortoise
all off and advise and then in a in a
non tragic comic way this is also the
type these like you know pseudo
terrorism experts were hired by local
police departments and other law
enforcement agencies where they actually
are basically just fueling you know
conspiracies bigotry and propaganda to
loop into actual initiatives against
like the Muslim community and so this is
a roundabout way of saying you know look
Sebastian if everybody could get a rich
wife a degree and become some
type of weird like David Brent of fake
terrorism studies maybe we wouldn't all
be democratic socialists before we
abolish ice it's got one last operation
I can't wait till this guy dad that that
should be a new demand for twenty twenty
Democrats deport Sebastian Gorka did he
acknowledge his association with various
undesirables on his immigration
application did he I don't know I think
I saw something too tablet but said that
was fall fine it was all oh yeah I think
you'll find that connections to fascist
movements in Europe are totally fine if
you're willing to say that Palestinians
aren't human beings you must be wearing
orthotics because you stand corrected
alright guys we're gonna take a brief
break and we'll be right back with the
great political analyst Milton al-ahmadi
we're talking about the movements in
Sudan and upcoming elections in South
Africa
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Milton al-ahmadi he's the publisher of
Black Star News and a adjunct professor
of African history at John Jay College
Milton thank you so much also I should
say you can regularly hear him on the
Michael Brooks show hey it's my pleasure
man thank you for having me on your show
again oh thank you during what much for
being here man I just always learned so
much and appreciate talking with you
likewise you ask good questions too and
I end up learning something that that is
a big that is honestly a very good honor
to hear from you so before I get too
embarrassed by that let me let me let me
let me let me try to continue that
tradition of asking good questions in
the Sudan right now yeah there has been
an ongoing movement for a couple of
months now and the leader Omar al-bashir
has just announced a form of kind of
martial law for a year and also
reshuffled his cabinet
can you explain I guess what's happening
what is the movement what who is the
government in power people know Omar
al-bashir is certainly a very brutal
leader responsible for a lot of crimes
but these protests although the response
to them has been violent might fit into
more of a story than might in some ways
have more to do with as an example
something like the yellow vest movement
and also the the policies that Omar
al-bashir has actually followed that are
very in line with the demands of global
capital absolutely
Omar Bashir is a bit in powerful like 30
years yeah he took power in a military
coup and at the time when he took power
he was supported by hassan al farabi the
latest on to ravi who was like a scholar
and one of the leading islamist in sudan
a big advocate of strict Sharia law and
after he
helped here seized power they pushed
with a strict interpretation of Sharia
pushing it in the southern part of the
country as well and in fact it ended the
peace agreement that had existed and
escalated the civil war in the Sudan as
a result South Sudan is today and
independent country it won its
independence after had a referendum it
had a lot of support from the US with
independence in 2011
and why do I bring that up that's a
critical issue because when South Sudan
became an independent state along with
it went all the major oil fields and
Sudan relied on oil or 80 percent of its
income so when all the oil disappeared
Sudan now had no major revenue source it
became increasingly dependent on the
Gulf states for assistance and it became
really dependent on launch to survive
the economy is not indebted to it you
know fifty billion dollars that's the
debt burden by December of last year the
people could not take that pressure
anymore
inflation was I think running at around
80 percent the price of bread which is a
major staple went up like by 300% wild
the sign itself the size of the loaves
of bread shrunk by 50 percent hmm
you needed a special permit to buy
several loaves of bread and you are
allowed to buy it if you need it for
like like a funeral or for weddings so
that was the extent of the pressure by
December so what started out as they
call it the bread protest then of course
escalated very quickly because they
realize this is all ongoing under the
same Lee
of the same the last 30 years so at that
point the professional the unions of
professionals in Sudan and the Roiz had
very well organized unions and
professional class particularly the
students and the teachers engineers and
other professionals they started taking
the lead and December 25th they held one
of the largest public protests in
Sudan's history so we transitioned very
quickly from a a bread protest to a
assure must go protest and there's so
much pressure now that journalists that
I speak with in Sudan tell me that they
believe that his time is up it will not
be quickly but eventually they see him
perhaps being overthrown in a military
coup d'etat well because obviously the
army would like to maintain its role in
Sudanese politics and obviously the
people that are in the streets now don't
want that so even if the army get rid of
them
that will not resolve the crises I think
the pressure will continue the
professional class the students they
want to transition away from military
rule in the Sudan that's what's
happening and in terms of the outside
bearing on neoliberal economics World
Bank IMF that of course applies not only
to the Sudan but pretty much every
African country and I'm glad you raised
that because at the end of the day the
countries are different but the stories
are pretty much the same countries that
cannot really exercise economic control
oh the decisions made outside by
institutions like the World Bank and IMF
determined the fate of almost every
African country so and now is actually
gonna be my follow-up question which you
already covered which is the distinction
between a change at the top which gets
rid of a personality versus a structural
revolution I mean this is a conversation
we're seeing with regard to
to Haiti right now you know people
demonstrating wanting a wholesale
rejection of a system in place that is
backed and fortified by the United
States and other colonial interests and
also broad-based discredited political
parties across the spectrum in Haiti so
that's what the protests are about so
when we talk about that with regards to
Sudan what does power look like in Sudan
today I think you gave us a good
understanding of the union's the
mobilization the students the demand to
end the military role in Sudanese
politics but if the Sudan has lost oil
which was my understanding of what made
Sudan a prominent and important player
and fortified relations places like
China
what does what what is what is the
significance of Sudan to the Gulf
countries as an example and what role
beyond Bashir does this military does
this government play as as something of
a power broker in its part of the world
like what are the what are the networks
that keep that militarized system in
place and how can they be undermined by
the movement I think the military will
find it very difficult to sustain itself
because who and how will it be able to
address the 50 billion dollar debt
burden they can't do that the
professional class have to release their
bed they have to have a government of
civilians people that are trained in
economics
keep a little bit at the forefront of
leading the social movement in the Sudan
the activists and these are professional
people who don't want the continuation
of a military regime so I think the tide
is actually in their favor
at some point even after they get rid of
Bashar they will have to contend with
the fact that they won't be able to
sustain government by themselves in
terms of what why is Sudan still
significant Sudan is significant because
it's able Towe to say that it's
playing a role in suppressing the
migration of people across to not Africa
then into Europe so it's playing that
card now which a couple of African
countries actually playing today that
hey EU I can play a role in making sure
that Africans on coming n mass into
Europe and for that reason alone there's
value in at least to the West in
sustaining Bashir in power as you notice
it's not by coincidence that a few
months ago sanctions were actually
lifted meaning Sudan was being brought
back into the neo liberal establishment
reintegrated when in fact nothing has
changed since Bashir was a pariah since
he was indicted by the ICC is this still
the same Bashir right so nothing has
changed structurally but this would have
continued as the narrative had the
economy not just blown up in December so
that's why I he's now becoming
increasingly increasingly expendable and
I think the stop-gap measure is going to
be perhaps a transitional Milka
government and I think there'll be so
much pressure on that government that at
some point they might actually allow
open elections in the Sudan and this is
actually a good opportunity for a new
class of politicians to emerge in the
Sudan because you notice the established
political parties the pressure is
actually coming from the professional
unions and the students who now have
much more credibility than the official
opposition parties so just because
Bashir is out it does mean that the
traditional opposition parties are going
to inherit the state
I think the unions and the students are
going to play suit make it
significant role to what other type of
government is established its or not
forgive I mean and then it's I mean
forgive me for this like glib analogy
but it's it's like if you're the Union
student movement you have to get through
Bashir then you have to get through the
military and traditional patronage
networks and Oleg are keys in the Sudan
and then you need to get through the
Gulf states the West the World Bank and
IMF is these various levels of coercion
and control that any sovereign yeah the
end of the challenge that actually is
faced but by many many African countries
right as barring that if these don't
evolve into that direction unfortunately
things are going to get a lot much worse
than they are today
people are now surviving by what they've
come out of like it's not like a Twitter
economy because there's such a shortage
of essential products including
medicines that people actually tweet and
say I need this critical type of
medicine when are you coming to the
Sudan and then somebody could make that
connection so I'll be there in about a
month or so and I can bring you
expertise of supply you bring it and
then you make the transaction once you
get into that country that's how bad
things around today economically in
Sudan and also that this the xenophobia
and the resurgence of far-right
fortification and wall politics in the
Europe in the United States but we
should be clear this goes back at least
certainly to the 90s all of the eurozone
and you're in the United States were in
violation of their own obligations under
international refugee treaties going
back a couple of decades but absolutely
the way yeah and you can elaborate it
please but I just want to just really
underline that that they are able to the
the synergy in repression internally
with the kind of broad-based repression
of the Europe in the United States in
terms of wanting to keep people out
that's where there's a lot of these
strategic alliances that are before
between a place like Basheer's Sudan and
the European Union as an example respond
to that and maybe if it could also
connect the two the contrast and
coverage you know I remember back in
like 2007 or so Darfur and other areas
were Omar al-bashir and of course it was
I'm sure it was more complicated than it
was presented but we could certainly say
of course I'm gonna be Shira was
involved in crimes against humanity and
various atrocities no question and Sudan
was an area where George Clooney was on
TV where there was a you know you were
supposed to wear a green pen I think it
was there was a lot of energy now in a
moment where and and including some of
the other things that have been
astonishing and amazing about these
protests which everybody can learn from
globally everywhere you know east-west
north-south has been actually people
saying on the streets in Khartoum like
we are de for e we don't want to be
divided by the various you know
divisions that the Bashar regime has
exploited just the way all right wing
governments do to divide people from
uniting around common interests it's a
you know it's an old story we see it
everywhere it's not a factor here it's
barely registers in news in the United
States that this guy that so much energy
was put into in civil society and in
kind of pop humanitarian concern well
there might actually be an opportunity
to actually depose this guy who's
committed so many crimes from power and
it's not even a blip there are multiple
factors you and I know because if we go
with the most basic one its we don't
care that much things that happen in
Africa in this country and that's the
honest and clearly truth so when it
comes to like issues of governance and
democracy even people that are really
sympathetic to Africa you really wonder
how much they see Africans are able to
operate its functional democratic
countable system - yes for sure is
reached bad at that time because he was
actively engaged in a lot of and killing
but since at least we're not hearing
that is that much involved in those
trackers killing of any more now why
shouldn't really care and gets to run
this manner and I think that kind of
attitude
unfortunately applies meaning African
countries of brown I think this a
certain representation that's that was a
long time that's developed that deep
seeded per second toward Africa in
general that they pretty much have where
they show anyway see because people have
not been able to see a different
alternative existing is in Africa
generally twelve on tonight so that is
also one of underlying I did find
perspective if you look at functioning
democratic accountable understand Africa
how many are there you can point to
South Africa of course the medium its
Rana
Dunham Senegal Sierra Leone Liberia
coming back but people ninety percent of
that those are exceptional but the
general Nora is for Africa to be like
what we've seen this without today so
unless things are really really bad
would be dealing reporting
ongoing genocide then it's time for us
to get out rate when we hear mass
starvation with all those images of
starving Africa then perhaps it's time
for us to get outraged
so unfortunately that plays into it as
well but you brought up a very good
point in terms of outside role in
creating the conditions that forms these
mass migrations in the first place and
we can assume that things are much worse
today
and they were in the 60s and 70s 80s
because at that time we never saw the
scene on thousands of Africans drowning
trying to cross the Mediterranean what
even gets into the desert we don't even
know how many are dying in the desert to
get to the shores before they can try to
cross me Mediterranean we never had
these kind of scenes in the 60s 70s 80s
but progressively a relationship in
terms of Africa's economy and its
relation to industrial world has
deteriorated significantly in these
decades and then you combine with that
people being displaced from the land
that in many cases the deeds of the
regime's displacing their own people and
breaching deals with foreign investors
for a commercial farming and so you find
unemployment going up to find no source
of income that's why these young people
are so desperate I mean think about it
know that others that are going ahead of
you are drowning and die and yet you
still engage in that activity and when
they go to Europe it's not like they go
to hang out in the streets they go
wherever they get their big fine work
and then start sending money back to
their family yeah that's our desperate
things are so I'm glad you brought that
connection
because I always he is when readers say
no you watch typical corporate media
they only present the images of the
drowning young people you never get to
figure out why is it that they're making
those desperate journeys in the first
place yeah um let's go to South Africa
where there are elections actually that
are gonna be taking place in a couple of
months yeah hey let's for before we you
know we'll get to that
second but I think this set up and maybe
it will be useful just to go I guess
we'll just go through a personality to
get to the bigger issues president cyril
ramaphosa he's been in power for about a
year do you want it maybe if you could
give a brief introduction to who he is
and how his first year has been this is
somebody with an extremely complicated
legacy who is he and how has it been
going is an agent of the mining monopoly
capital industry in front of if you
recall was involved in the massacre the
miners Milton Milton sorry you're
getting that you're cutting out a little
bit so I don't know what I'm just yes
yes that's perfect whatever it is you
just did is perfect so please stay where
you are and and reset oh please I think
about that no no you heard the part
about him being at a dental monopoly
capital in the mining industry cuz yes
hurry we heard that so take it from
there yeah right right so Cyril
Ramaphosa is basically going to continue
to be an enforcer seroma force so the
only thing he can sell is that he's not
as corrupt as Jacob Zuma right but
obviously corruption also depends on how
you define it right if you sign these
immoral deals with multinational
companies and the deals result in
displacement of your citizens or in the
case of the Maracana miners even in the
massacres that typically we don't see it
as corruption but that to me is that an
ultimate form of corruption so while
Zuma's was like I would say petty
corruption because it's still a
Regas it's a different type of
collection he was blatantly giving these
contracts to supporters and acolytes and
the guv'nor family which obviously were
also helping to finance his own deals in
South Africa so that is to the extent
that I would introduce Roma for so I
don't see him as an agent of change
absolutely not he can just say I'm much
much better than Jacob Zuma the previous
corrupt president of South Africa and he
is the flag bearer the ANC and the ANC
is projected to to win but probably with
a smaller margin
I think they now have 240 seats in the
400 seat Parliament but the pressure is
coming from not so much from the
Democratic Alliance which is now the
other major opposition party I think
there are about 90 seats in parliament
mm-hmm putting more pressure is probably
coming from the economic freedom party
of mallamma
mm-hmm which only has about 25 seats but
what they've done is they focus on an
issue which is the burning instance on
Africa and that is land reform so by
being way ahead of all the other parties
the ANC actually I mean the ESS of
malama being way ahead in terms of
agitating for land reform the Indians
you have to catch up and start saying
changing a lot of its own policies and
becoming much more militant started
talking about land reform for the first
time last year and in fact they passed
legislation and it was supported by the
ANC and the ef-s and the DEA opposed it
so the DEA finds itself now the
Democratic Alliance at a very odd point
in its history and its evolution
obviously it came up at a time when a
and she was seen as being as monopoly
much monopolizing too much power in
South Africa and of the result of that
their corruption increase it was no
longer the party of Nelson Mandela and
that's why there was an opening for the
democratic alliance but now when it
finds itself having to oppose the just
demands for land reform I think that's
going to have a negative impact into its
election prospects South Africa today
has a burning issue I think it's not
possible to embrace economic I mean
political democracy well you have
economic tyranny really it's not
possible how can you have a situation
where 25 years after Mandela was first
elected and I thought I'd officially
ended where you have the white
population which makes up about eight
point nine percent I think it's going
down it was about eleven to twelve
owning 74 percent of the farms of the
land and 80 percent of the population
the plant population owning four percent
of a farm that that's just not
sustainable and then you have it and the
economic sphere as well where white
households income is about six times
more than black households I think your
South Africa does not really regress
this situation
sooner rather than later even the
economic I mean the political democracy
that it enjoys today will be under
tremendous pressure I don't see how it
would be able to be sustained so that
makes total sense and I just want to be
really clear when we talk about land
reform and land expropriation I want you
know
the reason people need to think about
this really carefully and really
clinically is that there's gonna be
average there already is an unbelievable
amount of fear-mongering and lying and
propaganda about it that takes place in
Western in the United States and in
Australia and it's actually a new trope
of the global alt-right and neo-nazis
and so on and I think it's it's very
important I mean I just want to put two
things we'll get to the next question in
a second but I mean one as an example
the landless workers movement in Brazil
David Harvey The Economist he said it
was it was the most perfect social
movement he'd ever seen in the world and
in a lot of these cases at least in
Brazil but my understanding is also in
South Africa you're talking about you
know you're not talking about a
mom-and-pop you know Afrikaner farms
with a couple of pigs and a couple of
chickens and a you know a pickup truck
right you're talking about this is not
it's like the same way the estate tax
gets talked about in the United States
we the conversation is not about taking
that family that I just picked you know
painted that picture they're staying in
their their little house you're talking
about huge massive swaths of land that
through miles do racialized capital
accumulation have been in a way that you
can understand through the racial
hierarchy and also through you know just
raw like Marxist would say primitive
accumulation just stolen land that has
been turned into property through them
fictitional contracts and you're saying
this is going to be handed back to
worker cooperatives to small farmers and
so on a knot is definitely gonna mean
that some oleg arcs are going to lose
assets but this is totally not a
question of of you know again taking
that small african or farm or off of
their land in fact if it's done properly
it will help the small Afrikaner farmer
as well right of course there's so much
there's enough
everybody right but it goes back to
breed right I mean it's a way of wanting
to continue apartheid without officially
calling it apartheid anymore that's what
it is right so it's going to maybe not
this generation of white South Africans
that are still the beneficiaries but if
the next generation are also still being
their mentalities conditioned by the
current beneficiaries and of course they
benefit as well you know I don't see how
it's going to happen I think perhaps we
could go back and say the critical
moment really was 25 years ago 25 years
ago that was really when a lot of these
issues should have been brought out and
the longer that time passes I don't see
the beneficiaries being in a position to
now as a milk our Cabral once famously
said how do you get the head brutalizing
to commit suicide really because that's
what it is you have to make a conscious
choice that is now time for me to
sacrifice to be willing to let go of all
this wealth that I have in order to
increase the number of beneficiaries yes
I will let go over a lot of wealth but
I'll still be wealthy because I'm saying
they don't do that at the end of the day
they might end up with nothing you can't
stop it I mean it's a momentum that
nothing else would be able to sustain
you can't go back to both school apart
right right right so what are you going
to do you have to do a druid for gonna
way I'm sorry I said what happens to a
dream deferred they would say right no
really think about it yeah so start
oxidizing to me that is the critical
thing right now that is the real story
you know obviously as you say in the
western capitals is not seeing that
Minister the major issue is deco Zuma's
production yes that isn't is but that is
not the big explosive time bomb that is
really affecting some Africa similarly
in media and the media has exact same
trouble situation where in fact it's
written in the Constitution as it exists
today that there would be no no land
reform that the beneficiaries of the
lion at the kind of media had its
independence continue to own the land so
no maybe that would have to change the
constitution as well
the majority of the land are owned by
the previous white elite that are no
longer even in namibia today so absentee
landlords and obviously that to me is
one of the burning issues in south
africa the land and the wealth and
income distribution and the unemployment
unemployment is increasing i think it's
up to like 28 or 29 percent now and
that's really hard in a situation where
you have an increasingly modernized
economy you know you can imagine an
industrial economy with an employment
rate of almost 30 percent what do people
do and that's why we say so now has one
of the highest crime rates in the world
which is absurdly true but then of
course if you look at the factors the
economic factors it should not be
surprising to anybody
am i the lonely the last thing in the
last couple of minutes and it's big but
i just in it just to add to how
disturbing it is it seems like my read
of it is that there that there has been
obviously a very powerful tradition in
the liberation movement in the anc you
know Chris Hani Ronnie Kasrils of
basically the socialist Marxist wing and
Ronnie Kasrils has been I've interviewed
him I mean he was the former
intelligence chief he said look we
yeah and he said look we you know we
said basically we acquiesced to the
Washington Consensus economic policies
do get political power and what has
happened though in this process that
seems really disturbing is that you know
Jacob Zuma did this kind of fusion of
basically just fake populism and
corruption now you have you know the ANC
under Cyril Ramaphosa who as you say I
mean and people should look into him
because the tragedy of Rama poses not
only is he he he cut his teeth as maybe
the most successful outstanding union
leader in South Africa's history I mean
this guy yeah I mean just this
incredible force in the 1980's
internally fighting apartheid and
capital Manama na Polly capital in South
Africa so but he's really trying to pull
he's almost like I would I would put him
in the same kind of geo spaces like
Emmanuel macron he's kind of trying to
do a third way neoliberal thing in a
world where that's gone you know
particularly in South Africa that kind
of consensus is not gonna work and then
the democratic alliance is that you know
I mean they're they're just the dare
even further and that they're they're
also a neoliberal party but without any
of the ANC coalition partners and
traditions that still have legitimacy
and the trouble with the e FF is that
they raise the right issues and they are
correcting some of their diagnosis but
they're really more of a you know
essentialist
populist party then a kind of radical
socialist one and they have their own
you know charges of corruption and an
immigrant scapegoating in addition to at
times think you know making categorical
statements about the Afrikaners which
obviously contradicts the anc tradition
so an actual left you know presence that
could do the radical redistribution and
restore democracy
it's not there I guess yeah and I think
the one it really makes you now
appreciate how tragic it was
when Steve Biko was murdered in 1977 and
people that any listeners that are not
familiar with Steve Biko please go do
the research look him up
yes some very interesting speeches that
you can listen to on YouTube you can
read his book I write what I like and I
in the short I think it's only about ten
minute or 15 minute interview where he
spoke about the South Africa that he he
had a vision of and he said they would
have to be a redistribution of wealth he
said it would be meaningless to just say
we are going to replace the white
political elite and political elite with
black South Africans and that would be
it so there would be no change no
defense would be facing the same issues
and he was absolutely on point you
wonder if Steve Eagar had not been
murdered perhaps the young class of
young leaders that he would have been
able to train and nurture to come after
him because that is what South Africa
lacks the EFS don't have the
intellectual grounding that Steve Biko
had and the vision that he had for South
Africa trained as a medical doctor but a
brilliant organizer and a deep
understanding of the economy as people
will be able to tell if they go to
youtube and they listen to what he's
saying you know person I feel that South
Africa Ghana Sudan you landed in African
country in order for them to change the
equation domestically they have to
change their bargaining power with the
industrial world and another good
teacher on that front was the late Samir
Amin who just died about a year ago I
also recommend people not familiar with
him to look him up also this in some of
his lecture
on YouTube because he said basically
what African countries need to do is to
integrate their economies and not be
dependent on your stationary factories
in their countries having industries
without industrializing in other words
they're just renting space for foreign
multinationals who go there to sort of
the factories so they can benefit from
cheap labor cheap resources and also
markets for their products and who
sustains this regime as we started out
earlier in the show the World Bank and
the IMF because they make access to
capital conditional if you want loans if
you want financing everybody needs a
loan to start something if you made
financing business anything if you want
these loans these are conditions the
conditions the conditions you are now
multinationals to come to set up here
basically with no rules if you allow
free imports of products meaning you'll
never be able to manufacture those
products yourself well as you know
historically every country that is
industrialized today had to protect
industry for a certain period of time so
Samir Amin is saying African countries
cannot do that individually they don't
have the political will power to sustain
the pressure that would come from the
outside world so they need to start
thinking regionally and collectively and
be on the same page then they can start
negotiating some advantages and start
gaining from the tremendous resources
they have look at a crumble a country a
country like the Congo for example 27
trillion dollars worth of resources it
has the product that goes into all these
cell phones and electronic equipment as
you know coltan and it has about 60% of
the world's cobalt which is want to be
the biggest thing now as electric cars
become increasingly much more important
and yet you find per capita income in
Congo less than $3,000 and it will
remain that way until Congo stop Africa
and maybe our
Ghana or Sudan unless they can really
change their bargaining power with the
industrial world I always like to say I
remind people I told my students what
people who saw the film Lumumba at all
takes well remember that scene well the
Belgian general who's now being fired by
Patrice Lumumba he told his African
soldiers he said as far as I'm concerned
after independence equals before
independence and tragically if it comes
to the structural structures of African
economies that is absolutely the same
it's like Berlin conference in 1884
eighty five when the continent was
partitioned and it was set up basically
as a reservoir for cheap labor and raw
materials it's exactly the same today in
the 21st century
Milton al-ahmadi we will try to play our
parts and always just learned so much
from you obviously there'll be links to
all the ways that you can follow
built-in ala Marty's work which you just
simply not only need to be doing but
you'll actually have a tremendous amount
of fun and engagement by doing Milton I
appreciate your time so so much thank
you so much for doing this you're doing
what you do it's very strong good stay
straight well take care we will
seriously Milton allamani is uh he is
just I mean I can't I don't I all the
superlatives seem kind of almost not
fitting the man needs a podcast I'm
gonna keep harassing him but meanwhile
keep doing a lot of content together
alright folks we're gonna go to the fun
half will take your atoms we'll take
your calls we do have a bunch of stories
get to and running a bit over but that
was definitely well worth it in my
estimation become a member the majority
report today less then what is it less
than a cup of coffee today about thirty
cents a day
that supports and allows us to have the
left positions we have the analysis we
have to bring you the something like the
Milton allamani interview which is
profoundly important and devastatingly
under-covered in corporate media do it
join us you can of course also become a
patron of the Michael Brooks show
recover a lot of the type of you know
topics that we just saw there but
globally Caribbean Europe Asia as well
as theory and other kind of more long
format more kind of long range focused
content there's a huge amount of bonus
content to access very much in that vein
go to patreon.com/scishow so if you'll
see on the majority port home page there
is tickets to our La April 20th live
show with ana kasparian woz Neil and
Brian on the viola get your tickets
today if you haven't yet go over to the
Michael Brooks show YouTube channel it
definitely helps now that we're
monetized you know go over there click
on videos subscribe watch ads share the
word and of course it's a good way to
check out the show Matt what's going on
at literary hangover literary hangover
I'm gonna put on YouTube the video for
the unparalleled Adventures of one Hans
fall this weekend it's three and three
it's over three hours long so it's taken
a while to export that all together and
coming up
this weekend is Wakefield by Nathaniel
Hawthorne a short story about a guy who
decides to leave his wife one day move
across the street and just watch how she
deals with his absence for 20 years so
kind of an interesting story what a dick
alright we are going to see you in the
fun half alright folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
does this alpha males are back and the
alpha males are back back just
alpha males are back back back back back
back and the alpha males are back back
back just want to degrade the white man
alpha males are back back I took all of
it we make fun alpha males are back back
back
I am a total John can we bring back the
eg dinner yeah or a couple just put them
in rotation these you dance well the
problem with those is they're like 45
seconds long so I don't know if they're
enough of a break have Markinson
and the alpha males Oh psych
what
[Music]
on the back
the back
back
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadis
keeping it 100 day to meet you boy I
have an aunt expenditure foil and the
alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price request
me around here I am a total
pissy welcome to the fun half welcome
everybody
we did live coverage of the michael
cohen hearings yesterday and i I was
just saying with Daniel bessner
if you stipulate the obvious thing that
anybody involved with Donald Trump than
any type of support of his organization
is of course on some level of scumbag
and obviously Michael Cohen's a scumbag
to see the relative like he's much less
of a mom he's definitely less of a
monster than the average person there
and I think part of what's funny about
it and in a weird way endearing even
though it is indictment of how
horrifying the whole situation is is I
think that he and actually I want to
start with the one about the transition
and then we'll go to AOC because this
sets that up better when we pulled
Michael Cohen saying that he thinks
Trump might not leave office right that
should definitely be in there alright
I'll reset this I think Michael Cohen
the difference between a guy who's like
a small-town scamster crook who wants to
make money
definitely pretty sleazy but he doesn't
want to ruin the country he doesn't want
to completely destroy the United States
institutionally and I think just even
the contrast of you know a minuchin or a
Gary Cohen who at the end of the day
they don't they what happened in
Charlottesville and the overt support
for white supremists terrorism pales in
comparison to giving themselves tax cuts
evicting people from their homes you
know the whole gist orgy of greed and
expropriation of Wall Street and
Republican and often democratic politics
that they buy into I think shorts will
actually disturb Michael Cohen on some
level certainly more than his cohort and
he also of course I mean it's on a
surprise to everybody but it was
important to underline like yes of
course this guy is racist of course this
guy is a bigot this didn't get as much
play but I think this is also pretty
significant and certainly in my mind
this has been a real worry to me because
I think and of course you know we still
got to do what we got to do and
obviously we need to get Donald Trump
needs to be defeated in this next
election that's absolutely essential but
I think what Michael Cohen said here is
a confirmation of a very real concern
about what might happen in a transition
period given my experience working for
mr. Trump I fear that if he loses the
election in 2020 that there will never
be a peaceful transition of power and I
don't know what that entails I doubt
that Donald Trump has the strategic
capacity or the you know mental acuity
and the United States does have a lot of
institutional circuit-breakers this is
important we need to get subtle here in
terms of how we break some of these
things down the United States is not a
democracy it is an oligarchy and that
has been demonstrated by the Princeton
research and the country has it as at
least for the past several decades been
fundamentally in control of moneyed
interests nothing fundamentally has gone
against their way and then of course
before that you literally have an
American apartheid state in a
significant part of the country all
right so I'm not I'm not gonna naively
so America was this great democracy and
Trump that's a historical that's
ridiculous that's naive that's
inaccurate it erases a huge amount of
empirical reality in history conversely
it would be very diluted and very wrong
to not recognize that in certain
institutional senses there are circuit
breakers on as an example you know
Richard Nixon just saying no not gonna
leave I'm not taking a helicopter out of
the out of Oval Office right and unlike
in his time the Republican Party of
course is never gonna tell Donald Trump
you have to leave they're never gonna
they're there they are lockstep 100%
behind him we've said that from the
beginning and it seems like maybe some
people are catching up on that
but conversely you know his ability to
be in a transition and call up the head
of the Joint Chiefs and say we're gonna
fortify the white house and I'm not
going to me is a very far-fetched
you know profoundly unlikely scenario
but will he instigate violence from his
supporters on Twitter
I would imagine almost definitely god
forbid could he set off an international
crisis highly possible so this is
something institutionally to really
think about because there's maasai mean
and of course I think it we will see a
repeat of every other cycle with him he
the first night he might come out and
graciously concede and then the next day
say we're gonna do a process and then
there'll be a million dumb well here
while he finally became president right
but then a day later he'll wait for the
right wing to figure out some sort of
weird little conspiracy theory wait a
second what is saying what are these
guys saying so when you think about it
those 60 vote the 60 million votes
weren't real it was a computer
simulation by the one-world government
that Alex Jones said and it was stunning
and so I'm gonna stay in the White House
so people need to be not only mindful of
that and wary of that but also again
really reaffirmed and this is an area
where you can't make these cheap direct
analogies the Democratic Party there's a
fight inside the Democratic Party and
the right people might absolutely lose
you might also win and there's plenty of
Democrats that are awful and there's one
political party that is a non democratic
party even in a very narrow and liberal
sense right and that's a meaningful
distinction they might after they've
done all the stuff they can do to
suppress votes and disenfranchise people
and of course in North Carolina we saw
the actual theft
they're certainly willing to cross those
lines very aggressively but you can
maybe say most Republicans are it's
they're like air tawan and Turkey maybe
most Republicans are still willing on
some level to say all right go to the
polls have a vote but once we win
when we win by we could use whatever
means possible including systemic
disenfranchisement and suppression
that's it we have power and so it
doesn't surprise me that's what the
Republican Party is and if it surprises
you you weren't aware of what it was but
it's very important to underline this
because the threat of that statement
isn't just Donald Trump is a nutcase who
knows what he'll do a threat of that
statement is what institutionally the
Republican Party will do and how much
they will indulge their base all right
this was another important part of the
hearing Alexandre Cascio Cortez does not
have a law degree and once again
improving proving that people put way
too much stocking credentials she
actually made just a forensic and
extremely effective case for getting
into this guys Trump of course sure to
be incredibly dirty tax returns I would
imagine first my colleague from Vermont
had asked you several questions about am
i the parent the parent company of the
National Enquirer and in that you
mentioned a treasure trove a quote
treasure trove of documents in David
peckers office relating the information
assembled from all these catch and kill
operations against people who
potentially had damaging information on
the president you also mentioned that
the president was very concerned about
the whereabouts of these documents and
who possessed them does that treasure
trove of documents still exist I don't
know I had asked David pecker for them
so you would say the person who knows
the whereabouts of these documents would
be David Packer David pecker Barry
Lavigne or Dylan Howard okay thank you
I'm secondly I want to ask a little bit
about your conversation with my
colleague from Missouri about asset
inflation I'm to your knowledge did the
president ever provide inflated assets
to an insurance company yes right who
else knows that the president did this
Allen weiselberger Ron Lieberman and
Matthews calamara and where would the
committee
find more information on this do you
think we need to review his financial
statements and his tax returns in order
to compare them yes and you'd find it at
the Trump org thank you very much
the last last thing here the Trump golf
organization currently has a golf course
in my home borough of the Bronx Trump
Links I Drive past it every day going
between Bronx and going between the
Bronx and queens I'm in fact the
Washington Post reported on the Trump
links Bronx course in an article
entitled taxpayers built this New York
golf course and Trump reaps the rewards
where many that that article is where
many New Yorkers and people in the
country learned that taxpayer spent 127
million dollars to build Trump links in
a quote generous deal allowing President
Trump to keep almost every dollar that
flows in on a golf course built with
public funds and this doesn't seem to be
the only time the president has
benefited at the expense of the public
mr. Cohen I want to ask you about your
assertion that the president may have
improperly devalued his assets to avoid
paying taxes according to an August 24th
to August 21st 2016 report by the
Washington Post
while the president claimed in financial
disclosure forms that trump National
Golf Club in Jupiter Florida was worth
more than 50 million he had reported
otherwise to local tax authorities that
the course was worth quote no more than
five million mr. Cohen do you know
whether this specific report is accurate
it's identical to what he did a troubled
all Club at Briarcliff Manor do you know
to your knowledge was the president
interested in reducing his local real
estate bills tax bills okay and how did
he do that obviously what you do is you
deflate the value of the asset and then
you put in a request to the tax
department for a deduction thank you now
in October 2018 the New York Times
revealed that quote President Trump
participated in dubious tax schemes
during the 1990s including instances of
outright fraud that greatly increased
the fortune he receive
from his parents which I'm in it further
stated from the quotes he also helped
formulate a strategy to undervalue his
parents real-estate Holdings z5 hundreds
of millions of dollars on tax returns
sharply reducing his tax bill when those
properties were transferred to him and
his siblings mr. Cohen do you know
whether that specific report is accurate
I don't I wasn't there in nineteen
nineties who would know the answer to
those questions
Alan weiselberger and would it help for
the committee to obtain federal and
state tax returns from the President and
his company to address that discrepancy
I believe so
thank you very much I yield the rest of
my time to the chair excellent and and
necessary and everybody really should
read the New York Times report on
Trump's family and how they you know how
they stole my hit money from the federal
government and set up this trust when
all that because I think you know that's
the type of thing that is a reflection
of American Oleg Archy that's not about
the Trump's per se this is as so many
other things Trump is the perfect
embodiment of all of the pathologies of
our society take a look at everyone else
in his cabinet and if they come from
money ie
Betsy DeVos exactly yeah I mean this
isn't about Trump Russia this is about
like oligarchy and how it operates in an
endear generationally but well that was
actually another thing too that was
interesting to me about the hearing and
I you know some people are saying
because you know Michael Cohen said that
the BuzzFeed story which we already knew
was inaccurate was inaccurate that you
know again I it loops us back to all
this Russia stuff which I'm just I'll
I'll reiterate the company line here
we'll see what Mahler says I think there
might be some slight variations of
disagreement in this office about the
Russia thing but not anything dramatic
and we already know that there were
sketchy connections and sketchy meetings
does this amount to some type of like
grand conspiracy I would actually I
think no I think we can just start to
say that I think that that's very clear
unless something totally new emerges by
you know Muller
and all and what was fascinating to me
was that all of the questions that
emerge more and that kind of fever dream
you know like stuff alluding to a P tape
and other stuff
not only did Cowan say no he actually I
would say in my view he enhanced his
credibility by actually being like the
same guy that I basically said as a
huckster racist who would not give a
power peacefully no he wouldn't do that
and no that's ridiculous
right but the most effective indictments
of Trump we're just going as AOC so
effectively did on stuff that we already
know like we know that the fortune is
built on tax schemes we know that all of
this stuff is built on ripoffs and
corruption and and abuses we know how
this whole thing works and we know that
Trump has been involved in his own you
know uniquely grotesque petty odious way
and all of it and we'll see what Mahler
says and again anybody who says there's
no nothing nothing nothing to do with
Rush I mean that's the monstre Blee not
true but even the extent to which there
is stuff to do it Russia it is so
clearly on this pattern that it could
just as easily be Israel the United Arab
Emirates or the but you know
whatever Bronx local officials we're
involved in the stupid Golf Club that's
the game that's it and it's actually
quite disgusting and it's actually a
serious fundamental structural threat
indeed even to our democracy if you want
to use that language so you know the
biggest hits were on how grotesque is it
that a this racist is in the White House
or let's look at the dude's tax returns
you know this is clear stuff all right
I'm gonna read a few more items and then
we'll keep going through this video
because there was definitely more stuff
that happened Jamie raskins we've
Michael if you were to take over
real-time but had to stay within format
who would be on your first panel bear in
mind has to be a Knicks mix of known
pundits politicians and celebrities well
let's see I would definitely pick a
pundit I'm gonna cop out and say that a
pundit could be anybody that you've
already seen me with MRRT mb s so the
pundit could be milton al-ahmadi it
could be alone him in Coffs key could be
Matt Taibbi he could be like a Jabalia
Briana Chu a gray anybody that I've had
on with any regularity okay so the
pundit point is easy politician L on
Omar would be my first politician pic
right now and the celebrity would be who
a JIT well you know what John Cusack has
been retweeting me on Twitter so sorry
turnabout is fair play john cusack maybe
and then you know and maybe and maybe
like the the opening sit-down interview
he does you know I mean of course I want
Bernie I mean guys running for president
for God's sake he's my presidential
candidate and I just even want I want to
have the interview with Bernie where he
says the same thing to me he says to
absolutely everybody else I want to be
the one to sit there and be like and you
know and and what about that you know
with you know set him up with some
question about Wall Street or something
well that's a good point because the
millionaires and the billionaire's the
top two percent at the top 5% you know I
want that fran from philadelphia did you
see Zeke and Peterson is happening in
Toronto the day before your la show I
did not see that I got to tell you guys
I that's not gonna be good debate and I
mean I'm a Dziedzic defender I like
Dziedzic I read G Jack as a philosopher
and watch him as a philosopher any of
course is an entertainer but he I
suspect that what will happen in that
debate is that G Jack will go to realms
of abstraction and theory that honestly
I don't
think Peterson is equipped to talk about
they might actually and then G Jack will
find points of agreement with Peterson
including ones that might end up being
actually very odious so I'm more a
debate that that Peterson will almost
certainly never have but would be the
revelation of the complete emptiness of
his rhetoric on economics and politics
would be would be the Richard Wolff
conversation and he's totally ducked out
of that and dismissed it and that would
be a conversation that would deal with
you're making all of these claims and
it's all salts and eachin and
metaphysics and this and that but let's
talk about modular gan let's talk about
policy let and and you know I don't even
think it's I don't even know if Jordan
Peterson would suggest that he really
even does know anything about those
things he's making you know category
claims and and if he had to deal with
somebody who was actually you know
relevant the field it would not go well
but I think those Dziedzic is brilliant
gee Jack is more analogous in terms of
you know they could spend thirty minutes
talking about Goldilocks and you know
Peterson will say it's the it's the you
know it's the way of finding you know
virtue and home tasks and gee Jack will
suggest that it's a affirmation of late
capitalist ideology and you know on it
will go
I honestly especially now that I know
the timing of it I probably won't be
watching him water boat from Kashmir
thank you guys for making this podcast
entertaining otherwise I couldn't bear
to listen in fact my I am is a tip of
the hat to the Mr Crew you all made
water boat possible I would have gone
with cush from Hindukush but it would
have been a bit on the nose for the
super producer speaking of Matlack book
recommendation cities of salt it's an
amazing novel covering materialism
quality of life corporate and peer and
corporate imperialism I was reminded
about a couple days ago and Galaxie
brain asked Dave asked if your life is
better than your grandparents what a
twit PS in fact I did steal
Lion King material but I stole it from
my mom she joked about the pretty the
praying cheering for the pray cheering
for Simba and kind of did a whole speech
about feudalism her cousins went to the
USSR to study that's funny
Lauren when Brenda Straka announced he
was supposedly going to run against the
aoc he took down his interview with Sam
on this YouTube channel
wait why I don't know maybe he finally
got a political adviser who was like
dude that that was not uh that was not a
win I mean he should put it back up yeah
you should dice I mean I would think I
think just the serves of being
transparent and also you know you made
Sam look bad dude look Sam Sam's not
here so we can be honest steamrolled I
think you you you steamrolled him and
frankly not apposite yeah actively
actively steamrolled Sam so let's uh
yeah we'll run through all of these rest
of these clips from from the cone
hearing in the beginning of the Cohen
hearing I was you know we were doing the
livestream and there was this woman who
was standing it was like I couldn't you
can't really tell cuz you're watching it
on TV but she wasn't on the dais yet
which is where this clip starts it was
before she was actually standing behind
congressman meadows but she was kind of
somewhere in between the table where
Cohen was testifying and where the
Congress people were and it was like it
first she like is that a journalist and
it's like well maybe but that Majer 'no
'list wouldn't be able to just sort of
like hover around there and then it was
like maybe it's one of his council but
it looks like his councils were both
sitting behind him who is this person
and then it's like i don't you know who
knows maybe it's some maybe it's a
presumably they have like a stenographer
for the transcript or something but it
was it definitely distracted me because
I didn't understand why this person was
sort of hovering and what appeared to be
like you know a place you don't usually
see people standing around the
congressional hearings cut forward to
she's standing behind congressman mark
meadows
uh who it doesn't tell me what state
he's from but I believe is from I think
he's from North Carolina yes he's from
North Carolina and Mark Meadows was what
I mean this guy's from one of those
highly gerrymandered to the point where
I think the Supreme Court was even like
these are clearly racist Jeremy yes this
is a racially gerrymandered district and
he had the countenance and manner of
like a drunk on first class
who's been like cut off from scotch
because he's like starting to yell and I
mean just all of the Republicans were
just amazing failures yesterday at this
hearing and made Michael Cohen looked
enormous ly sympathetic just on a pure
human level because they're all being
such sort of either totally bizarre or
weirdly ineffective or mostly just
massive and Mark Meadows was
the leader of that and then you realized
with this woman standing behind him oh
my god that's what she's there for and
we use phrases like props in ways that
make sense but maybe aren't literal
translations this would be if you were
teaching somebody the language and they
put a sentence together and they said
this woman Lynn Patton was used as a
prop in a congressional hearing that
would be a literal sentence let's check
this out
do you know Lynn Patton yes I do
I asked Linda to come today in her
personal capacity to actually shed some
light how long have you known this Pat
I'm responsible for Lynn Patton joining
the Trump Organization and the job that
she currently holds well that's I'm glad
you acknowledge that because you made
some very demeaning comments about the
the president that miss Patton doesn't
agree with in fact it has to do with
your claim of racism
she says that as a daughter of a man
born in Birmingham Alabama that there is
no way that she would work for it
or an individual who was racist how do
you reconcile the two of those as
neither should i as the son of a
Holocaust survivor but I guess was a I
do have to say I mean you could see
there this is the kind of reason why I
mean it was responses like that
that you know look I'm giving them a
sympathetic read that is a perfect that
is a clinic response to that question go
ahead but I guess what I'm saying is
I've talked to the president over 300
times I've not heard one time a racist
comment out of out of his mouth in
private so how do you reconcile it do
you have proof of those conversations do
you have proof yes or no I do
Oh where's the proof s miss Patten how
many people were black our executives at
the Trump Organization Indiana is Israel
oh there you go but I mean so and you
know obviously let's not leave to the
judgment a guy who would use a woman as
a literal prop to gauge racist comments
like I could imagine him saying like
when the president made that comment
about swimming and an extra bone in your
ankle that was science mr. Cohen
so that was embarrassing and bizarre and
you know let's let's actually we maybe
we'll get to Brenda Lawrence later
because she was very good but there is a
through-line here because congresswoman
Rasheeda - Lib pointed out and you know
this person congresswoman - live already
freaks these guys out and they're
constantly using the fear and bigotry
around her and L on Omar both you know
the misogyny and also the fear of them
as Muslims to try to do Jenna Mize them
and even draw equivalencies between them
and of course the you know essentially
you know the the crypto Nazi in their
own house ranks this is Rashidah to live
and she's gonna point out that
you know Donald Trump is maybe not the
only person displaying racist behavior
around here just to make a note mr.
chairman just because someone has a
person of color a black person working
for them does not mean they aren't
racist and it is insensitive that some
would even say it's the fact that
someone would actually use a prop a
black woman in this chamber in this
committee is a lone racist in itself
Donald Trump is such a chairman I am
president I reclaim my time mr. chairman
mr. chairman the rules are clear cover
up and hold on to business assets to
break campaign finance laws and
constitutional clauses what we have here
mr. chairman is criminal conduct and the
pursuit of the highest public office by
mr. Cohen an individual one I hope that
the gravity of this situation hits
everyone in this body and in Congress
and across this country Thank You mr.
chairman I yield the rest of my time
it's mr. chairman I asked there her
words when she's referring to an
individual member of this body be taken
down it stricken from the record I'm
sure she didn't intend to do this
but if anyone knows my record as it
relates it should be you mr. chairman
pause it what is Mark Meadows record he
serves in a racially gerrymandered
district has he brought forward as he
co-sponsored the Democrats bill he's
gonna go on and talk about his great
friendship with Elijah Cummings which
Elijah Cummings confirms good for them
and I think I will just say as a side
note I think Elijah Cummings I have very
high respect for I think his leadership
of the committee was hugely admirable
and a lot of people all of us could
actually learn from his is his
discipline of the committee his
surveying his leadership and his empathy
mark Meadows has co-sponsored the
Democrats bill on voting rights mark
Meadows has condemned leaders of his own
party by for violating the Civil Rights
Act and suppressing african-american
votes as Mark meadows done this stuff
what's his record oh I get it I think I
have an eye you know what I'm not even
gonna say it let's check out what his
record might have been is him well this
is what I'm saying this is this is him
talking about his quote-unquote record
mr. chairman there's nothing more
personal to me than my relationship my
nieces and nephews are people of color
not many people know that you know that
we tell everybody and to indicate that I
asked someone who is a personal friend
of the the Trump family who is work for
him who knows this particular individual
that she's coming in to be a prop it's
racist to suggest that I asked her to
come in here for that reason
mr. president the positive logic own
person she's a family member as she she
loves this family she came in because
she felt like that his black face was
getting falsely accused and mr. chairman
you are you and I have a personal
relationship that's not based on color
and and to even go down this direction
is wrong okay so there's a I'm getting
informed over I am from JB that there
and we were remiss and not finding this
but apparently it was a 2012 clip of
them
okay so mmm here's JB I just weigh a JB
we got you so I just want to say this
while his friendship with Elijah
Cummings might not be based on color and
I got to tell you I don't even know what
the that even means one way or
another
honestly like I definitely would say
that my relationships friendships and
otherwise are not based on color but I
would say that this comment that Mark
Meadows made in 2012 Barack Obama was at
least partially or maybe ok you know it
was based on geography sure
here with you today I thank you so much
for allowing me just a few minutes to
talk with you and share a few things but
you know it's it's interesting when the
more we find out the more we realize how
wrong the direction we're going and so
what we're gonna do is take back our
country 2012 is the time and we're gonna
send mr. Obama home to Kenya or wherever
it is we're gonna do it that was Mark
Meadows and then what was amazing and
actually yeah I mean after that you
basically have a situation and part of
it is just like niceties of the house
and there there is procedure and I think
actually Elijah Cummings is somebody who
genuinely cares about some of this stuff
and he's not talking about civility in
the nonsense kind of green room
way that we dismiss and rightfully mock
all the time but he is saying like look
the reality is is that on some level
politics is not debate it's a real
actual conflict but it's also not like
street fighting there is a middle point
here and there is some level that even
though you're gonna fight and you're
gonna win and you're gonna battle and
you don't have to be friends you know
what the bipartisan all this
but if you're gonna sit together and
work you do actually need to recognize
some kind of shared humanity and I think
that Elijah becomings was a proponent of
that and I just I found it incredibly
admirable and just his sort of quality
he brought the things clearly at a
higher level and then there's just the
niceties of like oh well you know even
though of course he is absolutely being
a racist you know you can't say that
because it's uncivil and all that
 so then you had this really
like bizarre couple of minutes where
this brat is having a conniption because
his racist stunt was accurately called
out by congresswoman it's a live and
he's doing the classic you know the
classic white guy like the white move
you know what's in my heart
or that the good that the greatest sin
is the accusation
race right personal family members at
all this and then even though until
it did not I mean she handled it very
adroitly she did not back down from the
merits but made clear like look I'm not
saying your blah blah blah and Elijah
Cummings affirmed their friendship which
okay but you had basically you did you
basically had a couple of minutes there
where two people of color had to just
like feel like I we're saying you didn't
you just had you literally had to like
it was like a mark Meadows was
literally and I but where I'm gonna come
and I'm gonna use this analogy he was
like a out-of-control animal that they
literally needed to like soothe and
pacify and then he kind of got into like
one of the sort of like sulkily kind of
like well thank you I since uh
Cummings isn't here to gavel down I'll
say I think Mark Meadows actually is a
race oh I will I will definitely I will
also take advantage of the non gavel as
well another video is surf it surface
this looks like he's at a Blue Ridge Tea
Party round yes I see if we do our job
from a grassroots standpoint we won't
have to worry about oh wow you know I
wonder what his nieces and nephews think
of those comments yeah let's put them on
I know it's not feel bad for them let's
feel bad for them I mean look we're
gonna maybe we'll get to Paul Lapage you
know who's the another you know a
pioneer of Republicans mainstreaming
white supremacy and in the modern
iteration and I mean he always would
talk about how he adopted a son from
Jamaica and other than like should we be
calling the Department of Human Services
on him and checking out how that you
know this kid and maybe all the other
kids with it because that guy's
obviously in addition to being a immense
racist it's just profoundly ill I mean
you know they're always gonna go to that
and the only thought I couldn't sort of
bring up in one's mind is like Jesus
what the going on in that family
Lapage by no no other news is back in
the news cycle saying that let's go
ahead go ahead not just that the
electoral college is the only way we're
gonna maintain a white majority in this
country right
seventy percent uh oh okay and just
adding to really full up the circle here
dave rubin and i and i actually think i
think dave rubin obviously is mostly
just a total empty void who has no you
know to say he's an empty suit would be
to like is is actually not true cuz
suits insult amends where it is an
insult to men's wearhouse you're gonna
love the way you look we guarantee it
but i actually i do think his animus
towards Muslims is actually insofar as
there's any ability for him to kind of
form anything
cognitively is probably pretty sincere
and he writes and he's quoting a tweet
but from some idiot named Jim Hanson who
was agreeing with saying Rashid it's
live as a decision the real racist okay
yeah this is the this is the written is
this week or she it's a limited disgrace
she called mark burrows racist for
having a personal friend Trump family
blah blah blah she's the real racist
yeah paraphrase email Dave Rubin Bingu
to leave his disgrace than the racist
here also the day she was torn in she
said she was gonna quit unquote impeach
the
so how is she even on this panel well
she was disappointing too but in order
to catch somebody you need to be a
congress person actually so that's one
of the main qualification yeah that was
right she has her outcome regardless
affects any Democrats want to chime in
her net well one I don't know if Sam is
officially a Democrat I'm sure he's
registered as a Democrat so he can vote
in primaries in New York statewide it's
for him he does hits for them on MSNBC
you know the wise and well so I think
Sam cedar qualifies as a Democrat
and here you go he quotes we did Dave in
it and by the way unlike me cuz don't
forget that a lot of this goes back to
my free speech being silenced by Sam
because I called Dave a boo-boo word
although I insist stupid is just a
descriptive word when it comes to Dave
Sam cedar wrote tweeted I'd be happy to
discuss it with you Dave
sounds right I mean look look forward to
that I don't know it sounds like a good
starting point of an open and free
exchange of ideas and let's just let's
just top it I do want to just play
Brenda Lawrence because I thought you
know I Anna Presley also of course you
know I you know there was a lot of
articulation of the affirmation of the
fact that this guy the significance of
of a president with these beliefs saying
this stuff this is a congresswoman
Brenda Lawrence from Michigan Thank You
mr. chairman I just want to put on the
record as being a black American and
having endured the public comments of
racism from the sitting president as
being a black person I can only imagine
what's being said in private and to prop
up one member of our entire race of
black people and say that that nullifies
that is totally insulting and in in in
this environment of expecting a
president to be inclusive and to look at
his administration speaks volume Lynn
Patton was my friend I mean we make her
use the back door but I guess I shoulda
said that alright let's take a call
you're calling from a six for six
area code who are you where you calling
from six for six are you there
you're calling from a six for six area
code who are you calling from
hello six for six you there yes hi I'm
here yeah no problem
I'm sorry I missed it will you tell me
your name and where you're calling from
Nigeria how you doing thanks for calling
I'm doing okay yeah thanks for picking
up finally questions actually recently
Nigeria just held its election and it
took about three days for them to count
all the votes because we still kind of
live in the Stone Age and yeah I think
hiring one he won reelection yeah you
won the reelection okay and I was kind
of disappointing but only in the sense
that both of them were disappointing so
my question is basically when who Harry
beating I think a threat to security and
kinda joking up ethnic animosity in
success how do you think a leftist
foreign policy would handle conflicts in
other countries that aren't like that
isn't kind of like an interventionist
standpoint but also isn't isolationist I
just don't know like what alleged
foreign policy the u.s. would look like
yeah that's that's an that's a really
big question do you want to just tell me
your second question quickly so I could
I'll I'll try to get to as much as I can
what's the second question okay um well
I it's funny I litter
just recorded for patrons this Sunday
Daniel Besser and I did of a real
grounded tour of like what does this
actually look like and we looked at
Venezuela where you know it's more easy
but also North Korea and then India and
Pakistan and one of the things that I
feel like sounds kind of generic but I
think is actually a really important
point because the difference between the
project that someone like Daniel best
that Daniel best neurs working and I
would consider myself a part of and you
know I think a lot of other people fit
in this in different ways is it is a
little different than the like venerable
important leftist tradition of like the
Chomsky tradition of like you know you
descent right like this is an empire or
committing a numerous abuses across the
world you descent and that's part of it
we descent and we oppose coos and
invasions and all the rest of it of
course but at the same time as
especially if you're thinking towards
like wait how would you actually staff a
presidential administration and what
would a policy be it's gonna come up
with like the really important question
that you're asking and one of the
answers that sounds super generic but is
actually really important is literally
like rebuilding diplomacy or building
diplomacy as a capacity in u.s. foreign
policy which has been like incredibly
degraded I mean you look at post Cold
War basically just even like even before
Trump was like gutting the State
Department right now obviously there's
like bigger much bigger structural
questions like what does that diplomacy
on behalf of and I'm not pitting
diplomacy versus military obviously
those were about as much out of like
country totally that's totally true so
my thing I think that that's of course
but those are you know those are the
types of fights and battles that are
like structural and presumably like I
guess I'm taking I'm taking your
question as if like let's say Bernie
Sanders is president and you have at
least like an actual social
in power and you have theoretically God
willing you theoretically want to do
something different in foreign policy
what does it actually look like and I
would say with Nigeria it would be
definitely bringing just like I would
you know you should absolutely bring
diplomatic pressure and the prestige of
the United States to bear against you
know what bolson ro is doing to
indigenous people and labor unions and
the political imprisonment of Lula and
in the same way you could do the same
thing to Bihari probably more
structurally and where the fight that
actually totally synchronizes between a
domestic progressive agenda and an
international one and has a lot of
effect on Nigeria is telling the
extractive industries like we're not
building our policy towards Nigeria and
West Africa based on oil anymore we're
moving different into a different energy
economy and you guys don't get to
exactly I feel the main problem in our
country we can't think past our
immediate cash cow and that would be
time so with the global economy moving
more and more towards green energy we're
gonna be stranded with nothing
absolutely nothing but like money yeah
and so that would be so that's like the
strategic challenge for Nigeria and then
if you were left in the United States
you would say what can we do in terms of
like is there debt that should be
cancelled to Nigeria they are there um
maybe we take all of this extractive
money we tax the oil companies and we
give it to Nigeria in the form of like
the types of like minuscule
no-strings-attached low-interest loans
that Chavez gave to the Caribbean when
he was bringing money around right real
and and I am debt relief and then you
say and then combined with those very
like progressive and synchronized
peer-to-peer moves then you can also say
and you know mr. president like this is
not a threat of military force it's
certainly not a threat of sanctions if
it's popular
maybe it's the sanction against you and
your personal bank account and people in
your government but we see what you're
doing we articulate it and we will
oppose it and I and you know this is
where I know some people are so attached
to like lefty conversations and that
very like dissent tradition where it
would be like well the United States is
never in a position to say anything
about anybody because of our own obscene
record and on one level that's totally
true and then on another level that's a
naive denial of power that exists and
even in even if we achieve something
like Sanders being elected president the
battle is gonna be how do we use it
because what's amazing about that stance
to me is that if we don't have that
battle foreign policy especially will
just fall into the old defaults and
you'll have a progressive hopefully a
progressive agenda at home but basically
an ongoing destructive one broad and you
need people in place to say yeah this
means debt relief it means under it
means banning international arms sales
it means you know taxing the oil
companies to redistribute money to
countries that have been impacted
negatively by that industry I mean all
of this type of stuff that's how people
need to be thinking so that's my kind of
short answer or long answer for that
yeah that's actually my act like my
second question which is like a smaller
one which is anything but the room for
white people and I was just wondering
how you deal with family members that
might not exactly be on the up-and-up in
terms of like rejecting kind of fascist
language and rhetoric and like because I
recently had a conversation with someone
to my family and her doubted that they
were just might have some conservative
values but they're good person until I
spoke to them about a certain area i
straight-up sounded like I was talking
to like so like a trump associate it was
terrible so how do you deal with stuff
like
I mean I'm gonna answer your question
I'm gonna let you go because the
connection is really bad okay and I'll
open up the conversation thanks a
million for the call appreciate it thank
you I have the kind it okay so to be
blunt
I'm IVA I think you know I'm very much
on the stage of like there's gradations
so I don't kind of you know I don't know
in general across the board if somebody
I'm not very inclined to try to kind of
like micro target people's every this
and that with what they say frankly
that's just to be blunt
I don't think there's much profit in
that and I'm very skeptical of that move
on the other hand as far as the type of
thing that you're talking about
Sejal in terms of like somebody actually
talking like that categorically about a
different ethnic group you mentioned my
family to be blunt my family I'm lucky
in that regard I mean particularly my
immediate family you know look as I
always say if you're white the United
States for anybody the United States
you've been racialized in a profoundly
toxic way and I'm sure everywhere else
in the world with different
configurations of ethnic division but
specifically the United States obviously
this poison of our history but so I
don't for a second deny that but as far
as like what I feel like you're alluding
to like actual fistic Trump type
elimination is language I mean I have
one family member and I'm not gonna name
this part because I just you know I want
to keep some privacy but I would say
like the person that I know and it's
definitely a different generation who is
of the most problematic ilk you know
this is still somebody who might even
have like a picture of Barack Obama in
their home so you know on that really
raw level it's not in my circle and then
I have one a family member who's not
related directly who's apparently become
a big crazy you know Trump person and I
haven't talked
it's a fee honest not not like
intentionally it's just how it has been
but if we were talking we'd have some
pretty robust arguments that's
the other bottom line I don't really shy
from conflict I think sometimes I need
to have conflict conflicts okay conflict
actually can make people a lot better I
mean I don't have anything specifically
on their racist stuff because like you
it's it's never specifically about races
it's often about things like affirmative
action or something like that yeah it's
so like I had I I got a reason I can't
give it so I don't have any general
strategies but a specific example was
over Christmas we're talking about so
somehow affirmative action came up and
then talking about because people were
applying to different like medical
schools and stuff like that right it's
like well if you were this or that you'd
be in there right well it's like and
then you talk about like but basically I
just went into it by saying like we were
all given land in North Dakota here
right like you're talking about
affirmative action I would prefer that
affirmative action to getting a couple
of points on the college applicants yeah
just giving me just give me
laughing yeah I'll take the land over
the points so like specifically
historicizing things is useful
especially when you have like a family
like like mine which is fairly a
homogeneous which all people that
basically immigrated around the turn of
the 1900s and got you know the last of
the homestead land snatched that up and
yeah now they have their middle class so
yeah yes your starter size you have to
his store size and I think part of the
reason that I don't you know and I'm not
I feel like I'm not I'm not can't think
of a good example where one of the
reasons I'm not sort of like in the mode
of constantly going at it over like
relatively more trivial things is
because I also want to like save the
firepower for the big picture stuff
where again there's more credibility
built up and in those cases I am simply
not afraid of conflict like if you say
something I mean actually one time I'll
give this in it though really briefly I
was in and because this is actually
probably the closest where it's come up
to me definitely be and not in my
immediate family again but the closest
would be the total dehumanization about
Palestinians
and I was in college and you know I
definitely pissed my parents off because
it was not because they disagreed with
me per se but because you know it was
like family friends and you know believe
it or not I was pretty polite kid I
wasn't but the topic came up and it
wasn't the gist kind of usual you know
hey these are baby boomers like Israel
and they're having me over for dinner
I'm not gonna be rude I'm not you know
whatever but they said something about
civilian casualties Palestinians that
was like all right I can't you know this
is like now I'm in a room in the Jim
Crow South and that's a moral wrong and
you know let's get at it you know and
you know I think especially if you can
actually have conflict with people and
really argue with them but not again
you know if there's even one percent of
them that's still in the realm
I've had some instances of people where
it's actually gotten pretty heated and
pretty aggressive and these are not
family members but they've actually
changed their views you know I remember
one instance where somebody was like you
know you really pissed me off and I
thought you're being an but
there was something that nod me about it
and I looked up some of the things that
you said and I'm starting to see that
you're kind of right I notice a lot of
those people a lot of people who might
have said more problematic things in the
past go out of their way to make a woke
observation about current politics
totally like especially when I like I
mean maybe probably when I'm around
because I mean everybody in my family
knows what I do for a living and I'm
fairly argumentative in person right but
they'll say something like they'll agree
with like an anti-trump thing or
something that no I thought that was
pretty raised he really stepped on a
line what he called the broth that was
ridiculous bronze genius right man also
I'd say you know always interrogate
yourself you know don't don't get -
don't get you know don't don't don't
point out the the speck in your
neighbors eye lest you forget the log in
your own is actually a very good thing
Brendon got any thoughts the you guys
covered
well yeah I think I I guess like just
kind of learn your own family's history
and what they've benefitted from from
systemic issues and our policies and
then you can kind of unwind whatever
sort of disadvantages you're more
conservative and hoarding family members
believe they have perfect or good enough
abortions way more of a difficult topic
for me and my family than races I think
I think that in my family even like I
think even this Trump person I'm
thinking it was probably still
pro-choice I think I think I kind of had
came from an abortion on demand family
what but no I'm just trying to think
like it's so easy for us as white people
to kind of unwind this once you have
like overtly racist like family members
in which case like they're already gone
so that's kind of lost I think as long
as your family members aren't like
millionaires you can convince them that
they're on the decline and that they're
their opportunities are diminishing and
we need to do a lot because you have a
lot more in common with the homeless guy
on the street than you do with Jeff
Bezos you're calling from a eight for
seven area code who are you where you
calling from
hi Michael this is Josh for Chicago Josh
from Chicago how's it going good good I
found by the lake just chiming in on
what the other caller said um hi there
are certain people in my life I just
don't talk about politics with at the
end of the day although I have found
that particularly with one my Republican
friends we were talking about
I think the immigration stuff and he was
actually like once we were not in like a
tent heated debate about this he's
actually for open borders and so I've
and I think the common ground thing is
 I've heard a lot of people
saying oh can you find common ground but
there are certain aspects if you
actually depending on how
you approach it that you can actually
find some common ground and then you can
get a lot to sort of like and they've
tried to change their mind or I guess
coming from where your are telling them
where you're coming from if you approach
it in a sort of less argumentative way I
found release I also think there's a
different sometime now you can tell the
difference between people who are really
reactive because you know they're mark
Meadows and they just they're really
they're far gone and sometimes sometimes
people and again I'm drawing on the
israel-palestine stuff sometimes that
real extreme level of defensive 'no siz
actually like because they're there
steps away from actually being like you
know what this is actually really
unacceptable so you kind of have to
gauge that anyways Josh what else is on
your mind
um I want to talk about actually uh what
happened Labor Party that's okay and get
your thoughts on their their latest move
um so as I mean a lot of people know
there was the independent groups that
formed recently I think was four or five
people from labor along with two or
three people from the conservative step
down and formed this stupid group and of
course they were met with backlash by
Sadiq Khan he was probably the most
popular politician and in London or one
of the most popular politicians in
England and I think their primary reason
was about being for people's referendum
labour recently is proposing a people's
num referendum they just came out in
favor of it um I think it's a good idea
but what do you think I think it
basically just called them out on the
fact that this whole defection had
nothing to do with the people's my
referendum everything that he was Jeremy
Corbyn so you the people's were ever
rendom just to be clear basically he's
voting on brexit again
I think that yeah I mean look your read
on it is 100% right there's no doubt
that this isn't about brexit it's about
Korbin and it's about this religious
devotion to this idea of quote/unquote
centrist politics that only exists in
these very elite spaces and I've talked
about this in a variety of ways and I
won't kind of restate everything but all
of the polling indicates whether we're
talking about the United States or the
UK that there is not some you know
right-wing economic but socially
moderate silent majority out there at
all if anything it's the opposite so
yeah I mean it's all about hating Corbyn
and it's all about not wanting to
reverse austerity and do something to
deal with the structural crises in the
UK I think that on one hand you got to
say look you can't breathe United
Kingdom has been in crisis for several
years and before brexit because of
austerity and because of the massive
increases in poverty and inequality and
of course a lot of you know of course
the inequality goes back decades and
it's the neoliberal turn and
deregulation and blah blah blah but
there has been a a massive increase in
just raw human suffering under the Tory
government's going back to 2010 when the
David Cameron Nick Clegg a coalition
government came to power so the UK there
isn't just that every time you have a
conversation about a future-oriented
crisis that is completely negating a
current one be really skeptical and then
that being said brexit is obviously a
really bad idea and the left case
against brexit what was being voted on
and it wasn't on the table so sure have
another vote but there should be
elections first that's first and
foremost get an extension on brexit have
elections have a legitimate government
in place and then you can go and take it
again to the people I will say though
I'm not convinced that brexit I mean not
on either mine it might win again and
that's the other calculus and it shows
you know the elite discourse
delusional because they're talking as if
and and look it would be a different
political reality if the poles were like
look this is gonna win by over 20% and
everybody in the UK gets that this was a
tremendously stupid thing to do but all
that's happening actually the polls
haven't moved most people still actually
even support brexit even now and the
only thing I mean not a big you know it
was tiny polarity but there's no but it
won by a tiny polarity right and the
whole yes of the same group of people
again negative polling and this was the
same group of people that this vote was
registering against the begin with right
so like just like with Trump it's a it's
a it's a it's a fusion of I mean it's a
foundation of xenophobia for sure but
it's also a brought I am there is no
mistake that the top keyword search in
Google after brexit was what's brexit in
the united kingdom there was tons of
people I probably even more so than
Trump I would actually wager because
it's a referendum and it sounds
technical that literally were just like
 you if you're tony blair if you're
the BBC if you're David Cameron if
you're you know Ed Miliband you and
and as things have gotten even worse uh
you know there's just no indication to
me that this is actually like an escape
route so you know I don't again brags it
was a terrible idea it shouldn't happen
the UK actually was in a relatively
privileged position relative to the you
know relative to other countries in the
EU it the way that you use constituted
definitely would harm the ability of a
government to be truly a democratically
socialist and progressive but given what
was on the table it was the wrong vote
it was a bad decision but the people who
were running around saying that you know
we should just have another referendum
or as with every single other move
they've made not reading the politics
correctly so you know I'm not opposed to
it and I think labour does need to have
a stronger position on it but I think
it's a fantasy to think that this is
type a done deal yeah and if debt if
that loses then that is um I mean that's
even worse
that's let me just put it something
right yeah so there you go I think it's
worth yeah I think I think also what you
need is someone like a prime minister
just if they're not going to get a
better deal than what they what they're
going to get some EU just won't budge
what you're gonna need is possibly a
prime minister just to flip their foot
down and say we're not going to do this
I go to that country we're not going to
do a brexit I think that's what you
would need and I don't think you recent
they want to do that because she is too
in bed with the hard record of her birth
she won't she definitely won't do that
thanks to the calm in let's do this
report so again it's a really easy
three-step process here and I would
really would recommend that you watch
the commentary I did 40 mb/s on Tuesday
about this but then as Wella has its own
internal problems Venezuela has its own
failings and abuses it's also been under
relentless pressure and economic warfare
from the United States going back to the
bush arrogance Chavez through Obama and
it's escalated today in an in a
profoundly radical way with bright away
designs from Trump that's not just about
Venezuela this is going is gonna spread
to cuba nicaragua and of course as in
all these cases if you are so naive and
delusional enough to think there's a
humanitarian concern here look at the
government's that they're supporting
bolson arroz abuses are going to far
exceed Maduro z-- without any doubt even
his plans alone for the amazon and
indigenous people are constitute of
crime against humanity not to mention a
global planetary system and there's
still democratic functions happening in
venezuela there's still some of the huge
accomplishments of the Bolivarian
government still in place and most
Venezuelans including those who of
course honestly and fervently oppose
this governor
for absolutely justified reasons do not
want a foreign coup or intervention to a
stall a regime for them there have been
other opposition leaders in Venezuela
who have not been able to win elections
and until the 2018 election where the
reporting is mixed but I would accept
that there were some irregularities for
sure Maduro won his first election
according to serious analysts and there
might have been some problems in
irregularities but he won and it was a
much tighter margin Chavez definitely
won his elections and those that would
say otherwise are just sort of you know
they're telling they're telling
themselves maybe in you a bedtime story
it's just pure falsehood
so but leaders like Falcone had a more
organic foundation than John White oh
and they did you could potentially argue
in some cases might have represented a
center-left tendency to a contrast with
the Bulevar in one the structures of how
you deal with corruption are much more
complicated because the corruption
networks that have been perpetuated by
the Bulevar in government they have not
dealt with it at all no doubt predate
Chavez I mean just like you see in South
Africa the transition to the ANC the
State apparatuses of corruption and
patronage networks have just been
inherited and perpetuated from under
apartheid these are state structure
problems but that being said Guido is a
figure of the right and any person who
is gonna get propped by the Trump
administration the Colombian government
the balsan ro regime the far-right
government of Macri and Argentina this
is not somebody that one can trust or
support and so I still see some people
kind of spinning this notion I don't
know where this idea comes from and he's
some type of social democrat but he's on
his way to Brazil this is a government
that holds a former president in prison
with no material evidence in a and who
would it who led all election polls this
president Lula da Silva this is a
government that
is attacking viciously the LGBTQ
community this is a government with
almost I would say massive death plans
for the indigenous people in terms of
clear cutting rainforests and they're
attacking labor unions systemically not
to mention all of them very serious and
actual material evidence that is
emerging between the bowls and our own
family paramilitaries and mafias this is
where the Social Democrat with the
backing of the Trump administration all
of these extremist far-right forces in
Latin America is going to for support
and Brian mayor of tellus or who's also
editor at Brazil wire an indispensable
news site on Brazil in particular
obviously has a report on it let's check
it out Paula we're at 10 o'clock tonight
Hwang who I don't is expected to arrive
from Colombia on a flight for meetings
with Brazilian President Jerry bowls
narrow to talk about a possible plan of
action for renewed aggressions against
the democratically elected government of
Venezuela now some people are
questioning his judgment and even
wanting to meet with both scenario
because bolster was unable to establish
consensus within his own ruling
coalition to support Donald Trump's
so-called humanitarian move on Saturday
February 23rd against the government of
Venezuela apparently according to fully
the San Paulo newspaper many of both
nares top generals as well as House
Speaker Rodrigo Maia spoke out against
any participation in the initiative and
that's why the government only sent two
pickup trucks with a small amount of
supplies on them to partake in this what
appeared to be a publicity stunt that
was held on the Brazilian border with
Venezuela
so grindin is arriving there's going to
be a lot of media attention for it but
will there be any concrete results
general Hamilton more on vice president
of Brazil said the day before yesterday
in Colombia that Brazil will not allow
the US military to use its territory to
launch any kind of military attack
against Venezuela and Brazil will also
refuse to engage in these kinds of
attacks so that's very interesting and
then it runs contrary to all of the
moves that the bolsa narrow regime has
put in place which has been
Rhys entering the US military command in
Brazil giving way to all US military
demands so far and of course all the
demands of Wall Street in terms of
things like pension reform and other
assaults on Brazilian workers and middle
class but there's a practical reason
here one is political to Brazilian
people even though they took a far-right
turn in this election are not eager for
a some type of catastrophic military
adventure event as well and also the
Venezuelan military is in much stronger
shape than the Brazilian one and doing
this would be extremely dangerous and
destructive to both sides but this is
what
whydo is I mean look he's going to seek
the support of a fascist government or a
fascist aspiring government and an
apparently an attempt to instigate even
more radical moves that have already
been restrained by more sane voices
inside that extremist formation of bowls
in our own Brazil which by the way is
already reaching record levels of
unpopularity so that is Guido that is
this opposition you're calling from a
904 area code who are you where you
calling from hey finally this is Adam
from Florida hey Adam what's going on
what's on your minds well I actually had
two questions for you guys one of them
one is about a little Esther can you
pick one because we're going pretty
tight
okay sure um so me and my girlfriend
we're really excited when senator
Sanders all launched his campaign you
know we both contributed to it and
everything but I think she might have
been watching maybe a little too much
pod save America lately because she came
at me the other day saying that uh
she might be supporting senator
Elizabeth Warren more now because she
said
that she would be willing to get rid of
the filibuster and Bernie seemed a
little more hesitate to do that well you
know like I just see we're both just say
aye aye that's one where elizabeth
warren's ahead of Bernie and she's right
you absolutely need to get rid of the
filibuster it's undemocratic and you're
not gonna be able to fulfill any type of
agenda now it happens to be one where I
didn't like his answer on it but I don't
tend to have huge conniptions about
these things one so I think he'll get
there and he'll get to the right place
but Elizabeth Warren's ahead of him on
it and she's right but he needs to get
there thanks for the call man that is it
interesting I mean I don't know why he's
letting daylight there you're going from
an yeah her leading a revolution I mean
it's hard to do with a filibuster we
want a filibuster enabled revolution
you're calling from an eight one eight
area code who are you where you're
calling from hey Michael what's up Dave
from director Dave from Jamaica worlds
colliding here what's on your minds not
too much upon the coin stuff rather
entertaining I do questions entertaining
well interesting in the sense that I'm
not sure what to think of coin now in
the sense that you know I don't know he
he seems to be a mixed bag it doesn't
strike me as as we call it know as evil
as I usually thought he was before but
maybe that's an oversimplification of it
but to jump to the point real quick I do
notice that his testimony can uh might
bring up something that stolen cases
brought up which is that croc might have
lied on that handwritten
thing to Muller so I don't know what
implications of that is I think about in
the area or from him knowing about the
WikiLeaks dump beforehand right I'm not
sure how the legal process is but does
that have any real implications over
or I I mean I don't need they don't
think they're gonna get some I don't I
think if you get if if if the special if
they are gonna bring charges against the
president it is gonna be for something
that's airtight and really serious and I
mean it and I don't want to say I mean
look look one level it's like you've
created such a degree you know it's so
degraded that it's like everybody knows
that Trump lies about everything but I
just think I don't think that that's I
don't think so
III I don't think that Robert Robert
molar might get all these other people
and he's obviously trying to flip people
and I think it's also you know again my
sense of it I don't think there is some
secret hidden smoking gun thing here I
don't but I I'm just and I've been very
as I always say I'm agnostic about this
maybe there is doesn't seem to me there
is it seems to me that there's a lot of
sketchy stuff and some criminal stuff
but this could be we're talking about it
could be anything with these people but
and there's you know there is that
Maltese academic I mean there's all this
stuff we'll see what he says but I would
just say I doubt Robert Fuller is gonna
say we're gonna push charges against the
president's Tate's he's indicted and the
reason is is because like he lied about
something on a speakerphone I don't
think so
I doubt it I get what you're saying I
know I get what you said because what
the thing is in contrast and I think the
only contrast the Nixon Nixon got built
for less right so yeah but the
Republican Party yes baby the Republican
Party went to him and they said it's
done I mean and also you know so I know
I mean I'm not necessarily let I mean
yes cuz he covered it up but there was
all this I mean there was I don't know I
mean I would have to look into it I
don't know about less but yeah but I
don't know I'm I don't think that that
Cowen's testimony I think it was useful
I think was entertaining but I don't
think it is gonna have that much of a
big big impact one way or another
thanks a million for the call Dave
let's see you are calling from a 7 1 8
area code who are you worried calling
from hey zombies from Brooklyn
Hayati what's going on uh I just saw why
I'm glad this : things happening I I
started you know I called I called the
show last week and was kind of talking
about how Congress needs to take a hold
of this narrative with the Trump
investigation that uh I came to know
providing something I will probably
published I'll send it to you but uh
digging into it it really III think we
really need to start opening up the
space to rebuild Congress as an
institution that like embodies
democratic values because you know the
the and you're like you're doing a great
I love that you're doing so much on
Brazil and the more I dug into that it's
if there's really a lot of connections
between the modus operandi in Brazil or
Italy or any of these places and the
like internal corruption in the u.s. in
terms of the corruption are politically
yeah and like this there's like a tariff
like I was like actually terrified at by
looking into these like connections
between um you know the part that hasn't
really been exposed so much is that like
the there's connections between all of
these institutions like even the
Department of Justice and the big law
firms that represent the oligarchs right
like that's a cool that's like where
people right and so it's you know we're
seeing this
we're seeing this emerging new it's like
it's the new form of third-world policy
that is like based on like corrupt
aquatic product governance right where
it's like we're going to impose instead
of them clothes instead of sending
hitmen right we're sending in we're
sending in this kind of legalism right
well I think it no surprise that the use
of lava Giotto and then the ultra Brecht
investigations which is these massive
sprawling corruption investigations and
first of all it's like again what is
corruption
what are you exposing and also there's a
major difference between you know a
party saying we need to cut deals with
other parties in order to govern because
that's literally how the system works
and dispense money versus like you know
stealing money from a food bank right
and then the fact so again leaving side
all those complexities and then it's
like well why is it that these
corruption schemes that you know
certainly are systemic but it's like the
people with the least of it you know
again Lula is the obvious example right
this is a giant in global politics in
Brazilian history there's way less
evidence against him than others and
then he's put in prison without any
material evidence and silence to keep
him out of an election he almost
certainly would have won I mean that
this is absolutely and and and I mean of
course in this ending we're gonna
pretend that this doesn't have something
to do with the fact that the Workers
Party refused to privatize state oil and
strategic industries I mean it's
delusional to think otherwise of course
yeah and so and when we're thinking
about where we go with the Trump
investigation and how it can result in
progressive ends we have to think about
like you know what do we how can we use
this to expose like because Trump is in
the midst of this exact problem right he
is this problem in America right like
Trump is the oleg art class like using
but you know skirting the law but you
but but using his his financial power to
to corrupt you know our political system
so you know it's a intimately
you know if Congress started actually
investigating not just Cohen but how
real estate is used as a way to hide
foreign money and how he's off to avoid
the law in all countries right how
they're buying everything
LLC and how they're used you know and
how actually negatively impacts are
rinse our ability to afford homes our
ability to create public policy that's
not directed towards billionaires right
like it's not just something happening
in Brazil or in Italy or in Peru it's
something that's happening also in New
York City right little bit questionable
yeah well what's happening too is I
think I think that and of course it's
always been true that there's massive
inequalities and so on and it's and it's
not just a question of overseas because
of course all of these really truly
extractive policies have always existed
in the so-called in the peripheries
right so it's West Virginia or
Appalachia or inner cities or people of
color right but one of the think the big
symptoms and kind of like things that
have happened particularly like in the
last couple of decades and even and
particularly after the financial crisis
kind of been like this like what we were
exporting in the 80s is coming home
right like how Paul Ryan's plan for
gutting America's already small social
safety net is almost like a World Bank
IMF plan for the United States in a way
and so yeah I mean this stuff is very
globalized and it's cross migrating
we're not just in sporting it and
imposing it anymore obviously it's still
way worse in terms of what we do to a
place like Haiti now but it's it's here
it's it's rebrov back home for sure
and into the center yeah so when we
think about the legacy the legacy of the
Trump investigation or the legacy of
Mueller it can't be the Mueller
investigation it has to be what Congress
does with it because the more that it
stays within the kind of criminal
justice framework it's going to be
individualized and it's going to be
focused on individual wrong actors not
systemic problems and that's like that's
a recipe for basically authoritarian
rule well that's the pattern I mean I
keep saying it it's a it's a generic
anti-corruption politics is the
handmaiden of global fascism in India
there were massive protests
against the Congress party did the
Congress party have corruption of course
all Indian politics like all American
politics like all every politics there's
corruption but it was used in very
specific ways including by people very
close to the BJP to D legitimize the
Congress party what does that lead to
well it leads to of this ethno far-right
dangerous BJP government of God and of
course not to say Pakistan is obviously
incredibly dangerous place and it does
back terrorism that being said the
Indian policy by Modi in the past couple
of days if Imran Khan did not deescalate
by releasing this pilot we could be in a
I mean this is the most likely place of
a nuclear exchange in the world and the
BJP is escalating because they're
worried about regional elections in May
in Brazil that's the story I cover a lot
anti-corruption politics leads to balsan
ro it D legitimizes an incredibly
successful and important party that's
still struggling there for democracy and
by the way in recent news you know
Fernando Haddad who was the standard
bearer in the last election why had
opportunity spent a little time was a
couple months ago right before the
election against bolson ro they they put
out and blared that he was facing
corruption charges well in his case they
actually just dropped them within the
last week and they were like oh no
actually it was nothing but it's like oh
really the same judiciary that's been
raging lawfare against Lula and the
Workers Party they just happened to leak
these charges a couple weeks before the
election and the whole elections built
on an anti-corruption a narrative I
wonder what role that plays right I mean
you know and and and and contrast that
you want to say in Haiti the movement
that's been taking place in Haiti deals
with a massive corruption scandal but
the demand has been a restoration of
democracy and overturning of the order
not just stop corruption because if you
just narrow it to these corruption cases
yeah you don't deal with the
institutional questions I agree with you
completely
I'll send me the article thanks for the
critic oh sorry sorry I but we are
running tight okay guys yeah I'm gonna
read a few more IMS I'm sorry I couldn't
get to all calls
we are gonna yeah we gotta go um cuz
Sam's gonna come in and do ring a fire
but I'll read a few more IMS balls-deep
Lu la Libre la Libre TMDs is my jam when
are you guys gonna upload new dorks
interview with Scotty B kala for Nia
Burrell over Alice shame on you for
putting Sam on your for not putting Sam
on your fantasy bill Mahr panel Jesus I
mean he'll be there you know I one
person you know watch the clip where I
proposed myself as a replacement for
Bill Maher on the Michael Brooks show
YouTube channel but somebody said that
what they wanted to happen was I would
get the job and then Bill Maher would be
one of my guests so bill marca co-host
of real time my old job make it do I
don't know I like what's the my old job
what's up that's what milk Bill Maher
will always be like he's the director of
research at CERN my old job that's like
the that's like that's what they used to
call me in high school for old people
right ayahuasca communists the name that
can be named isn't is not the eternal
name the nameless is the origin of
heaven and earth now close your eyes
breathe deeply before the Revolution
left his best hashtag zero some respect
I like the little doubted Ching quote
their majority report Tina
Remora majority report thought Bobby
thought of Tina I want to see you bust
down Dave Rubin well there's a lot tuned
yeah stay watch an ample amount of
archive material and watch his space he
Andrew yang is BFFs with Sam Harris
okay guys I mean some people would ask
me about Andrew yang I am I'm not I not
gonna cover energy and I don't care
unless something like radically
different happens I mean the only thing
I'll tell you about Angie yang and again
I just talked about Modi so I've not
you know we're not coming out for tulsi
gabbard here serious problems there
still stand but I find like discussion
of like Andrew yang or Howard Schultz
makes me like and feel offended on
behalf of Tulsi Gabbard because it's
like this is a real congresswoman she's
putting she's putting across actually
some very good policies she's got some
serious problems but like this is a real
candidate and people are talking about
some idiot Starbucks plutocrat or just
some guy I don't know I saw five minutes
of him on some interview he seems like a
nice guy okay
it's just say I think he's like just
some business guy from New York the
likes ubi I don't know what to say I
think you already got on Rogan which
should be like the the aim of his
presidential campaign so I don't know
what else we got to talk about here
seems like a nice guy to Kentucky Fried
comrad hey Michael California update
PG&E recently admitted it may have been
responsible for the recent paradise fire
which took 85 lives after the CEO CEO
resigned with a multi-million dollar
severance I'm currently petitioning to
rename Pacific Gas and Electric to
Pacific gillis teen and expropriation
word looking in raging what's the best
severance package the most just
severance package you ever heard I mean
people that get fired like getting
unemployed I guess but I'm talking about
like the high like golden parachute type
like that stuff should be illegal to be
illegal
general strike I'd like to mention here
cariann Lucas a disability activist who
recently died as a result of her health
insurance denying coverage according to
a message on Lucas's Facebook page
United Healthcare denied her coverage
for an antibiotic last year triggering a
host of medical complications would led
to her death that is so disgusting and I
a report that I read of her death which
I read on TMDs did not I hit either cuz
people drew my attention to it
thankfully one of the patrons I didn't
know about this story this was an
incredibly important woman and her work
I mean she did a huge amount for the
people with disability in the state of
Colorado and also nationally I did not
know that dimension of it that is
disgusting despicable unexpected and I
mean and expected from that industry we
need to completely ban private insurance
single-payer health care period attorney
Andrew we
have covered it earlier this week but I
have noticed that some Democratic
cannons are getting a lot of praise for
supporting reparations for Senator
slaves yet when most candidates are
asked what form of reparations would
take the point of universal policies
that would disproportionately affect
African Americans nevertheless the only
candidate who's endorsed a targeted plan
is Marianne Williamson who's calling for
one hundred billion over ten years the
descendants of slaves this seems meets
an acceptable definition of reparations
and that is a staggeringly low figure ah
look I can't get into all of it but I
agree with you there's one candidate
marianne williamson is another you know
she's a she's a spiritual teacher and
author she's running for president she
has a reparations plan no one else is
supporting reparations nobody and in
fact if we're doing the programs that
would are universal would
disproportionately affect
african-americans Bernie Sanders is
still ahead of the curve in that regard
I haven't liked his answers on
reparations I look it's a whole other
debate and conversation we could have
but ya do not allow a candidate that
does not support reparations to say they
support reparations and the media
allowing that to happen is a fail that
hurts both the reparations and universal
programs because it racialized is
universal program which is gonna hurt it
politically for a lot of people and it's
a decent reparations and it is not
reparations yes Ben I'll talk more about
Netanyahu soon to be honestly I got to
tell you I mean especially in the
context of like the fact that this whole
system is so far the right there the new
evidence of the Geneva on the war crimes
and Gaza it's like you know yes of
course there's a huge amount of
corruption in Israeli politics but we
will talk about that more later all
right the final IM of the day
[Music]
Mike how was vak a-square Mike how was
Vegas
has become a bit too trendy but
hopefully you hung out with the locals
and drank a billy a mix of rum and local
fruit I did as always your coverage of
world affairs such a welcome perspective
reminds us of the lasting effects of
colonialism and imperialism I really
like the interview with Fletch around T
mb/s looking forward to the history of
Cabral me too that's going to be great
via kiss is incredible you can you know
you can see all the the problems there
but I look forward to spending more time
there and I'm really glad I went all
right everybody we're back live tomorrow
[Music]
no sir
I'm gonna get
I was
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
the choice option
[Music]
[Music]
takes
