[Music]
Betsy DeVos was up in front of the House
Appropriations Committee to answer for
the way her department of education has
been functioning frankly one of the
things that de vos has done as head of
the department of education was to
rescind guidance on school discipline
after the Office of Civil Rights found
that students of color are suspended
three times more than white students so
in other words one of the functions of
the Department of Education we saw in
the context of of transgender bathrooms
just reminding schools this is what the
laws we do not discriminate if you're
receiving federal funds we do not
discriminate against people on certain
basis 'yes and when the Office of Civil
Rights within the Justice Department
finds that maybe there's a racial
disparity in housing for instance it
goes to HUD and you know in terms of
public housing if they find and maybe
they find in certain work environments
so they'll go to the Department of Labor
and the Department of Labor will amend
regulations or send out regulations or
institute new regulations well the same
thing in the context of schools the
Office of Civil Rights that is oh this
is the one that's in the US Department
of Education found the students of color
are suspended three times more than
white students and so there were
regulations that were put out to make
sure that this disparity was not a
function or at least mitigate on some
level attempt to mitigate the impact of
racism on these type of decisions
I mean we've seen you know video in the
past of you know cops coming down to
handcuffed like a you know an elementary
kids school and this is a real phenomena
of course that takes place in in our
schools as it does you know reflected
throughout our society and Betsy DeVos
apparently does not think it's that much
of a problem so she rescinded the she
rescinded the the requirements and here
is Barbra Lee asking her about it you
explain that congresswoman no no child
should be treated or disciplined
differently based on his or her race or
color or national origin and if and when
they are our office for civil rights
will act swiftly has acts with acted
swiftly children need to be treated as
individuals now they're not being
treated as individuals that's why we had
this order put in place and you
rescinded that again
any student that is treated or
disciplined differently because of his
or her color or race madam secretary be
that that Department of Civil Rights
your own Department of Education Office
of Civil Rights indicated that students
of color are suspended three times more
than white students we put into place
some requirements that would begin to
turn this around you rescinded those
requirements so what message no student
so there's no student should be treated
or discipline differently the madam
secretary they are treated differently
they are treated discipline no if we are
it's discrimination well then why in the
world would you and the artisan write
orders that would correct for this the
letter amounted to quotas children are
individuals they're not secretary this
didn't this didn't involve quotas this
gave direction on how to correct this
horrible problem that we have throughout
the country you
to any communities of color where you
have schools that are trying to with
minimal resources provide the best
education they can and you will see what
is taking place so this did not amount
to quotas this amounted to providing
those tools and guidance to make sure
that students civil rights are protected
and you're receptive the entity every
community needs to be able to handle
their classrooms and discipline in the
way that works for them and thank God we
had Brown versus Board of Education the
federal public schools they needed the
federal government to provide that
oversight the civil rights protection
now understand what's going on here the
ID she is arguing we are servicing this
problem by addressing it after the fact
if these kids can prove that this was
racially motivated in some type of
federal investigation that would take
place where everyone at the school would
be obviously claiming that had nothing
to do with race I mean this is like the
functional equivalent of saying hey
there's a lot of crime going on in that
area well we're gonna have I mean if
people are victims of crime they should
definitely come down to the police
station and report it well but don't you
think we should have any cops on the
beat so that maybe the folks aren't
victims of crime as much well certainly
crime is bad and we we are open 24 hours
to take your complaints that you have
been a victim of a crime and the point
is is that she is the subtext of what
she's saying there is this is not a
function of racism the reason why
there's a disparity is because the black
kids who are being punished at a rate
three times more than their
white counterparts are just acting badly
oh yes she literally says people are
getting you know you need to be
individually treated appropriately
anything other that would be
discrimination so if you have no
enforcement mechanism and you're
eliminating the enforcement mechanisms
great that precisely she's saying there
should be disproportionate treatment she
is exactly she's saying we don't want
any restrictions upon how we should
exercise she's just saying like I don't
believe it's racism I mean we're this is
a dynamic that we see also with police
departments in the context of the DOJ
basically you know Jeff Sessions saying
to all these police departments around
the country don't worry guys you go to
town we trust you you got this despite
the fact that maybe there was a couple
of misunderstandings in the past this is
the same as the Supreme Court dominated
by five Republican justices saying
despite the fact that the Voting Rights
Act has been re ratified by the Senate a
couple years ago we don't need
preclearance anymore because this is we
don't believe that there's any racism
involved in these these voting laws it's
exactly the same dynamic so there's a
pattern here I mean I hope people could
see this pattern it's I'm not nothing
I'm saying it's particularly profound
but this is a dynamic that is now
permeated every aspect of Republican
culture remember would adjust this
Roberts said in the or Road and the
decision gutting the Voting Rights Act
ah that uh that well good way to end
discrimination is to stop practicing
right exact same thing right there right
that's that's absolutely true and I mean
no not what he wrote is true but all of
all of the things you could say are
absolutely true and I think even more
specifically besides just being a total
cool who looks like she wants to unhinge
her jaw and swallow a black child hole
every time I see her she supports
charter schools and charter schools are
on the record as being much much worse
in terms of these racial disparities and
punishment
you'll find that I want to swallow
options I mean it's not it's any child
of any under privileged background that
could even be your wealthy kid who's
handicapped testing I just like pretty
much any kid making underneath forty a
year is more useful as broader sacrifice
just swallowing black kids would be
discriminatory do you think she's looked
up what brown versus the Board of
Education was you're throwing a whole
lot of word and she calls yes and that's
what she has filed under things that are
unjust things that are racist number one
Brown versus Board of Education
well I'm Grisman you're throwing a whole
lot of words at me and I don't know what
they mean but I'm gonna take them as
disrespect
