[Music]
let's start in a in a you know on a
hopeful note in a great way it as of now
Tiffany Caban has an over one percent
lead over the Machine candidate Melinda
Katz who was endorsed by hack and
blowhard Joe Crowley who of course lost
the seat the AOC and fuses together Wall
Street machine politics so if it stays
over 1% there will not be a recount and
Tiffany Caban will win this race this is
hugely significant obviously first and
foremost for the people of Queens we're
all of a sudden you'll have a public
defender someone who actually cares
about justice and humanity in a
prosecutorial position look at some of
the really significant things Krasner's
done remember the photos of the cleaning
shop in Philadelphia I'm stoked to see
those same feeds coming out of Queens
but also nationally I mean when people
like Bernie Sanders put together serious
packages on criminal justice reform
they're gonna need das to cooperate and
implement this stuff across the country
DA's races are absolutely some of the
most important parts of electoral
politics and Tiffany Caban immediately
becomes a vital national leader here
here he is here she has excuse me at her
victory last night in Queens
[Applause]
and we people sitting on writers simply
because they cannot afford your hair
[Applause]
while the wealthy continue to be
undermined their Constitution the right
to the presumption of innocence
[Applause]
thank you to criminalize mental health
issues
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
and we just invested treatment and
support in the ages
[Applause]
and we can't stand by as bad landlords
unlawfully a big tenant
employers who steal wages communities
[Applause]
we built a campaign that said every
community deserves justice
that every community deserves they're
tripping
under the law preparation the class
lines
[Applause]
excellent so this is an incredible
breakthrough you know between her and
crasner and other candidates across the
country this is huge I mean this is
gonna be the actual material breakup of
the vicious prison and punitive
sentencing policies and prosecutorial
policies that have dominated this
country for decades and it's also an
opportunity on the other hand while you
claw back and reverse those things to
actually really reinvent what this job
actually is maybe this job is about
going up against landlords maybe this
job is about going up against companies
and employers and other people that
actually cause harm and communities a
huge amount of potential here huge
victory awesome for Tiffany Caban and
for Queens and actually for all of us
there's definitely national implications
from her win hell yeah and I just want
to note the woman standing next to her
up there is bianca cunningham the
co-chair of new york city DSA which
played a major role in canvassing for
Caban endorsing her very early and I was
really excited that we got to be a part
of it in North Brooklyn we're very close
to Ridgewood Queens and we sent a lot of
people the canvas awesome we were a
superpower we are now a hyper powered oh
my god how did you did you leak notes
from the recordings from the DSA board
meeting well well that'd be awesome if
North Brooklyn DSA like when people when
people were out like they're all they're
like tatted and Earnest they're like
these get rid of prisons we need to go
talk to the community and org and
they're like private leader just like
the next phase after Tiffany Caban is to
accelerate our power position my god I
told you that in confidence we need a
mix of Machiavelli the only way to keep
the race forward with Julius I was to
read from the book of rings the samurai
manual of Wharf
I'm not saying AOC Salazar and come
on oral the deciding factor I think
ultimately in all those races are these
canvassing operations so huge
implications and it's what's amazing
about that type of grassroots effort is
that's the the logistics and maybe some
of the like style is different but at
the end of the day there's not a massive
difference in a broad principle of like
going somewhere in the middle of note
like I've canvassed in places where
you're literally on dirt roads and you
walk it might even be like a quarter
mile between houses and also like in
multi-story buildings and the bottom
line is is you knock on somebody's door
and you tell them about the stakes their
stakes in the election and what they
care about what they're interested in
and why you know hopefully who you're
reppin is gonna deliver for them and
that's amazing for all of the
complexities of campaigns and all of the
other things that you have to do that
that is such a huge deciding factor and
you can't do that without movements and
organizations and candidates that
actually represent something like
Tiffany combined yes so that's a huge
huge signal and it's also a signal for
people like some now more and more
people have been calling in saying like
they're doing things like running for
their City Council or whatever do that
do that it involved in your local
whatever you know whatever you're drawn
to DSA just as Democrats even if you
think that the Democrats are gonna work
against you in some sort of Kabbalistic
fashion at least you make them do it
right like then and sometimes have their
resources and by the way sometime een
look you might the Queen's Democratic
machine is a pretty I mean you know we
laugh now of people like Joe Crowley but
until he lost the AOC that's a that's a
person who ran a machine in Queens and
was a top Democrat nationally in the
house who had this sort of machine
democratic stuff which is you know
depreciating because of
in capital and so on but also had a
funnel from Wall Street and real estate
this dude okay you could say he was
upset in a one-off this is a personal
rebuke to him so the thing you know
among many other more important things
but so that's the other things you yeah
sure they'll work against yeah there's
no doubt but it also could be a
situation where you get a couple hundred
people even could be enough to
completely knock them off course I mean
in and amazingly enough in a place like
Queens in New York City which is
obviously a massive city you're
literally talking about like 10,000
people 11,000 people I mean it's not
that many to take on and and and see you
know that there's a lot of glass jaws
out there that haven't been properly
challenged and the machine is still
quite powerful like I don't want to say
that it's not the four major unions in
New York City endorsed her opponent cats
because you know they're making a gamble
they don't want to go up against the
Machine they know that if the Socialists
somehow wins they're not going to punish
them but if if they don't support the
Machine candidate and they win they're
absolutely going to punish them but I
hope between this and a OC I hope some
unions take a second look and not
necessarily for ideological reasons
although I want everyone to have a
socialist ideology but even just for
pure reasons of power and self-interest
realize that it is in their
self-interest to endorse candidates like
Caban there's no doubt about it and yeah
they won't be punished and the structure
of the policies Caban supports will
obviously be way better for people who
work and so therefore unions but you
know you're you're not gonna be in the
room in the same way yeah and start
thinking you know and again I I
sympathize why unions are thinking of
like what small turf they can protect
because they've been under assault for
decades at the same time if you want to
survive and you want to win the coming
battles for survival you actually need
to think in broader terms in terms of
what you actually can win and actually
deliver for and that's represented by
candidates like come on and one more
thing
because I know we've had some
conversations here we've had
conversations in DSA about how we are
prison abolitionists we don't just want
dakar serration we don't just want to
reform the system right we want to
change it and replace it with a new one
and a better one so for that reason some
people were hesitant to support a DA
because they are part of the carceral
state regardless of what they're going
to do once they're inside of it but I
really think like I have to believe that
we can walk and chew gum at the same
time we can support this da because this
is the tool that's available to us right
now to improve people's material
conditions in a very real way and not
turn our back on our fellow New Yorkers
and ourselves while at the same time
looking to a much more radical
abolitionist horizon definitely today's
sponsor is
