[Music]
so John Hickenlooper has found a reason
ladies and gentlemen a reason why he's
running for president and that is to
become Joe Biden's something not exactly
sure what he wants is hereby denied area
which would be a disaster and mark my
words oh yeah he's the guy who drinks
fracking fluid isn't he yeah that's him
that's why so folks are gonna remember
folks my age you're gonna remember the
the Fred Thompson this is I'm gonna do a
little Rachel Maddow right now there was
many of you are familiar with law and
order and of course this is a huge
franchise that has multiple different
spin-offs and one of the actors who was
in law and order was Fred Thompson Fred
Thompson was also a senator Fred
Thompson also ran in the 2008 Republican
primary people were like what
why is Fred Thompson doing this Fred
Thompson was doing this because John
McCain was running in the 2008 primary
and I cannot remember who the candidate
they were afraid was going to win in
South Carolina that was going to take
away momentum from John McCain so Fred
Thompson hung in there till South
Carolina which everybody was like why is
he doing that until it became clear he
why he was doing that he was doing that
because he was buddies with John McCain
and the McCain campaign knew that Fred
Thompson would be taking away votes from
McCain's rival in South Carolina where
McCain maybe didn't have the full
strength maybe in part because when
George W Bush ran against them there in
2000
he was basically letting everyone know
that John McCain had adopted a child who
was brown and was making it about having
an illegitimate child I guess something
to that effect and that's what I think
John Hickenlooper is doing this time
around I think he is a stalking horse
Joe Biden and he is appealing to
different parts of the Democratic Party
by basically throwing himself on the
grenade and this is what he's doing he's
going out there and trying to scare
people about Bernie Sanders majus dad I
mean that's what all of those nothings
are gonna do in that debate with Bernie
I mean you know saw well I mean you have
this whole conglomeration Cimmerian of
losers no Mary Ann Mary well let's
listen Hickenlooper first Sanders said
clearly on Wednesday that the goal of
his complete agenda is to make the
United States of America into a
democratic socialist country the urgency
now is even greater than before
Democrats must say loudly and clearly
that we are not socialists if we do not
we will end up helping to re-elect the
worst president in this country's
history that is yes Howard Schultz
incidentally has taken a break
apparently his back is hurting him and
so he is off the campaign trail
no Burton like but I feel like this is
super important like we better stay on
campaign yeah and here is Bernie Sanders
response to Hickenlooper he warned you
against the smooth that says we believe
things we believe in social security we
believe in work for the unemployed we
believe in saving homes cross our hearts
and hope today but we do not like the
way the present administration is doing
them just we we will we will do the
doing of them will not cost anybody
anything so perfect another of FDR and
sending it back to John Hickenlooper I
mean the UH I don't know I don't know
how this Hickenlooper stuffer stuffer
works or not but that's what
Hickenlooper is doing and that
presumably is what he's gonna do in the
debate right that's what a lot of them
will do but I you know I really agree
with Harvey Kay on this actually I think
particularly in the context of this
primary it's such an effective frame to
say like oh okay well I'm the only one
up here who doesn't hate FDR apparently
I'm the only one up here who wants to
take the best president you know best
Democratic best president in history
besides Lincoln who created programs
that are still saving lives today and
updated for the 21st century so if you
reject our you know some of the most
crucial legacies of our country in this
party good for you but I'm gonna get
back to working on health care it's so
good that he got out in front of all of
this red-baiting crap with his speech
when he defined very clearly what he
means when he says democratic socialism
yeah Hickenlooper also responded here
says FDR is one of my heroes a great
Democrat and a fellow governor with a
record of accomplishment see you at the
debate Center but this reminds me this
is like the different thing is about
technology and how he can use FDR as a
surrogate now just posting clips
it's like I don't know it's it's very I
hope that I it looks like Bernie's had
somebody going through the FDR archives
for weapons basically it's gonna be
interesting to see you know the Truman
quote was actually significant too that
he used in the speech where Truman
basically was just like every single
good thing that's ever happened in this
country has been called socialist by
people who opposed the try to demonize
it and I know by the way it a penance
and you know enter Internet posers that
not all of these things are technically
socialism in the context of the campaign
this is enormous ly smart and effective
I'd be the only thing I wonder honestly
is if it isn't sort of side tracking now
maybe there is value in him getting this
out of the way in terms of defining a
Democratic Socialist but I can't help
but think that the the the brand is less
relevant than the policies and I hope
that it doesn't become a you know in it
from that clip it makes me think that
that he and his team understands that
that it's not about defending the term
democratic socialists as much as it is
about defending the policies and using
using the policies as the pivot point
which I think you know that clip clearly
does definitely I think Americanizing it
is brands work which is really important
and people are gonna call him a
socialist no matter what people are
gonna call these policies socialist no
matter what so it's a way to take back
the narrative and say actually it is
more about the policies than the label
and these policies are very popular
gonna be an interesting debate I'm
looking forward to it I'm looking
forward to both of them and yes of that
stage marianne williamson absolutely
will be the second best candidate after
sanders and that line of first yes fives
no doubt
no the Bernese got good vibes andrew
Yang's whole strategy rests on being
standing next to Biden if he can have
that arranged because he's done
calculations that show that that will be
maximum exposure really brilliant and
really important voice Wow
