[Music]
JB guests suggestion Tom Steyer what his
views on education does he want to
implement the wealth tax is the concept
of retirement outdated perhaps he could
grant endowments to pro-impeachment
podcast I mean all right let's just go
through this like I feel like we could
actually do a 24-hour marathon where all
we do is talk about the different things
that Tom Steyer could do with that
hundred million dollars that would not
only be more positive than running for
president we could dedicate like 18
hours to what he could maybe 22 hours to
what he could do that would be more
positive with that hundred million
dollars just using every one of his
platforms if you know a planks on his
platform if he puts it you should be
tweeting that I just want really quick
you should be tweeting it in a
respectful way at the campaign account I
didn't add him but you can I said look
give Andrew Gilliam 20 million dollars
in Florida I mean he should be inundated
there is literally millions of more
positive things he could do yes and then
I would take the other two hours of that
24 hour marathon to talk about how
detrimental his spending a hundred
million dollars in this campaign is
going to be just in terms of like the
negative impacts I don't know if he
thinks he's doing a message campaign or
if he thinks he's gonna win but there's
no point in his message and he's got no
business being president but this guy
could go in and turn to maybe three
states legislatures with a hundred
million dollars he could he could
possibly win the Senate back for
Democrats with a hundred million dollars
he could
start a campaign to get the next
president the United States if he's a
Democrat or she's a Democrat to stack
the Supreme Court I mean there's so many
things that he could do with a hundred
million dollars to promote fighting
climate change that would be you know
this is just a classic case of either a
guy who's just so unbelievably
narcissistic that he cannot see
literally like beyond his own nose or a
guy who is so narcissistic that he's
surrounded with people who can't see
beyond their own wallet here is Tom
introducing himself to America as a
presidential candidate we're not going
to get through the whole thing because
it's it's frankly like it is it's
exhausting it's a perfectly non
offensive television ad that would cause
no one to do anything other than note
that they had just watched it and I
don't even know that that effect would
last more than like 20 minutes
Tom Styer one of the most influential
activists in Democratic Party politics
that was the founder and president of
next-gen America I think what people
believe is that the system has left them
I think people believe that the
corporation's have bought the democracy
posit the moment they do that Dutch
angle that side angle is when you know
that this is all just about it's just
about like people consultants lining
their pockets
spreading the cash around to other
people who will give them jobs in the
future this this and that's the dead
giveaway right there patients have
bought the democracy that the
politicians don't care about or respect
them
don't put them first are not working for
them but are actually working for the
people who have rigged the system really
what we're doing is trying to make
democracy work by pushing power down to
the people California voters are getting
a chance to do what California lawmakers
fail to do Bob 50 states got a lot of
support at the polls the old company
sponsored a new ballot initiative to
halt California's new law I was born in
1957 I grew up right in the middle of
the civil rights revolution and the
Vietnam War the underlying injustice in
America was coming under attack my
father graduated from Yale Law School at
21 started being a lawyer then he went
into the naval because of Pearl Harbor
and then at the end of the war they sent
him over to be assistant to the chief
prosecutor remember I think my father
looked at being in the service or being
at Nuremberg is like you have your duty
you do my parents were very
uncompromising about doing the right
thing
Dyer and his wife are worth an estimated
billion and a half dollars it pledged to
give half of their fortune into charity
we signed a Giving Pledge which is a
promise to give away half of your wealth
while you're alive
two good causes we have a society that's
very unequal and it's really important
for people to understand that this
society is connected if this is a banana
republic with a few very very rich
people and everybody else living in
misery that's a failure the lawyers have
basically gotten the Supreme Court to
say that corporations are people and
therefore they have all the rights in
the Constitution given to people now
obviously corporations
have hearts or souls or futures they
don't have children they have a short
timeframe and they really care about
just making money if you give them the
unlimited ability to participate in
politics it will skew everything because
they only care about profits you know
you look at climate change that is
people who are saying we'd rather make
money than save the world that's an
amazing statement and it's happening
today and they're politicians supporting
I mean I think eighty-two thousand
people died last year of drug overdoses
if you think about the drug companies
the banks screwing people on their
mortgages it's thousands of people doing
what they're paid to do almost every
single major intractable problem at the
back of it you see a big you know like
listen so I endorsed Bernie Sanders well
exactly like why wouldn't you go out and
the you know how does he not find a
candidate who is not saying that in this
campaign like why does it have to be him
and why does he it should look he can
spend his money any way he wants but it
will be detrimental to getting rid of
Donald Trump hi this is Tom sty is dead
I always insisted on doing right as you
said in that ad and this campaign is
wrong yeah the one that matters is me
I'm the only one that matters exactly do
you see how you sound like him even
though you hate him so much Tom this is
your father it's a very selfish and
reckless move we all want to be the Top
Gun and run for president but is other
more constructive things to do it's
thank you we still do Seder up here so
exactly she's it's really just enraging
it's just enraging this guy could be a
hero it'd be a multiple hero he could be
he could be protecting Larry
crasner from having his power stripped
away as a district attorney he'd be
flipping state houses he could be coming
up with a strategy for fighting
gerrymandering he could also just be
investing in electing progressives to
the house he could run isn't isn't there
a Senate seat opening up in California
I'm even willing to give him a frigging
Senate seat it's um it's it is insane
delusional north and it's even more you
know it's even more and if you're eating
is that for somebody who's just like
very existence as a billionaire should
not be as a billionaire not as a person
obviously but as a billionaire he does
seem like the nice type yeah and it's
even Anatomy I mean look say what you
will somebody pointing this out plenty
of people in pointing me out you know
the Koch brothers I mean my god these
total sociopaths who strategically
deploy their money well to be fair one
of them I can't remember it was Charles
or David ran for bottom a libertarian -
yeah anyway that works out of his system
right and he's like okay now I know what
I just got to do I just got a I don't
need to be the guy I just need to be the
the money son in 1980 one of the Koch
brothers ran for president as his old
while you're at home it why do they come
out and say a hundred hundred million
you got a billion when she dropped 200
million you cheap bastard like honestly
like you're to you like this is the
thing I don't I don't believe we're in
that deep of course listen I know it's a
crisis but I'm not going to spend one
fifth of my of my fortune that's gonna
leave me with only 800 billion a hundred
eight hundred million dollars and I
promise to give four hundred that away
okay now we're in fear now we're now all
of a sudden want to make a Mitt Romney
all of a sudden here just getting really
I mean just look at this barn that I'm
in yeah good pop it up here this barn
this barn coughing look at this barn
here this barn I'm in where we shot this
okay rest stop is barn I know look
okay I have this barn redone that was
like $850,000 so now I'm down to 399 in
terms of million and they're my boat
like there's a ton of stuff 200 no I'll
tell you what I'm gonna do 105 million
Tom this is your mother this is the
wrong thing to do
your father always insisted the right
thing and this is wrong
you can help that very nice man Eric
Holder helped with the district
redistricting efforts Tom
