with visa the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in the conference rooms of any
evasive they are unanimous in hate for
me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a rapport with Sam
cedar it is Wednesday October 30th 2019
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrial ravaged Gowanus Canal in the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA on the program today the vin Minh
testimony yesterday blows up trumps
transcript talking point meanwhile
Democrats unveiled the impeachment
process resolution Chicago teachers
strike in day 10 deal or at least a vote
on a deal could be imminent
speaking of votes the US House votes to
recognize the Armenian Genocide
Ilhan Omar abstaining meanwhile Mick
Mulvaney on the outs just as Sean Spicer
iced out of meeting the Pope Mulvaney
not invited to the al-baghdadi killing
video
in Missouri the Missouri health director
kept a spreadsheet of Planned Parenthood
patients menstrual cycles to monitor
their abortions the new report many of
the world's major cities may be under
water within 30 years NCAA Board
approves athlete compensation at least
for the superstars in terms of their
images their likenesses their
endorsements and a Brazil or the
Brazilian Supreme Court will investigate
bolsa narrows involvement boson arose
both Linares involvement in the
assassination of Maria Franco and New
York sees two big lawsuits shareholders
versus Exxon and trafficking victims
against a major hotel chain all this and
more on today's program yes ladies and
gentlemen thanks for joining us a couple
of just housecleaning notes right off
the bat so I do not forget go sign up
for our Instagram follow us on Instagram
we're just at the brink of passing
10,000 followers we wrote it I forget it
but do it anyway do it anyways folks and
also sign up for the a.m. quickie give
us a review you can go to am quicky calm
and subscribe through any of the it's
all free totally free totally free five
minutes a day you will get the top
headlines send us a review if you have
any critiques always open to that send
us one at majority reporters at
gmail.com and also check out the app it
has been completely refreshed you can
find the am quickie there you can watch
the show live via youtube through the
app you can watch you can listen to the
show live through the app you can I am
the show through the app you can call
the show
through the app and there's other stuff
you can search the archives through the
app you can find it at majority app.com
now let's get into this
so as you know the blazes Dave Rubin
blocked me some time ago and I don't
know if that's the blaze policy I don't
know if you are on the blaze you need to
block me I doubt it I can't imagine I
don't think I'm blocked by the blaze own
or Glenn Beck but once Dave Rubin went
on the blaze he blocked me there are
other people on the blaze like I say
they don't block me and in a bit of
synergy the blazes Dave Rubin appeared
on Fox's Tucker Carlson show and because
there's nothing a falsely aggrieved
white guy likes more than another
falsely aggrieved white guy and so this
is where the aggrievement meets and of
course Dave lives in California so
they're bringing him on to talk about
about these California wildfires now
everybody knows why we have these
wildfires it is because PG&E the Pacific
Gas and Electric Company has hired too
many people who are not white as Dave
helpfully explains to us and he joins us
tonight so Dave thanks so much for
coming on you moved to California
because it's a beautiful place and and I
agree with that you've seen it really
degrade in the time that you've been
there but PG&E strikes me as positive I
happen to know that the reason why Dave
moved to California was because in New
York he just couldn't find work as a
comedian I have been told this by
multiple people not just other comedians
but actually even writers writers
newspaper writers used to write for
comedy used to get emails from Dave
every time he had a Twitter a tweet that
went viral back in the day and
now he's with the blaze he's very
successful continue as almost a metaphor
for the destruction of the state so
here's the the the the part of the
utility which doesn't really know
anything about its own infrastructure
but knows everything about the race of
its employees how did we get there it's
just unbelievable look I've been in LA
I'm in LA right now I live about a
minute away from one of the big fires
that's still go and I have friends that
are evacuated Los Angeles putting
politics aside in Southern California
might be the most beautiful part of the
United States yeah the problem right now
is that everything everything from
academia to public utilities to politics
everything that goes woke that that buys
into this ridiculous progressive
ideology that cares about what
contractors are LGBT or how many black
firemen we have or white this or Asian
that everything that goes that road
eventually breaks down it is not how
freedom is supposed to operate what is
supposed to happen tucker imagine if
your house was on fire would you care
what the public utility or what the fire
company what contractor they brought in
what what gender or sexuality or any of
those things he or she was I mean it's
just absolutely ridiculous
care and right now we've got what we've
got a situation of course you wouldn't
care and we've got a situation right now
where they're literally we're doing
preemptive blackouts in this state which
i think is the 11th largest economy in
the entire world we do preemptive
blackouts because they don't want to put
too much power too much pressure on the
grid I mean try to imagine the absurdity
now I'm trying to figure out where how
these two things are related is he
suggesting that PG&E is so dominated by
the black firemen or the LGBT cues or
whatnot that they don't that they're
that they're they're the reason why
there are blackouts like I like he's
saying one thing like they're obsessed
like they know the percentages of of how
many LGBTQ employees they have or or or
Latino employees they have but they're
not doing grid so is that are we to
believe that these two things that he's
worth
are related in other words is the reason
why PG&E is not doing the proper
maintenance on their lines and running
it is it because there are people who
are LGBTQ or Latino or black that are
running these things they have too many
hormones let's let's dig in maybe maybe
he'll bring it together here we go time
for the grant synthesis much power too
much pressure on the grid I mean try to
imagine the absurdity of what's going on
here and and I hate to tell you but we
just don't have enough clear thinking
say more libertarian or conservative
minded people in California to fight
what the progressives are doing to the
state but if you can't keep the lights
on and you can't keep the place from
burning down you've reached the point
where there's no kind of lying about it
anymore like it's falling apart it's a
disaster it's not civilized anymore you
know what if I've learned anything by
living myself not civilized anymore
that's an interesting choice of words
but in the rhetoric here yeah there's a
civilize is a very interesting way of
saying that we have a failed electrical
grid and that is not civilized that's up
just a weird way of I have a graph here
that shows the correlation of Chicano
Studies departments with wildfires and a
lot of people want you to focus on
climate change but I think if you look
at this I mean the numbers are stunning
the whole thing's crazy so it's a
biblical explanation for a natural
disaster let's see what else he's got
maybe miss so uncivilized these guys in
Los Angeles specifically it's that no
matter what happens
ideology seems to trump rationality so
this years that I've been here the
amount of homeless encampments have
expanded virtually every exit you get
off the 405 or the 101 there are now
homeless people sitting right there or
or actually that have basically built
structures at the exits now it's like if
raising taxes on everybody and
supposedly the progressive policies that
care about poor people if these things
worked wouldn't the places that
progressive policies were enacted
wouldn't there
less homeless wouldn't there be less gun
violence all the things that they talk
about but no there's always more this is
not a coincidence these policies don't
work but they're if you just don't
really think about them if you think oh
we just have to throw money at things
throw money at things and they magically
get better while you do whatever you
want to do in your life and don't want
to really think about the issues then it
all works and that's what we all have to
fight I mean everyone across the country
because you know I travel the country
often and people will say to me Dave
Dave you got to stop the people from
California moving here to Utah or moving
here to Denver or moving here to Texas
because then they bring the bad policies
of California elsewhere the wall you
know walls are not just for our exterior
borders but that's just you know
something to think about okay what cuz
then what happens is people move
databases but the place is whether
liberal the bad things are happening
because they're trans so the whole thing
just really doesn't make any sense but
that's the situation we're in here I am
talking about I am quite sure if PG&E I
want to stay on PG&E because this is the
there they're playing footage of
thousands upon thousands of acres
burning we could even lose the Reagan
Library ladies and gentlemen there's a
b-side of me doing we are the world with
the n-word in it and the idea that if
PG&E as he says like you know throw
money at it throw money at it the idea
that if PG&E threw money at restoring
and rebuilding the infrastructure in
making sure that trees are not
overhanging the the powerlines
or maybe burying some of the powerlines
in some some very attend you essere ia's
the idea that doing this wouldn't help
is absurd I mean this is a guy who's all
about ideas in intellectualism yet he
doesn't even raise up the fact that over
the past five years PG&E is thrown off
4.5 bill
billion dollars to its shareholders and
when when Dave was questioned on this
absurdity on Twitter he linked to this
opinion piece people were questioning
his opinion and he defended it with
somebody else's opinion from The Wall
Street Journal talking about stakeholder
capitalism in action by the left's
lights PG&E is a perfect corporate
citizen liberal California Paul's attack
it anyway so in other words despite the
fact that I say that they think PG&E is
a perfect corporate citizen they're
still attacked anyways so that sort of
leaves a question well then why would
they do that now she doesn't answer that
question
Alissa Finley of the Wall Street Journal
Fox owned Wall Street Journal editorial
board she says PG Nia exemplifies the
lake's left's stakeholder model
according to which businesses are
accountable not only to their
shareholders but to their workers the
environment and local communities and
society at large in practice it means
businesses exists to serve their
political overlords now the idea that
PG&E exemplifies the stakeholder model
and they're not accountable to their
shareholders four point five billion
dollars over the past five years a
billion dollars a year practically given
to their show our shareholders as
opposed to be put back into developing
the infrastructure and you know we see
this with electrical companies all
across the country when I lived upstate
everybody said after Niagara Mohawk sold
out to National Grid nobody came nobody
came by anymore to cut down the trees
that were threatening the wires until
the wires fell because it was just
cheaper for them to do it that way but
who pays for that
well everybody who loses power pays for
it because they can't go to work or they
had they have to throw out their food or
they have to figure out another way of
creating heat for themselves
this is a perfect example of privatizing
the profits and socializing the costs
now her argument is that somehow they're
getting the state law requiring them to
get renewable sources of energy by 2030
is she just throws it in there it isn't
quite the line drawn it's just like what
Dave Rubin did the line drawn between
their premise that this is all about the
fact that they have 43.9% of their
employees belonging to ethnic minorities
and there's fires so if so facto those
two must be related but we don't quite
see the line they have detailed record
records on who their who their employees
are I guess but that doesn't prohibit
them from getting detailed records on
their transmission towers and wires
there's a reason why they don't do that
because they don't want to make it
public how much they are not investing
in their infrastructure which is why
what we should be doing is taking this
company and either have it be owned by
the state or owned by the federal
government there is no reason why we
need this company to be private and pay
out 4.5 billion dollars in dividends to
its shareholders we could take those 4.5
billion dollars and put them into the
infrastructure and make it incredibly
safe and therefore the state doesn't
have to pay for the firemen even though
half of them apparently are our
prisoners getting a buck a day or
something and so that people don't have
to lose their homes and insurance rates
don't have to go up I mean this is not
to mention obviously in a heightened
environment for fires because of climate
change but this isn't going away and so
the bottom line is looking forward do
you want to pay out to stay
shareholders all the money that should
be going into building infrastructure or
do you want to continue this until it
just gets completely untenable where you
have multiple weeks of blackouts
now Dave Rubin can blame the fact that
it's LGBTQ hiring and G LGBTQ is
responsible for hiring all the
firefighters right and there's just like
a big long line and you need to fight
the fires and PG&E is like no no no we
have to wait for a disabled Latino to
walk out sent out a directive from the
top to the stakeholder motto because
that's what the Left likes to say that
only transgender disabled people can
fight the fires and they might be nice
people I mean look I'm married to a guy
but I don't think they have the mobility
look at the data that she cites
stakeholders those are in quotes were
mentioned 13 times in PG and E's 2018
shareholder report compared with three
times in 2014 and zero in 2011 now it
really begs the question what's going on
in 2012 or 2013 and 2015 and 16 but I
have a feeling that that contravenes her
point but I don't even know what the
point is like as if the words putting
the word stakeholder in your annual
report and somehow prevents you from
actually investing I mean this is such
bush-league distraction from the main
point that's here that it it would be
stunning if Dave Rubin wasn't involved
with it I mean honestly it's like who
who can we get to actually come on and
say this stuff in public you want to
talk about the apocalyptic forest fires
consuming the most important state in
the country I got you covered
it's the gay people and by the way I
have a husband that's the other thing
apparently
somebody said something to him like this
is a little bit racist of you and
bigoted because of course like you are
somehow implying that if we hire 48% of
our employees our so-called ethnic
minorities if we do that then we're it's
going to lead to this type of stuff and
here's here is Dave Rubin now he's
blocked me on Twitter and so I had to
take a screenshot but this is Dave Rubin
saying hi Anna Navarro nothing I said
was racist or homophobic that's a great
way to forget it says hi Anna Navarro
nothing I said was racist or homophobic
and where's the proof where's the proof
from this guy who believes that identity
politics are ruining everything here's
the proof actually not that it matters
but I'm married to a man seems like it
matters a little to him apparently it
does matter in this argument for
whatever reason he seems to think it has
an MBA take back and then here's a piece
in The Wall Street Journal on how woke
miss is affecting PG and E he wrote PS
Angie in California because white men
are so competent it is it is not a piece
which explains how openness it's an
opinion that there shouldn't be woke
missed there but there is absolutely no
because of this that you know all evil
prison slave labor
that's super woke and he just says have
a great day and then of course he goes
on to beg Judd Apatow to come on his
show because they went to high school
together we share an identity in that we
went to high school together do you want
to do you want to have me on there sad
yeah unbelievable so there it is Dave
Rubin
yep Adele is not open to their ideas and
by the way Jed I'm actually married to a
man it's not that it mattered not that
it matters but the funny thing is is
that again
how does he argue that judge should come
on a show by their shared identity we
went to the same high school together
I'm surrounded by standpoint
epistemology yeah
I can't get outside of my own viewpoint
all I could do is filter it through my
own experience which is an intense
desire to get paid feedback loops
interrupted folks babble offers you 14
different languages you can learn I do
not believe any of them are Dave Rubin
ease but nevertheless babble will get
you speaking a new language quickly and
with confidence you can choose like I
said from 14 different languages Spanish
French Italian Danish I believe it was
Russian Portuguese Portuguese oh and I
am wearing a t-shirt from Mexico today
there you go Lula Libre we went up
babbles teaching method in speech
recognition technology has been proven
effective across multiple studies their
lessons are lovingly created by over a
hundred language experts those are human
beings folks they're not machines that
translate or algorithms they're engaging
in convenient lessons they last about
ten to fifteen minutes you'll learn
through interactive dialogues so you can
perfect your pronunciation and accent
Babel is available as an app it's
available online your progress syncs
across all of the platforms that you use
so today I'm using my iPad tomorrow I'm
using my iPhone or my Android and then
you know what I'm gonna sit in front of
the computer today just to I don't know
because the kids have taken all my
devices whatever it is but we're going
to we got to start maybe we need to do
is like start just get a start date for
this should we do like the first week in
November and do the babel challenge what
does the Bebel challenge and terrible is
the challenge is gonna be like who
speaks Spanish quick sooner than others
maybe we should have like people have to
I think people shifted I am like phrases
and whoever can translate the phrase the
best in their language oh that's a good
idea
so that it's like a completely rhyme
test oh that is good because you guys
listen to the show Babel has a very
special offer for you go to Babel calm
select the language of your choice once
you try for free and already sign up
select the three month option Babel will
give you an additional three months for
free that's with promo code majority
that's six months for the cost of three
with promo code majority go to babble ba
BB al.com enter promo code majority
babble speak a new language with
confidence also this is a very helpful
for me and particularly when I mean I
travel regardless of where it is this is
I've I am I don't know if it comes off
I'm a little bit neurotic I'm a little
bit concerned I have you know with my my
online security all sorts of security
I'm maybe it's true I use an incredibly
intricate web of passwords with multiple
email addresses that I don't associate
with them so that I never have any you
know worries about my online accounts or
whatnot and Norton 360 would life lock
has really actually it has helped how
you spend your time and what you listen
to totally within your control your
personal information though I think we
all know this totally different story
whenever you shop whenever you bank
whenever you browse online your personal
information gets out there you lose
control of it you're exposed to
cybercrime thankfully there's Norton 360
with life lock to help you get back a
sense of control and protect yourself
and your personal information it's an
all-in-one membership for your cyber
safety that gives you device security
identity theft protection and a VPN for
online privacy and more plus if there's
an identity theft related problem they
have agents who will work to fix
now no one can prevent all cybercrime
and identity theft
but Norton 360 with life lock is a
powerful ally to help protect you in
today's connected world so I will go to
the site and I will check my profile
every now and then just to make sure
that nothing's up
and I can go and see all the times like
when I rent an apartment when my credits
been checked or you know if I get sucked
into getting one of those store credit
cards because it's gonna give you 25%
off I don't use it after that but you
get the credit thing and you can check
it and when they do that I have my
notifications turned on so if there's
anything going on with my bank
statements with my credit cards boom I
get a text message that says something's
up now fortunately because I use a wide
web of intricate things and I don't I
stay away from certain areas where I
will not get money from cash machines
that are not official I haven't had that
problem but God forbid you'd want
somebody to help you to help you deal
with that stuff if it goes wrong or to
help protect you from something going
wrong sign up today for Norton 360 with
LifeLock membership and because you're a
majority report listener you'll save 25%
or more off your first year at Norton
comm / majority that's norton dot-com /
majority for twenty five percent off all
right little impeachment update this was
a bit of a problem yesterday for the
White House it's unclear at this point
we don't know
and I suspect however that well let me
put this way we don't know but I suspect
we might know who the original
whistleblower spoke to remember the
original whistleblower filed their
whistleblower complaint there from the
CIA they they were talking to a wide
range of people who were all expressing
discomfort with what was going on with a
relationship with Ukraine with this sort
of like outside group of people who were
involved in it son Dylan who was
the EU ambassador Rudy Guiliani who is
Donald Trump's free personal lawyer and
two others and the CIA agent wrote up
the whistleblower complaint now they
know who the whistleblower is on this
committee apparently Devon Nunez keeps
trying to leak it in such a way you
can't find anybody who has lacks the
integrity to print it yet but they will
they will it'll end up being somebody
like what they're desperately don't want
is to have to give it to someone like my
corona but but I I I guarantee you
when this gets leaked we will trace it
back and it will be a Mike throne of
itch figure who has gotten the stuff and
then puts it into the bloodstream that's
the way they do this that nobody wants
their fingerprints on it and so until
they find somebody unscrupulous like
that they they can't start attacking the
whistleblower but the whistleblower is
largely irrelevant because the
whistleblower just basically said there
are X number individuals who I've spoken
to expressed reservations or problems of
what went on I suspect that we know who
those people are already even though we
don't know who they are
in other words it could be Vin de Minh
this Lieutenant Colonel Alex of it s vin
de man who is the top ukraine expert on
the national security council he could
have been one of those guys we don't
know but the intelligence committee has
a list of people they want to interview
about this and they must have got the
list from somebody and so I suspect this
is where they started with the
whistleblower list now who knows so in
some respects all of these people are
whistleblowers not official but they
were blowing the whistle to someone who
said I'm going to do the official
complaint
so Vin de Minh apparently like I said
was the top ukraine expert on the
National Security Council he was born in
Ukraine
when it was part of the Soviet Union I
guess he was part of the exodus of
Soviet Jews who left I don't know
35 years ago 40 years ago I know a
couple of people like that and on
Tuesday he told house impeachment
investigators that the so called
transcript of the call between Trump and
Zaleski was missing some very important
words and phrases and who everyone sort
of suspected this because of the
ellipses that were there he attempted to
include them so basically what happens
is this they do a voice recognition in
real time I don't know why they don't do
a recording supposedly they don't
it seems a little weird to me but they
do voice recognition in real time and
the computer spits out a transcript but
if you look at our show on YouTube you
can see that this is not always accurate
so what happens is the people who would
listen to on the call various people he
was one of them review the transcript
make corrections and whatnot by the time
they got the transcript certain things
had been omitted and he was like what so
he's because they didn't know that I had
a transcript done by very very talented
people word-for-word comma 4 comma done
by people that do it for a living
we had an exact transcript yeah you know
the thing is is that whenever he hits
these things you know it's like he's
it's like his big tell of about a lie
like we had a totally detailed
transcript which of course means that we
had a totally fixed transcript so VIN
Minh said and this is the guy that the
right-wingers would have you believe we
can't trust because he was born in
Ukraine bin Minh said the omissions
included mr. Trump's assertion that
there were recordings of former Vice
President Joe Biden discussing Ukraine
corruption and an explicit mention by
Ukraine's president
zalinsky of barrese mah Holdings the
energy company whose board employed
Biden's son hunter then been told House
impeachment instigators that he tried to
change the reconstructed transcript made
by the White House staff to reflect the
omissions but while some of his edits
appeared to have been successful he said
those two Corrections were not made he
did not testify as to the motives he
just testified as to the facts as they
as he saw them apparently after the call
the colonel reported to what happened to
a superior explaining that I did not
think it was proper to demand that a
foreign government investigated US
citizen and I was worried about the
implications for the US government
support of Ukraine in other words this
was a quid pro quo and they were
demanding something that if they didn't
get the US government would withdraw
support from Ukraine because they were
literally holding back the money this is
all in his opening remarks he added this
would undermine US national security he
also described confronting Gordon
Sundlun who was the US ambassador to the
EU and a hotelier who donated a million
dollars to Donald Trump's inauguration
after the Envoy pressed the Ukrainian
officials to help the Trump
administration by investigating the
Biden family now here's the thing we're
gonna know we're gonna hear all of this
we're gonna get all of it and it's going
to be put out once they start with the
official impeachment inquiry right now
what they're doing is they're still
taking depositions today a the State
Department Ukraine expert Katherine
Croft will be coming in to testify they
also intend to depose State Department
Ukraine expert Christopher Anderson on
October 30th the acting assistant
secretary for international security
affairs because they're all a Catherine
Wheel Barger is not sure she's going to
come in on Thursday Timothy Morrison who
was
mentioned Morrison was mentioned in the
text messages that we read originally a
three or four weeks ago he is the
national security council's Russia and
Europe director there's going to be
Robert Blair senior adviser to acting
chief of staff Mick Mulvaney
it's gonna come in there's a bunch of
other people coming in and what they're
doing is they're covering every aspect
of this they're trying to determine get
people deposed and have them tell like
you know what is the tick-tock on how
the money was held up where did the
where did the order to hold the money up
come from what was the reason given to
hold up the money and I suspect some of
these other people who Ukraine experts
who probably were in the room on the
call or can give background as to the
importance of this money to Ukraine's
security and how that relates to our
national security they're just building
the entire case and if they're smart in
the democratic caucus that's an if
important if they have some trial
lawyers who are sitting down and saying
this is how we're going to present this
to the American public we're going to
build this case brick by brick we have
very big bricks they are very sturdy
they are very wide and we are going to
build this case and we're gonna show the
American public it so in the coming
weeks
I would guess after Thanksgiving we're
gonna start to see public hearings now
they want to vote on this before
December break in Christmas I don't see
how they're gonna do that maybe they'll
do a whole week if they do it all in one
week we may just do all our coverage of
that I have a feeling they're not going
to be able to do it that quickly but
apparently they don't want to they don't
want to distract from the Iowa caucuses
I think that's stupid
it it it's a perfect companion piece
dominate the news Iowa caucuses
impeachment no room for Donald Trump to
do whatever insanity he's going to do as
an as a way of you know no no story
about PG&E hiring too many
ethnic minorities get so many fires
because you have black firemen and I can
say that cuz I'm married to a man no
it's pretty easy to call me races for
saying that trans Indonesian people are
calling it causing house fires but then
you know we look around oh whoa wait a
second I'm married to a man well you
know I never cover saves you I'm against
the death penalty so the so the
Democrats are gonna vote I believe in
the next two days I think it's on
Thursday the vote comes from a
resolution which reaffirms their
impeachment inquiry it will enable
public hearings it will release the
witness interviews that have already
been taken by the House committees so
everything that is being said now we're
going to have access to and it will
allow the president and his attorneys to
cross-examine these witnesses which
should be funny
the resolution states that after the
inquiry phase is over the investigating
committees will send their findings to
the House Judiciary Committee which will
determine whether to recommend articles
of impeachment now the four House
committee chairs Government Oversight
Intel Judiciary and I think it's
financial services say that they've
already collected the information
they've already collected paints the
picture of a president who has abused
his power by using multiple levers of
government to press a foreign country to
interfere in the 2020 election following
in the footsteps of the previous
impeachment inquiries the next phase
will move from close depositions to open
hearings where the American people will
learn firsthand about the president's
misconduct apparently in the Nixon
impeachment they did this depositions in
the Senate then it went back to the
house and that's when it got public and
then it went back to the Senate for or
would have for the conviction Liz Cheney
has a problem with it
who cares and so that's what's going to
happen it's moving forward there are no
more arguments for the Republicans than
now saying that like well because some
of these depositions were taken in
private even though we're going to see
them publicly and even though the
president will have the opportunity to
cross-examine these witnesses poison
poison tree poison fruit yada yada yada
mentioned the Chicago a teacher strike
I've been on strike for ten days
the teachers are pissed because Lori
Lightfoot ran at least in part on trying
to protect the teachers and suddenly
there's no money for increasing the
number of classrooms diminishing the
number of students in each class on
their forty kids a class that's too many
that's just way too many it's too hard
to teach with forty different kids in a
class it's just too difficult and it
this is it's a problem for the students
CTU officials so that there was a
possibility of a tentative agreement
that could emerge as early as this
morning and with an attempt of trying to
put teachers back into school they've
been out since October 16th there have
been three hundred thousand and twenty
five thousand students and teachers
respectively that have not gone to
school there are five hundred schools in
the Chicago public system or a little
more but there's have been pickets there
here is some footage coming from is this
from Eric Blanc it is Eric Blanc who we
spoke to I guess it was last Friday or
two Fridays ago about this teachers
strike there are I believe nine teachers
who were arrested in a peaceful civil
disobedience and they did this
they did this positive positive one
second they did this out where words
this is out in front of not not in front
of a school actually it was in there
from CTU local one this was out in front
of us by light two houses I thought that
said something I don't think it was in
front of it was in front of a developer
developer building because the the
Chicago city government has given all
sorts of tax breaks and subsidies to
these developers no I know shocking I
know you can't believe this and yet when
it comes time for money for schools
nothing so I mean this is what they're
now doing what the teachers are now
doing is basically painting a story I
mean this is this is all basically this
is a you know public relations 101 we
mentioned the fact about developers
because these people went there and got
themselves arrested and that's the way
that you that's why they do this that's
why you do these type of protest to to
force society and the those people who
push narratives to bring this stuff up
and it's working so here are some of
those teachers who got arrested to make
it clear that Chicago continues to
support real estate interests and
business interests over their children
[Applause]
[Music]
I don't know what ifs are I was sick
though I mean just this is one thing
that just on a basic visual level that's
like people who educate children are
getting arrested because they're
demanding the basic resources to do
their job that I mean this is like a
should be a 30 second story it's good a
good exercise to use civil disobedience
to take up police resources like that
van that they might have filled with
like Jordans and tried to entrap some
kids on poor neighborhood it gave us
they took the jaw did van we're gonna
give these kid we got a whole new box of
 Jordans but the teachers are all
like oh we should educate them how about
we throw them in the can would they try
to get the new air once well you say
they're not investing in their kids but
I doubt that the kids of the people
making these cuts and carrying out this
austerity are attending under-resourced
public schools they're all I mean if I
remember from the 2011 strike a lot of
those people were sending their kids to
private schools and TIFF stands for tax
increment financing which is a a tool
that Chicago uses to generate money for
economic development and specific
geographic area so they have like zones
and they basically are able to pay for
generating you know development real
estate development but they won't pay
for the schools I work overtime to send
my kid to an art magnet school so he say
my children that's actually like
literally old actually literally true
I'm just doing it with a stupid voice
there's two there's two lawsuits
happening in New York that I just want
to make people aware of one is a
follow-up of sorts from the interview we
did with charissa Phelps in
Las Vegas she was the the sex
trafficking survivor she had some
controversial opinions that you know we
had talked about on that day regarding
cesta FASTA and the and who is financing
the sort of lacks enforcement against
the sex workers she didn't believe there
was such a thing as sex workers which I
quite clear with her I think is a
mistake but Soros is doing it that's
basically what she had said however the
basic premise of what she was talking
about was that she had been trafficked
as a twelve-year-old girl she was caught
up in the foster care system fell
through the cracks was preyed upon by a
guy who trafficked her and ultimately
had her as a working you know basically
- he would get paid for her to be raped
in a hotel in wasn't Fresno California
but a small town around there maybe was
president and she said 20 years later
when she had gotten out of that that
that situation the she went back to
these hotels and the same thing was
still happening and after ten years of
activism she basically decided that the
route to follow was to sue said about 95
percent of this stuff happens in motels
that are owned by large corporations and
it was to sue these corporations to
force them to either shut down or to
protect and and prevent this these types
of you know businesses in quotes from
operating out of their hotels
so it's a it is a different attorneys
working on this case my understanding
they are working somewhat with some of
the lawyers that we spoke down to in Las
Vegas but this is in the I think the New
York Daily News or the post I think it
was a 10 million dollar suit brought by
a woman who is now in her 20s identified
by the initials SJ she was a ten year
old girl when she was raped tortured and
beaten sold for sex at two New York
motels as the staff turned a blind eye
to her obvious abuse suit was filed here
just down the street in Brooklyn federal
court it's the first of its kind in New
York claims that Windham hotels and
resorts and Choice Hotels Corporation
were complicit in the girls abuse by
operating franchises that chose quote to
ignore the open and obvious presence of
sex trafficking at their properties she
claims that she was sold for sex as many
as 15 to 20 times a day at a Howard
Johnson and Jamaica Queens operated by
Windham in an Econoline the Bronx
operated by choice hotels between 2006
and 2009 between the ages of 10 and 13
when she was she met her sex trafficker
shortly after she escaped from a foster
home where she was being sexually and
physically abused the suit says adding
that she entered foster care after her
father was caught molesting her the
girl's trafficker a 25 year old man
gained her trust took her virginity
forced her to service his clients
telling her how you make daddy happy is
by making them happy Windham and choice
hotels have since signed on to a tourism
child protection code of conduct created
by a leading anti trafficking policy
organization and the code of conduct
outlines six steps companies can take
to prevent child sex trafficking but you
know as we heard from Carissa Phelps
like you know it's quite obvious what's
going on there they have cameras half
the time anyways they can see what's
happening they just choose to continue
to profit off it occasionally some other
guests may call the cops because they
see something or there's some big
violent event or something that calls
for a warrants calling the cops the cops
show up they arrest the people in that
moment and never come back until there
is a specific reason - as opposed to
saying like hey this seems to be a
functioning sex traffic den so hopefully
and this is again this is why when the
system breaks down like this because
basically the greed you know who knows
what the relationships are between these
hotel franchises and local governments
three or four hotels and a small
municipality can make a big difference
to the local economy and that gives that
those people power over the city
lawmakers or city managers or whatnot
and maybe the police departments so this
is where you know lawsuits like this
where you can interrupt the sort of the
business that's going on are really
important
meanwhile the New York at 10:00 in New
York Attorney General Letitia James has
brought a lawsuit against Exxon Mobil
it's in its second week this is
basically the argument is that Exxon
knew and we see Maura Healey in
Massachusetts bringing a similar suit
Exxon knew about global climate change
and lied to its shareholders as to what
was going to happen in terms of climate
change and and therefore you know
inflating the the value of the
stock or avoiding full transparency and
Rex Tillerson is going to be on the
stand they're going to be questioning
him about the use of a burner email
account where you use the name
Wayne trekker remember Wayne is
Tillerson 'he's middle name such a man
the Attorney General Staff discovered
that along with the official email
account under his name under his real
name Tillotson had this other account
the company has destroyed tracker emails
from before August 18 2015 because it a
quote failed to disable its automatic
file sweep deletion program
whoopsie-daisy yeah that happens for the
tracker count even though the emails
were subject to subpoena the state said
in its memorandum about the emails
Stephen gillers a professor at New York
school of law said in an interview it's
hard to understand how tiller since
emails could not be highly relevant here
he spent a decade as CEO and chairman to
the extent that some emails are not
available from his accounts or the
accounts of others the court loses
information and information is the
cornerstone of accurate verdicts so what
they'll do is they'll eat the fine that
they ultimately get for destroying the
incriminating evidence money well spent
and we'll see what happens in the
context of the the greater lawsuit
whether there are any criminal charges
that I could guess theoretically could
be brought subsequent to a civil action
folks we're gonna take a break and head
into the front F we've been doing like
long first half's this week I feel like
the real dark web is like emails of
fossil-fuel executives and financial
institutions just ideas I'll be awesome
hackers widespread wine scene keep
making jokes about me lowering the
collective IQ of the elevator
I'm married to the guy how come every
time I get in the elevator with these
guys they say going down Sam Harris
threatened to kill me as I twitch even
more than usual he's almost as mad as
when he talks about Muslims folks just a
reminder this show relies on you for its
support you can become a member by going
to join the majority report com join the
majority report calm and when you do you
not only get the first half without
commercials but you get a second half
that you can choose to just listen today
I'm just gonna listen in the second half
tomorrow I'll listen to the first half
doesn't matter it's all good and and not
only that you get to walk around saying
like I'm a member of the majority report
there's a lot of a lot of cachet in
certain very narrows very very narrow
areas a lot of clout a lot of clout in
very very confined spaces you can go to
join the majority report dot-com again
if you're someone who wants access to
the fun half but you don't have the
financial resources send me an email
majority reporters at gmail.com we got a
lot of requests over the past couple of
days and it just it's gonna take us a
little time to get to them but we will
get to them I promise and just put in
the the subject line need the fun half
something like that and we will we will
get to you I promise
digging through those emails though we
get about I don't know 300 emails a day
now at that that address so it gives a
little bit complicated but also just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
sign up for the a.m. quickie I keep
telling you to do this and I know you
you have not subscribed yet you can
subscribe for free just do it through
iTunes or your Google Play or whatever
we have all the links to subscribe at
majority reporters at gmail.com also
follow us on Instagram
subscribe to YouTube channel come on
guys let's do this
where what are we at with a YouTube
channel 689 thousand let's get to 700
really we're get we're closing in on 700
yeah I gotta get my my button and get
that button there's a button but he gets
six I went out with them I went out with
a buddy of mine and his he had two
daughters who were like one was in
college one was a senior high school
they were asking how many subscribers I
had on YouTube I said like I like
650,000 or something like that like oh
you must have the silver and the gold
play buttons and I'm like I have
absolutely no idea what you're talking
about
and I just found out was supposed to get
it so get one for seven hundred thousand
uh Michael what went on yesterday in
this room we talked about the PG&E fires
and what's really causing them no not
last night's show we talked with Shama
Sawant helped reelect her to the Seattle
City Council crystal but by doing that
you can make Jeff Bezos have wasted a
lot of money that's right you take a
give give uh it's it's it's good for the
cause of socialism and it's a nice shot
at dr. evil then it's also crystal ball
and I talked about the commonalities of
these global uprisings from Chile to
Lebanon to Ecuador why the press is
ignoring it why Pete Budaj edge is the
worst and how painful it is
for CNN to deal with the Bernie Sanders
surge and then Harvey K and I talked
about Chicago Wisconsin and really went
deep into the chili story you know what
they're chanting in Chile one of the
chants in Chile is that neoliberalism
was born here and it will die here hell
yeah and so we went really deep your
mouth to God's ears to Land's indeed
with the Pinochet CIA Chicago boys
history and how it's playing out today
and then a whole bunch in the postgame
from including these new revelations in
Brazil patreon.com slash T MVS this
weekend's illicit history with pepe
escobar on the Silk Road China and
Russia and snagged your tickets we uh I
don't know what the count is but we're
in the final third for Philly World Cafe
with crystal ball Ortiz your ball drop
emmav Eaglin and were two away from
3,000 patrons so go for it
patreon accomplished EMBs Jamie this
week on the anti Fattah we celebrated
mischief night with the scariest show on
the Internet minion death cult it's very
funny if you guys have never heard it
before they find the scariest most
deranged
and just like cracked and weird posts on
the internet from some baby boomers but
just like chud's of all ages I think and
they read them slow enough to grasp
their inanity so we shared some dumb
Halloween stories about our own lives
and then we looked at an evangelical
plot to infiltrate Halloween stores then
we commemorated last year's November 4th
anti foster per soldier revolution
everyone remember that and then we
recalled the info wars attack on yours
truly earlier this year seems like
longer ago than that but you know things
are happening more than they used to
these days and we close it out with some
Tim Poole joke or posting also this week
on our premium feed for our patrons we
have a new episode of history as a
weapon with Sean KB and Matt Chrisman
and they talk about I mean I could hear
I could listen those to talk about
anything historical but they talk about
suburbia in this one and the invention
of suburbia and the middle class is a
way to conceal the class conflict
undergirding everything in capitalist
society so part one is out now in part
two we'll be out on Friday for our
patrons patreon.com slash the anti
Fattah and Matt literary hangover I did
a sort of materialist
episode on the materialist and political
origins of the Salem witch trials so I
check that out for Halloween
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty is the fun half
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz you're rich I have
an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube they're buggy I am NOT your
employer maybe you should rethink your
defensive we're just going to get rid of
you all right yes
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the swirl fine
we could double dip
yes this is a perfect moment no wait
what you make under a million dollars
not bad you all right take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some ability Ria's out there take
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber laughing I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to ride these people Shitler
what's such
[Music]
it's a free speech issue thank you for
calling into the majority report them
we'll be with you shortly
we are back ladies and gentlemen we're
back this just happened on the view
today where John McCain's daughter I
think her name is Megan I think it's
Megan is Megan her middle name or is her
is her first name John McCain's daughter
Megan McCain something like that I'm not
sure exactly it doesn't matter I think
she goes by Megan on this show and here
she is with Cory Booker and you know you
know the point is is that gun owners are
very responsible responsible gun owners
is all we need
okay now the problem is is that if you
subject responsible gun owners to any
type of responsible gun owner
regulations then what happens is they
become slightly less responsible they
become almost like paramilitaries
apparently and that is what Megan McCain
or Miss John McCain's daughter says and
I want to know how you think you and
beta are gonna go into red states and go
to my brother's house and get his ar-15
because let me tell you he's not giving
it back so my point is this
I'm not where Beto is and the way he's
crazy well again we should watch the way
we talk about each other seriously we
can't tear it the character of people
down we have different beliefs doing it
to me yeah I mean he was very nasty
talking about but just because somebody
does something to us doesn't mean we
show the same about me inciting violence
on this I took very seriously and I
speak for a lot of red state Americans
whether he likes it or you like it or
not there's a lot of Republicans you're
gonna have to win over and they just
tell me semantically how you're gonna
get my husband for one second I love
this thing where a I love the fact that
cory booker has just basically you know
told her that she's not being civil I
later said that was so nasty
Aion ironically like cory booker she
said that he's she's inciting violence
and when she says that if you pass a law
that says my brother can't own a an
assault weapon or have multiple assault
weapons and you try and pass that law
we're gonna use those assault weapons to
go and shoot all of you or whoever comes
and gets we're gonna shoot the khan also
by the way what and then and then
furthermore as such what beta works said
about me inciting violence was
incredibly earth what anyways my
brother's gone he'll kill you I wish
bata would say nasty things to me what
Beto said was Iraq she is almost giving
people permission to be violent which i
think is fairly I I I think that that is
measured very measured actually I would
say that like she keeps bringing it up
so much that it's almost like she
expects she's creating an expectation
that people should be violent good Manta
CLE how you're gonna get my brother's
gun back look machine guns we don't have
them on this on the streets anymore
right but as the 1980s we banned them
and we had a practical way to do that
from Australia to New Zealand they
banned them and they got them off the
streets so you're gonna go to my house
know if my back means even if your
volunteer we can find
evidence-based way to accomplish this as
a country other countries have done it
we did it with machine guns why are we
playing into fear mongers they want to
make you this vision that there's gonna
people it's showing up your house and
taking your guns away we have things
that we can do that we all agree on that
if I am present United States I will get
done okay
[Applause]
therefore background tracks in your
mandatory gun buybacks and again it
sounds one-way in this room I'm telling
you how it sounds it I don't plan to
that okay here's the deal right now we
gotta go we're gonna go to break there
you go it's much more important that we
sell soap than listen to John McCain's
daughter continue on with this thing of
how like you don't understand if you
pass a law that people I represent don't
like they will shoot you and don't you
dare say that I am inciting violence I'm
just warning all of you don't do it or
you're gonna get shot yeah good luck
taking my brother's gun by the way
seeing I'm inciting violence like I took
that link like seriously my father was
John McCain she's not inciting violence
she just likes the idea of her brother
shooting a cop that came for his machine
gun that's the thing is that we are
destroying free speech in this country
where you cannot tell people that they
will be shot if they attempt to pass a
law you don't like or if you criticize
people I should say also her brother's
not gonna do who's her brother he's
welcome to try
I like the idea their cop killing
bullets when I like the idea of cop
killing bullets just piercing the body
armor of police tryin take people's guns
on an intellectual level I mean I see
what you mean about that actually
happening probably being bad you know
what I would like to see someone say to
her I would like to see someone say to
her like you got to finish that sentence
you want me to tell you semantically how
we're going to take back your guns
then you need to semantically tell me
who your brother's gonna be shooting at
because your brother's gonna be shooting
at in your scenario police officers you
tell me you're you're telling me that
your brother doesn't have the ability to
control himself and not shoot his
assault weapon at police officers then
maybe the definition of Ana sponsible
gun owner is a little bit different than
we thought it was they're all a bunch of
big trust fund babies there
gonna do much of anything there's a lot
to lose for just maintaining like I'm
willing to go to jail
and be a cop killer so that I can keep
my semi-automatic weapon that I used to
I don't know
shoot up watermelons in my backyard the
cops will be so polite to a McCain too
if ever came down to a confrontation
it's oh my God look we've we've carved
the wooden one for you then you can hold
in your hand and pretend Israel oh and
he would still sound like the drop of
that doctor this is good if a black
person this is this is both exciting and
remains infuriating to me so a month ago
California passed a law that made it
illegal for NCAA schools to prohibit
college athletes from making money on
personal endorsements in social media
advertising anything they could do
outside of school to promote to monetize
their celebrity video game likenesses it
whatever it is
and California passed that law and there
was a lot of like strumming Drang what
do you call that
holla boo hubbub about how the
n-c-double-a would would would react and
what they did is the NCAA because
California's obviously you know again
this I mean I think I don't know if any
state had done it but certainly the
implications of doing this in the
largest one of the largest of states in
the country obviously implicates the
rest of the country and so the
n-c-double-a voted to permit all
athletes college athletes to use their
likeness or benefit from the use of
their name and their image or would and
so here it is Bill Hemmer has had a lot
of a big problem with this for a long
time not quite clear why but and to a
certain extent this guy who's who's on
with them
Jim Gray Jim Gray longtime sports sports
guy he's really trying to be gentle with
Bill here and I think he senses like
he's probably worked with guys in the
business who sometimes have a little bit
of a problem you know with with you know
what happens when they come back from
lunch if you know what I'm saying you
know sometimes back in the old days you
drink you know not in a drink yeah you
liquid lunches so I don't know he's
sensitive to other people probably he
also is addressing to a certain extent
there's a real problem with this of
course because all the student-athletes
are required to do all the work they're
doing work and the fact of the matter is
it may be your quarterback which makes
your team so great but but the fact is
if you don't have any linemen they're
showing up and taking a beating you're
still not gonna be able to make millions
upon millions of dollars for your school
that's just the bottom line even even
the the lowest ranking of these you know
and NC double-a teams at least in
Division one are raking in big bucks for
their for their schools but here's gray
trying to be very gentle and explain to
Bill Hemmer who just still has it in his
mind like hey you getting you're getting
a free education which of course amounts
to basically you're getting a free
opportunity to work out and then make
money for this school for with LeBron
James or Aaron Rodgers or the stars of a
team we're making a heck of a lot more
than perhaps the linemen or somebody
who's way down on the bench so I think
we're gonna have a hierarchy and a
pecking order and it will change things
and it may alter that but it's just so
long overdue I mean you cannot have
amateurism in a multi-billion dollar
industry it's just not the way that
you'll ride board books tuition a little
bit of stipend on the side so you pay
your star quarterback two million
dollars Jim what do you pay the center
who stands over him
well right now they're not now I think
Jim and we should go back a little bit
Jim has to take a pause for a moment
because he's trying to understand in the
football that we play in the United
States it is the quarterback that stands
over the center Center is the one who is
bent over and passing the ball through
his legs to the quarterback and so Jim
Gray had to take a moment to sort of
process what what Bill Hemmer was trying
to say if a senator's standing over the
quarterback it means the quarterback is
probably sacked
that's right exactly somebody missed
their their assignment board books
tuition a little bit of stipend on the
side so you pay your star quarterback
two million dollars Jim what do you pay
the center who stands over him well
right now they're not being paid they're
allowed to cash in on Facebook or
Instagram or go out and get a commercial
or do something with one of these
companies who wants to use their name
and likeness so it's not as though that
college and I was going to turn around
and start paying these athletes your
question really isn't isn't in the realm
of what's being considered right now
even though it should be considered okay
so at some point perhaps that is
considered depending on how the Sun
folds because we really don't understand
what the parameters are you can use your
image or likeness and how it all all
works what we know exactly what the
parameters are you can use your image or
your likeness that's a very easy thing
to contemplate the the bottom line
though is that frankly what they should
do is allow that to happen of course and
then they should have a base salary
scale for everybody
period no hierarchy and who gets paid
everybody gets an equal share of a
percentage of what the revenue is that
the school generates from it or maybe
you do it the revenue that the the the
division that you're in or the the
conference that you're in gets the easy
ways of doing this but the idea
that I mean frankly I think like it's
just not fair
it's just not fair they are students and
they are generating cash they should all
get paid every one other workers that
they're also entitled to the fruits of
their labor I mean they're you know we
have the same issue with like interns
you have like you know free interns
going around you know working to the
extent that these football players do
it's not it's not appropriate even this
now it's like players can profit by
being used by a corporation right so we
make their brand liquor they don't
actually give it any sort of cut of the
revenue they're actually creating I mean
the only thing they could do right
exactly exactly and then you know and
it's I don't even think it's good for
the sport to make it about endorsements
and stuff like that if anything maybe
you could say like no endorsements just
everybody gets a base salary let's go to
the phones come from a 509 area code
who's this were you calling from damn
this is Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan how
are you sir good a pretty good show so
far oh man eglee at least cement from a
sonic standpoint yeah of course
I've got a conspiracy theory that I'd
like to tap into the high of mind of the
majority report is super can't
substantiate so you had Tim Heidecker on
and I've been listening to or watching
his show on cinema for a while now and
it's pretty funny yeah and so for folks
that don't know that the character he
plays is kind of a bozo who stumbles
into a lot of these right-wing ideas
come sort of like a right winger so the
first time he had any sort of political
ideas on the show ideas was season 2
episode 5 and he does a little 60-second
soapbox and he found it exactly like
Dave Rubin this is episode 5
season 2 episode 5 okay there he does a
little 60-second soap box oh hi my
conspiracy is that Dave Rubin watched on
cinema thinking it was an actual movie
review show and then became radicalized
by the Tim Heidecker character and so
for in terms of like because with a good
conspiracy theory you start with the
premise and work backwards right so for
the folks at home if you can help by we
can clip up clips from on on cinema now
just to be clear this is episode 205 I
believe if I'm not mistaken it was in
March of 2013 probably would have been
the first week maybe the end of the
first week March 7th 2013 right and if I
am not mistaken it was about Hawes right
the wizard of oz oz the great and
powerful yeah okay yeah of course yeah I
bet about at minute seven or so but I
don't know specifically yeah right and
so I think that we could come up with a
pretty compelling timeline with the help
of the friends friends of the show right
you know just playing these things back
back to back and and maybe with the help
of you guys know Ana Kasparian maybe
they've got some good TYT archives but
it it'd be Dave right around the same
time this Tim Heidecker started
expressing concerns that regulation well
and I think it's worth noting to see
where Dave Rubin was in 2013 what he was
just watched the most powerful
documentary on ideas and politics I had
ever seen to you well I thought I was
liberal because I was gay and I liked
Michael Dukakis in a student election
but then I watched this documentary and
the whole idea was that freedom was
actually not helped by taking arsenic
out of the drinking water
really being me think I think I want if
people send the clips we will do a short
mini documentary on it because I think
this is something that's worth exploring
I mean it may be you may have stumbled
on something and we may have cracked the
code
I know that jank really underpaid me for
I'm gay and trying to navigate the ACA
website material right and it felt
really bad appreciate the call you
already hung up calling from an 8 for 7
area code who's this where you calling
from hey it's Josh from Chicago Josh
from Chicago how are you I'm good Sam I
still have your why cook shirt just you
know I'll bring it to you don't worry
thank you for lending it to me hmm
all right you want me to wash it using
the special instruction yes I will
with down it's not not a sheen washed
good
no no special special dry-cleaning I
want to talk about the teachers strike
because I spent a few days on the picket
line with the teachers I know you guys
were talking about it earlier but I so I
talked with a few teachers especially
though the one the the thing that right
now seems to be the biggest problem is
special ed classes hmm they're they're
outnumbered like the fee I talked with
one teacher who said that she has 13
kids in her class tenor and wheelchairs
and she's I think she's on the south
side and she said that she can't there's
no medical assistant to help change
things like diapers or things like that
and there was another teacher who
basically a lot of these teachers these
schools also don't have access to nurses
every day it seems disproportionate bet
and white white neighborhoods with that
schools are mostly white they have
access to nurses every day there was one
other special ed teacher who said that
they had to wait two hours
for a kid's parents to come pick him up
because he was throwing up they and then
nurse was not there that day and of
course they can't call nine-one-one
because they don't know what the
insurance policies are that the kid were
kids parents have and I think from the
sentence I got I although there's rumors
that this could possibly end today a lot
of teachers felt like they didn't
actually get what they wanted in 2012
and they're actually not going to stop
or not going to be satisfied till they
actually get something substantiative
and not like a half measure and it's
particularly depressing too because a
lot of these teachers some of these
people at least some of you I talked to
they might have to go on food stamps
soon because of course they got their
last paycheck last week at least and
they aren't going to get one this week
and but I don't know I think to me I
wouldn't expect this to end soon but I
also think to me there's been a I don't
want to say people have misreported it
your show hasn't but this is as much
about like class conditions class size
and also in terms of like this is
definitely a class warfare it's not just
like teachers like I mean they are
arguing for more pay but this is I mean
the conditions that were allowed to
fester under a manual are there it's
pretty shocking I mean I was pretty
shocked when I heard a lot of this stuff
in terms and just in terms of like of
class sizes where you talk about me I
have a friend who seems like every
school should have a nurse right yeah
you know like that seems to me like it's
basic right like what happens if I get
sick I can't go to a nurse there's no
medical professional to take care of me
maybe you build character and you need
you need a much higher ratio for for
special ed classes I mean you just do
and they have different tiers of classes
in terms of high functioning and you
know whether people are on a track to be
mainstreamed or not but either way you
know as exhausting as being a teacher is
special ed classes are that much more
exhausting because you need to be
constantly
you know making sure that the kids are
doing okay and they just require a lot
more attention yeah and like a lot of
people I think a lot like someone says
they're like look it's very hard to get
you know like he did the effort that
take to get through to some of these you
know kids because you know I mean some
of it like one of the ones the teacher
said like heard like these some of these
people like are barely like they have
severe like disabilities and so it's
like very hard to get to get to get
through to the but they are really
trying to like make an impact and I
think I I would encourage anyone if
you're in Chicago please go and stand on
the picket line with these people
because I mean first of all it's
actually a very unifying experience it's
actually a very uplifting experience to
be on a picket line there's you know
people there's people are dancing people
are singing it's very much an experience
of solidarity but they also want to see
people who aren't necessarily part of
the education community there and I
would also go like look at the schools
that are being underfunded it's pretty
easy to see that the ones living
underfunded are largely Latino and black
communities and like go there because
that's where you see some of these like
horror stories that are coming out and
you know I just I don't I mean I Lori
Lightfoot walked into a lot of Emanuel
 show but she also these people feel
betrayed by her because she promised
them essentially what the CTU website
mission statements are you know and she
is like engaged some bizarre power play
you know Josh before you get off the
phone I have a question for you should
you and I be coordinating our schedules
while you we are both in Chicago
visa V visiting of course not visiting
your mother's house
Oh baka later bye Josh thanks for the
update appreciate it yes you'll go out
and show solidarity very good come from
a seven eight six number who's this
where he come from
sounds like no he has it
hey guys how's it going Tony from Miami
Tony from Miami have you been a long
time a zoo Jimmy and met and took my
death in a wild man I especially wanted
to call his last week I did listen I've
been listening all the time I just don't
get the call much of the school and
stuff also I had a second time
Oh congratulations
daaad
ah I missed that sound but I especially
had I wanted a call because I especially
took the interview you had with what was
the lady who was talking about pretty
much like benefit welfare Medicaid stuff
like that and how they kind of change
rules with us now unfortunate the moment
like I'm myself I'm trying to like apply
for like food stamps right and my wife
and I are in a particular situation
where although currently I'm not working
anymore I quit my security job um and
I'm a full-time student now and
basically she is the breadwinner okay
she brings in the most of the money but
she doesn't really make much a deep
maybe 25 a year if that unfortunately we
weren't able to qualify for food stamps
right when we went that when we asked
why they told me well although he is a
student he's not working 80 hours a week
so he doesn't qualify for food stamps
yeah when I was once working 80 hours a
week and I was a part-time student and
applied they told me that I couldn't
qualify because I wasn't a full-time
student okay so they some of the rules I
believe maybe is my personal opinion but
some of the rules actually may be what
she's saying kind of is true that they
don't always target a particular
demographic they'll mostly go for in my
opinion what I see is they lean more
toward a system where you basically need
to be dirt poor in order to qualify now
I'm not saying that's wrong or into the
debt but when you are trying to do what
you can to provide for your family and
you notice that you know you can do it
on your own because you're a full-time
student not able to work and you're
trying to apply for these benefits they
kind of give you the runaround to tell
you like well yeah you're not able to
qualify because you have a car you know
just just dis beat my wife we applied
for financial aid and they've bombarded
her with questions that they never acted
before oh do you have a car and the one
that you own the car do you have a bank
account do you have any money in your
bank account you know and these are
questions I feel that are targeted to
those who do make some kind of money and
then feel like okay well you have a job
you don't qualify okay we were able to
qualify for food stamps but we only got
it for like maybe three months after the
three months it was done weren't able to
get any more now on top of that where
we've also tried to apply for like
Medicaid and Medicare unfortunately
because of me being married to my wife
and this is what they told us they told
us that us being married our point
against us which I find that to be
utterly ridiculous this is this is
you're applying for Medicaid for
Medicaid right yeah yeah that's true a
lot of social assisted services and then
you know the right wants to turn around
and blame poor people for not getting
married yeah oh thank you
right but no now when we also try to
qualify for child day care services
which is you know to help lower the cost
on the daycare they also told us that
points against us was because we were
married well I mean so my child couldn't
qualify yeah and but if we had another
child and then my wife still had the
same income then we could qualify right
but we would have to have another child
to me honestly this day even when you're
really doing the right thing and
actually did you need help no matter
what I feel like in a way they'll find a
way just to kind of like just tell you
well no so
you qualify because you married your
wife I mean you know some states have I
mean a particularly in terms of Medicaid
its Block Grant Florida and they they
what that does is it allows States to
basically it incentivizes them to deny
as many people as they can so that they
can divert those ones into other places
and in terms of food stamps I think also
the states have a symbol I think there's
a similar dynamic in terms of snap
assistance I know in some places I think
the the work school requirements are
different but I think you also have you
have about you know either
you know somewhere between half a month
and three months to appeal your denial
but again this is a state-by-state type
of situation so eighty hours a week
that's insane it seems insane to me
thank you and that's why I said I said
look I'm not currently working full time
any longer because I am a full time yeah
if you work in full time anyways 80
hours a week is absurd it's an absurd
amount of time to find quite think I'm
seeing you know again look this up but
infinite content on Twitter tells me
that his mother was a caseworker and
basically the federal guidelines say 20
hours a week you are eligible for full
if you go to school full-time and work
20 hours a week you're eligible for food
full food stamps you know in a way it
kind of that it came to upon me and my
wife just kind of looked at each other
like we're not going to get any help
like we're not going to do anything you
know I think that it doesn't matter
because she got we got our car way
before we even needed the assistance you
know so now that we need assistance we
had a car because we had that since 2015
well Tony you should try and call
there's a I don't know if this is a TR
LS org legal aid public benefits in
Florida eight seven seven seventy five
eight eight six nine two look the bottom
line is that a lot of times what they do
particularly with these federal programs
that are that are executed by States but
you know also like you know things like
HAMP was a similar type of dynamic that
they try and make it as difficult as
possible for people to access it and
they make it especially difficult for
those who are actually a married couple
yeah you know I'm gonna be I'm gonna be
really honest with you my parents
qualified for Section II only because my
mom stated that they were divorced so
she lied when we live when we lived in
New York the only way she could just
sexually okay because even in 1990 right
was not cheap in New York first in the
south prop doesn't matter where I mean
truly doesn't matter where in New York
it's expensive even in the 90s and my
mom lied she told me she lied you know
for years I remember having to hide my
dad clothes under their platform bed one
inspection was it was that day why that
way we could have a roof over our head
because although my mom was a special ed
assistant teacher for daycare right in
Westchester square my dad was an
accountant so he made to them enough
money to live on their own but they
could honestly okay and that was with a
two bedroom apartment and two kids okay
and now I've I've talked to plenty
friends that you know I have benefited
and they all told me that what we did
wrong was tell the truth
can you believe it III they really had
this I had it actually very similar
experience specifically with with
section eight at times growing up well I
think you're illustrating in a
creativity way the ways in which means
testing is used to criminalize and
police the lives of
low income people ya know Jamie your
your pretty much kinda spot-on
because my wife is the one who applies
for all the stuff she doesn't use me
because I told her look for some reason
just don't use me go ahead and apply and
stuff like that okay
do it under your name as though when she
was doing it under her name she got all
the benefits she could form adjectives
as soon as she added me into the program
and said that we were married that's
when we started losing benefits and
actually getting cutbacks on our
benefits although I'm a full time to do
that they're not working
hang in try countless and try calling
try calling you know legal aid services
and and and see what they can do and do
it quick because you don't want any like
deadlines to pass thank you very much
Tony I'm sorry you're going through this
man hang in there you know I'm doing
good with school now I got a degree now
and I'm working on getting my bachelor's
and and also you know I'm not really
worried about it it's just you know that
it's kind of a planning and you know
that interview actually just you know
kind of highlighted and really just you
know brought home some of the things
that I was thinking about these programs
anyways it you know although they tell
you that it's okay you go fly they
actually do have a point system which
kind of hurts you if you are a married
couple alright hang in there man keep it
up hello
all right good yeah I have everyone all
right I love you guys
oh the back horrible yeah folks have any
resources I mean I guess I don't know
how we would get them about him but I
think I mean they're out there at least
you know some a couple places just to
find out some information on where you
can challenge those those decisions on
some level but you know to a large
extent this is when we talk about things
like medicare-for-all
where you don't have to go in and prove
all sorts of
you know different measures of your your
moral righteousness so that you can get
health care for your you and your family
that's that's the reason why housing
guarantee same thing exactly and
honestly one of the worst parts of going
to like college every semester was that
FAFSA thing that you have to fill out
for like financial aid and like document
just what are you doing it's creepy this
off it's creepy
speaking of creepy I mean we've all uh
you know we we talk about this and you
know
oh let's listen to Biden first let's get
Biden first Joe Biden it's getting asked
a question it's interesting if you read
Joe Biden's response the his response
sounds pretty bad it's it's a different
when you experience it with a roomful of
people who seem to at the very least
find his response amusing personally I
think it's a little bit gross and I
don't know where he's going with it I
mean oh how long is this clip end really
early or do we got about 45 seconds of
it okay alright here it is here's Joe
Biden he is at in Columbia South
Carolina this is his firewall folks he's
already starting to like his campaign
has already starting to freak out
because they are starting to suspect
that he's going to lose in Iowa and lose
in New Hampshire possibly and by lose I
don't mean come in second I mean he
could come in third or fourth even in
certain instances and they are now
basically laying it out there and saying
like well we you know we don't really
care about Iowa and New Hampshire South
Carolina is our firewall but look I keep
saying this over and over again there's
there's a lot of polling out there the
polling is you know it's close enough
right now and varies enough that we
really can't tell it's not terror it's
not going to be terribly
addictive if Sanders theory is correct
then the organization that he'll be
doing in building on the ground will
will help him win Iowa and that's gonna
implicate what people in New Hampshire
do and what people in South Carolina do
Warren and Buddha judge have poured a
ton of money into Iowa so if either one
of them I mean certainly if people judge
wins I mean who knows
but if Warren wins in Iowa and then as
she wins or comes in a close second in
New Hampshire that's gonna change the
tenor of the race too but nevertheless
here's Joe Biden in South Carolina his
firewall and I don't know how he gets
away with this
I don't know that he will actually long
term but here he is addressing the
question of you know basically what I
think centers around the you know the
talk that my understanding is a lot of
black parents have to give to their kids
because when they interact with the
police the implications of it are
dramatically different than when kids
when when white kids do here's Joe Biden
offering a very very empathetic and
understanding response
[Applause]
institutional racism still exists and
what it should require is hairy police
department in America should have to go
through it they used to call back when I
first got started in the women's
movement sensitivity training when he
got started in the women's movement and
sensitivity training
no no what needs to happen is the
Department of Justice needs to be
examining all the records of police
forces and particularly a close
examination if they hit a threshold of
stops over a certain amount with some
type of racial disparity I mean the you
know sensitivity training is not going
to work at this point famously not
useful in any context true I was the guy
I was the guy who said you pull them out
of the car you beat him you don't kill
him that was 1983 the bottom are being
insensitive when they kill on our black
people the the bottom line is there
needs to be punitive action by the
Department of Justice and and and how we
note one way of knowing how that it's
effective is it's the first thing that
Jeff Sessions did when he got into
office was to basically say to all the
police departments around the country if
you are under some type of decree by the
Justice Department we're gonna lift that
and you as cops should know that we as
cops are not on the beat in terms of
making sure that you're doing your job
as cuffs they know the efficacy of that
because when the prosecutors have a
problem what you're doing and it go
after you it's the same dynamic it's the
exact same thing the cops would say
about anything if you don't lock up some
people you're not gonna send a bright
message and there should be implications
there should be not sensitive
sensitivity training there should be
specific restrictions on police
departments
that and and there should be they should
be filing a lot more data as to their
stops etc etc I mean there needs to be
policy changes not just like
touchy-feely sessions well have they
tried leaving the record player on in
police stations that's right
play the record player they'd alert
things well forgive me Father for I said
the joke itself was not so bad right he
was trying to make a joke about how the
cops are racist but anytime he does
something like that we just need to
remind everyone the role that he's
played in mass incarceration yep I
remember Halle Berry
that was another date that was after
Bobby Kennedy got killed everything went
in the eighties so here is oh yeah let's
play this is the TYT stuff this is you
know the TYT the investigative team has
been pretty hot on the case of Budaj in
in South Bend and what's happening there
and you know a Buddha juice has a real
problem with black voters in terms of
coming around it and there's and this is
a this is not just simply a you know I
think to a certain extent what Buddha
judges guys is trying to do is make it
about the fact that he's gay and married
and he would love for it to be about
that and and and there may be to some
extent there may be some truth to it in
the context of a lot of the southern
states tends to be socially more
conservative people going to church
there's definitely some homophobia and
that is cross demographic though so if
he has a like - democratic
african-american voters it's very lined
up now in terms of equality so it with
in terms of gay equality so if he's
trying to pivot in on that that's a bit
dishonest well yeah I think it
dishonours i mean it may show up more in
the relative to the Democratic Party
because of the contrast right right less
white voters sure Geographic more so
than racially and right and so but the
other reason why he has a problem with
black voters is because of the way that
he's been dealing with the black
community in South Bend and there are
police tapes that that were ultimately
that that apparently resulted in the
demotion of the the city's first black
police chief and now there is continued
to be a demand that we want to hear
these tapes that led to this demotion we
want to know what was on them and here
is some folks in the South Bend black
community calling for the release of
these tapes fury among some in South
Bend that the police tapes have yet to
be heard by the public however a
national news and current events
organization called The Young Turks or
TYT has reported the tapes contain plans
to influence mayor Pete Buda judge to
put certain people in positions of power
in the police department
those tapes led to the demotion of
police chief Darryl Boykins and the
communications director getting fired
the mayor's presidential campaign
calling the TYT reporting
unsubstantiated allegations and rumors
the reality is there's no legal
justification for the tapes not to be
heard it's cost millions of dollars of
taxpayer taxpayer money and now we've
got a City Council that's arguing over
whether the tape should be played last
week 16 News now reported the South Bend
comic council met behind closed doors to
discuss whether or not they should go
forth with a seven-year lawsuit over the
tapes being released publicly council
president Tim Scott said in a statement
The Young Turks has for the first time
revealed documents that could
independently establish what is on the
recordings without the need to actually
listen to the recordings this will not
go away in two
what is on the tapes has been made
public to the citizens like Mario said
there's no reason why we haven't been
given this this band-aid if you will
this wound healing information that we
need as for a comment on the story the
mayor's office spokesman told me that
quote right now the tapes are under
court order and we are awaiting the
judge's decision right and now you got
to ask yourself why wouldn't you release
the tapes there's there's two reasons
right one could be that the way that the
people are talking on these tapes and I
don't know who the tapes are between
necessarily do we know like exactly like
cops on the force how they're talking
about different people in the community
might be offensive to different people
in the community that could be part of
it and it's just like a decorum thing
but when you're talking about spending
millions of dollars in not providing
this type of transparency it starts to
reek of there is a problem there and you
know this isn't like the nationally the
municipal security of South Bend if
somehow the criminals hear about the our
police procedures we're gonna be you
know nationally like what is the excuse
for this there is no excuse there is no
excuse we're just so trained to sort of
accept this idea of like well government
secrecy I mean like there's what what is
the national security interest here it's
absurd it's absurd
that was such an actual lesson from you
talking just in general about secrecy of
the Manning um
what she exposed in terms of not only
the you know criminal wrongdoing of so
much u.s. foreign policy but just also
the incredible like crazy double speak
of the national security state because
it was like this is all life-and-death
stuff and these are top-secret cables
and having it be exposed gonna
jeopardize everybody and oh yeah this
was actually she was a relatively low
level you know intelligence officer and
this stuff was basically accessible
thousands of people score
general internet traffic like
over-classification is a major issue in
and of itself yeah and people should
follow Jonathan Larson of TYT
investigates he's done all this work
basically and just oh yeah like
reportedly one of the cops on the tapes
a guy named Tim Corbett was like said
I'll dunch of racist things including
things about the new black sheriff and
about how you know like his race and how
he was upset about that
Corbett later or I think last year he
ran for sheriff and he had a loan
underwritten by three different guys one
of them was his lawyer during the whole
tapes thing the second one was Pete
booty judges Special Counsel during the
tapes thing and the third was people
religious a long time basically
political patron since day one people
the judge is absolutely horrible he's an
agent of corporations he's an agent of
Zuckerberg and he managed a tiny college
town with races not what gentrification
by.ya appeasing racist and he's
getting funded by oligarchs he is truly
awful he's trying to be the new Biden
right the new establishment candidate
but if I didn't uh refuses to die so I I
mean I personally think that Budaj is
gonna be a problem he is wrong I picked
Biden over Buddha judge absolutely I
will see I mean he could be it's not
inconceivable to me that he's like comes
in two or three in in Iowa good after
him now folks he has so much money and
he can just dump it there that's a small
play yep and you know we'll see
meanwhile you'll recall the other day
Donald Trump announced to the world that
that al-baghdadi was killed like a dog
kudos to Jimmy Kimmel it's a clip number
nine they they came up with the idea of
comparing cuz you know we keep saying
like can you imagine if Obama had done
this or something like that you know the
law died like a dog he came up begging
for his life clip number nine yeah
it's like a dog I'll just do an Obama
and president hands all right well and
and you know we've said this a million
times like what if Obama did this or and
and and now we have a sort of an apples
to apples type of comparison here's
Jimmy Kimmel announcing how they they
decided to do this mashup here when
Obama went on TV to announce that they'd
killed bin Laden and he spoke for nine
and a half minutes
Trump yesterday did forty eight minutes
on this and for further comparison we
thought it might be fun to matchup Trump
speech about al Baghdady with Obama's
about bin Laden and we were right it was
the United States has conducted an
operation that killed Osama bin Laden
Abu Bakar al Baghdadi is dead the United
States launched a targeted operation
against that compound they did a lot of
shooting even not going through the
front door you know you think this is
the door if you're a normal person you
say knock-knock firefight they killed
Osama bin Laden and took custody of his
body he died like a dog does not mark
the end of our effort a beautiful dog
you give thanks for the men who carried
out this operation and I don't get any
credit for this but that's okay I never
do here we are
may God bless you and may God bless the
United States of America and I'm writing
a book that's really amazing it's really
amazing by the way it dreams of my
father reassured in paperback why I mean
it's funny obviously the difference in
what Trump can get away with but they
are saying basically the same thing that
is true we both carried out with
extrajudicial murders of well actually I
mean the in some ways even the
yeah the the bin Laden raid is even more
it's worse yeah I was gonna say that bin
Laden rate is worse I mean this was on a
theoretically a battlefield there's an
ongoing hostilities they it seems like
they could have gone in and they
definitely had the opportunity to take
bin Laden and you know alive and frankly
from you know trying bin Laden as
opposed to you know al Baghdadi because
that is more like on some level trying
bin Laden would have been far more of a
gesture of showing you know that our
justice system works out one would
imagine there might also be some measure
of intelligence that would have been
important to to gather from bin Laden
but yeah he was summarily executed bin
Laden was I mean and I I don't know the
details quite yet of al Baghdadi but bin
Laden it was worse there's no doubt I
mean then at the time there was very few
people who who were saying that this was
was wrong but nevertheless probably in
both instances not anything to go out
and brag about at least you know Obama
played the role of somebody who was sort
of somewhat reluctant I guess Wow in a
way I don't know I might rather have
that just in saying grotesqueness of
American Imperial violence laid bare in
the way that Trump does it then
concealed beneath this like incredibly
hypnotic and likable exterior that Obama
always had I development series for
Netflix in the works I mean I think
there's something to be said for that
but I also think that you know sadly
it's not like anybody was offended at
the act anymore because of Trump you
know the way that he came out about it
you didn't hear anybody saying you know
like you know I I'm not convinced that
what happens when someone acts that way
is that we we really exposed the true in
a you know like barbarism I think what
happens is just like no
better to Obama's speech than Trump's I
think they responded better to the
speech but I haven't seen anybody I
haven't seen a single I mean if you if
you see a piece that says that we should
have captured al-baghdadi as opposed to
killing him I mean I thought that was a
great bit it was hilarious but I mean
that kind of exposes exactly the point
the critics fatigue is all on aesthetics
I mean no one is saying yeah I mean that
yeah I mean that's that's my point is
it's it and to the extent that there's a
liberal critique of it it's on
aesthetics to the extent that it's
received by you know the country at
least a certain percentage of them you
know it's basically all it does is is it
the base is stuffed more it's it's you
know I'm gonna put a boot in their ass
and you know America you know it's Lee
Greenwood stuff
I think it's extra grotesque and a lot
of people are noticing it I think it
illustrates something but I also think
like I worry what kind of license Trump
is giving that's my point that's my
point like this that's my kinda I think
it's making people relearn bad things
about what they're capable
I also think the other the other thing I
just want to say like I don't care I
mean I I care about the structural
problems but I don't care about Baghdadi
or bin Laden and dying at all the
context of the Pakistani raid also was a
fake CIA vaccination program yes which
they needed to get in order to match I
think DNA we've been laws there was a
there was a strategic reason behind it
but the upshot was they didn't actually
vaccinate people so it was fake
vaccinations as far as I'm concerned and
as far as I know and they and the bigger
upshot is it led it destroyed the
vaccination program in Pakistan and as
far as Nigeria aid workers were under
threat because actually people that's
rightful like I mean there's such a
massive skepticism across the world
about even people doing you know basic
aid work and people the United States
and their insularity really cool what
would you be skeptical well because the
rest of the world is quite aware of
stories like that it was a closed closed
end today code a closed end tunnel not a
good place to be calm for me was it a
good place to be
5:07 area code who's this where you come
from hi this is Frederick from Minnesota
you can call me Fred Fred from Minnesota
what's on your mind so I'm looking at
primary polls over the last like month
or two and you see the same three names
I didn't warden Warren when he was in
Minnesota and it's Amy Klobuchar and
yeah obviously she's not gonna win and I
feel ashamed as a Minnesotan when I when
I see the by it in those polls from my
fellow Minnesotans but um I was curious
what you think about if Amy Klobuchar
stays in the race until Super Tuesday
would that help hurt well this won't for
hurt war and another one sorry bunny or
do you think it wouldn't have any effect
at all it's hard for me to imagine first
of all it's hard for me to imagine what
are the three things one is I don't
think bias is the word that you're
looking for when you talk about it
people in Minnesota
obviously like Amy Klobuchar are enough
to elector to the Senate and that's
their preference it's not a it's not
bias per se I mean I you know it you
know I think that just like we're too
used to using the vernacular of like
there's some type of rigging or fixed
egg you know like people have different
opinions about different candidates with
that said I'd be shocked if Klobuchar is
there until Super Tuesday the only way
that she will be is if Biden gets so
wrecked in Iowa that there is a general
sense that he's gonna have to drop out
even before South Carolina
which would be hard to imagine but
that's the only scenario I can imagine
Klobuchar staying in past Iowa if she
gets to Iowa for that matter I mean she
has no money and right and you know at
one point it starts to be like people
around her start going like what why are
we doing this and and so I don't know I
don't I don't think Khloe chars
involvement in the race is really
obviously the more you know so-called
centrist that are in the race and any
given time the the better it is
theoretically for Bernie and for Warren
so but III don't think it's gonna be a
huge factor that's my guess
appreciate the call can you work on
making Minnesota less bias I mean that's
I think I just don't like you know this
is my opinion or bias bro yeah that I
mean that's just I feel like I fall into
wellness rigging and bias I don't I
don't like you calling from a 308 area
code is he this where you come from
hey it's Kowalski Kowalski whoa Barry
way cool walls from Nebraska what's on
your mind hey I just wanted to start a
drinking game anytime Michael says put
it on the table everyone takes a shot
okay it's a little bit early in the day
but I kid you not I followed him on TPMS
those the last two weeks that is like
your number one phrase I thought it was
disaggregate or Lula leave right but
okay well right Hey look it on itself
fair enough but a reason I called an
opinion on something okay what do you
think would be a better major third
topic for a campaign immigration or
trying to
leave us hanging Kowalski he just hung
up on it man he took he put it on and
took it off the table man
educate the children of the city but
they are also putting on the table
things oh by the way things like rent
control which Josh neglected to mention
that's a major part of the teachers
strike in Chicago who's this where you
come from
Oh 702 bro flamingo from Las Vegas
what's on your mind hey I wanted to come
visit you at the Bellagio bells like you
know Sam's gonna be busy
think about the drunk guy at the table
Oh like next time I'm coming I can come
bro flamingo can come that's the way
that sounds pretty good to me you got to
get into the conference which means
apparently you have to drink copious
amounts of mimosas did you give that guy
the callin number by the way come on man
I don't think I'm ever gonna get I would
like following content real quick I want
to give a shout-out I want to give a
shout-out to Mary who called me from the
Bernie Sanders campaign with a really
good conversation I'm gonna go caucus
say your twenty-second and try the
volunteer
I just saw Bernie's up in the polls in
Nevada
I know it's excellent I can't wait mom I
got two quick things for you the first
one serious second one not that serious
first one Sam I was on a job interview I
was on the way to a job interview when I
watched you in Tim Poole it was it was
like art it was it was like oh my god
this is great but then but then again
though when you watch like Tim - Leslie
keep it tight like a grift you could
tell like he's like a dingbat but like
you know because I kind of felt like
he's not a die-hard at all he's just
sitting there playing like the most
mental gymnastics like the most kind of
like the most disingenuous mental
gymnastics so you just sitting there you
just like yeah I'm dunking on him but
it's cuz this is kind of shitty I want
somebody who's like a real mug ahead
yeah yeah absolutely
there was no you read him deep yes in
other words there was no joy and I had
it was a joyless access
for me it definitely is it's absolutely
true it's like when your cat brings home
a dead bird and it keeps playing with it
even though it knows it's already dead
yeah it was and then I but I have I I
have a slightly different understanding
of Tim now and I think maybe we might
need to take a second round I might
because I feel like I should probably
have them on this show and you know
because maybe we need to just revisit
but we'll see the world is overpopulated
I have no community that's juanzi all
okay anyways in my serious question and
I want all you answer especially Mike
look Donald Trump is barely nuking the
status quo foreign policy and after the
damage is gonna be all over okay I think
he's gonna keep he's gonna keep doing
stupid things just rearrange the status
quo and Mike you had David best Iran and
he was talking about how in Southeast
Asia you know what once we start
withdrawing the reset button is going to
be hit in the context of a Bernie
Sanders presidency especially Bernie
Sanders this is the perfect time to hit
the reset button on foreign policy
because in my eyes I think Donnelly
disintegrating the status quo and
because everybody has opportunity
announced today at the reset button with
the with president Bernie Sanders it's
like well this is the foreign policy the
only problem I do see is probably push
back from the military-industrial
complex but otherwise I just see an
opportunity here of course it's gonna be
pain force people to be misery but we
can really hit the reset button now it's
kind of old order status for going away
and you've got kind of dying off and
just Trump you know just wrapping things
up and I'm gonna jump you got
thanks.thanks III think that that's very
true in in many ways well the part I
think is totally true is that you're not
going to go back to the pre Trump
pre right-wing authoritarian emergence
and that you do need
someone who's willing to actually dial
back u.s. Empire basically cut military
spending and sent her other things in
foreign policy on the other hand I I
don't really like the frame I I think
Trump is an accentuation of US foreign
policy I think he's a fulfillment of it
I think that he's disrupting some norms
and there's debates within these but he
is destroying the institution like the
the institutions of our foreign policy I
think that's true to some extent
although even you know the Vali Nasr
wrote a great piece in The New York
Review of Books even implicating Obama
in just diplomacy as a craft regardless
of what you think of the State
Department and us overall foreign policy
which you know again not a fan of
diplomacy as a as an area relative to
military expenditure has been starved
for decades and totally diligent
amaizing really the exception of the
Iran deal I mean that was and obviously
to Obama's credit although there was a
precursor deal that Turkey and Brazil
negotiated that he didn't support but
regardless I think in terms of
institutionally you're right but in
terms of kind of aggressive neocon
foreign policy because I don't like I
don't buy this isolationist I'm opposed
to war thing for a second know this guy
redeployed troops to another part of
Syria they're not even getting pulled
out after he betrayed the Kurds and he's
he's you know the military's arm sales
are a major part of u.s. foreign policy
which he's ads on he's deployed troops
to Saudi civilian casualties or at a
global high and I'm sorry to kind of
rant here but I just if you had a
president who was genuinely isolationist
it would pose interesting questions and
debates because we do really need to
dial back but that is not Trump and it's
really spin like I said before he's
laying it bare he's doing the same stuff
that the US has always done but he
doesn't have the sense to pretend that
we're doing it for like humanitarian
reasons or to spread democracy right
he's like oh no we're making this deal
because it benefits us economically duh
yeah I'm all
so not convinced that it's it benefits
us economically is also the the measure
of what why he making deals I think I
think yeah I honestly think that to the
extent that it that it's that is a
divergence from from our typical foreign
policy is that it's it's not ideological
and it's not even founded in a typical
notion of what is in our national
interest which has been largely defined
by our corporate interest I think he
just is like national interest is
equivalent to my interest and not me Sam
cedar but me Donald Trump well he has
said some stuff about like arms sales to
Saudi Arabia and how they benefit the US
economy right yeah but like in taking
credit for it I I think that is a I
think that is I think that is more of an
alibi because it's not like he's I don't
know selling arms I think he's selling
arms to people that he has some business
interest with that's my that is my my
guess all right final call of the day
come from a 501 area code who's this
where you come from
501 501 yeah who's a hello hello hey
it's Phillip from Little Rock Phillip
from Little Rock what's on your mind you
are the final color of the day haha I
rock okay so we are facing an impending
teacher strike in the Little Rock School
District oh that's and I just thought
you guys might like to uh you know get
some some inside info on it my wife is a
school teacher in the district and just
to give you a little background in 2015
the governor ASA Hutchinson
and the State Board of Education
dissolved the locally elected school
board and took over control of the
district ostensibly because there were
some failing schools you know whatever
that means
and so there were 48 schools in the
district and I think there were six that
supposedly had like D and F ratings so
that's been going on for several years
and then last November they attempted to
remove something called a fair teacher
dismissal act and so they were kind of
finagling around in that time period but
then just recently they totally they did
was I guess they call it be certified
the Little Rock Education Association
which is the Union yeah and so here we
are and it looks like maybe on Monday I
mean all indication is that Monday
there's going to be a work action so wow
that's exciting all right well thanks
yeah yes no we'll keep an eye open for
it real can you tell us in 30 seconds
like where we could follow it or support
it or anything like that
well I think on Facebook there's several
groups let me see if I can anyway I
don't know I may have to turn all that
next week and kind of give you guys a
you know a heads-up on how things are
going but I mean you know I'm we're
totally behind it and it's just people
are legitimately you know kind of
freaking out but it's exciting but it's
also you know scary so anyway
all right preciate the call Clintons
aren't there this time to put it down
right well no now we got ASA so whatever
they're all trying to put it down all
right thanks man appreciate the call
okay
hey appreciate you guys bye that's it
folks that's it four calls today that's
it for everything see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know sir
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
