[Music]
that's pretty big now the Nira is also I
should tell you came out this week is
apparently in some type of crisis and I
haven't read into this fully but there's
been some leadership things and there's
a big story in the in The New Yorker
magazine which we're going to dig into
and I'm gonna try and get in touch with
the reporter either talk to them on Ring
of Fire or or have them on here and but
the the long and short of it is the
attorney general's office in New York I
think is starting to investigate them
here's the weird part just so you have
some basic knowledge about this story
the nra is charted in New York State
which is the last place you would
imagine it would be charted it was
chartered I guess following or I think
on the eve of the Civil War as an
organization that was it was chartered
started by I think a couple of Union
generals who were unimpressed with the
riflemen ship of people in New York
State and want them to be better and so
this association was set up to train
them outside of the military and so it's
in New York State and so this means they
are subject to investigations from the
New York State Attorney General not good
not good and the thing is they could
reach harder in a different state but
they would but they assets are New York
based and there's like 400 they they are
like a four hundred million dollar four
hundred fifty million dollar enterprise
and so there are other gun organizations
some which are like you know more gonna
SH than less culture than the NRA but
they don't nearly have the same funding
so this would be a
a good malignant force to have not be in
the world anymore so we will we will
talk more about this going forward but I
just wanted to give you this some of
those basic facts so that you know
