the 266 number on the phone you call
from a 266 number who's this where you
come from
hello hello
this may sorry yes it is you I take it
you're alive abroad yes I've been trying
to get through for a few days on the
Skype and her
yeah I'm made what they call up to wish
you guys a happy New Year and all that
but also I'm sorry you give them a shot
your name and where are you calling from
sounds like I'm from New Jersey accent
I'm Greg I'm from the UK but I'm living
in Berlin at the moment okay well Greg
welcome to the program happy New Year to
you yeah thank you
um yeah Bailey would call up distance
Aida from an abroad perspective you guys
have been really useful for me kind of
like articulating a lot of my thoughts
and even like in a European context and
I've got a younger brother who it's just
odd University doing his media and if
you had a friend who he was really
worried about who was falling in with a
bunch of uh Jordan peers and sam harris
tied youtube videos down that rabbit
hole and he didn't quite know what to do
with it so I sort of said to him you
should check out this guy sam cedar the
libertarian videos all that kind of
stuff and I saw him over the Christmas
period and he said oh yeah you know my
mate I said yeah and he goes he's
completely off that train because pretty
much I think there's a really strange
thing that happens with a lot of those
guys where I mean we know this about
Harris and I'm Pearson and all those
guys they invite each other all on to
their own programs and this kind of like
little echo chamber so anyone who kind
of lives in that ecosystem on YouTube
just sees these guys hanging out with
each other and telling each other how
intelligent and how great they are and I
think like obviously debate and
discussion and stuff like that is a
really important thing but I don't think
it can be understood understated the
value of them I think of a thing
was just seeing this God what TV is and
seeing you guys just laughing at him and
ridiculing him and just be like I don't
think he was used to seeing that and
then literally yeah my brother was just
like yeah he's just calling up they've
been sharing videos all that kind of
stuff very hard to do that you know I
don't know that I've quite I mean I
think that's an excellent point the the
the amount of validation that comes when
you see all these guys to sort of keep
going on their own on their own shows
with each other and nodding their head
and agreement I mean I think look the it
is there there are a lot of shows that I
think insulate themselves and that's the
way that they protect themselves from
criticism and these guys sort of just
expand the insulation a little bit
bigger and make it look like they're
actually open to conversations but yeah
that's interesting to me that it's why
we call it the jerk and circle jerk
encirclement that's right okay I mean
I'm moving back to Britain hopefully in
the next few months to do a masters and
stuff I think there's so many parallels
between what happened in the u.s. post
2016 election and what we've experienced
in the UK with with brexit and I wrote I
did an interview with a guy who wrote a
book zero books Brian Cole King called
the meaning of Trump and he writes a lot
about how sort of you know neoliberalism
has sort of brought along this collapse
and stuff and um same as you've seen in
the US I think a lot of left meaning
left-leaning people I kind of like just
floating they're very you know they
don't know what's happening and that
idea is still of stability and debate
and things like that obviously they're
useful things but also the idea that you
know like the fight has gotten beyond a
point where you can just focus on
civility and stuff sometimes it can be
effective to dunk on people sometimes it
is effective to say no we draw the line
here focus or energy where we actually
need it to be in stuff first income yeah
I don't know even what you guys are
saying with the gentleman calling
from Vietnam yesterday Michael us and
you know over the next few years that we
don't know what's happened but something
very serious and quite like significant
is happening with the left and
liberalism right now and we kind of need
to be ready to have the next step
forward from that as opposed to
continuing to try and fight these
battles on the rules of a game that
clearly have changed by this point
that's right yeah and I you know I I
think I'm still waiting for someone to
you know either to point my attention to
or for someone out there to write a more
in-depth perspective on this stuff from
a generational standpoint because you
know look the baby boom obviously it was
a post-war phenomena and I imagine and I
don't know this but I imagine the you
had a similar dynamic in the UK right I
mean people come home from the war and
then you get this sort of burst of of
new families and I would imagine that
the generational dynamics are not
terribly different around the world I
mean you know because it's all a
function of the of World War two but I
just yeah I'm sorry just one other quick
plug on a related note I'm glad that
your brother's friend has already done
but uh Ben Burgess has really good
videos for zero books where he actually
more so than us he's a logic professor
so he's actually using oh right skews
very much so he had a great debate with
a with with some some Jordan Peterson
cultist and what was great was they were
debating the viability of worker
cooperatives because these guys always
like oh logically the best person needs
to make the decision for a business to
succeed I think that's pretty basic and
then in addition is sort of explaining
why that's a logical fallacy which isn't
is interesting to me to be honest he
also was like well you know we can talk
about things like majah gone and the
workers cooperatives of Cleveland the
stuff that are so good to in the weeds I
think you know we gotta get back to
first principles here exactly ideas not
anybody's
the words first principles I think
generally yeah immediately suspect now
that's just that's basically yeah I mean
like training wheels less they - it's
also starts to become like when you
argue with a creationist and then you
say like the fossil record and they're
like well Satan put that there so I
don't accept that
exactly my point you might as well say
like when you say when you hear our
first principles what you might as well
hear is someone say well the Torah says
something that are different so anyways
I don't have Yahweh would appreciate you
appreciate the call
