[Music]
all right well let's talk about I mean I
want to talk about the the the the 2016
and sort of like how you because there
has been you've had a big I think public
reassessment of of of your role in the
context of I mean I guess maybe like a
different Civil War was that a civil war
like you know where what during the the
primary battles and I tried largely to
stay out of those specifics I mean I was
supportive of Bernie but obviously in
the general of of Clinton but a lot of
people got sucked into it super deep you
were one of those people huh just tell
me about that experience looking back on
it now I can see how exactly were saying
which would get sucked into it yeah I
I've been describing it as a family
fight because largely I think a lot of
people who were in the same place or
generally speaking we're looking for the
same type of America where people had
more health care and there are fewer
shootings and there was less inequality
ended up getting on different sides of
two candidates and it became as you know
as we all know so incredibly bitter but
as as somebody who grew up in a war and
once here in the trenches with somebody
stay in the trenches with them I sort of
became that person in the trenches with
Hillary and I just was not going to
abandon her in the middle of the fight
but what that ended up doing is I think
making caricatures of a lot of us and we
we just we just went so far in the
direction of fighting that fight that I
think it just ended up hurting and
causing more pain that it did then it
really needed two primaries can be
contentious and can be negative but I
think 2016 just went off the rails and I
and I do believe there was there were
outside agitators professional
educators have made it a lot worse but I
decided saying that I just wanted to
take responsibility for myself I can't
tell other people how to feel and I know
there are some people who are annoyed
with me for for going through this this
this transitional phase and reassessing
my role but it's something that I
thought I had to do because number one I
felt that I started getting so far away
in terms of how people saw me and things
people were saying to me so far away
from who I was which was as I know you
know this we've known each other a long
time a progressive anti-war activist I
started in politics because I used to be
a musician
fighting the Iraq war fighting bush and
fighting Karl Rove and Cheney and those
people and so for me it reached a point
where I thought okay wait am I seen as
some DNC shill who's just being paid to
just parrot some establishment a line I
thought well I'm anything but an exact
opposite of that I was brought into the
Democratic Party to reach out to the
progressive community so Barnabas was my
own personal realization that I had the
perception of who I was had moved so far
away from who I and I needed to
reconcile that and the way to do it was
to start reaching out to people and just
saying who I was and making amends what
was there was there a moment and and I
understand too and and I asked these
questions because I mean I I've had
problems frankly with people who
wouldn't give up the ghost
for in terms of their support of Hillary
but also people who wouldn't give up the
ghost in terms of like a narrative they
had bought into about why Bernie lost in
2016 and and frankly I haven't had you
don't get the opportunity I haven't had
the opportunity to talk to people who
sort of like have added at least a a
change in perspective on how they're
presenting it so this I mean I I see
this as a pretty valuable opportunity
just from a generic standpoint like what
you know to understand how people get
that immersed into it because I mean I'm
sort of mystified on some level how it
gets because because I've seen your work
for you know 15 years or so more maybe
when when you came in to this about
issues it ends up becoming so much about
personalities was there was there a
moment was there a moment where you're
like hey wait a second
because cuz it because it wasn't you
know you're into this not just into the
primary but as late as like almost the
end of 2017 as far as I can be I'm told
you were still something like Bernie you
know ruined everything
what what was it was it I mean was there
a moment or was it just over a period of
time it was a period of time but it was
it was it was driven by one singular
purpose right which is the I knew how
bad the the the Trump presidency would
be and it's even worse than I thought it
would be because you know not having a
single single Republican lawmaker have a
shred of decency or patriotism or
integrity maybe that was to be expected
but I think the combination of the two
so so looking at all they were headed I
called the bat I called that early on
yeah yeah yes you did and you were and
you were right and look I knew it - I've
been fighting Republicans since 2000 but
but I think that the combination they
also to be perfectly honest the the
unwillingness of the Democratic Party
leadership to fight back with the
requisite intensity Vidia I advocated
walking out on the cabin all hearings
right of collectively walking out and it
was neat - that even by Democratic
leader saying you know this is a sham
this is a charade and then I said okay
well if it's shameless charade and
you're saying that public then why are
you participating in it so it's not just
impeachment is another big issue that I
have a criticism but they're even back
to Merrick garland so I have a lot of
criticisms of Democratic Party - and
disappointments but overall what started
happening was I just started looking
forward so here I am 2016 still you know
still stinging from the 2016 fight its
2017 now we're looking towards 18 that
the midterms to 1920 and time is passing
picking okay what happens in 2020 if
we're still fighting 2016 three and four
years later I thought this is going to
be a catastrophe for us yeah as you say
talking about digital civil war we're
going to have a mini civil war within
the Democrats left
progressives etc and I thought I have to
do everything I can to prevent that from
happening so who better to do it than
somebody who's a sort of hardcore
pro-hillary guy who partially critical
of Bernie to come out and say look we
can make peace I grew up in a place
where people were shooting at each other
and then eventually there was a
ceasefire and a piece and they coexist
and Lebanese people coexist people who
were mortal enemies then they did it
because eventually you can't be at war
permanently so because you live together
so so that was my sense that maybe I can
play a role a constructive role but of
course I've done a lot of heat because
there was skepticism initially on the
Bernie side I have to say Sam it's been
amazing how many people are sort of
welcomed this and reached back out to
and that's been very gratifying and
there are also a lot of people who are
my former in the trenches or Hillary
people who many have understood and have
come with me say yep we're looking
toward 2020 this is great and then some
have been very very angry at me and say
you're a traitor and you're abandoning
us and how do you do this and but you
know what sometimes you just have to do
what you have to do is not care about
who's who's attacking you and do it for
the for the greater good to me the
greater good is defeating Republicans
it's just that simple right so let me
ask you this why do you think so few
people have made the adjustments on both
sides from 2016 or am I not seeing
that's they have I mean that's the thing
that's I think very difficult about
Twitter is that the you know I Spy is a
certain myopia right not just because of
you know I follow but Twitter itself I
could follow everyone on Twitter and I
would still have a tremendous amount of
myopia as to what's going on but give me
your sense of to the extent of how many
have turned toward looking towards the
future in to the extent that they
haven't what do you think it is that
keeps some folks locked in regardless of
which side they're on
III think that people were genuinely
hurt they were attacked they were
smeared they were they were that their
their integrity and their principle was
called into
question and and nobody likes that
people get angry and it is true that
Twitter is not fully reflected you know
I'm not one of those guys who says
Twitter is not real life that Twitter of
course it's real life the reason I used
to go back to an earlier point I say the
non virtual world is because people
distinguish real life from Twitter which
is not the case whether is part of her
life part of all our real lives Facebook
all these class it's just we're now
integrated with technology in so many
ways so I say non virtual maybe I should
say non digital so but Twitter is real
life but in some ways the political
fights that happened there are not fully
reflective of the wider electorate and
people who are less involved so I think
I think the answer your question and
I've learned this over this process of
the past year and a half trying to try
to make peace and bring people together
there are some people look at me say
wait a minute you know I got I got
sexist misogynistic racist attacks
there's no way I'm forgiving anybody to
do that to me and my answer always is
look I can't speak for you I can't ask
you to erase what you experienced and so
I'm just trying to lead by example by
just doing it for myself but I sure
don't want to be the guy who's telling
people you know forget about the fact
that you were attacked I so so this is
so I'm not sure I can answer your
question fully Sam looks up saying you
know why other people are doing it I
figure the best way to do is just to do
it myself and if it sets an example for
others great and if it's just my own
personal coming back to where I belong
which is a progressive activist and I'll
just do it for me
now is the idea that we want to come
together to fight the right or is it is
there do you have a notion that we can
all come together because that seems to
me to be right now like a a big theme in
this primary and I don't want to start
right but but you know there are there
are some of the candidates who are out
there going like I'm a unity candidate
I'm gonna I'm gonna you know Biden
saying the stuff like this Buddha judge
to a certain extent although he's you
know I think he's he's trying to be a
little bit more nuanced badow to a
certain extent was on that early on this
idea that
we're gonna bring people together maybe
maybe there's other you know candidates
who are saying that as well but those
are the more I guess prominent ones I
mean how you know how much of your from
your experience how possible is that I
mean or let me put this way I mean
obviously you've been through an actual
Civil War where people came together but
that didn't happen until like people
started two years later
yeah and there was a lot of shooting
that went on in between there and it's
much easier to live with I'm gonna argue
with people on Twitter conservatives on
Twitter and try and you know beat them
at the ballot box than it is they're
dropping bombs and they're firing
rockets you know right into my
neighborhood so what's your sense of
that I I it's an excellent question and
it's a very important one right because
I think that the idea of unity in this
very vague general happy touchy-feely
way or we can all come together and
forget everything that's happening I
think is is is just pie in the sky I
think it's unrealistic and it doesn't
take into account the reality to me when
you when you fight injustice which is
what I do I'm not a political scientist
I'm not a political expert really I used
to be a musician I use the music
producer for most of my career and then
I got into politics as an activist if
somebody could just cared you can't
there is no halfway between hey you know
you like kidnapping babies from parents
and throwing them to ice-cold freezers
you like police brutality and and just
cops getting away with murdering the
black motorist for doing nothing but
just looking at them or just driving so
let me meet you halfway and we'll have
unity that's I think that's absurd and
it's an insult to the idea of justice
and fighting injustice so now that said
I think it's important that we don't
have blanket sort of dismissals of an
entire segment of a population like
they're all exactly the same person I
think I think that people are different
and people approach things from a
different place so what you don't want
to do is
be sort of over the overly the sweeping
in your engine generalizations about
people and their beliefs but
fundamentally for me I believe the
Republican Party at this point the
Republican Party leadership specifically
is pushing for it or for theocratic
autocratic tyrannical right-wing
extremist rule at this point they have
no respect for the rule of law they have
no respect for our Constitution they
want to oppress women and criminalize
pregnancy and and women's reproductive
health they are not they want to enrich
oligarchs by stealing healthcare from
from from sick people these these are
not people that you meet halfway these
are people you defeat at the ballot box
and you overturn they're hideous hideous
policies now of course I have criticism
the Democratic Party views as I say for
not opposing it strongly enough so when
I talk about coming together saying I'm
not talking about let's all just you
know this is all we'll just forget this
once Trump is gone and it's all going to
be better
these are long-standing fights that go
back to two hundred two hundred and
fifty years and they're not going to be
resolved because we say hey let's all
come together and be peaceful we have to
fight for justice and we have to
institute a just society and that takes
a tremendous amount of work and may not
happen travel don't happen in our
lifetimes what's your assessment of what
can I mean well or right for me the
different roles that you see or values
that you see in in fighting the this
fight I mean when you talk about winning
this election in particular but more
broadly well how much of it is from your
perspective a messaging fight or how
much of it is from a policy fight I mean
so you know again we have examples in
this Democratic primary of of different
types of messaging you know some that
are more aggressive some that are like I
like Republicans forgive me right and I
mean I think I'm letting my bias against
a certain candidates show but be that as
it may
those are different messaging and
there's all
tends to be somewhat aligned with that
aggressiveness in the messaging how
aggressive from a policy standpoint like
how much do the candidates feel the
Democratic Party needs to offer material
benefits to people's lives right rate
those different types of Appeals and
what you think Democrats need to do in
this coming election III think that from
the plug of course they're tied together
the the policy in the messaging and and
even more than that the posture you know
one of the biggest problems I've had
with Democrats is the posture tends to
be defensive about their positions even
though their positions are more popular
generally if you look at environmental
issues climate things like this even
guns if you look at if you look at guns
if you look at the actual polling and I
write about it in digital civil war I
talk about the polls that show support
majority support for Democratic side
progressive issues so but somehow
Democrats always behave like they're on
the defensive like they somehow have to
pander to this so-called and again
another theme in the book this it's
so-called real American this sort of
rural white church-going gun-toting
American whose the visit the so-called
quintessential American we appeal to
them we're going to start winning
elections and that's the way Democrats
constantly think they play into these
right-wing narratives so pushing good
smart policy is a crucial part if you
talk about Medicare for all its talk
about affordable ecology to talk about
$15 minimum wage all these dude the
green New Deal these are all excellent
policies some of them need to be worked
through by experts to see that how
practical they can be how they can be
implemented but but putting forward good
progressive policy is very important but
the the corollary to that is
understanding how the media and
messaging system works in America one of
the things that Democrats are so weak on
generally speaking candidates and why
Democrats lose we win some elections but
overall the countries move further
further and further to the right so when
look at the squeak of the past 20 years
whether or not Obama won whether or not
the midterm you know we've had some
moments in which we've had an electoral
victory but generally speaking we have
gone backwards Robie weight is about to
be overturned all our rights are going
away we have autocracy with Donald Trump
as president so I think the answer is
put forth excellent progressive policy
have the courage of your convictions but
also understand how communications and
media move around there is no liberal
media and right-wing media is the
programming 30% of the population people
I don't think Democrats get that sander
but my biggest concern if they need to
speak to that so it's a combination of
all those things and more of course and
just the courage of your convictions who
do you perceive your audience I mean it
and not just specific I'm not just
saying you but but but but people who
are situated like you on you know on
social media like like like what is the
I I'm totally with you that Twitter is
real life of course it's real life
everything that we go through is real
life and and Twitter has some very real
applications in the context of of
political fights what do you perceive it
to be and what do you perceive your role
in it well I I you can look at
demographic breakdown to different
audiences I Twitter gives everybody the
capacity take a Jenner a very broad look
at who their audience is but I've never
been a fan of segmentation I've been in
the political of trenches for a long
time I've worked with in care I've
worked outside the system inside the
inside the system polling and focused
grouping and segmentation and you know
all these different types of ways we
slice and dice the electorate I I
actually have a believer in and maybe
it's maybe it's naivete in some way
maybe I just idealistic in the sense
that I think that that a good message
can reach everybody so when I when I go
on Twitter or Facebook or anywhere when
I go go on media and talk I I just try
to speak in the the broadest most
general terms I don't assume everybody's
a political expert one of the things you
get in this media elite is is all these
isms
people you know dropping terms and ideas
and philosophers and thinkers but to me
that's just a little bit too highfalutin
for me as a guy who used to be a
musician who used to you know who grew
up in a war I just look at it as okay we
all can agree that we need clean air and
water that one would want their child to
grow up in a world where they're not
drinking polluted water right that's
something that should reach everyone
there there shouldn't be an adult who
who can't understand the notion of okay
it's not fair that some hedge fund guy
and I'm a New Yorker is buying a hundred
million dollar condo overlooking Central
Park not even living in it just doing it
to show up to some other billionaire
while there are kids who can't afford
school supplies anybody with common
sense can look at that and say okay
that's just not right it's just not fair
so the same would say the Tamir rice
case which I talk about in the book
here's a twelve-year-old boy when the
cops were called on him because he was
holding a toy gun and playing in a park
the caller tune on one one said it's
probably a juvenile it's probably a toy
two or three times and if the cops
showed up in a drive-by shooting just
literally pulled up and shot the boy to
death left him dying in the snow for
four minutes not giving him any
assistance and then cut his young sister
was running to help her brother and then
there were no consequences
none whatsoever nobody can look at that
sale that's fine that's that's not a
problem that should happen in America so
the way I look at it is I'm talking to
everybody in nobody right whoever's
listening when I go on Twitter and say
what I say I assume any American adult
can understand what I'm saying if that
makes sense yeah it does but the I mean
the number of people who are there on
Twitter who are talking about politics
presumably if they're following you they
either really vehemently disagree with
you or they generally bring the right
like is it isn't it about influencing
people who have you know more access to
the media I mean I see I believe well I
believe the reverberate see that to me I
I'll do it tweet and then I'll see it
show up and some
you know get picked up by some media
outlet talking about an issue and then I
feel like the information flows if you I
often use this analogy if you have a
30,000 foot view of America and you
think of information as these sort of
rivers of data flowing lap is where
we're getting information from Facebook
of New York Times from you from from
podcast from all over the place people
are exposed to information and
information has a way of moving through
the system and we use the term viral
which is with an overused term ten years
ago and it's certainly overused now but
it's it's understandable right the idea
of a virus so you can say something and
it can have like the whole butterfly
effect where a week or two or three
later can end up changing a policy so
yeah you are talking to a very limited
population but there can be much wider
effects of people speaking up also one
thing very important to me because I'm
glad you rate the graces a lot of people
minimize the idea of somebody going on a
Facebook or Twitter or reddit and
speaking out or having their own podcast
or their radio show or blogging or
whatever they do there's nothing more
important than speaking up about
injustice right that speaking out is the
first step towards taking action and
fixing it and it is an action and of
itself so anybody who minimizes all
you're just you're just tweeting always
time but I know countries where you
cannot speak freely or you'll get taken
away you'll disappear I lived in a place
like that during war you can just speak
freely against the government so so
there's something powerful about being
able to go out there and just say this
is unjust it's fascinating stuff
Peter Dow glad to to see you I mean it's
a it's too glad to have you on and to
talk about this stuff and see you you
know a focused on on on victory whoever
that that that calls for at the end and
we also put a couple links to your
pieces in the nation about Bernie
Sanders which I found fascinating as
well and the book is digital civil war
confronting the far-right Menace thanks
so much for your time today I really
appreciate it
thank you thanks for you do Sam very
much appreciated
