[Music]
let's take a look at at this one of the
things that we had a problem with Barack
Obama and this has come up in the
context of his dismantling the Obama for
America it was indicative of it and it
it is consistent with what David Dane
was talking about in terms of Bernie's
campaign leveraging the assets they have
their email lists the attention that
they get for running for president and
using that for really for projects that
are not necessarily beneficial to the at
least short term maybe not even in the
midterm to a presidential campaign and
that is exercising power and pressure
here is Bernie Sanders on a Rachel
Maddow is program last night talking
about what he's gonna do to deal with
Mitch McConnell and you know look this
is a very obvious question in some
respects but nobody has given a
satisfying answer answer to this and
this is when we talk about what Bernie
Sanders brings to a to the presidency
that other candidates don't or haven't
articulated I think this is really what
it comes down to because I think you
know you have you know someone like
Elizabeth Warren who I think has
obviously put in a lot of work to
developing plans and and has a notion of
what she wants to do when these plans
are good but someone like Mitch
McConnell is going to be a roadblock to
this and the question is is how do you
make Mitch McConnell scared here's
Bernie Sanders on Rachel Maddow
if he is still there what would you put
on his plate first what would you what
would be your first legislative priority
Oh before I put anything on his plate I
would be in the state of Kentucky
holding a rally with tens of thousands
of people to say to what is in fact one
of the poorest states in this country a
real struggling state in Kentucky that
we need to raise the minimum wage a
state which is really suffering for lack
of healthcare we're gonna rally the
American people in Kentucky we're gonna
rally the American people in Mississippi
we're gonna rally the people in South
Carolina to demand that their
representatives I know this is a radical
idea actually do what the American
people want the point that I make over
and over again Rachael is the ideas that
I talk about our ideas that the American
people want they don't get it because
she got a Congress indebted to wealthy
campaign contributors and by the way
whether you call it it's excellent yeah
I mean the the point being and you know
this is this dynamic came up during the
fight for the Affordable Care Act for
the public option and folks in the
Democratic Party wanted Barack Obama to
go to Joe Lieberman State and to put
pressure on Joe Lieberman and he would
not do it and there has been like an
allergy on the part of Democratic
largely Democratic electeds and to
certain extent those who are just trying
to run for election to use the the the
almost like the bully pulpit and and to
you and the idea of rallying and
organizing and mobilizing people to play
an outside inside game is really what it
comes down to and it is it's almost
inexplicable as to why that's been the
case because at the end of the day
for the Democratic Party to be effective
it's the only way it can be and we have
had this problem since the union
movement basically fell apart and our
union density just dropped dramatically
over the past 30 40 years by you know 25
percentage points we've lost the outside
game
well that's Stephanie Mudge research
yeah I mean the outside game is gone and
the the the only way it comes back is if
organizations that are forming on their
own on the outside are empowered by
those on the inside yeah and and you
know it's it's good that Bernie's
talking about that and mean it because
it really is the the missing element of
all of this and and just as Sean
McKelvey was telling us about Jerry
Nadler you know like you you put a
primary against Jerry Nadler not because
he's a bad Democrat but because there's
things on the table that he could be
doing for his district that he's not
doing for his district and by primary
engeri Nadler what you're really doing
in some ways is empowering him because
you are forcing him to use or at the
very least you are the catalyst for him
to use his power within the the caucus
because he can go to Nancy Pelosi Lee
Nancy Pelosi and legitimately say hey I
need this I need this as much as you
think that person in the marginal that
frontline Democrat needs it I need this
because if I don't get it I'm in trouble
and I'm not going down to save that
purple district Congress person seat and
and that's the dynamic that we have to
get into here is later in that interview
Rachel Maddow has Bernie Sanders on
and discussing the dynamic we have the
worst wealth inequality and income
inequality that we've had in almost 100
years and so here is Bernie describing
why that dynamic has has occurred there
is a reason why in the last 30 years the
top 1% have seen an increase in their
wealth of 21 trillion dollars while
wealth has gone down from the bottom
half why 500,000 people are sleeping out
on the street why we are the only major
country not to guarantee health care to
all people or parental leave or sick and
medical leave there is a reason and the
reason is and what this campaign is
about is finally saying that if you want
real change we need a political
revolution and what does that mean it
means we are going to have to take on
Wall Street and the insurance companies
and the drug companies and the fossil
fuel industry and the
military-industrial complex and the
prison industrial complex in other words
we can talk about all the great things
we want to do but at the end of the day
to understand why we are where we are
where the middle class is shrinking
where 40 million people living in
poverty we have to understand the
political reality of America and the
power structure of America we are
prepared to take those guys on and
that's why I say unapologetically I am
Not Afraid of those people they want to
condemn me you know the billionaire's
want to condemn me that I'm an
existential threat for the Democratic
Party so be it we're gonna take them on
yes yeah I mean that's it's spot on I
don't I mean I don't know what he's left
on the table they're nothing our enemies
say really quick well and of course
that's that brilliant new move of the
anti endorsement page that they have on
the Sanders website now with all of the
most dangerous people in the country
like Haim Saban who we were talking
about yesterday and Ken Langone and all
these other oligarchic predators saying
that they hate him basically and of
course that's the ultimate endorsement I
just want to say really briefly I know
the next guest is there but the fact
that he keeps naming the mill
pterri industrial complex is another big
distinction that stands out in terms of
how he's framing it and the Obama
comparison is so revealing because you
need this sort of outside agitation even
for doing you know Heritage Foundation
healthcare policies so you might as well
go for actual serious reform yep all
right
