[Music]
ben shapiro apparently has to weigh in
on what's going on as you know the
women's soccer team has won their fits
is it de 5th I thought was the fourth
right the fourth their fourth World Cup
and the star rapido I don't even know
her first name she's on the way it's
Megan Megan Rapinoe in fact our own
former Booker just madly got like a
picture with for her kid anyways but
nevertheless Megan Rapinoe has been
outspoken in their critique of Donald
Trump and outspoken in their desire to
be outspoken and apparently this is
really really bothering those on the
right here is ben shapiro
famed soccer critic you're saying
capitalism can actually increase your
pay and that's never gonna be a thing
that anyone on the left has instead we
all have to pretend that this is that
this is all normal and that it's not
divisive at all and that truly she's a
hero
to everyone absolute absolute silliness
absolute silliness and bad for the
country by the way when even the stuff
that we take a break with you know
sporting is turned into this it's pretty
obnoxious and we're not talking about
1968 in the middle of the civil rights
movement with with us sprinters on the
u.s. national team at the olympics
raising the black power fist because
American politics are polarized around
race in 68 we're not talking about that
we're talking about gay marriage is
legal across the United States by
Supreme Court dick Todd Sheree what
rights inside that 68 exactly yeah if
this was 1968 and any of those athletes
are raising the black power sign at the
Olympics he would have the exact same
thing
this is the oldest game in the world
they play look I'm telling you
whenever whoever is the next
a Democratic president I don't care if
it's Joe Biden I don't care if it's Amy
Klobuchar I don't care if it's I do I
don't care if it's AOC or Bernie Sanders
or Elizabeth Warren or or you know PJ
ensign man jae-in's it doesn't matter
they're all gonna say that that person
is a full-on commie socialist and why
can't they be reasonable like Obama and
also that that's the that's their that's
the way they go back I'm gonna pretend
like I wouldn't have or didn't critique
democratic figures in the past in the
exact same way and now you look at that
is so reasonable back then and now
they're they're just crazy but let's
let's continue he's he is upset that of
course the women's soccer team is
insisting upon getting paid a fair wage
for the same job that they do and it's
just such a shame for him that he can't
even watch can't even watch soccer
anymore without it being politicized
like these people want their rights they
want to be able to get paid what other
people get paid well I can't you just
play dance monkey dance is what he's
begging we're not talking about that
we're talking about gay marriage is
legal across the United States by
Supreme Court dick tots
we're talking about Megan Rapinoe is
getting million dollar contracts
specifically because of her sexuality
and because she is a very very good
soccer player but let's not make any
mistake if you were a very good soccer
player and she were not a very outspoken
lesbian she would be getting fewer
contracts because she's seen as a
political figure she's sort of Colin
Kaepernick but with actual talents at
her sport so it's all of this is
obnoxious but we're supposed to pretend
that actually she's quite charming and
wonderful that it is not obnoxious to
live in the most to live in the in the
best time for women and best time for
lesbians and the best time for women's
soccer in the history of the world and
in the best country in the history of
the world for any of those things we're
supposed to pretend that actually she's
a victim in America's a terrible place
so that she can make more money
presumably pretty gross pretty grounds
I don't know that America has ever been
the best result I don't know that Colin
Kapernick is an outspoken lesbian
no Colin Kapernick is an outspoken
lesbian that was actually was so his his
argument is that if she was a outspoken
straight woman she wouldn't get as many
contracts I get probably actually if she
was running around saying straight power
no matter yeah actually probably well
that's right but that's just because
we're like we have culturally evolved
right yes bad would actually be a
problem Ben says something early on
where he's like she doesn't want to be a
role model to ever she's being a role
model to everybody he's like no she's
not she's not trying to be a role model
to like nasty little bigots like
yourself Ben she's trying to be a role
model for like people who want to see
this country progress yeah I don't even
know I mean she's also just think like I
find it so there's something so twerpish
about both people who reject sports
because they have like some attitude
about athletics in general and then
people like Shapiro who are like this is
where we well this is where we get our
entertainment this is where we tune out
like this very like we're like politics
and sports have always been connected
what are you talking about it's it's one
of the biggest cultural forces in our
lives it overlaps with politics
everywhere there's soccer violence
across Europe there's clubs that are
associated with different political
teams its effects I mean even the fist
thing that he mentioned hurt those guys
careers for decades including the
Australian guy up there on stage she was
in solidarity with them couldn't he had
a totally destroyed career too I mean
what is he talking about yeah he might
want sports to be a realm that's
insulated from politics but guess what
facts don't care about your feelings Ben
that's right on top of he also doesn't
care about facts being about politics
and sports commingling because he just
doesn't want politics that disagree with
his politics commingling
right like you know he was I'm like what
was uh what was John Rocker like I mean
like your temper
yeah like I'm sure he was not out there
criticizing Tim Tim Oh
oh my god and and and how often like why
do we have to have religion commingle
with our sports well he would you would
yeah you'd say like being pro-life isn't
isn't a political statement right right
yeah here's the thing why why is Russia
religion but but here's the fact is that
politics is infused with just about
every single thing we do in society and
everything we do every choice that we
make every choice that is made for us
every context in which we make those
choices in some way is a function of
politics and the reason why a guy like
Shapiro wants you to didn't wants this
to be denied and wants it to be sort of
like verb ought and to bring up these
issues is because they have gotten away
with subjugating various people in the
context of this stuff by by just the
front lawn defense has been like don't
make this political don't make this
about your I mean this is this is the
extension of the IDW to in some ways
right cuz this is what they're saying is
like look we resent the fact that you
now are asserting your right to be
offended by stuff that we've gone away
with our whole lives and careers and we
resent the fact that we now have to
address this like you're taking us out
of our comfort zone and we have a right
to be comfortable because we've always
been comfortable and the fact that you
have actually been always uncomfortable
and are now finally in a position in
terms of society to be able to speak up
and say hey this is making me
uncomfortable like I don't like this
that is what they resent and and that is
the entire like sort of like a political
project of the IDW and it is it's why
they're just squawking so much I mean
that's just the bottom line I mean they
you know that that that's it yeah a lot
going on there but anyways a great idea
great ideas great ideas alright folks
that's all the time that we have for
this program I
we'll be back here in this space
