Charlie rapport with Sam's Sita the
destiny of America is
safer in the hands of the people than in
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it's Thursday February 14th 2019
I'm Michael Brooks on a Michael Thursday
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report were broadcasting live
steps from the industrial ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
program professor Jean Bosman of
Missouri State University we're talking
about the looming threat as the Warsaw
conference on Iran continues BB's
talking about war with Iran as a crazed
Foreign Ministry's and prime ministers
and leadership of Israel in the Gulf
states make increasingly ominous noises
and Netanyahu takes credit for
airstrikes in Syria Europeans fighting
to maintain the Iran deal as the
us-israeli emirati Gulf and Saudi axis
seems to be pushing for global
catastrophe let's talk about with that
with him plus an update on Kurdistan the
leaders of the most promising political
party in Turkey political prisoners
under air21 you're talking about that
with Professor Raja lon
Alon Omar is an absolute rock star let's
go into some of the history of just what
crimes Elliott Abrams was doing and of
course we'll only be covering a fraction
of
there's a whole world to lay to waste
with that absolute Ghul and the absolute
goals that he represented then we'll
talk about the less significant but also
ghoulish chumps saying like you know
it's super rude to talk about supporting
genocide he's very nice in the
coffee-room New York City wins the
Amazon scam is canceled organizing works
folks I bye goodbye thank you
many people are saying it good time as
any to knock on some doors and make some
contributions to no michi const her
great campaign for new york city public
advocate and her advocacy part of the
effort against canceling that nonsense
the House passes a measure to stop us
support for the slaughter in Yemen
however there is a significant caveat
that was put in there that might dilute
the effect of that legislation
Paul mana Ford at MIT saw blood and Cuba
suggests that US is moving planes in a
strategic fashion towards escalating
even more as they continue to
choreograph this attempted coup in
Venezuela natural catastrophe in
Zimbabwe as anti-austerity protests
continue they're similar to the ones in
the Sudan Ruth Bader Ginsburg isn't
looking to quit but Judge Clarence
Thomas who should have been removed
quite some time ago from the court is
considering doing just that
potential new ludicrous charges against
political prisoner Lula da Silva in
Brazil as Brazilian defense forces move
in and engage in indiscriminate killings
in favelas and NRA style gun laws are
unleashed on Brazil all that and much
much more
but today's majority report so folks I
want to say
we all saw the incredible Alon Omar clip
with Elliott Abrams
it's embargoed and actually Sam did have
a legit defense he said look I've been
hating Elliott Abrams since you were in
diapers and fair enough we're gonna not
only actually is we're gonna play the
clip tomorrow but there's actually gonna
be a good interview specifically on to
just literally endless crimes and just
complete inhumanity of the relentlessly
grotesque Elliott Abrams and the
relentless grotesqueness in u.s. foreign
policy defense intellectual and
diplomatic establishments that he
represents as well as this just like
bizarre toadying defense of a guy who
you know at the very least should be
disgraced if not in prison so we'll get
to that but we're gonna go in the second
half on some of the specific histories
of Al Salvador and Guatemala but I we
just want to sort of give you a teaser
in this opening segment here because
first here is Ilan Omar and I just gotta
say I did an analysis of it people
should check out at the Michael Brooks
show YouTube page on the freak out about
her Israel statements and you know I
think there's actually subtleties and
nuances to get into here including a
critique of outrage culture frankly as
well as also the fact that everybody can
you know improve God's working on all of
us as these Amero say but the bottom
line is as on the substance of Israel as
a policy question she is a hundred
percent right in terms of the abuse of
Palestinians and she has also been a
target of right-wing political terrorism
including from fellow members of
Congress and now of course the idiot
dope bigot in chief president the fact
that she would have the hutzpah and I
will teach her that if she doesn't know
that yet ish word yet the hutzpah to
come out and just give this pure moral
clarity and acuity and then exchange
with the disgusting grotesque Elliott
Abrams
I mean people should go hit her with a
campaign contribution I mean this is
just incredibly impressive leadership
Ilan Omar is a hero
and I also enjoyed this because look she
released the statement it was actually a
great statement she pulled off an
incredible synthesis of expressing
sensitivity to where people had felt she
had gone wrong and also reaffirming her
commitment to working on the underlying
issue which she's a hundred percent
right about with regards to democracy
for all in the Middle East CNN is still
trying to make an issue of it and she
was confronted walking the halls of
Congress by Manu Raju and instead of
saying like hey have you always cared so
passionately about the genocide in
Guatemala which Elliott Abrams supported
the cover-ups of the mass rapes and
beheadings of toddlers in El Salvador
which he supported and covered up that
what how was it how how about the
blowback from a bunch of people who
apparently think you know having coffee
in a think tank boardroom is more
important than genocide what about that
no they go back to this already dead
story that the political right is trying
to make hay of and she shows that she a
OC is not the only one that knows how to
handle public nuisances our own Manu
Raju found her quite unwilling to
discuss the controversy oh sorry
just as always Jake Tapper shot Jake
taper Jake Tapper unbranded Muslim
pestering a Muslim with his concern like
this piety nonsense of Jake Tapper just
shut up all right go ahead discuss the
controversy when he asked her about it
today
I yes I tweeted you there's a response
you can rub back a stick they leave out
the critical part where he's asking her
about Trump's tweet in response to her
response what about you tweet them what
about you tweet too mad to eat
what about that's not your original
tweet what about your reply what about
your plan to eat which got ratioed
actually didn't it all got ratio to at
one but but great crack reporting
instead of you know go back and read
manufacturing consent by Noam Chomsky
there's no doubt that the you know
corporate press is of course always been
you know a kowtow to the u.s. foreign
policy establishment but like we're
still gonna play a throwback clip of the
in 1980s of Peter Jennings talking about
the mass merger that the Reagan
administration backed in El Salvador and
in 2019 CNN is like you know what I'm
worried about the Guatemala genocide
stuff let's go try to talk about her
Twitter drama with Trump pathetic
speaking you said give money to Ilhan
DSE Kelly here if you want to put that
up Brennan whose apparently I think a
Republican what does he say here the
Jesse Kelly he's the kid he's the guy
who was really upset that his kid was
doing a Robotics Competition he was
talking about getting drunk all weekend
embarrassed by his son who does robotics
so Jesse says Republicans should be
pouring money into Ilhan Omar's
reelection campaign if you're a
Republican and you wanted to plant a
destructive parasite I mean that's some
interesting language there that's I was
gonna say it's an interesting and
actually if you think of well this
doesn't apply cuz she's Muslim she's not
Arab but if we expanded Semite to
include Arabs at least the phrase
parasite in relation to any Semitic
people I'm gonna say pretty strong not
good that skillful what exactly would
you be doing differently than what she's
doing its glorious I'm donating please
Republicans yes please donate to Ilhan
oh you are totally
right actually as a matter of fact your
own ellipse yes every time a Republican
donates money to L on Omar a I don't
know a transgender equals civil rights
bathroom is closed or something I don't
know we cry liberal tears don't do it oh
no
please Republicans don't send money to L
on Omar UNICEF letter will be segregated
again yeah oh no please don't I guess it
probably is pretty to do easy to do
reverse psychology in these idiots but
no I mean don't don't listen to Jesse
Kelly oh no if you're a Republican don't
contribute money to L on Omar okay and I
just want a couple as I say
foreshadowing because we're gonna go
more into depth in terms of Guatemala
and El Salvador and then you know
tomorrow with I mean with Elliott Abrams
I mean there's a whole world to lay to
waste with this guy and all you know
obviously US foreign policy that he
represents I've kind of had a soft spot
for kilmeade recently and I mean you
know just in the sense that occasionally
he seems to not you know he sort of been
caught up to like 2002 in terms of like
overt racism and you can have
instinctively human responses which are
normally conditioned out of Fox News
right which you'll never see from a do
see but I just wanna I mean look it's
Fox and Friends they're stupid they're
immoral they don't know anything
I just want as a foreshadowing just to
be really clear when we talk about like
what the Reagan administration backed
and El Salvador in the 80s as an example
we're not talking about you know like I
don't know what they mean
maybe it's almost like you're trying to
conjure again you know kind of like
conjure almost like a Singapore image
like oh you know like Lee Kuan Yew had
to away - but it's you're conjuring an
image of like oh well you know you put
some people in jail you shut down some
newspapers which by the way should be
unacceptable in of itself but just to be
really clear here there are documented
cases of El Salvadoran soldiers going
into a family's home
beheading everybody and then doing it
around a table
so that the heads are reattached to the
body with oh no hands on their faces and
a bowl of blood in the middle of the
table I mean you're talking about the
types of things that honestly I mean I
guess if you were looking some persons
have said Isis would be similar that's
true and then some stuff that you would
see in the cartel Wars was the
governments that the Reagan
administration was not only financially
and politically but like morally backing
like greeting in the White House and
there were endless contemporaneous
reports what was happening in Elliott
Abrams was going I don't sue that was I
don't think that's true so just to be
clear as we laugh at the you know in
this case as dumb as he is just totally
immoral Brian Kilmeade keep those keep
that in mind she's accusing him of being
a liar and wanted to know about the
iran-contra he is a liar well she was
listening in El Salvador in Nicaragua in
that region Bolivia there was a
communist infiltration of the 1980s and
Donald and President Reagan was gonna
have it he was gonna make sure that the
Russians and the then the Soviets we're
not going to infiltrate and take over
our hemisphere so to do that you had to
do some you had to do some extreme work
he's part of that work and the efforts
of that gave us El Salvador which is
closer to a democracy than not and
Central and South America or the
president should be very proud of its
foreign policy for this 24 this
refreshment Congresswoman to be that
dismissive and condescending to someone
like Elliott Abrams is beyond the pale
Democrat should all be embarrassed yeah
we should really be embarrassed um first
of all he he was a liar he was literally
pardoned for his role in iran-contra
that's on the public record I know
obviously there's no research staff
there and then I mean again extreme work
as he sounds like the general character
and doctors dream that isn't amazing on
the fly euphemism I mean very revealing
or well nians overused but what other
word could you use to describe that I
mean I thought collateral damage was a
cynical evasion of
a profoundly ugly truth extreme work I
mean this what is this like a new like
what is like kill Meade's new regimen at
the equinox
I mean Wow beyond disgusting all right
we're gonna take a little bit of a break
and we will be right back with Jean
Basel on
you
well I don't know if you're listening on
podcast you had a very good interstitial
there joining us now is gene Balan he's
a professor Missouri State University
he's also a regular on T MBS gene thanks
so much for being with us thank you for
having me Michael great to have you on
so the war drums coming out of war of
Warsaw are extraordinarily disturbing I
mean we'll get into the particulars of
the implications of pulling out of the
Iran deal the various regional dynamics
at play but the rhetoric particularly
from Netanyahu literally using the word
war is should you know make everybody
obviously not only profoundly concerned
but yet to organizing against the
catastrophe that apparently he and
Pompeyo and the Gulf states are pushing
I want to also just start us off here by
saying that Benjamin Netanyahu has a
pretty long history of talking about
military interventions in the Middle
East spearheaded by the United States
that will work out quite well in his
estimation this is a clip from 2002
where Benjamin Netanyahu in testimony
before the US Congress suggests that not
only and this is really important not
only that invading Iraq will be great
but that invading Iraq is the only path
to peace in the Middle East and think of
and Mike Pompeo said this just yesterday
with regards to Iran
this is Bibi Netanyahu in 2002 if you
take out Saddam Saddam's regime I
guarantee that it will have enormous
positive reverberations on the region
and I think that people sitting right
next door in Iran young people and many
others will say the time of such regimes
of such just BOTS is gone there was a
new age something new is happening and
then Roth speculation on your part or
you have some evidence to that effect
you know I was I was asked the same
question in 1986 I
written a book in which I had said that
the way to deal with terrorist regimes
well with terror was to deal with the
terrorist regimes and the way to deal
with the terrorist regimes among other
things was to apply military force
against them to the way we did in
Afghanistan the way for example I want
to answer your question guess I'm
running out of time so I quickly was
trying to get there we've done I think
what you proposed in Afghanistan yet I
haven't seen their sort of neighborhood
effect well I think I think there's been
an enormous effect the effect was we
were told that there would be on
contrary effect first of all people said
that there would be tens of thousands of
people streaming into Afghanistan
zealots who would be outraged by
America's action and this would produce
a counter-reaction in the Arab world but
I think what happening when you take an
action like we did in Afghanistan we're
going to see all the other countries
just Falls no what we saw is something
else first of all we saw everybody
streaming out of Afghanistan the second
thing we saw is all the Arab countries
and many Muslim countries trying to side
with America trying to make to be okay
with America the application of power is
the most important thing in winning the
war on terrorism if I had to say what
are the three principles of winning the
war on terror it's like what are the
three principles of real estate the
three L's location location location
the three principles of winning the war
on terror are the three WS winning
winning and winning the more victories
you amass the easier the next victory
becomes the first victory in Afghanistan
makes the second victory in Iraq that
much easier the second victory in Iraq
will make the third victory that much
easier too but it may change the nature
of achieving that victory it may be
possible to have implosions taking place
I don't guarantee it mr. Turney but I
think it makes it more likely and
therefore I think the choice of Iraq is
a good okay so in addition to the fact
that Benjamin Netanyahu is some form of
neo-fascists not nene not being news to
anybody with 2002 clip just spell out
all the ways in which he was so
arrogantly and catastrophic aliy wrong
there well I think you can look at that
statement within the context of you know
judging the Iraq invasion on the metrics
that
people like Bibi Netanyahu and people in
the Bush administration put up for them
and it's been a failure even in their
term so for example you know we're going
to be talking about Iran and the growing
influence of Iran well if we look at
what the Iraq invasion did it enhanced
the Iranian position in Iraq so sort of
a massive degree now you have sort of a
pro Iranian government in Baghdad that's
not to say the Iraqi government is a
tool of Iran but Iranian influence in
Iraq has increased since the Iraqi
invasion so even by their own metrics
you know it's really hard to argue that
the Iraq war what was a success
you know today iranian-backed militias
are you know the popular mobilization
units are part of the iraqi
administration and in fact Iran and the
United States even under Trump have been
cooperating in the fight against Isis in
in Iraq so you know even judge by sort
of what Bibi Netanyahu was obviously
pushing but brought in and out I mean
that's true but broaden it out for just
the broader humanitarian security I mean
this is just because again it would have
been wrong thing to do even if it was a
quote-unquote success so yes it failed
even by their own metrics but this was
massively catastrophic and Whittle well
beyond a sort of natural relationship
between Iraq and Iran well what we've
seen basically is you know al Qaeda
today kind of forgotten we all think
about Isis but if you remember 10 15
years ago al Qaeda was the apparently
the scariest thing on the block but you
know we ended up with something worse
and that's Isis which is metastasized
within the context of state collapse in
Iraq a complete failure after the
invasion sort of and an invasion that
was ill-conceived in the first place
which didn't really you know there was
insufficient planning and you know just
looking at you know just the moral case
for the war it was completely unprovoked
so on an international so on an
international basis it you know it sort
of was an example of the United States
taking this
reactive action so it's sort of and of
course the humanitarian cost for the
people of Iraq and in the neighboring
region has been enormous you know we had
mass ethnic cleansing in Iraq there's
basically a civil war taking place
hundreds of thousands have been have
been killed and you know it's very hard
to argue that on any any level that this
has been a success and the notion that
this opened the way for sort of the
spread of democracy in the Middle East
seems a little bit absurd to me I mean
we can't do counterfactuals we can't go
back in time and sort of check what
would have happened had the United
States not invaded Iraq but you know
maybe the Arab Spring would have had
different results maybe the whole
discourse of democracy would have been
more powerful in in in the Middle East
remember these this these invasions were
made often in the name of promoting
democracy the Iraq war was was made in
the name of promoting democracy so that
of course leads to a great deal of
suspicion among in people in the Middle
East regarding you know democracy and
the West's commitment to democracy and
sort of when Western leaders sort of
claim to care about these issues you
know people are very cynical about it so
you know people are looking at Venezuela
today and seeing that as almost a repeat
of what was being done yes in Iraq you
know a decade and a half ago you know
right down to the to the US manufactured
opposition do you think that uh let's
let's then let's get to Iran so first of
all can we spell first we spell out for
us again that this whole another part of
this whole crisis is again the purely I
mean a rock was purely manufactured and
lied about and hyped because Iraq simply
posed no threat it I mean it's just the
notion impose any kind of strategic
systemic threat was ludicrous in the
Iran case of course and again look I
don't really in some ways I just want to
kind of put out let's just you know get
these other thing
out of the way really quickly one of
course does the Iranian regime have
internally repressive policies and is
there a huge amount of discontent inside
Iran not only in terms of human rights
as we typically talk about here but also
which are very important but also a
labor unions suppression there's a big
amount of inequality corruption
you know there's big there's big
problems inside Iran and as with Iraq or
Venezuela for that matter opposing
interventions imperialism and war does
not require spinning the performance of
the government in place now that being
said and then there's other areas where
you know we have synchronized interests
with Iran or other where or in fact
maybe we have a strong disagreement but
Iran might have a point other areas
where Iran's role is destructive just
like any other place but clearly you
know Trump you know the United States
Israel and Saudi Arabia are obviously in
no position to talk to anybody about
human rights and more importantly than
any kind of hypocrisy point you had this
incredibly effective and successful Iran
nuclear deal that was working and that's
why the Europeans are still trying to
preserve it so can you walk us through
the deal the success of it and how
that's playing out in the context of
this just entirely fake manufactured
crisis yes so you know we if we go back
to looking at the the Iran nuclear deal
in 2015 it was you know it set up
mechanisms through which Iran's nuclear
program could be verified and it was
signed by the major players the major
world powers which includes the European
Union Russia and China so it was never
purely a deal between the United States
and Iran it was a deal between a
coalition which the Obama administration
had managed to well together which was
no simple task and that coalition was
sort of successful in dealing with the
issue of first of all compartmentalizing
the issue of Iran's nuclear deal there
are a lot of other areas of conflict
between for example Europe in the United
States and Iran but by
compartmentalizing this particularly
destabilizing
issue and coming up with a mechanism
which both sides could agree to so in
2015 you have this new killer deal being
designed you have it implemented you
have verification and you saw it a
couple of weeks ago via the head of the
CIA said that Iran is still technically
complying with the agreement if the
European Union is still trying to keep
the agreement alive as well so there's a
the still a commitment on behalf of the
other signatories to the Iran nuclear
deal of keeping this keeping this
agreement alive but it was always an
agreement restricted to Iran's nuclear
deal it was not built as as being a
resolution to all problems between the
United States and Iran and it you know
as a as a diplomatic measure one could
see it was you know it could have acted
perhaps acted as building trust between
the two sides and and perhaps laying the
foundation for a broader rapprochement
but what we saw last year was sort of
Trump the Trump administration sort of
unilaterally withdrawing from that
agreement and that was particularly
dangerous on a number of levels firstly
in terms of again their own stated goals
of trying to sort of bring Iran under
control it removes an important sort of
leverage year the United States has over
Iran now Iran enjoys the moral high
ground as they remain committed to the
agreement and the United States is kind
of the the group that has reneged on it
it undermines broader confidence in your
American diplomatic activity because of
course if you make you make an agreement
with one administration why would why
would they necessary the next
administration necessarily stick to that
deal so that has implications not just
for the Middle East but in other parts
of the world you know in places like
North Korea where we desperately do need
a diplomatic resolution to this crisis
on the Korean Peninsula but again how
are we going to make a plausible how are
people leaders in the West even let's
say in 2020 you get a better president
you know if they come to power how can a
country signing an agreement with the
United States be sure that that
agreement will be sort of maintained by
the next administration less enormous
lead astable eyes
you know not just for American prestige
but for stability in the world because
if the world's dominant power can't be
trusted to keep to an agreement that's
you know obviously not something that we
that's necessarily going to be positive
for global global effects so you know
the the chance of resolving further
issues between in Western powers and
Iran have being diminished by this and
you know we still see major you know
like as you mentioned and as I just
mentioned there are areas where the
Iranian government and the Western
powers have sort of strategic agreement
strategic alignment and Iraq is one of
those places but there are of course
other regions where you know the the
it's much more conflict shal and that's
of course Yemen where there's a clash in
interest and of course Syria where which
you know has become basically a
battlefield for various factions in very
complicated and very convoluted sort of
balance of power and sort of conflicts
in the Middle East which you know unlike
in the Cold War there's no nice and easy
steady lines between the two sides as
well so we have a very complicated proxy
war taking place in Syria in which Iran
is a huge player and you know by leaving
the Iran nuclear deal it just makes sort
of a general resolution to these issues
a lot more difficult so I think guys can
we get this clip up of Netanyahu talking
about war I think it is on the list but
we have this meeting in Warsaw taking
place and there's and and it is
interesting I mean the there's a lot of
hype about supposed differences between
the Europeans and Trump and you know
clearly obviously you know people like
McCrone and Angela Merkel are on a
different you know different page than
Donald Trump or Benjamin Netanyahu for
that matter in terms of you know wanting
a different you know preserving the
basically kind of post-world War two
order with its own javea sets of huge
massive problems inequities abuses and
contradictions that's different than
this sort of REE
ordering of global institutions I
wouldn't call it necessarily nationalism
I actually think all of this resurgent
far-right forces are quite globally
oriented as evidenced by even this but
you know they're not at this conference
but you do see certainly in Gulf foreign
ministers and so that this kind of
alliance that everybody's known about
between Israel and the Gulf is kind of
coming out more overtly here and the
Europeans are sending low-level
officials and and have a kind of problem
with the fundamental premise of what
certainly looks like a push for war
conference and I want to play this was
Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday in Warsaw
my understanding is they've since tried
to kind of on different clips they're
releasing now they've put a different
English translation from but the the
word in Hebrew means war let's look at
Netanyahu from yesterday McConnell
aflame is gosh it's assumed
between abuses more subtitles but well
I'm negative on much Russia with English
subtitles ok
the bottom line is maybe we'll get
someone later but Benjamin Netanyahu
talked about moving the world together
including Arab states in the world he
word he used was war with Iran I mean
that's horrifying that's obviously a
game-changing global catastrophe if they
actually go forward with this Mike
Pompeo is they're saying that no peace
in the Middle East vice president Pence
is there trying to chastise the
Europeans for trying to save the Iran
deal achievement how scared should we be
well it does have a very sort of retro
feeling if you remember the Coalition of
the Willing just before the Iraq war you
know you see the United States trying to
weld together an alliance in the face of
opposition from you know some of its
main allies in Europe in Europe you know
the reason the conference is taking
place in Poland is because you know
Poland has a right-wing government that
is sort of very is close to to trump
ideologically but also kind of wants to
be in Trump's good books because they
fear Russian aggression they fear you
know Trump's relationship with Russia
I think the they've even asked for a new
military base to be built in Poland and
they promised to call it camp Trump
trying to appeal to but that sounds like
an amazing idea well it's I mean I'm
sure it's probably the best strategy if
you want a new military base in your
country this will also meeting was sort
of announced in the Cairo speech Mike
Pompeo gave last month and you know it
was initially supposed to be this
meeting on Iran although since then
there's been sort of an expansion you
have you know talked about the
israeli-palestinian peace Jarrod's peace
plan coming out there's going to be
discussions on Syria discussions on
Yemen and you know Pompeo is touting the
fact that some 60 nations from all the
continents in the world are there of
course many of the major players aren't
that you know we have Israel Saudi
Arabia the u.s. the Gulf Power Gulf
countries they're like Oman and the UAE
but we don't have any high we don't have
the EU
top diplomat the Lebanese aren't there
the Palestinians are there Jeremy Hunt
the British Foreign Ministry Minister is
that but he's only there to talk about
Yemen so sort of this plant this sort of
wall saw was an attempt sort of build
this coalition against Iran but to get
you know to stop it from sort of falling
through in its entirety I think they've
agreed the Americans agreed to put a few
more topics on the on the agenda so now
we have you know bebés statements about
war with Iran now you know I I'm not an
expert in the Hebrew language whether
this was a mistranslation or to be clear
Jean I mean the first I mean most people
I've looked at have know this well have
definitely said that is the correct
translation but I think the most
clarifying is that if I understand if I
recall correctly the first tweet out of
this was from the official prime
ministerial account of Israel and that
was their translation yes I think I mean
there's been there's been being some
sort of press about this I was reading
and reading different cast but I think
that you know we can mr. forest for the
trees because of course the factors
they're in such a you know in such a
tense circumstances as we have existing
between Israel and Iran you know any
slight slip of the tongue you know even
if it's intended or it's unintended you
know is an extremely dangerous thing it
just shows how you know the fact that
these words reverberate around the world
so quickly sort of demonstrate you know
how tense relations are and if we look
over the last year and a half you know
there have been several clashes between
Iranian the Iranians and the Israelis in
Syria and these were clashes between
proxy groups you know you have a Iranian
drone going towards the Israelis Israeli
attacks back on sort of in Syrian air
defenses an Iranian bases in in in you
know early 2018 and you know the
Russians had to intervene to deescalate
that conflict again when Trump withdrew
from the Iran deal in May
this was almost immediately followed by
Iranian rockets and Israeli strikes in
you know in Syria so we've been seeing
this escalation and ongoing sort of
conflict sort of conflict between the
Israelis and the Iranians this obviously
there's limits to it this is not an
all-out war but you know this is
definitely you know a conflict that's
taking places and there are military
forces involved so you know what let's
actually play that clip we have it
because there's another part of it that
I want to ask you about this is with
translation of Netanyahu from yesterday
we just came from a meeting with Omar
mr. responsible for foreign affairs we
discussed additional steps we can take
together with countries of the region in
order to advance common interests that
will continue from here I'm going to
meeting with 60 foreign ministers of
envoys from countries around the world
against Iran what is important about
this meeting this meeting is not in
secret because there are many of those
that there's an open meeting with
representatives of leading Arab
countries and they're sitting down
together with Israel in order to advance
the common interest of war with Iran all
right I mean look I to me uh I will
editorials I think we should be enormous
ly too concerned by this and I think the
push is rather obvious coming out of
these three centers the u.s. Israeli and
the Gulf but the thing that I'm confused
about there is my understanding from the
Obama process that led to the Iran deal
was that actually Oman was a
interlocutor and helped pave the way for
that deal so I'm surprised unless I mean
of course Netanyahu could just be
misrepresenting what he and the Omani
has talked you know the tone of the
emani's but is there a shift in Oman
here well Oman has a long history of
relations with complicated relations
with Iran - ah for example sent troops
to Oman in the
in the 70s to help the Omani monarchy
against left-wing insurgents and of
course there are religious ties between
Oman and Iran in Oman Oman is ibattz
it's a different sect of Shiism but you
know there's a it's a sheer dominated
country so there are connections so yes
Oman has sort of been had better
relations with Iran over the years but I
think what we're seeing in the Gulf is a
consolidation of you know we have the
main power Saudi Arabia - you know
having any increasingly hostile stance
towards Iran so you know that's forcing
other Gulf countries smaller Gulf
countries to you know have to make a
choice between you know what they're
going to do I mean the Saudis are more
than willing to intervene in their
neighbors it's not only in Yemen that
the Saudis are intervening but we've
seen them you know intervening other
parts of the Gulf as well militarily as
well as around the region with their
money and their support and so on and so
forth we've seen the bullying the
Lebanese Prime Minister they basically
abducted them so you know think you know
people are playing for keeps in the
Middle East and so I think what we're
seeing is you know coalition's forming
and from the and you know I agree with
you this kind of language is extremely
destabilizing to the region with you
know we have violence taking place I
mean I believe in January the Israelis
were striking Iranian forces in Syria
and I'm sure we don't hear on the sort
of public news all the operations that
are taking place and you know we can add
to this you know Saudi Arabia of course
is increasingly concerned about the
growth of Iranian power historically
Saudi Arabia supported a strong Iraqi
regimes they supported Saddam Hussein
and during the 1980s as a bulwark
against here alien expansion but now
Iraq is basically a far more you know
friendly country to the Iranians so you
know Saudi Arabia is looking for strong
allies
in this front as well you know this
rapprochement between Saudi Arabia and
Israel is sort of born out of a mutual
dislike and antagonism towards Iran and
you know nobody knows how far this is
going to escalate you know as we've seen
it can escalate to a disastrous level
I'm you know even if we don't see an
all-out war with Iran you know it looks
like the American government and perhaps
also the Israelis and the Saudis are
attempting to you know force the Iranian
regime to at least implode and what's
dangerous about that is is that we might
end up with a Syria like situation in
Iran which is going to be even more
devastating and destabilizing for the
region you know Syria has been an
enormous destabilizing factor not only
in the Middle East but in Europe with
these huge huge waves of refugees and
the ability of politically right-wing
forces in Europe to sort of mobilize
those things so a war with Iran and you
know perhaps a fresh wave of refugees of
Iranians fleeing the country could be
you know it could be further
destabilizing so you know this just and
of course and just humanitarian link
catastrophic I just want to say really
quickly too because we pivot the last
couple minutes to Kurdistan and Kurdish
political prisoners and Turkey that
we've written about but I just I think
that um you know it's it's very
important especially if you just look at
Netanyahu specifically Netanyahu has you
Iraq and Iran have always been his main
framing devices for supporting the
unending occupation of Palestine and the
lack of Palestinian rights and you know
all of the abuses in Gaza and so on and
you know it's both in some ways it's
such a lazy framing device and a sort of
endless excuse that one almost wonders
if they would even want to get rid of
Iran as a reason for you know because
that's the kind of always the fallback
and again this has even been does not
just you know critics like me I mean
people like in the Israeli security
establishment and a who dole Mert as an
example have called out the delusional
fear-mongering about Iran and have kind
of acknowledged that it's a distress
action from Israel you know having an
apartheid state but I think you know I
will say that very specifically when you
correlate the language of that 2002 clip
on Iraq and you look at Mike Pompeo who
is also you know an extraordinarily
dangerous and extremist figure in
foreign policy making I think that we
need to I think you're right and I'm not
a you know a dooms day person and I and
I and as horrifying in his catastrophic
and as terrible and as disastrous ISM
this administration will always be there
was some catastrophe scenarios that I
didn't really see in the same way or
even things like the Russia thing
doesn't cause me you know you know
various conniptions it seems to cause
people but I've always thought that
there is a serious contingent here in
that far right axis emanating from you
know the Emiratis to Tel Aviv to DC that
might want to do something incredibly
reckless and dangerous here with Iran
and I just think we need to be you know
incredibly focused on this and and and
aware of it because it could not be more
dangerous and either of the scenarios
that you outlined and by the way
including even just this present
scenario in sure I mean I think a key
figure that we have to mention is it is
john bolton and yes you know the fact
that you know i think last week bolton
was caught having on his pad that he was
moving troops to venezuela you know he's
a well-known war hawk it's not so long
ago 2015 that he was you know writing
op-eds calling on you know calling on
the United States to bomb Iran earlier
this year there were reports that you
know there were plans drawn up to strike
Iran so you know even if we're not gonna
see this full-scale invasion you know
strikes on Iran are going to bring about
a response in Iran one of the key areas
of different difference between Iran and
the West is over Iran's ballistic
missile program and Iran you know in
2017 was able to fire missiles from its
territory to to hit
rebel targets in Syria so you know Iran
has growing missile capability so it's
not as if you know Iran is incapable of
striking back this could have this could
have you know these things could get out
of hand before people even realize that
they've gotten out of hand
all right let's touch briefly occurred a
couple things occur to stand before you
go first of all I mean you and I did
coverage several weeks ago when the
first pullout plan from Syria was
announced and you know just renewal I
support pulling most forces out but I do
not want to sell out the Syrian Kurds to
Turkey and I look at politics through
the prism of power and as I've said a
million times even as I'm a robust
critic of Russian and Chinese you know
zones of influence and abuses just as I
am of course of the United States but if
Russia were is able to play a role in
Venezuela that helped stop a coup
process there that would be great and if
US forces are supporting of course not
for the right reasons I think we can
move beyond those kind of childish
conversations but because of strategic
calculation a first of all a very noble
and important political experiment and
an expression of people who have been
long repressed internally in the Middle
East as well as blocking a Turkish
ethnic cleansing campaign then I
certainly support maintaining those
troop levels and I know you're on the
same page with me where where are we at
with that first what's what's the state
well I've might first begin by saying
there's a kind of through line to this
with this issue with Israel and Iran at
the moment one of the reasons things are
sort of becoming more tense between
Israel and Iran is the u.s. is
withdrawing from Syria and the Israelis
are very concerned that this will be a
victory for the Iranian so that's a kind
of side point and how these these things
all linked together but in general since
we had the announcement in towards the
end of December by Trump sort of
surprising everybody that they you know
that they'd be there was an agreement to
withdraw troops this made turkey very
happy and it was also announced
as a military deal with the Turks for
the Patriot missile system and for some
fighter jets as well so what it looked
like at the end of December was sort of
a replay of what had happened in the
1970s the United States had backed
Kurdish guerrillas but as soon as they
managed to sort of sort out their bigger
issues the Kurds were dumped and sort of
left to the hands of their enemies in
that case the Iraqis at this time it
looked as if you know the Americans were
about to declare victory over Isis you
know pack up and go home
and leave the Syrian Kurds at the tender
mercies of the Turkish military and you
know just as the Americans were
announcing they were leaving you know
you had Turkish officials promising that
the Kurds in Syria would be sort of
unceremoniously executed and dumped in
in ditches and buried in their edges
it's a very inflammatory language and
apparently that's one of the reasons
that general mattis sort of resigned was
you know he was kind of a felt you know
he was being made a fool off because you
know he'd promised these people one
thing and now that we're going to be
left to the mercy of the Turks now what
has happened since then has been utter
confusion so we've had the we've had the
sort of you know it's painfully obvious
that Isis hasn't been you know defeated
as Trump was making the announcement
there was you know still fighting
fighting going on there still fighting
taking place but certainly we are coming
to the end phase of the ISIS campaign or
at least defeating the territorial
Caliphate so you know we're beginning to
talk about what are we going to do with
all these foreign fighters what if the
Syrian Kurds going to do are they going
to send them back to America or to
Britain or France wherever they come
from and so on and so forth so that
conflict is certainly coming to an end
but you know that doesn't seem to be any
appetite amongst the military to be
withdrawing so quickly especially you
know with the idea that you know Isis
could re-emerge you know you have the
sort of more hawkish elements within the
foreign policy establishment you have
people like Bolton and
Pompeyo who seem to be trying to
navigate between making turkey happy who
once the US withdrawal and wants to be
able to move in to Syria to force the
Syrian Kurds out of the areas that they
control because of course Turkey regards
the Syrian Kurdish forces the Syrian
democratic forces of the YPG has been an
extension of the PKK which is the
insurgency organization that is
operating within Turkey now what's
happened now is we have America saying
on one hand it's going to defend the
Kurds and in a you know in a tweet Trump
even threatened economic war with Turkey
if they attack the Kurds but at the same
time the United States is offering
Turkey a safe Sarang saying that okay
you can have some kind of safe
deployment zone now this makes no sense
because if you know the geography of
Syria you will know most of the cut
Syrian Kurdish areas within 1020
kilometers of the Turkish border so the
creation of a Turkish dominated safe
zone would mean the almost the entire
occupation of the Kurdish areas of Syria
so we have these sort of two different
tracks taking place Bolton for example
travel to Han Cara and apparently his
promise to protect the Syrian Kurds
enraged era Dewan so much that he
refused to meet with him then you have
Lindsey Graham who has been critical of
Turkey sort of going to take in and
talking with the Turkish government and
you sort of have this weird position
where America says okay we recognize the
PKK are terrorists but the YPG and the
Syrian Kurds aren't terrorists they
aren't the PKK when you know there is
certainly a crossover between PKK
membership and YPG membership so there's
a kind of willful self-delusion
so again nobody knows what's going on
there was senior Syrian Kurdish
officials came to Washington Ilhan Ahmed
who was representing the Syrian Kurds
you know spoke to trump and and and and
Trump apparently said that he loved the
Kurds so nobody knows what's going on
people on the ground very skeptical now
that the US will withdraw and more so
since Congress is active
recently Congress there was a bipartisan
resolution put forward by Marsha
Blackburn and Tammy Duckworth calling on
Trump to sort of prevent a war between
Turkey and the Syrian Kurds because the
Syrian Kurds are fought alongside the us
against the Islamic state and on a side
note the reason Marsha baculum is
perhaps most interested in that is
because Nashville Tennessee is home to
the largest Kurdish community in in
North America so there's a kind of bit
of local politics involved so Marsha
Blackburn one of the worst people in
Congress who is mainly there to help
people student loans destroy their lives
and defend home state hmo's i guess i
guess at least credit due there's a
little bit of her her constituent
services are finally benefitting a
worthy group literally two minutes left
but i do want to talk about this you and
i wrote a piece for the jackman a couple
weeks ago where we talked about the
leadership of the HDP which is a
democratic in fact social democratic
party in turkey they've been imprisoned
by air21 as the gist
you know what has always been an
authoritarian leaning leaning leader has
just you know he's fully emerged and in
some ways you can understand Dara Diwan
I guess along with with Putin would
obviously would be in Erlich these are
the kind of early prototypes of the
far-right authoritarians you know the
Trump's the Modi's the bolsa narrows the
Arbenz the dew tear days that we see
across the globe but and so you know we
would oppose and speak out for as many
people who've been imprisoned as
possible of course and I obviously I
speak a lot about Lula but there is
something the reason we wrote this piece
is not only is the imprisonment of these
leaders of the HDP complete completely
no comically unjustified and abusive in
and of itself they actually represent a
political tendency which is not only a
enormous promise for Turkey but actually
holds different key to politics
potentially in the Middle East yeah I
mean I think well the latest with that
of course
the imprisonment still is still going on
and in fact that included the names I
forgot like who the names of these guys
yes the leaders salad in demo - and
fegan USERRA who are the co-leaders of
the HTTP the HTTP is a political party
an organization in which the major
executive positions are split into
co-leaders which can either be a man and
a woman or two women so it's a way of
kind of ensuring sort of women have a
greater role in politics which is a
remarkably progressive in the Middle
East in context and what sort of singles
are out in terms of sort of women's
rights in the women's issue many sort of
reforms that are orientated towards
liberating women are top-down until you
know forcing people to take off their
head scarfs and so on and so forth but
this is actually a bottom-up sort of
form of women's liberation in which
women are actually participating and are
not being given rights from the top down
but sort of I stray from the point
they're in that you know yes we're
continuing to see a persecution of the
HDP in Turkey at the moment local
elections are coming up very soon in
Turkey next month so arid Iran is
obviously trying to harden up his
nationalist base his tough rhetoric
against the Kurds in Syria is part of
this and his tough rhetoric against the
Kurds inside Turkey will Kurdish
political parties inside Turkey are part
of this so we're seeing basically
aired one recently made a statement
saying there's no difference between the
HDP the PKK the YPG they're all part of
the same network and you know we're
seeing ongoing imprisonment of HDB
officials from the level of
parliamentary deputy right down to local
government officials now of course there
are protests taking place for example
Leyla given who is a HDB deputy is on
hunger strike and she's protesting the
the continued isolation of the pka's
leader Abdullah Hermann and sort of the
reason for doing this is that you know
in the past the Justice and Development
Party adorns political party had been
engaged engaged in a peace
process with the PKK at the end of the
day you need to make peace with the
parties that you're fighting with and
this has come to an end so her protest
is sort of you know some people are
trying to paint it as being sort of very
much part of this abdullah OG land cult
of personality this sort of being pro
PKK but rather it's kind of called for
the two sides to get back together and
restart these peace talks as well so
protests are continuing but the
suppression of the sort of parliamentary
wing of this social democratic movement
which brings together Kurds LGBT people
environmentalists labor activists
left-wing activist all these groups
together you know this repression the is
is particularly strong and add one as a
prototype of one of these right-wing
authoritarian leaders you know one has
to sort of not underestimate him you
know he's very successful leader who has
a very good you know feeling for Turkish
politics who's managed himself managed
control you know very well in the
country but at the same time we're
beginning to see you know conflicts
taking place in Turkey turkey is also
suffering from mismanagement because of
the increasingly authoritarian nature of
the arid Iran government we have massive
inflation taking place in Turkey
inflation has been a perennial problem
in Turkey but in recent years and he's
been kind of kept under control but
growing conflict between you know Turkey
sort of growing conflict in the region
turkeys sort of increasingly problematic
relations with the West are all
beginning to sort of take their toll on
the Turkish economy so nationalism of
course is always a good way of sort of
deflecting against these problems iodine
recently made a speech and said and told
people to start complaining about the
price of staples and start worrying
about how much bullets cost and how much
soldiers uniforms cost because turkey is
on different so Turkey and also
terrorizing a bad NIC center - he's not
great but there are bigger concerns
and protecting him dan and his cancer
gene bajji lon
I really appreciate your time as always
professor at Missouri State University
you can obviously find genes work so far
in the book that's coming out as of the
well-written but serious academic
variety you can also see him and hear
him on T MBS with both main show and of
course illicit histories gene I
appreciate your time thank you so much
Michael you take care of yourself thanks
brother all right folks
another banger we're gonna go to the fun
half we will take your calls and I am so
we got to do a bit of a actually TMDs
style illicit history history of
Guatemala and El Salvador because the
only good thing about Elliott Abrams I
well I mean first was watching Ellen
Elmore kick his ass and the contrast of
like you know a noble promising young
progressive leader versus just like this
grotesque hideous old ghoul was was very
satisfying but it's worth digging into
the history of you know crimes that he
and the Reagan administration were a
intimate part of and also you know the
fact that this twerp complex and
Washington's big response is not to go
oh maybe we should you know at
least put out a report on the support of
the Reagan administration for what is
literally a internationally recognized
genocide in Guatemala in the 1980s
no it's don't be rude to Elliott Abrams
I'm a big critic as I keep saying of all
sorts of internet toxicity there's an
essay called exiting the vampire castle
that I would recommend people read if
you're interested in that but if there
is a place where you know this is a good
example where Elliott Abrams yes be much
more patient with your fellow humans in
general and real cancel Elliott yeah
yeah
right exactly I will say we are two away
from our first 2000 T MBS Beecher oh
wait well first of all I'm sorry before
I get to that become a member of the
majority report today less than pennies
a day gets you jam-packed content we
were just recording just before I mean
next week we're on vacation but you're
gonna get four new excellent interviews
and then some incredible work from the
MRI archives back in the mr days and
some of these interviews particularly
bills on akan stock buybacks and the one
another excellent piece of intellectual
history debunking the IQ and race trash
that you know happily sam harris drily
and i of course I mean happily not
literally the that Sam Harris Jared
really resuscitated for a whole bunch of
new people thank you so much a great
intellectual history there debunking and
really discovering the origins of that
dangerous garbage so you maintain
independent media you maintain
everything that we do unbought on boss
by becoming a member the majority report
today sporting just coffee co-op
subscribing on youtube and you know all
the rest of it TMDs is two patrons away
from our first two thousand patrons so
go there we're doing a tremendous amount
of work this weekend elicit history of
why the 1970s post-colonial nationalist
movements and global effort to reorder
the global economy failed and the
Michael Manley experiment in Jamaica
with Professor Adam Ketut shoosh chat to
chew she's a as a new great book out and
teaches at the University of Chicago
mark Blythe was on yesterday we're doing
a special show on Friday because we're
off next week we're going to be fun and
big wads gonna call in now there's a
link on the majority and so patreon.com
slash T MBS patreon.com slash T MBS also
go and subscribe to the Michael Brooks
show on YouTube April 20th we packed the
bail house and now it's time for us to
pack the bootleg feeder in LA incredibly
about the second Michael Brooks show
live show tickets are available now if
they continue selling at the rate that
they have in the first day they've been
up with very little promotion we're
gonna be sold out like in a matter of
weeks and this is even before Ana
Kasparian who's going to be one of our
esteemed guests starts hyping it on TYT
so get your tickets quickly kick on
click on the link and come see left is
best West Coast fest with the fellows
from T MBS crew and our great guest waz
Neel amber a big waz ana kasparian and
Nando Vela mad literary hangover on
Saturday coming is the unparallel
Adventures of one hunts for which is
about a guy who reacts to his artisanal
industry which is a bellows-mender which
a bellows is how you would blow air into
fireplaces that gets taken away by
capitalism that artisanal system gets
taken away so he decides to blow up his
creditors and go to the moon in a
hot-air balloon and it's an early sci-fi
one did the character little fun and we
do the entire short story it's an hour
and 40 minutes the whole episode it's
going to be like in the it's gonna be in
the Dan Carlin Joe Rogan length of
podcast it's gonna be a like 3 hours and
40 minutes but they'll be out on
Saturday sounds great it reminds me of
because we were talking about how you
know like Rush Limbaugh's bumper music
is actually like a really good song and
it's about basically like Ohio being
ruined by strip malls and it sort of I
mean to the extent that the song does
have politics and it has some it's like
completely antithetical to Rush Limbaugh
but I was just thinking of that short
story in relationship to Ohio by the
pretenders and of course big
announcement Brendon Finn's Jerry's dead
fish sucks get a job podcast has been
watched
all right folks we'll see you on the fun
half oh we will see you on the phone
half
Sealand for it all right folks six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
see you in the fun
[Music]
who sent us this alpha males and the
alpha males are back back back back back
back the alpha males just wanna degrade
the white man alpha males are back back
I take all of the alpha males are back
back back
I am a total can we bring back DJ
Tanner yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break that's
I do not have Markinson and the alpha
males all psych
Oh
[Music]
on the back
on the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
black alpha males
because
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadis
keeping it 100
[Music]
now a birthday to meet you boy
I haven't thought expand to foil the
alpha males of black black alpha males
[Music]
someone does need to pay the price for
blasphemy I don't remember how we got
into a Nation of Islam Obama on Salman
rush rush Steve riff but I'm I'm
definitely here for it I mean that's
getting that's an old song now it's not
getting any it's not getting stale but
it's that was Kelly era that was Kelly
era so I mean but I don't know I I will
keep playing it forever but you know the
anarchies a genius and has a hell of a
lot of his sleeve including of course
the TPMS intro music and all of our
interstitials we've been using for
everything Tim from Boston considering
that a Saudi power broker was quoted in
the Financial Times as telling John
Kerry when he was Secretary of State
that Isis was a Saudi response to US
influence the limit u.s. failure to
limit the influence of Iran Iraq post
invasion I was shocked that your guest
didn't seem to associate Isis with the
Saudi sphere of influence in the region
well he didn't deny that I mean look the
the truth is more complicated than just
that one piece
the Saudis I definitely think that the
Saudis have have funded Isis and the
other other you know Murat E's - they
also funded groups like jabhat al-nusra
and I think what happened probably
around in 2014 is that the kind of weird
like Isis was more isolated relative to
those other groups now there's al Qaeda
adjacent groups who've gotten weapons
from the United States I mean in a you
know highly contradictory Syria policy
and as always I need to say as I state
that fact which upsets other people but
some people all upset other people by
reminding other people that Assad is a
is a horrific criminal and butcher
all of these things are happening
simultaneously but that's not a fair
read of gene and also you know he's
man is a serious academic and he's gonna
you know not get ahead of himself
acclaims but I don't think anybody would
deny that in terms of initial funding
sources and definitely ongoing with
other very similar groups to al-qaeda to
uh to Isis including Shabbat illness
throat being I think the most important
one oh my god are you kidding me
local pizza is story and police feel
love of God learn what a coup is South
American countries are allowed to change
leaders without being a coup so first of
all I'm gonna try to interpret you as
best I can if your broader point about
using the word coup to support things to
describe like the 1950s coup in
Guatemala that took our bends from power
that was conducted by the CIA or what
brought I in day out of power or what
brought the Brazilian military
dictatorship into power or what took
Manuel Zelaya out of power in 2009 if
you're disputing the use of the word
coup generally in a gist I mean there's
nothing controversial historically about
discussing us back who's in Latin
America so I'll try to be generous but
the frame of your question is highly
suspect and makes you sound historically
illiterate and stupid if you're talking
specifically about Venezuela let's break
it down again really patiently the
Maduro government has undeniable serious
internal failings and problems I have AG
olinger who advised to go shabbos and
knows these players well says in the
conclusion of her book look there's no
doubt that corruption and systemic
problems emanate from the Trop the top
right now and that the historical and
real achievements of Hugo Chavez have
not been sustained
now there's still many people in the
Bolivarian movement movement fighting to
defend what is a honorable and correct
legacy which I totally stand by
so that is in conjunction with the fact
that the 2002 coup where there was a
military siege that put Chavez in jail
and then a guy literally came out with
like some type of you know aristocratic
sash and employed in himself president
and the New York Times celebrated in the
Bush administration backed financially
and diplomatically yes that's a coup and
every single step of the way through
sanctions through economic sabotage and
through all sorts of other covert
mechanisms that are is less well
reported on but highly documented
including funding opposition groups and
and manufacturing crises in Venezuela
the United States has been wanting
governmental change there the whole time
now you have a guy who has just declared
himself president and the United States
is threatening military action along
with two other authoritarian you know
governments frankly at least in terms of
the ideology of those in power believe
Brazil and Colombia so if you can't
understand that that's a coup that
that's aus instigated effort to take
somebody who has no institutional
legitimacy to just declare himself
president again here's the easy analogy
if Nancy Pelosi tomorrow said I'm
president and then took refuge in the
Chinese embassy and China said we
recognize her and Nancy Pelosi said and
I'm considering whether or not to invite
China to invade the United States that
would be a attempted coup so I hope you
enjoyed this little basic history and
terminology lesson and I hope you learn
and don't come to me with that
nonsense ever again response from a
response to a response to Isha from
Kashmir last week February 5th cashmere
cashmere rights around the world
observed cashmere solidarity day I just
wanted to point out as a cashmere II
myself the cashmere is known experience
far more brutal repression from Indian
police forces when ever whenever the BJP
who are basically RSS acolytes are in
power it seems fascists are horrible
through
time and space walk away from the dark
side you shall leave these fascists I
have hope for you do you remember well
Ashok has a lot of she likes Modi and
Tulsi that's a good I am a she likes
Modi not the issue you're thinking
there's a call or if there's to do yes
right gotcha oh yeah yeah I err bolsa
narrow flood flooded Jacob Olsen arrows
flooded left lung the revolution that
started in John McCain's brain and
continued and Charlie Kirk's blood
vessel has now gone international thanks
for all the support I hope a majority
report thought happy Valentine's Day to
all the succulent gentlemen in the
studio well thank you thank you train
boy I still can't believe that in a day
when it comes out that we are driving
insects to extinction Chelsea Clinton
would order the murder of insect
American activist Adam Freedman shameful
nice one definitely a fan of a certain
show in the audience I think now I've
listened enough to that show to publicly
affirm I'm a fan of it I still don't
listen like every episode but I've heard
enough it's funny
give him his account back Bo Prague can
you believe ill on blood libel Elliot
Abramson that see that's you know that
is what happens when you cynically
weaponize real things sometimes you know
when we were watching that just
catastrophic Christine Quinn segment a
defending Amy Klobuchar bruising your
staff it was like you realize what
you're actually doing here is completely
undermining and D legitimizing the
extraordinarily serious conversation of
double standards for women candidates by
booing this mind-blowing ly cynical
stupid propaganda and if you were a
fascist who is against all of these
things you would just do that to blow
the yeah blow the wad oh yeah that's
anti-semitism not sexism that's right
you know of course
because you muddy the waters you make it
all seem ridiculous
pyjama boy hey Michael I noticed that
tulsi gabbard fans are incredibly
annoying are they ever going to be the
are they going to be the worst
supporters in this election cycle I got
to tell you well first of all that your
 sellout for asking that question
jalisa gabbard's only ever talked about
thanks dave Weigel took a picture of
Tulsi I think in Iowa to a fairly decent
sized crowd although Elizabeth Warren
also had a big crowd in Iowa so maybe I
think Iowans like to check out their
candidates but politics sports are so it
is like literally Super Bowl for them
but I had a vision that Tulsi is gonna
perform really well for some reason let
me let me let me just apply the same
standard though that I'm really trying
to apply to all the candidates I'll do
the usual stipulation Bernie Sanders
jumps in I'm supporting him a hundred
percent if he doesn't god forbid my
support which will not be as fervent but
it will transfer to Elizabeth Warren and
besides that though I really want I mean
other than law okay let me take somebody
easy Terry McAuliffe right like whatever
dude
but I am really trying to practice an
ecumenical people can improve school of
policy and of an of growth and
leadership so what Tulsi Gabbard has
said since she's run been running for
president is good now there's really
disturbing linkages in her background
just as Kamala Harris even if what she
is saying is good has a horrifying
record as a prosecutor so look I'm I
stand by all of the criticisms and all
of the reporting of Tulsi a hundred
percent and there's no doubt that people
relate to Cole see Tulsi as a
personality cult I think to be honest
it's over-represented in our spaces
because I think if you wanted to look
you could find certainly annoying
cult-like attitudes to every candidate
and obviously the frigging president
United States has a dangerous white
nationalist called propping them up
every day but you know I'm gonna take
that attitude towards Tulsi and if and
look if the time ever comes about
actually voting for in a primary the
fact that
this connection to fascist forces in
India and voting against Syrian refugees
I mean I've done this these are these
are serious fundamental structural
problems just as commonly harris's
prosecutorial record are serious
fundamental structural problems to me
but then conversely any of them can
evolve and improve all of them have
strong points in weak points I think
they all frankly pale in comparison you
know to Bernie that's just my view I
think they're just not as good period
not that he's perfect you should have a
cult about him but I'm sorry the ongoing
hot take of Bernie Sanders is he's good
sorry
he's a good candidate he's right about
the main issues and he actually overall
has a very good track record so he's the
one to support my estimation of you have
been kind of genuine progressive
politics but Tulsi Gabbard has been good
on the trail so I'm not gonna you know
I'm not gonna indulge in what I'm
criticizing in others right I don't want
to turn it into like an axe to grind she
said good things about Venezuela she was
actually the only candidate to tweet out
about the insect collapse which is
extraordinarily important and then let
me just give with one take with the
other there was also a report on a bunch
of campaign contributions she's gotten
from arms manufacturers which I would
say for people on the flip side of it I
mean the last thing I'll say she clearly
falls into a category of both irrational
hatred and irrational cultism and and I
say this is somebody who's not a fan and
has serious problems but on the
irrational Colt hood side if you saw
that a candidate received a ton of money
from General Dynamics and then supported
drone policies you would correctly call
that for what it was why can't you do
that with Tulsi but then conversely
there's a lot of people who you know
they hate her for the wrong reasons and
they're not gonna give her props when
she says something that's right and
she's been saying a lot of things that
sound good to me
Medicare for all pay go Venezuela the
environment so cool what else can I say
I think hopefully we can all carry a
little bit more of that kind of vibe
you're calling from a six for seven area
code who are you were
recalling from hey mister - I'm calling
from Canada hey Sebastian what's on your
minds hey yeah I want to talk about the
snap election that's going to happen in
Spain oh talk about I don't know
anything about it I'm Way behind on it
all right well so the Spanish government
fell after the budget proposal was voted
down right and purlins and it's a really
important election because the People's
Party the popular party I don't really
know how to translate it in Spanish it's
the popular party but anyway they um
they just nominated as their leader
this guy who's like I guess you can
compare him to like how marine lepen is
in France he's an extreme right-wing
nationalist he said stuff like he wants
to conquer all of Catalonia he wants to
make abortion illegal he he says so
there was another thing where like the
current government wanted to exhume the
remains of Franco yeah
which is currently you know where Frank
was buried right now is like a basin I
got shrine or like location of
pilgrimage for extreme right-wing you
know neo-nazis Oh basically all over
Europe yep
and so he says he wants to keep Franco's
remains there he said stuff like okay so
so I understand he's really really bad I
am familiar with this person and and and
I should look to do some content about
it but so but yeah like kind of get to
the point
unless it's I mean by the way if your
part is just to warn how horribly is
that's totally legitimate but well yeah
so my point is there's sort of a problem
right now is like how the different
left-wing parties are trying to organize
around stopping him because what
happened in 2015 was there was the
emergence of the podemos party right and
that really disturbed the
I mean like there had traditionally been
the far left in Spain after the the
Socialist Party dropped Marxism from its
platform then there was a contingent of
it that broke off you know and so the
Socialist Party PP became like a sort of
but they moved a little bit back to the
left under this first this Prime
Minister so what's the so anyways but
just you know distill it this is
fascinating stuff it was just you and I
talking I'd go on forever but we're
pretty tight
yeah well so basically they had to do
that because they're a minority
government and it was the first minority
government in the history of okay so
what's your but right now they're in
elections so yeah good get to it please
okay it's important hundred percent and
I will work to do more content on it
myself and I and it's a bummer that
podemos is having a lot of internal
problems but they're a really promising
party thanks for the call min alright um
let's uh okay we'll touch on this
briefly John
Bigler is a cook I don't know who that
is
amazon has pulled out of its plans for
my see thoughts and then let's see look
yeah Amazon announced today that they
are pulling out of New York City Amazon
is reporting out from the New York Times
Amazon said on Thursday that it was
canceling plans to build
oh yeah dude I don't even remember
though what was the hotline bling' Skua
died oh no I know this is the one where
he does this right okay okay Amazon is
canceled
 you goodbye peace you're not gonna
make our subway system even worse than
it already is Long Island City is saved
 Sorry know you that I've already
bought oh sorry oh that's a shame what
if there's a return policy oh yeah mmm
maybe we can use your base tip to pay
off the condo that you bought not so
prime real estate now is it organizing
works people organizing works it was an
incredible testament though to the
passing of the baton to like real
progressive forces like Bill de Blasio's
done some really good things he's done
some really bad things I you know I I
totally in the elections where he was up
I'm glad I voted for him but uh him
going up there talking about the synergy
between Amazon and a housing project I
mean some of the most disturbing a
ridiculous dystopian nonsense from any
public official in our country and of
course we all know what Andrew Cuomo is
so this is a great victory for New York
it's a great victory for labor
organizing and I hope other cities will
take a late age out of this like no I
mean Amazon is is a we'll get to that in
a second Amazon is a structural danger
to the well-being of the country
labor forces supply chains I actually
love a point that Cori pine made which
was like you need to have more friction
than what Amazon provides you need to be
willing to wait an extra day the the
human cost of frictionless delivery like
that is innately
abusive to people and Amazon I mean you
know that's the bigger point the the
sort of also very significant point
obviously is the notion of giving this
not only usually profitable but like you
know potentially the most structurally
dangerous monopoly of our time
additional money to bribe them to come
here to drive up rents and make this
city even more gentrified and clog up
our public transportation because of
course there's no money that's gonna get
pumped into Subway's we're gonna use
that for a helipad is just I mean well
it was to be let me let me not be as
polemical it was extraordinarily
short-sighted policymaking which takes
us to this tweet because Bakari sellers
I just want to get this I don't really
know who barkhaa resellers is frankly I
know that he's a pundit and a former
politician and I know that he supports
Hillary Clinton and he seems to get into
a lot of beef with with Bernie people on
Twitter and I'm I'm not really I'm not I
don't ride on that stuff that much I
mean it's obviously where I stand but I
don't really see a need to sort of fight
with people about these things every
five seconds but and and when I've seen
him on TV he seems like a nice guy and
certainly when he's paired up against a
Republican you know he's he's good
that being said on just a relentless a
supporter of the anything Israel wants
anytime anywhere anyplace variety which
is always why it's a decent idea to see
him with his picture of shmuly bought a
ik and so and just you know again to be
clear like Elie Wiesel unfortunately
towards the end of his life said some
really despicable things in defense of
Israeli atrocities in Gaza he Wiesel is
also a Holocaust survivor personally and
he wrote some really good books and you
know like
he still is it was an important figure
in our national discourse one that
should and needed to be critiqued but
like just as a contrast I mean schmuely
Belt aook I mean he's a right-wing
nothing I don't even understand how he
gets into all of these pictures of
Bakari sellers and Steve Bannon I know
that he was Michael J he literally was
Michael Jackson's rabbi that is why he
is in national consciousness so Carrie
sellers you know I mean obviously that
that part of his record is bad and now
we look at this which is this totally
lame-ass tweet and I'm wondering if he's
looking for some type of consulting or
lobbying contract here because Pocari
sellers tweets out at 11:58 a.m. today
opposing Amazon in NYC was very
short-sighted and what's extraordinary
though is that it's just the absolute
inverse of true because you know I held
no I had no beef honestly with labor
unions that were like hey this is gonna
happen let's get some good building
trades jobs you know the truth is for
working people obviously things are
incredibly tight and that's an
understandable perspective but one that
I would say and I and I meant no right
to say what their decisions should be in
that sense as a non-union person but I
could sell you as an objective political
analyst that's a short-sighted move
because if Amazon comes into the city
it's going to have a huge structural
undermining effect of what remnants
remain of the middle and working class
in this city and it's an anti-union
company and there's no doubt that that
is gonna have a spillover effect with
the oligarchy of New York City a far you
know a corporate right-wing Democratic
governor so Bakari sellers with the
opposite day tweet of the week this is
just billionaires being babies again as
Howard Schultz being pissed because
Seattle won't build a new arena for the
Sonics so he moves him and this is Bezos
being like well we wanted to help the
community so much but only if you give
us all the
give me a helipad and then subsidize our
100k Plus salaries for people to move
here yeah Sellars is a pro-business
Democrat he was on a panel with Sam at a
politican and he was definitely right of
everyone on there but I think the
problem is him coming from like a rural
South Carolina background was like yet
no businesses want to go there we have
to do everything we could incentivize
them to go here right and but we're
talking about New York City and giving
away three billion dollars in tax
credits to build this thing like it's
completely unnecessary that's totally no
that's actually a really good point that
does that I'm sure that that frames his
perspective and I and that's fair that's
a big American divide too right I mean
there's a there's a viral review of
Olive Garden that came out in Grand
Forks North Dakota when I was in college
because this woman's like we got an
Olive Garden to finally come here and
that is it
like I remember getting excited about
like certain sporting goods stores no
dude even growing up in rural
Massachusetts I mean you know and it was
different but because there was big
fluctuations within a pretty small
geographic area so there was definitely
like middle-class college town types of
people that can support a bunch of nice
like coffee shops and independent
bookstores and they don't want big-box
stores but then there also was you drove
forty you know minutes out I mean there
was real there was some like legit rural
poverty and of course people wanted a
Walmart built but I think yeah I mean
yeah that's a very astute point with
Bakari but it's also like what I loved
about this too and the tantrum that
Amazon is throwing me first of all
obviously we're dodging a bullet here
but it's also like what's awesome is
that
they've gotten such pull back push back
that they need to take their ball and go
home and have this little hissy fit when
of course as we point out in the
beginning this whole thing of like all
these cities across America are gonna
compete for us I mean this horrifying
like feudalistic Hunger Games thing was
also extraordinarily because
you know they picked DC metro area and
New York places they clearly want to be
so another what it's very funny about
this actually is that if Amazon wasn't
short-sighted and if Amazon wasn't so
goddamn relentlessly greedy
they could have just said we're opening
in New York City and we're not gonna try
to like steal three billion dollars and
throw away your tax money for it like
we're gonna come here we're gonna cause
more gentrification we're gonna clog the
public transit system we're gonna be
obviously horrible corporate citizens
and make New York suck even more but we
don't have to do the cherry on top of
taking three billion dollars out of the
state budget that could be spent on like
anything else of better use because they
did that they got this great pushback
and now they have to whine and googoo
Ronis what's hilarious is that they
clearly want it to be here so it makes
it all the more hotline bling another
great thing is and very pedantic as well
but it Cuomo is still Amazon Cuomo still
am i a big deal still still at Messiah
Cuomo and it's a tough deal he's just
gonna say it it's for climate change
actually that'd be nice
you couldn't need somebody great I said
Jeff Bezos would give a about the
actual the real Amazon maybe Jeff Bezos
could take a stand against jr. bowls
inaros commitment to clear-cut the
Amazon you know I'd be much more
interested in it or maybe just close at
home you could just make sure none of
his employees are homeless versus doing
some stupid viral video about how he's
gonna fund some dumb project maybe you
could just stop by the way an
exploitation is a technical term so all
employees are exploited but maybe he
could stop exploiting them so much all
right I want to get into this a little
bit do we also have the one from the BBC
so all right and and again we're gonna
cover this more tomorrow because Elliott
Abrams in addition to being a horrible
ghoul in and of himself is a is a door
he's one of these people you can use as
a door to understand
I mean crimes across the globe us-backed
crimes from Latin America to the Middle
East there's a whole world to lay to
waste I mean he
not doesn't have the power in the cloud
but there is a kind of kissing Geryon
element here of blood on his hands
across the globe and Eliot a brand so
we'll play the clip where I mean it's
just exquisite and Ilan Omar is one of
the best members of Congress we have and
solidarity solidarity and his you know
his pestilent whining was also quite
enjoyable to watch but let's take this
as a door here to understand exactly who
this guy is and what his background is
and also by the way going back to these
stupid cou question of earlier this is
the point person on Venezuela Trump the
reason he's testifying to Congress
because the Trump administration and
Mike Pompeo want this guy whose
background is in backing death squads
mass murder mafia states covering up the
mass rape and slaughter of people
including children as young as babies to
be the point person on Venezuela so
again let's be very clear this isn't
just a history lesson this is a
contemporary threat I mean aiding from
the people from the United States of the
people of Venezuela so let's start with
this sound this is Elliott Abrams back
in the 1980s I don't think I see this
one on the sound sheet no the one where
he's talking with Alan Aaron this is him
with Alan Nair what it's not on the
sound sheet so something there and
Elliott Abrams on with Charlie Rose in
1995 talking about Guatemala okay let's
so we're gonna talk about Guatemala and
El Salvador we're gonna do two little
history lessons here but this is
defending and again I want to just give
this set up by saying the general and
chards of Guatemala in the 1980s that
Elliott Abrams is justifying and who
backed is in prison right now for 80
years for genocide this is a matter of
public record this is not just laudable
lefty reporting this is led rooms in
1995 I think you have to be you have to
apply uniform standards President Bush
one took once talked about putting
Saddam Hussein on trial for crimes
against humanity Nuremberg style
tribunal
think that's a good idea but if you're
serious you have to be even-handed if we
look at a case like this I think we have
to talk start talking about putting
watermelon and US officials on trial
I think someone like mr. Abrams would be
a fit subject for such a Nuremberg style
inquiry but I agree with mr. Abrams that
Democrats would have to be in the dock
with him the Congress has been in on
this the Congress approved the sale of
16000 m16s to Guatemala in 87 and 88
plus it they voted more I don't know who
this guy is but he's a hero Allan Nairn
okay okay actually do you know that name
but I don't know whom well this is
amazing and watch I mean of course
Abrams this is actually a preview of his
sleazy response I mean I mean look at
him - ill on Omar but also look at
Charlie Rose be like whoa whoa don't get
impolite here go hey go ahead he
promised the Democrats would have to be
in the dock with him the Congress has
been in on this the Congress approved
the sale of sixteen thousand m16s to
Guatemala in 87 and 88 because they
voted more military aid than the
Republicans asked for and again I invite
you and Elliott Avery back to discuss
what he did but right Charlie but I want
to be in the dock it is ludicrous
it is ludicrous to respond to that kind
of stupidity this guy thinks we were on
the wrong side in the Cold War maybe he
personally was on the wrong side I am
one of the millions of American
missionary don't worry supporting the
massacre of the peasants and organized I
was there I would have to probably and
that's a crime
that's a crime mr. Abrams which people
should be tried you know put all the
American officials who won the Cold War
I'm getting in the dock all right okay
I'm not I'm not mad at that let's play
this clip from the BBC this is 2013 and
this is the general of course Elliott
Abrams should be sitting right alongside
him and Ronald Reagan and all these
other goons but he did actually face
consequences as a BBC report after 36
years of civil war in which 200,000
people were killed few thought this
moment would come the former military
leader of Guatemala a friend Rios Montt
in court to hear his sentence on charges
of genocide and crimes against humanity
in court to some of the thousands of
victims members of the itch chill ethnic
group who day after day had testified
over the rape torture and murder the
military had inflicted on them and their
families during ríos Montt
time in power I know this doesn't erase
the pain but it guarantees that the
atrocities committed by the Guatemalan
army won't be repeated my brother can
finally rest in peace and that thug will
finally go to prison and that means a
lot in this country where there's so
much impunity in the innominate quote
from a piece from 2013 by Greg white
grade in Guatemalan slaughter was part
of Reagan's hardline in 1966 the US
Army's handbook of counterinsurgency
guidelines summarized the results of a
war game waged in a fictitious country
unmistakeably modeled on Guatemala the
rules allowed players to use quote
unquote selective terror but prohibited
quote unquote mass terror genocide the
guidelines stipulated was not an
alternative a decade and a half later
genocide indeed was an option Guatemala
supported materially and morally by
Ronald Reagan's White House Reagan
famously took a hard line in Central
America coming under strong criticism
for supporting the Contras in Nicaragua
and financing the counterinsurgency in
El Salvador his administration's in
Guatemala or less well-known but even
before the 1980 election to rajaiah
retired generals who played prominent
roles in Reagan's campaign reportedly
traveled to Central America and told
Guatemalan officials that quote mr.
Reagan recognizes that a good deal of
dirty work has to be done once an office
Reagan continued to supply munitions and
training to the Guatemalan army despite
a ban on military and aid imposed by the
Carter Administration that led and had
just briefly once more and Reagan was
consistent in his moral backing for
Guatemala's genocide eras in december
5th 1982 for instance he met with rios
montt the man we just saw on that clip
it was in prison for 30 years for
genocide in Honduras and said quote he
was a man of great integrity and
dedicated to democracy
I'll Salvador and of course Elliott
Abrams is the point person for this in
El Salvador this is a contemporaneous
report I believe it was Peter Jennings
actually of some of these death squads
backed in Al salvador these are the
types of people that Elliott Abrams was
working with with Ronald Reagan El
Salvador right wing and the presidential
candidate of arena a slickwell financed
organization that is more than a
political party
it's a paramilitary operation when
dobichon accepted the presidential
nomination he denounced death squads and
violence and he warned the United States
not to make any threats against the El
Salvador army but this week the Los
Angeles Times and the Albuquerque
Journal reported that one wing of a
reina is made up of death squads the
death squads strike at anyone they
suspected working for the guerrillas or
sympathizing with them even when friends
were involved say I'm a businessman I
said Don and I have decided along with
my other friends that you're a communist
and you must die I could pay one of my
bodyguards to have you killed that's one
type of operation
even if we're social friends that
happens there was one man who very
painfully told us that he had to
sacrifice a friend of his in the name of
free enterprise
so that's what we're talking about here
and I'm gonna quote from John Schwarz in
the intercept in December 11th 1981 in
El Salvador Salvadoran military unit
created and trained by the US Army began
slaughtering everyone they could find in
a remote village called El no Zante
before murdering the woman and girls the
soldiers raped them repeatedly including
some as young as ten years old they
joked that their favorites were the 12
year olds one witness described the
soldier tossing a three-year-old child
into the air and impaling him with his
bayonet final death toll was over 800
people the next day on December 2
December 12th the first day in the job
for Elliott Abrams as Assistant
Secretary of State for human rights and
humanitarian affairs in the Reagan
administration Abrams snapped into
action helping to cover up the massacre
news reports of what had happened Abrams
told the Senate were quote/unquote not
credible and quote the whole thing was
being significantly misused as
propaganda by anti-government guerrillas
this past Friday Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo named Abrams as a special envoy
for Venezuela
according to Pompeo Abrams will have
quote responsibility for all things
related in our efforts to restore
democracy in the oil-rich nation the
choice of abram sends a clear message to
venezuela in the world the Trump
administration intends to brutalize
Venezuela while producing a stream of
unctuous rhetoric about America's love
for democracy and human rights combining
these two factors the brutality and the
uncas Ness is Abraham's core competency
and the piece is Elliott Abrams Trump's
pick to democra to bring democracy to
Venezuela has spent his life crushing
democracy it's by John Schwarz in the
intercept so look both we should know
and of course this also can be quite
correlated with ongoing US support of
right-wing forces in Central America and
this of course correlates with issues
related to migrants and people fleeing
violence and coming here and the white
nationalism of the same Trump
administration trying to ferment a coup
in Venezuela but it's a vital history
lesson that everybody should and needs
to know if you're an American and it's
present because this is the game plan in
Venezuela and that's why again I'm not
going to make excuses or airbrush the
failings of the of the present
government but this is not the issue the
issue is right-wing forces and a coup
and an administration tapping a point
person who has gallons and gallons and
gallons and gallons of blood on his
hands and the position of Maduro and the
position of the mexicans and the
positions of the or agua and the
positions of all moderate same forces is
that there does need to be some type of
diplomatic process I don't know how that
works frankly because squeezed in the
middle of Venezuelans of all classes who
are really suffering because of all of
these different factors is the fact that
you have a Bolivarian revolution that
has a real and positive history and has
done some great things also done some
very bad things and it's it has internal
contradictions and his face - relentless
brush for the United States and the
political representations of the
opposition are us-manufactured far-right
course forces trying to have a coup
there so I don't know who you do
diplomacy with but I do know that you
oppose us action there period and Ilan
Omar is a hero now there's some people
that disagree with me about Ilan Omar
and this is pretty extraordinary because
I'll give you this at least Elliott
Abrams well he's as he said that core
competency of covering up slaughter and
being an anxious you know liar but at
least he's coming out and saying oh who
isn't true and no you know and democracy
and winning the Cold War at least his
sociopathy and lies are somewhat on the
ball but leave it to Kelly
nagisa men and I think we also I don't
know if we have the one from max booed
as well but Kelly Magus Maggie Simon
she's a VP at fur at center of American
Progress security okay so you would
assume and I and I just want to be
really
clear about this and look obviously us
Empire and us abusive rights is a
bipartisan affair you see this in
Venezuela only handful of Democrats
willing to speak out about Kumaon going
there that being said some of these
issues actually would specifically
relate to the abrams profile were
actually opposed by democrats at the
time you saw that carter had put
restrictions on Guatemala which Reagan
lifted and the US Congress under
Democratic votes opposed funding the
Contras which is what led to the
iran-contra scandal which is the crimes
that Elliott Abrams was pardoned for by
George Herbert Walker Bush but they'll
go wrong Contra affair literally leads
to things like selling arms illegally to
Iran to wash money back to fund these
death squads because the US Congress
will not vote to give the Contras money
and also the cocaine smuggling that the
CIA was complicit in so you're talking
people like Chris Dodd and John Kerry
opposed some of these policies in the
present moment so the base here is
extraordinarily low okay now I'm giving
you a huge mulligan here which feels
pretty weird for opposing genocide and
the mass rape and murder of children but
I'll you know I understand you see to
some extent I'll give Kelly maximun a
mulligan or not a mulligan I'll give her
a head start in a race rather I'll say
well you know I guess obviously you
can't speak obvious moral truths if
you're in Washington but again these
obvious moral truths were somewhat at
least reflected in the votes of like the
mainstream of the Democratic Party in
the 1980s this is her tweet I worked for
Elliott Abrams as a civil servant he's a
fierce advocate for human rights and
democracy yes he made some serious
professional mistakes and was held
accountable I'm a liberal but I'm also
fair and we've got a lot of work to do
together in Venezuela I bet we share
goals let me just I'm sorry and I should
have warned if kids were listening but
let me just
go back to some of these serious
mistakes that she's not even including
so I think she's probably including just
his pure criminality with regards to
being pardoned for a wrong contra an El
Salvadoran a Salvadoran military eunuch
Raiden trained by the US Army began
slaughtering everyone they could find in
remote village of Eldon boson Tay before
murdering the women the children's the
soldiers raped them repeatedly including
some as young as ten years old skipping
ahead Abrams snapped into action helping
to lead helping to lead a cover-up of
the massacre reports were not credible
said Abrams okay just a little reminder
of again it is extraordinary to me to be
in a position where I do see actually a
culture that should be way less punitive
and way more forgiving and recognize
human mistakes and fallibilities and so
on and so forth this is not normal
outside of the foreign policy
establishment in the United States to
cover up the mass murder and rape of
children and basically be like yeah he
was a nice guy
non to her next tweet no one is not
lionizing neo-cons which by the way is
an anti somatic term oh oh really I
wasn't aware of that
we are agreeing on a bipartisan view of
the importance of democracy and
alliances against authoritarians even as
we have disagreements over other foreign
policy issues this is not hard people
well actually you know it is hard is
that this alliance against
authoritarians which even I would
imagine mediocre resistance people like
her I'd imagine that those
authoritarians include Donald Trump the
administration for which this person who
spent the 80s covering up atrocities and
again this is a fraction of the whole
world that he is laid to waste this guy
is a point person for him any foreign
intervention III I don't even know how
to I don't even know I mean the only use
of a person like her existing is to
reveal the gist complete casual profound
immorality of that
mindset and speaking of profound
immorality and also you know pulling it
I mean it is incredible it's one thing
you know again this is this I can see
why people find conservatives less
annoying because the Conservatives are
the ones who shamelessly and without any
knowledge and with complete immorality
come out like like Brett you know
Kilmeade and all they know about foreign
policy is getting through Red Dawn a
couple of times and they go yeah and
they're just morons and they just
blow v8 and they're just idiots and of
course they've ruined the planet but
it's the Liberals in the centrists that
are gonna both tell you to all you know
okay killing a kid with a bayonet is
actually a lot more complicated than you
think when you think about geopolitics
and incidentally we do need to
destabilize Venezuela but they also are
gonna flip and get sanctimonious with
you or ill on Omar for being rude which
brings us to max boot and the other
person who has a atrocious public record
who's primarily a war propagandist but
because I guess to his credit he
recognizes that trumps just overt
grotesque misogyny and racism are
inappropriate of course he's embraced by
a bunch of idiots
who would you know who who have you know
I don't know Hillary Clinton Walters in
their homes max boot disgraceful ad
hominem attacks by at Hilmar Minnesota
on my Council of Foreign Relations at
see if our colleague Elliott Abrams she
doesn't seem to realize he was a leading
advocate of human rights democracy not a
promoter of genocide more evidence of
the loony left I cautioned Democrats
about slugs his old car and then he
plugs his own column maybe this is the
same column where he said that we need
to have empire for at least another
three centuries that one yeah but but
but uh but woke Empire let me just do a
little bit more reading and this is a
Reagan wall of course Elliott Abrams was
in charge of Human Rights humanitarian
affairs
this is back to Guatemala where the
genocide took place I'm saying max boot
used the phrase genocide by the way
saying and I forget who pointed this out
I can't maybe it was discourse lover on
Twitter but it's correct um that tweet
is actually tantamount to Holocaust
denial there there is a there is a
genocide in Guatemala this is not a
historically contested fact the Reagan
administration backed that government
and you can come and talk about the Cold
War and infiltration and all of that
 and whatever and you want to rank
out about it that's fine but you don't
titles here and pinyons behind your own
facts okay and this is back to the
Reagan administration aid for the
genocide in Guatemala the aid helped the
Guatemalan military implement a key part
of its counterinsurgency plan following
the massacres soldiers herded survivors
into quote unquote model villages
detention camps really where they were
they used food and materials supplied by
the US Agency for International
Development to establish control and
Reagan was consistent in his moral
backing for Guatemala genocidaires
that's what I quoted before and then he
called Rios a man of great integrity and
totally dedicated to remote to democracy
continuing to quote great in here just
ten days after this meaning one
Declassified US document reveals that
the State Department had before reformed
of rel founded allegations of
large-scale killing of Indian men women
and children in a remote area by the
Guatemalan army other declassified
documents reveal that the White House
was less concerned with a massacre then
with their effectiveness or with
countering the bad publicity stemming
from the bad reports from the reports of
the atrocities that of course was part
of Elliott Abrams brief now we have a
little bit more here this is Jade Jain
Nordlinger I don't even know who he is
but he sounds aptly named he's a
national review nerd oh god here we go
I'm not great this is Jade Nordlinger
I'm not greatly sympathetic
and not greatly sympathetic to rep Omar
surprise surprise
but really someone ought to give her a
clue on who Elliott Abrams is the guy's
been champing freedom and human rights
his entire life and taking unholy
from the illiberal left and right again
I thought the illiberal right and
especially from a completely
marginalized utterly irrelevant rag that
nut has no relationship to anything that
is a fly in Trump's America
I thought the administration that
Elliott Abrams is working point on now
would be part of the illiberal right but
you know again and then just back to
again let me just say this I'll quote a
little bit more about this fervent
defender of human rights and democracy
John Schwarz in the intercept Abrams who
previously served in a multitude of
positions in ronald reagan and george w
bush's administration's often with
titles declaring their focus on morality
first he was an Assistant Secretary of
State for international organizational
affairs in 1981 and then the State
Department of Human Rights position
mentioned above 81 to 85 and it goes on
to mention a whole bunch of other agust
positions he got the job when he was 33
years old and this is actually this is
you know what let's just keep doing a
little Republican history here republic
reagan wanted to name earnest leffen
left ever LeFort as Assistant Secretary
of State for human rights and
humanitarian affairs but Lefferts
nomination ran to the ground when two of
his own brothers revealed that he
believed African Americans were quote
inferior intellectually speaking a
disappointed Reagan was forced to turn
to Abrams a second choice this who these
people are folks Ilan Omar is a hero and
she she gave the most classy response to
the good to the miniscule amount of
good-faith criticisms about her tweet
and then maintained her integrity in
terms of the policy set with Israel
this guy has laughed off mocked
dismissed and lied I'm not gonna respond
to a question that's stupid I'm not
gonna respond to a question every city
Marin yeah so a guy who should be in
jail who right now I mean this is like
some horrifying like Clint Eastwood
Bruce Willis like gotta get the old guys
out of retirement vehicle except it's
the old guys out of retirement to set up
death squads in Venezuela and then lie
about it that's his brief
it's disgusting man let's stay on Latin
America actually for a second and I will
continue to speak on president Lula's
case and I actually think that that
history there explains partially why I
mean of course Brazil is actually the
largest country in Latin America and has
a lot more power than others but it
still is subject to intense US interest
and interference and you have a
president who anybody with any kind of
progressive or social democratic
politics should be very interested in
because of his enormous achievements
like eliminating hunger in Brazil like
bringing 30 to 40 million people out of
poverty like setting up a independent
and rational foreign policy like
supporting indigenous rights like
supporting good environmental policies
made mistakes made compromises of course
but also a Workers Party that has
natural and organic roots with labor
forces in Brazil and we could see the
coup the corrupt process that brought
Dilma Rousseff very misogynistic process
that brought Dilma Rousseff out of power
in 2016
I mean jailing without any material
evidence of Lula they Silva when he
almost certainly would have been he was
he was Brazil's
last electoral line of defense against a
fascist candidate and the Brazilian
judicial system and oligarchs under the
guidance of this horrific prosecutor
Sergio Moro jailed and silenced him in
an election he was winning in the UN
said he should
able to run in and the point of this
again is that this actually to me is
emblematic of the sort of alliance of
emergent fascism and capital classes
from Wall Street to local oligarchs also
more broadly generic anti-corruption
rhetoric is the handmaiden of fascism
three people need a much more
sophisticated understanding of
corruption there's a shockingly small
amount of actual evidence of Lula's
corruption but if you demonstrated that
the Workers Party needed to get involved
in in various agreements like in 2005
they there was a vote buying scandal
guess what that's Brazilian politics you
have to bribe smaller parties to pass
your electoral agenda those things are
problems structurally they're
fundamentally different than jerub-baal
senarios son potentially getting direct
cash transfers and employing members of
a criminal organization that's a totally
different thing this is Brian Mayer you
have to read him in Brazil wire watch
the reporting that they do at Ellis or
in real news network obviously TM BS
Brian's really important on this and
here he is first explaining Judge Sergio
Moro who is the persecutor of Lula now
the Justice Minister gearing up for a
war on labor unions and writing the laws
that are flooding Brazil streets with
even more guns on his role in the
persecution and suppression of Lula and
then he ends with a really important
declarative statement and look I know
some people get cynical and I understand
but there are Democrats that put
themselves in a progressive position and
want to be understood as progressives
and some really are progressives and
Bernie Sanders has done a little bit of
this Barbra Lee's than a little bit of
this but they need to be front and
center on Brazilian democracy and
freeing lula da silva what Mauro's role
really was there in the his prosecution
against Lula was inquisitor you know the
the investigator can rule on his own
investigation and this isn't the normal
situation in Brazil it's it's not that
common but they allowed Morel to do it
well he was going after Lula it dates
back to the Inquisition and so how can
Lula get
fair trial in the situation he cannot
and that's why he's in jail
having no material evidence presented
against him
in either of these two cases so what's
next now is there any chance that Lula
could get out of prison someday or what
are his next steps well Gregg the the
IMI I'm not a fortune-teller but in my
opinion there's gonna have to be some
kind of regime change before he gets out
of jail they're gonna do they've still
got one more lava jato investigation
against him for an equally or even more
ridiculous claim involving his Institute
the Lula Institute and a piece of land
you know so even if he wins the appeal
in these first two cases they'll charge
him on this third case and they're kind
of stalling on it to make sure they can
as long as you know surger Maura's
minister of justice and bull snarls
presidents gonna be very hard for Lula
to get out of jail unless there's really
heavy international pressure and we just
don't see that coming from from the
Democratic Party in the US you see that
coming from center-left leaders in
Europe and apparently there was a new
executive meaning of the Labour Party
where Corbin talked about Brazil and
Venezuela but also much more moderate
figures like the Zapatero and Oland have
called I've defended Lula and this
horrific imprisonment but look every
single Democratic member of Congress
needs to hear on this it's fundamental
it's both because it's it's
extraordinarily wrong the way this
person is being treated and also because
it is central to a broader struggle
about Rights and determination and and
also thirdly it's a it's a grotesque
media failure I'm not saying that the
New York Times needs to report you know
they can talk about the charges they can
talk about broader corruption probes but
they never contextualize corruption as a
systems problem
and they also just say he's convicted
they never explain that these court
cases have never demonstrated material
evidence they're braced on squeeze
testimony of people looking to get out
of jail by forces who are politically in
bed with a profoundly authoritarian and
almost certainly profoundly corrupt and
overtly dangerous bolson ro government
but of course this is the same near
Times editorial page that endorsed
removing Chavez 2002 it's again set
aside when you think of Chavez that's an
objective interference every single
Democratic leader needs to speak on
freeing Lula period all right
you're calling from a 3-1 Oh area code
who are you where you calling from
hey Mike hey hey what's going on brother
hey man what's on your mind this is Gary
over silly man hey Gary yeah first time
really appreciate everything you guys do
shout-out to uh Matt Jamie Sam whole
crew cool thank you and I wanted to call
I wanted to just sort of set up a frame
real quick just like using a personal
anecdote but buddy but broadly speaking
like you said you touched on it earlier
when you talked about how Dems have this
like liberals can sort of be annoying
with this call for civility and there's
this sort of reflective mindset and I'm
this is something sort of like I've
thought about through the years and and
I have like three people in my life that
that run the gamut from far-right
conservatives to like Third Way centrist
and then a Liberal Democrat who even
voted for Bernie and in the primary two
years ago and we were at dinner last
night and it just sort of struck me at
the end of the night that in all three
of these cases those sort of archetypes
those those the people and the ideas
that they that they represent
politically
they're they're very unaware of sort of
the political concept of something that
that you guys have covered a lot and Sam
talks a lot about which is asymmetric
polarization right and right the thing
that I we sort of like any time it
doesn't matter if I'm talking to a
far-right person who a family member who
I love but but who's just you know he's
a fox fury reads The Wall Street Journal
you know or if I talk to my Third Way
centrist friend he's always sending me
pieces by you know David Brooks and
Rostow hat and he sent me the max loot
piece that just came out you know you
know the one that was saying the dumb
Dems are you know they need to do this
and so last night this is sort of the
third prong of it like this is the
Liberal Democrats and even in this case
where this guy we agree on 99% of the
things but there is this with I have
found that there is this reflexive need
to sort of there's a self-image that
certain liberals have just say well I I
don't identify by party right and and
and and what I was trying to communicate
because he was saying he sort of made in
effect I said well you know you know
unions are the problem and then he won't
daring this he was stirring some
personal anecdotes about like individual
stories of like inefficient lazy city
workers right and I granted him that I
said yeah of course like as a dude yes
there are there are there moments where
government workers and like
bureaucracies run amok and they they but
that is not the primary driver in this
problem and my the thing that I'm at a
loss for where to go because it seems
like no matter what you say whether it's
they just don't understand the the true
nature of what we're facing in the form
of this Republican Party I think I I
think you're totally right and I would
say in the case of your progressive
friend I think honestly I'll do a
shameless plug you should be telling me
to listen to this show as an example
because I do think would people like
that who are already there politically
they just need social permission to not
play into those cliches I think you need
community yeah you need exactly
community precisely and I think any and
it's funny to like this is a difference
between being in your mid thirties in
mid twenties right like I mean like
there's plenty of people who are my age
you've always had left politics even
publicly so but it had like the
progression of like oh man like do I
have to pretend that you know
that's a problem or what I'm saying like
because there's all these yeah and
that's what we need to be very worried
in general I think about sort of
substituting mores for politics but I
would recommend your friend listen to
this show and you know all the other
shows in this universe I think that
would be helpful
your centrist friend I don't know man I
I I think it's one thing to talk about
somebody who's kind of on the
center-left and bringing them through
policy but I got to say like a diet of
dough that Brooks and boot I mean who
does not does not a sharp line make but
you know I guess you know I mean I guess
in his case what I would say is if you
want maybe you could give him like books
by like Jacob hacker as an example who
actually it's less polemical but it's
like the actual numbers on asymmetric
polarization and the actual political
science of why the cliches that are
probable by those people and then you
know your public and friend I don't know
I mean you know talk about basketball or
football or whatever thanks for the call
man you know honestly like I'm gonna say
to stop banging yeah I mean I've I've
I'd certainly I've in fact one really
good friend who is who was
professionally radically different
politics I mean we argue about but
you also just have to remember that
there is a much bigger life than
politics you know and also like we have
a lot of authors on here that are think
good bridges like I mean Jane Mayer's I
think my favorite cuz just a couple of
books she's written but also like oh but
not Beschloss who am I thinking of I
mean there's a just look who's the guy
who no no it was a foreign policy guy
I'll figure a Walt no he wrote the book
about how Jimmy Carter and sort of the
move to the Middle East
oh base of it base of it yeah guys like
that I think where they're sort of they
have a lot of this sort of prestige of
print prestige to them I think that's
important for people like you they'd
like to see a like a Pulitzer Prize
definitely for that centrist type
they're ver they're very they're very
attached that kind of thing for sure
alright let's play this piece of sound
you know even the theme of this show has
been us-backed atrocities and murder
across the world and sometimes of course
the United States does it itself as in
all of the atrocities in Iraq as an
example here's Duncan Hunter who I
thought thunka thunka Hunter was on his
way to jail
I know that his district is apparently
so afraid of Muslims that they actually
he defeated a very promising candidate
running a totally bigoted fear-mongering
a actual bigoted fear-mongering campaign
in actual reality just like Kevin
McCarthy's George Soros Tom Styer meme
was in fact actually anti-semitic here's
Duncan Hunter taking a break from all
the various corruption probes about him
to say like you know it's totally
Affairs the fact that like the US
military even has rules of engagement
like what the Matt Golson is under
suspicion for premeditated murder
Eddie Gallagher's in jail in San Diego a
Navy SEAL that is in trouble for killing
bad guys the wrong way what I think we
have here is a case of what the US
government would call compassionate
combat meaning the US government for the
last five years under President Bush and
crystallized under President Obama has
wanted us to kill the bad guys but in
the right way many they they want us to
kill guys compassionately and only under
the rules of engagement that they say
too and if you kill the bad guys that we
actually say are bad guys the wrong way
well the US government then is going to
try you for murder
and put you in jail even if you're a
decorated Green Beret if you're a Navy
SEAL if you're Marine Corps Force Recon
that's that's where we've fallen here
and I think that's that's the umbrella
that all this falls under that's why
gold suit is in so much trouble they're
supposed to be a thing now compassionate
combat which doesn't exist either you
want us to kill the bad guys or you
don't
Matt what is the goldstein yeah this is
from splinter the Republican
specifically calls out the Republican
Hunter in this case Hunter specifically
calls out several US service members who
are under investigation or on trial for
war crimes or murder Army Major Matthew
gulstan for instance is accused of
taking a captured Afghan insurgent off
the base he was being held at executing
him and then burning his body in a trash
pit to hide the evidence
mmm you know what's really interesting
here and I hesitate to even go here
because this is this is actually where
there is just like a moral full stop and
there isn't really anything other to say
other than the fact that a sitting US
congressman is on a massive propaganda
network for the Republican Party
promoting murder and atrocities which
should speak for itself but the shift
under Bush and Obama and that he's
referring to and certainly Bush was
responsible not only for many civilian
casualties but a global torture regimen
and the drone war of Obama killed a
extraordinary amount of innocent people
in Pakistan and Yemen but what they're
talking about and it's funny cuz he's
actually really insulting people at
these that they used to at least lionize
like Stanley McChrystal and David
Petraeus who also have plenty of body
accounts and blood on their hands but
the theory of coin of counterinsurgency
strategy is based off of a pretty simple
premise which is that if you're fighting
a essentially you're doing police work
in in the way the police work globally
is become highly militarized and is a
actually a huge problem of the center
oppressing the peripheries everywhere
and obviously you know Israel Palestine
is kind of the prototype of that dynamic
but you see it in Ferguson as an example
but the theory of coin is based on the
premise that if you need to cooperate
with a local village as an example to
tip you off on a suicide bomb making
factory it helps if all of the people
there don't hate you because you're
murdering them so the theory is is that
it is in your self-interest to play
soccer with the kids to sit down and
have some tea
versus abduct somebody kill them and
then burn their body in a pit to cover
the evidence so I hesitate to even go to
that second order point because that's a
Congress person sitting on television
advocating murder and atrocities while
idiots not alone but even by their own
logic and I will use that phrase these
not understanding coin strategy and if
some Brooklyn socialist Adidas
tracksuit guy could break that
down for you there's a big problem there
all right you're calling from an 8-3 to
area code who are you where you're
calling from hey this is David I'm
calling from Austin Texas
hey David what's going on hey I actually
called last week but first time call and
I got nervous and I don't think I've
made my point very clearly okay no
nervous what's on your minds I mention
I'm interested in Israel Palestine okay
and I really think that the two-state
solution is more likely to happen than
the one state solution I don't agree
with the premise that's what's hard for
me right tonight can I tell you why sure
but you have to tell me I want to tip
you late so David I don't want to be
rude but you got to tell me if it's in
the land of abstractions like I have my
ideological position which is I'm a
one-state solution guy because I'm
generally into like democracy for
everybody and not into like identity
based States period have any kind no
matter how justified and I couldn't
think of one more justified than Israel
but like I don't want you know I don't
like that Pakistan is Muslim state I
don't like that Iran is a Muslim state
I'd like I don't agree with that premise
and I don't like the idea of any even
subtle form of second-class citizenship
for anyone but that being said if we
lived in a time where Israel actually
stopped building settlements and they
actually gave a full Noble
 67 state the Palestinians and
there was restitution to refugees and
the Palestinians wanted that deal then
cool I would support that
but right now it is both totally not on
the table it's completely physically
impossible it is a one state right now
and every person that talks about that
mostly right now is talking about a
process that's been dead for at least
twenty years and it's a distraction from
the issues of the moment so you got to
tell me in today's world with today's
material conditions how that statement
makes sense as just a logistical one I
don't care about ideological I'm
honestly agnostic right my my point is
very logistical so Israel is really
gonna I mean it's going to be in control
of what it accepts and you have to ask
yourself what is Israel more fiercely
committed to what is Israel less likely
to give up the Jewish character of its
state or the settlement no dude and
they're wrong that's I'm not trying
again I got a formulations wrong the the
form the classic formulation is
democracy identity and land and again
I'm not and I know people get very
pedantry on this but spare me I
understand that I agree I think even
within 67 borders it's not exactly a
full democracy as we would defined it at
all but that being said there's a big
difference inside 67 borders and inside
the occupation and the siege on Gaza so
the argument was exact so there art will
let me finish so the argument was you
can have land democracy and Judaism you
can't have all three what in
practicality and actuality in terms of
reality because it is a one state has
been now for over 60 years has Israel
given up in that formulation and I got a
hint for you it is not land or identity
it's the D word yours here's what I
would say to that you're saying that
it's one state it is a word
no it's not because terms of reality it
is though and it's run by one country
it's run by one country it's the
opposite of a word get that's true it is
literally one state to extend its
borders what would it take for Israel to
extend it they don't need a if they need
more if they need that wouldn't make any
difference the reality is is that right
now the only foreign pressure that could
be applied on the united's and the on
Israel would be some form of collective
social movement would have some value
and already does in some ways and then
extreme diplomatic pressure from the
United States nothing else will impact
it and Israel's obviously already 2.2 or
under Netanyahu and these emergent far
even further right forces they don't
care about the international PR aspect
that leaders like Barak and Omar cared
about so they're fine with the status
quo it's not a problem for them if you
go and look at the Israeli election the
status quo they like if you go and take
in those well okay that's never gonna
happen
and the two-state is never gonna happen
you're talking about two total and
possibilities as of current politics the
only problem is one party one is already
a discredited and done possibility and
the other has a positive future thanks
for the call man all right um I just
can't I'm sorry it's like Ike we're
talking two plus two equals four stuff
here I don't know what to tell you it's
not on the table and the reality is at
least in a one-state situation you're
formulating a response that has to do
with the facts on the ground however
that plays out that we could find a
political settlement there that has not
been done before it could be a Lebanese
model it could be a South African full
transition to democracy maybe those
things actually put on the table is
actually what forces a two-state but I
actually don't know how you do that now
you'd have to at this point uproot
ironically you'd actually have to create
a flood of Jewish refugees to create a
two-state solution so it's it's not it's
literally not real thinking right now
you're calling from a five
7-1 area code who are you where you're
calling from yeah what's up bro hey yes
what's on your minds what's your name
yeah oh hey I'm sorry man no Jason I'm
from Northern Virginia
hey Jason hey John Michael it's good to
be talking about Jason what's on your
minds hey so I mean there's a billion
ways that could go with this but what I
really wanted to talk about was the
green new deal okay and the unwilling to
work thing okay so how do you that
how do you vector that how do I want to
see to me yeah how do you better that
like like yeah in terms of real and all
vector writing things right like for
example it's the optics of it just just
how that plays but it wasn't it already
cover yeah we already covered it wasn't
in the final document Jason it's not out
there so it's already done do you have
anything else you want to know no no
look bro I get that but what I'm saying
is that sent back to the progressive
agenda I don't think it's such a bad a
Sunday so Jason what do you say
I mean why we will even reinforce that
if even if I accepted your premise that
it was a tiny unforced error people have
already forgotten it so it doesn't
matter what do you have anything else
because I don't want to be an
just want to talk with you about
something that's that I feel is relevant
do you have anything else that you want
to do at okay so what do you think's
relevant I mean I think I could do
libertarian all day long like like who
could we could put that on a spectrum oh
no no that's for Sam I don't care okay
here's the thing here's the thing here's
the thing bro you shut me down with
inside of 30 seconds oh that last caller
you gave him all the rope in the world
you wouldn't even give me 30
seconds yeah because I recovered
something we get we literally did this
last week I mean if you're gonna get a
plan about it we did this last week I
think we even posted the clip where he
talked about this well I think it was
thanks for the call yeah and don't come
with that attitude
yeah that's an ID way to get bumped from
very likely even faster than 30 seconds
in faster than 30 seconds you're calling
him a 305 area
who are you where you're calling from
hey it's guy from Miami how's it going
Mike hey guy what's going on what's on
your minds
all right uh look uh you good that your
pitcher on today because what I want to
call about is a show you're the show
your show is one like one that you did
was wanting to turn me on to this show
okay as you were doing this thing this
thing on John Jonathan Chait who I've
been obsessed with like since college
because I went to college with a guy Oh
God
he's cool he's like super talented in
terms of being a writer he was even back
then when he was very very uh he was a
very good writer and that's why he went
right to the newer college so and
basically stayed there for a long time
and he was like he came out with Jesse
Walker who was a another editor who
ended up as an editor at reason yeah it
was a smart group of people he was the
EIC at the Michigan daily which is a big
you know really good daily newspaper he
did a great job
all right he's a nerd what's what's what
is the point my friend okay yes the most
the most recent thing that he's been
wrong about it yes now he's throwing
shade he basically says that the that
the green new deal is bad
he was also he was for the Iraq war he
faithfully did a did a long article I
think it was like 15,000 words or
something on all of the different
reasons why the the the Iraq war would
be a great idea you know before the
invasion actually happened um the only
thing it in couch he was the exact same
way he was against affirmative action he
was against what he called political
correctness the only thing that he was
quote-unquote liberal about was that he
wasn't a libertarian you know like he
wasn't uh he wasn't like a far-right
libertarian like Jesse Walker wasn't he
he was like pro-abortion I guess I mean
I don't know what I I don't know why the
guy calls himself a liberal he's very
persuasive he's a great polemic but he
is wrong all the time and even that even
when he's right he's you know like when
he tried when he's close to being
he's still wrong the book that he did on
Obama and Obamacare turned out to be
wrong he said that it was going to live
forever and there was nothing that they
could do to take it apart and total BS
they've taken it halfway apart already
I know so the guy so there you have it
you have it from that Jonathan shades
college friends who spent a crazy amount
of time talking about how good he was a
writer he's wrong he's wrong
I did it thank you for the cola lion
appreciate it thank you all right you're
calling from a 2/3 one area code who are
you where you're calling from yes Bay
Area
hey Mohamed what's going on in life
great except what's happening in Sudan I
am and I just want to thank you for the
episode you did with the bill Richard
jr. feels great
yep he's grand oh yeah also I wanna like
speak about this so one of my relative
in Sudan is she's the lady she's a
teacher she did broadcast in Khartoum in
front of the the Belgic Belgium school
and we we don't know like yesterday they
the the bashira regime security force
kidnapped her and we don't know about it
and that made me think like about other
people like I'm so so so I'm so so yeah
and yeah and that made me think about
all the other people in Sudan because
every time you think about those things
that happen to other people not to your
own family so this put me in their
position and today especially that I
know that from
Twitter that they are targeting women
they are going to especially woman
they're taking them like arresting them
they go inside the offices and like
schools and stuff like that just to
target women they try to force like
scarce Sudanese people to stop the
uprising but I don't think this kind of
work because it's been very inspiration
to us like it's been a continuous can
continue for like two months I'm sort of
it no no this is great
can you tell us you know I'll continue
to cover it probably I mean I'll do a
bit more here and we'll try to get it
into the news pack it's obviously I'll
definitely do more of it on on on TMDs
but I mean what you know obviously we
can talk about it and I think there is a
name value and just connecting all of us
more and more but what would you like us
to do that's within our capacity to do
to support this uprising I mean it's
incredibly important it's labor oriented
its rights oriented its woman's oriented
these are you know and this is a regime
than the various ways the remnants of it
and the structure of it goes back to the
80s and the focus here has been on the
crimes against humanity of Omar or
Bashar which is real and there's also
another element of as I say labor and
austerity which is striking to me the
extent to which this gets no attention
here when it has to do with atrocities
in Darfur which obviously is usually
important I'm not minimizing that but
Sudan was on this sort of liberal
do-goodery list of you know the elite
bush and early Obama era and now as this
uprising takes place and all of its
importance and inspiration and
complexity but also horror and damage
and violence you know we're not talking
about it as much so I mean what would
you like us to do
oh yeah I especially think that it's
important to like just to cover it and
draw inspiration of it like for other
people like the fact that the Sudanese
people are fighting all those like
previous like perception about them
especially that they forgot about Darfur
and the people's were from North Sudan
they forgot about therefore they didn't
pay enough attention and you heard from
mr. Fletcher jr. about the racism the
previous racism now they are saying that
to the Vichy regime we all therefore you
can't divide and conquer us right I
think like if more raw politician here
in the United States pay more attention
and just condemn the horrendous like act
of violence that the Assad regime want
to like inflict and Sudanese people for
no point whatsoever because they're not
going to give up they're not gonna like
bow down for all this like atrocity
because what can you do like you can't
just like destroy the economy destroy
the Sudanese people potential and just
do what they did today by kidnapping a
targeting woman and except that you can
like make this as any as people about
them and I don't think that the you can
do more than that just condemning and
say that we are all in student
solidarity with the Sudanese people and
we are all in solidarity with the
Sudanese people we're all in solidarity
to Sudanese people it's incredible thank
you for the call please continue to call
and I will ramp back out that coverage
if you haven't seen it yet
you watch the conversation we have it
specifically clipped at the T MBS
YouTube channel with Bill Fletcher jr.
on the Sudanese uprising will continue
Mohammed thank you so much thank you
very much right all right that's the
last call of the day folks sorry for
those that are waiting that's I guess
just the nature of the game now also to
be blunt see if you do good cause get
good responses bro yeah she mentioned
the difference between that call and
like Oh what talk about a controversy
that's died and you already covered I
pissed off about it it doesn't matter
people probably don't even remember it I
was like I gotta tell you like just far
be it for me to do identity politics but
like I understand understand the
mentality to some extent of both like
Mike my grandmother is an example who
worked on the like Amtrak and
Long Island Road railroad system you
know and I'm not saying I'm sure the
gentleman from Virginia works a lot but
a guy who's driving an uber from Egypt
in New York City I it's like I'm gonna
cut a lot more slack on the like I'm
offended that you're talking about
people sitting on their ass rhetoric
okay so he called in we covered we
cleared it up it isn't even in the final
legislation I mean come on man it's like
just it's don't were carrying water for
them yeah it's it's it's okay just
concern trolling yeah I don't do that
social justice worry the defense of aim
Klobuchar is pretty shocking abuse in
the workplace is awful and all too
shocking looking at past this is
extremely sexist I know people work for
clearly Clinton as well political view
society I heard she was professional one
of the easiest boss to work for in DC
I've said this on multiple outlets now I
think the woke Bros that came out today
I mentioned this Bosch car some cars are
hillary clinton by all accounts
excellent to work for and deploying that
just unbelievably cynical and delusional
defense of hers is a disaster whirlpool
historical disaster and as I keep saying
if she came out and said I sorry I
learned from this
I might my follow-up question would be
what's your view on the green new deal I
have no attachment to controversy
mongering or cancelling but she came out
and said I have high expectations of my
staff just like myself and the country
oh yeah you a throw a binder at
us you know like call foreign embassies
and say we can't go on vacations cuz we
pissed you off and that's ridiculous
Hillary's such a good boss she won't
even make you go to Wisconsin she brings
pizza to work now listen you've you
brushless I was making a serious point
Hillary Clinton is by all accounts an
excellent boss I mean look at the way
that Peter dad went to the mat for her
for like 18 months after that election
well created very he's also completely
Dow that was back from the apparently
back from Dow is they all over there i
boiled her I mean it must be he's not
anymore though that's why he's like he's
like rebirth themself as like a Bernie
bro it was like very crashed and he
wasn't mentioned in the index of her
book oh yes I know what drones
Wall Street hey man what's a citizen
Pete Seeger down just becomes like the
the number one like anti Center for
American Progress tweeters I'm all for
it and I mean I I'm all again I'm
totally in the redemptive mode so
welcome aboard petered out but the
comedic part of me is like and because
he's petered out he does all of this
 like all of the things that he
falsely accused other people of doing he
does graciously she's a
you're like whoa Peter stop that's not
what it is
uh happy Lulla Lulla x tines day yes
Ryan
Lenny L Ryan in LA my favorite Elliott
Abrams story is that at the height of
the iran-contra trees and he claims to
have lost something like 20 million
because he wrote down the wrong
count number on a deposit slip for a
Swiss bank account so some third world
dictator a European Nazi supporting
industrialist or drug treatment kingpin
received a nice little bonus care of
uncle Ronnie Reagan the senate-confirmed
bar Jesus Christ I guess I wasn't a
surprise but it's ridiculous the
candidate Dunkin hunk Dunkin jr.
defeated wasn't even Muslim he was half
Palestinian half Latino Christian but
you know they're running anti-muslim
bigotry on it regardless that's all
right again not getting to all of these
Brian from Chicago happy Valentine's Day
mr crew have you seen the the wealth tax
calculator that wealth locks put out
share my plan and created some
interesting discussion I want to know
what you guys thought I haven't seen it
yet uh the final the final I am of the
day
[Music]
calmly Harris's Jamaican side actually
I'm still not for weed we're back here
tomorrow everybody thanks
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
[Music]
feel in defense
yeah
take it
[Music]
the choice is made
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
