[Music]
but here's Glenn Beck he must be very
cold in that studio but here he is it's
talking about the green new a new deal
and a OC s secret plot and then of
course he moves to the board and gets
all mixed metaphor on us we're now
talking about a a new economy based on
greenhouse gases blah blah blah but
social justice and it will be driven by
the United States government it also
says a couple pages later positive like
I can also just note how far we have
fallen when he used to have a set that
was literally a complete replica of the
Oval Office and now he just seems to be
sitting on a deck with a you know I got
on a fairly I don't know anodyne desk
and you know a fake klieg light behind
him right I mean that's basically it
good to mitigate deeply entrenched
racial regional and gender-based
inequalities and income and wealth
including without limitation ensuring
that the federal government investment
will be equally distributed to
historically impoverished low-income
de-industrialized or other marginalized
communities in such a way that builds
wealth and ownership at the community
level it will also include measures such
as basic minimum income universal health
care programs and any others the Select
Committee might find appropriate they
also will deeply involve 'national and
local labor unions to play a leadership
role
ooh sounds scary I like the plan where
they were taking our planes and cars
better than this one which led me to
believe there's a couple of things that
move next of all there's the Overton
Window and we talked about the Overton
Window
years ago the Overton Window is is this
idea that I say something crazy and
that's so much
better than you know what you know then
what you're actually gonna get so when I
was in for one second I mean this is
like there there's a couple things going
on here one is he's talking about
himself saying something crazy the other
is that they don't have the same
production crew that they used to have
and so he had to plug in his own mic and
that's why distracted I mean I can I can
appreciate that what this happens to me
all the time around here like oh I'm
having a problem with the computer and
bah-bah-bah but so here's his Overton
Window set up on one end it's 1790 which
is as you know a date and on the other
end is Venezuela Cuba which as you know
are two places so his Overton Window
actually travels through space and time
simultaneously but also through the
total free market the left it was it was
so free you could buy human beings to be
laborers that's right that's right good
and again so in other words we have a
total free market night - in 1790 okay
total free market well we moved it to
some welfare deposit that's also not
true I don't know what first of all I
don't know what that means
if he doesn't mean there wasn't like
taxation or there wasn't postal service
there wasn't a postal service or or I
mean I don't know what he means by a
total free market he means this
imaginary and cat paradise that never
existed right exactly
okay pretty massive but some welfare
people on the left are saying we want to
be like Sweden that's not a communist
asset so so let me if I understand the
his Overton Window ranges from 1790 and
then between 1790 and Sweden is some
welfare well it's kind of a Overton
Window and the Overton timeline right
okay so it's an Overton timeline and
also it seems to be like a map socialist
country what this is is a country that
has a welfare state
it's still capitalist Saudi Arabia still
a little bit capitalist but a total
planned economy where the government
runs the economy that's the former USSR
that's China that's Venezuela that's
Cuba now I thought originally that they
were taking this Overton Window and they
were moving it way down here so then we
would go oh thank goodness Sweden is a
break
so this confuses me because he's saying
AOC is is suggesting we want Venezuela
so that we can land on Sweden is that
what Glenn Beck is that's what he
thought that's what he thought it was
but now he's dangerous moving it way
down here so then we would go oh thank
goodness Sweden is a break I don't think
so I think it's this one I think it's
misdirection and I think that Acacio
Cortes is being used the magician
misdirection he's doing something back
here
but he's tossing you to look here at his
hand it's behind the back that matters
misdirection he's showing you nonsense
the bullet trains no cars the cow farts
showing you nonsense but back here is
the total planned economy that's the
green New Deal he's letting her be a
circus who is this that is so confusing
to me I thought the bullet trains no
cars planes cow farts was the green New
Deal don't you need total plan okay ok
no total plant economy is the new green
New Deal
but whoever the the the misdirection
magician is he's saying that he's using
aoc with the nonsense but she's actually
the green New Deal right like I don't
understand like which hand she's in
she's in both hands at the same time
that's how dangerous she is oh my god
nothing that she's proposed so far is
any more radical than what they have in
Sweden well but the bottom line is that
you're still stuck on the Overton Window
you're thinking about Saudi Arabia right
right no excuse me she's thinking about
Venezuela I'm thinking about
Arabia except Iran because I'm Shia here
is the total planned economy that's the
degree new deal he's letting her be a
circus who's he who is this yes that's
sitting back saying don't worry about it
let her shoe collapse on her own weight
she's a joke what she's a joke we'll get
it done and we'll use her to pull it off
wait now I know what everybody's saying
like wait who see who's the he that is
we don't know we don't know it is but
the hypnotist or the magician is using
AOC so this is the thing this is this is
a plan this is you know that you know
the the first they laugh at you that
whole thing right what the conservatives
do is when they realize they're not
going to make a OC unlikeable they now
are going to make her being a puppet she
she is now the victim that's where he's
trying to go with this she's being used
she doesn't realize it and they will
it's much easier for the right to buy
into the idea of like oh well okay yeah
right she's not as unlikable as we
thought she is but she's a woman so
she's clearly being directed by some
evil force and we're gonna have to
follow this we're gonna be on the what
happened was she was at the bar and
Soros walked in he said would you like a
career change I feel like it could be
steyr right isn't it's tire now is
higher he came up in the multiple
desires it just literally burns through
his bank account
Blake essentially just doing stuff
that's already like totally
oversaturated on MSNBC just like hey
just to remind everybody the main
programming block is true I'm glad I
spent 40 million dollars on that we did
discuss in the endorsement meeting if
the DSA that we are going to support her
as a Trojan horse for turning this
country into the United States of
Venezuela there we go
where we just we need to build the
bridge right
exactly it's a transitional program no I
mean literally bridge from Venezuela two
years ago we can just walk there I mean
that part's the secret still so that's
the magic
