crazy week the Democrats of course have
passed the minimum wage it doesn't mean
much but it's good I don't know why
Nancy Pelosi is excited about something
that's going to die in the Senate when
that has been such a problem in the
context of impeachment but I guess in
this context it doesn't really matter
let's go here well let's play this sound
a Donald Trump apparently is disavowing
everything he had to say the other night
at the campaign rally
as president by me when your supporters
last night were challenging chanting
ascend to her back why don't you stop
them why don't you ask them to stop
saying well number one I think I did I
started speaking very quickly
it really was a I disagree with her by
the way but it was quite a champ and I a
little bit family about it
but I will say this I did and I started
speaking very quickly but it started out
rather rather fast as you probably know
there you go rather that's rather fast I
I was talking I would really felt bad
about it what happened was it was so
fast in the auditorium and they were
speaking about the Jews in a way that
was so extra yeah they got their way out
in front of me um that's what it was
it's almost like we're who's supposed to
wait on that a couple of months
meanwhile it's not just you know Donald
Trump doesn't it's not Donald Trump's
problem it's uh it's also it's his his
followers that are the problem here
here's a clip of a Geraldo trying to
defend him it's clip number four go back
to where you came from is the old racist
trope that all of us a legal racial
minorities have grown up with at various
times it is unforgivable at this day and
age and I really lament that it came up
I'm glad the president has said what he
said and I think that the crowds if you
love this president then don't ever do
that again at one of his rallies because
what you do is you diminish him he is
the glue that holds our republic
together he is the man that makes a
pluribus unum work out of many one we
cannot ever fall back into that lazy
kind of the other that that we did for
several days
there you go to be called mrs. followers
I don't want to say to be I hate the
phrase in fact to be fair but I I in
this case as I watched that with this
sort of like you know the slobbering
over Trump that to me is the you know he
gets everything from Fox please stop
doing this message not you know are you
saying Geraldo yeah I'm that message
that's my interpretation and I have no
brief for Geraldo but that's how I read
that I think Trump it's it's impressive
that Trump walked it back because you
know he enjoyed it
loved it of course it's it's shocking I
still I it's it's shocking super
disturbing I will talk more about that
with Ben Dickson
