you really have a an unbelievably severe
to the extent that there is a crisis now
at the border it is one of our violation
of Human Rights
and there have been multiple reports
over the weekend to this effect of
queued conditions at these migrant
children's detention facilities the AAP
went down there did some investigation
in some of these facilities in one
instance in McAllen Texas it's reported
in Huffington Post for toddlers were so
severely ill and neglected at a u.s.
Border Patrol facility in McLellan that
lawyers force the government to
hospitalize them last week the children
were all under the age of three with
teenage mothers or guardians they were
feverish coughing vomiting and had
diarrhea some of the toddlers and
infants were refusing to eat or drink
one two-year-olds eyes were rolled back
in her head and she was completely
unresponsive
according to tobe Gally lake a Florida
based attorney another mother at the
same facility had a premature baby who
was listless and wrapped in a dirty
towel lawyers feared if they had not
shown up at the facility the sick kids
would have received zero medical
attention potentially died
this has been ongoing there's more of
this here is a an interview with Warren
Binford she is a law professor at
Willamette University she towards these
facilities have been doing so for a long
time look there's been problems with
these facilities prior to this but they
have never been this extreme and
extensive as I mentioned you were inside
this Texas facility can you just give us
some sense of what it is you saw inside
yes basically what we saw our dirty
children who are malnourished who are
being severely neglected they are being
kept in inhumane conditions they are
essentially being warehoused as many as
300 children in a cell with almost no
adult supervision
we have children caring for other young
children for example we saw a little boy
in diapers or he had no diapers on he
should have had a diaper on he was 2
years old and when I asked why you
didn't have diapers on I was told he
didn't need it he immediately urinated
and he was in the care of another child
children cannot take care of children
and yet that's how they are trying to
run this facility the children are
hardly being fed anything nutritious and
they are being medically neglected we're
seeing a flu outbreak and we're also
seeing a lice-infested it is we have
children sleeping on the floor it's the
worst conditions I've ever witnessed in
several years of doing these inspections
and to be clear here in this interview
the interviewer brag brangham said what
you described is really hard to put our
heads around that this is inside a US
government facility I wonder what do we
know about these children's parents were
they coming across the border alone did
they come with families and separated
how did they get here Binford says
almost none of the children that we
interviewed had come across the border
themselves alone they came across the
border with family and they're trying to
get reunited with family who are living
in the United States almost every child
I interview had family parents uncles
aunts grandparents siblings here in the
United States who are waiting for them
and ready to care for them
they're not being released to these
people or these people are afraid to
come to get them because they've been
scared I mean that has been this
strategy that ice has been following and
[Music]
it's insane it's disgusting and it's
insane she went on to say what I'm
hearing from the Border Patrol officers
who spoke to us privately in the
hallways they don't want the children
there many of them are parents
themselves they know these children
don't belong there and they need to be
with their families they're saying that
oh our our that's the Office of refugee
resettlement or and ice are not coming
to pick up these children and process
them so that they can be reunited for
their families I mean this is all being
done on purpose they the administration
wants to project that they are willing
to be sadistic they think somehow it's
going to magically make the situation's
in these people's home countries seem
that much less severe and dangerous
which of course is absurd
and I don't know if it's just you know
that stories like this they find them
disgusting but I'm not convinced that
the Trump people don't feel like this is
gonna help us
there was a story I just saw the
headline where a guy responded I don't
know if there's video of this he says
we're we're a trump voter was basically
like I don't I don't appreciate being
told that I can feel bad for these kids
I mean I feel bad for kids but it's up
to their parents to deal with this stuff
shouldn't bring them here they're
endangering the kids that's psycho
psycho authoritarian sadistic psychopath
or eternia and you're not on like you're
out you're not and you you're not on the
human team you could say something like
that meanwhile there's an ongoing case
if you've been following this at all
during the Clinton administration I
think it was or even maybe prior to that
actually maybe it ended in the Clinton
administration there was an agreement
reached when for migrant children
brought a suit against the United States
for their treatment in these facilities
a lawsuit they they hammered out an
agreement called the Flores agreement
and one of the one of the plaintiffs
whose name was a Flores she was a I
think 1012 not sure exactly the same age
she was in a facility with adults for
months horrible situation obviously and
the Flores agreement basically limits
the amount of time that children who
have parents
can be separated from those parents in
health and specifically if the parents
are not charged with any type of
criminal offence it also says that they
need to be cared for now this is a suit
that was actually brought prior to
Donald Trump his administration and to
be fair here the lawyer from the DOJ is
simply trying to argue that the trial
judge changed the standard but it really
is grotesque and it tells the story of
what's going on the very least it tells
a story that ice needs to be abolished
here is the Department of Justice lawyer
trying to argue to the Ninth Circuit
that sanitary conditions and safe
conditions should be really narrowly
interpreted are you really gonna stand
up and show us that that being able to
sleep isn't a question of safe and
sanitary conditions you can't be safe
and and and sanitary or safe as a human
being if you can't sleep well and then
you said in your brief so doesn't say
anything about sleeping so therefore
there's nothing in here about being able
to sleep I think the concern there is
Your Honor the court finding that sleep
for example falls under is relevant to a
finding of no safe and sanitary
conditions is one thing but the ultimate
conclusion is is safe and sanitary as a
singular category in the agreement and
it was it was one has to assume left
that way and not enumerated by the
parties because either the parties
couldn't reach agreement on how to
enumerate that or that it was left to
the agencies to determine to determine
or it was relatively obvious
and as least obvious enough so that if
you're putting two peoples into powdered
room to sleep on a concrete floor with
an aluminum foil blanket on top of them
that doesn't comply with the agreement I
mean it may be that they don't get super
thread-count Egyptian linens I get to
have two but the testimony that the
district judge believed was it's really
cold think it gets colder when we
complain about is being cold
we're supposed to sleep crowded with the
lights on all night long and all you do
put us on is the concrete floor with a
little blanket I mean I understand it
some outer boundary there may be some
definitional difficulty but no one would
argue that this is secure and sanitary
scene is safe and sanitary what's your
strongest argument then all right and it
looks like there's another another clip
of that same exchange essentially a
little bit later and here they argue
again that safety and sanitation
apparently means nothing our strongest
argument then well III mean I think what
I would go to is that when you start a
numerating for example specific hygiene
items and the way that was done is that
the the court in sort of enumerated
these and say these fall under the
rubric he's following the category of
one can be under clock it wasn't perfume
soap it was soap it wasn't you know high
class Milton's soap it was so it's
within everybody's common understanding
that you know if you don't have a
toothbrush if you don't have soap if you
don't have a blanket
it's not safe and sanitary but wouldn't
everybody agree to that you well I think
it's I think those are there's fair
reason to find that those things may be
part of C maybe are apart what is it
maybe
but even there are circumstances when a
person doesn't need to have a toothbrush
toothpaste and soap for days
well I think in CBP custody there's
freak it's frequently intended to be
much shorter term so it may be that
first shorter term stay in CBP custody
that some of those things may not be
required yeah but I don't think that was
the situation of the court was
confronted I mean it wasn't as though
those people were there for 12 hours and
they moved on to the Hilton Hotel no
they were there for a very least a
fairly sustained period and at least
according to the evidence that the judge
believed they weren't getting these
things and there you have it
I mean this may be a case that
essentially started with the Obama
administration but I can't imagine that
the Obama administration gonna send
somebody from the DOJ in there to make
that argument that's a pretty weak
argument Sanitary doesn't include soap
or toothbrush or bed never mind we're
talking about children talking about
children and
