I haven't heard from Ben Stein in a long
time last time I heard from Ben Stein
was that he was he was getting rolled by
by women who wanted funding from him
right he was a pay Pig right something
like that
that was the whole point of win Ben
Stein's money he he like got off on
giving people his money
that's weird little did we know we were
witnessing something very kinky uh no
stop here is uh trish regan she she is
she's strange
she is strange she's like it's uh it's
almost like she said it's like hey I
want you to put my my what do you cut
what do they call that
that goes up thing you read you humped
her I want you to put half my stuff on a
prompter over there half my stuff on a
prompter over there half my stuff on a
prompter over there cuz I want to make
it look like I'm just trying to think
about things as I say I'm starting to
think she's just like a fembot being
operated by Steve Bannon let's see here
we go let me ask you this though been in
this environment we're now looking at
the lowest unemployment rate for black
Americans in the history of the United
States of America under none other than
President Trump is any of that loyalty
starting to shift I mean our traditional
black Democrats saying hey maybe the
Democratic Party has failed me maybe I
need to rethink this I wish I could say
that that was true but I don't think it
is true I I don't know why it isn't true
but there is a very deep attachment to
black people feeling like they're the
underdogs and the feeling that say
they've been victimized and for a very
long time they were the underdogs and
they were being victimized so you can
see why they feel that way but why they
would attach themselves to a person who
means nothing with trouble where
everyone he touches for everyone who
comes around them like Minister
Farrakhan is a mystery to me this this
guy is a very very bad guy this guy is
Hitler this guy is Goebbels he would if
could do all the things that they've
done he's talking about termites what do
we do with termites we gas them so
that's what he's talking about with Jews
as long as he's not generalizing about
all the blacks who surround themselves
with Louis Farrakhan who once again not
of the left so this is this is prompted
by Booker saying that he would meet with
Louis Farrakhan after people were
getting mad at him for saying Biden
should apologize for the segregationist
stuff yeah so it's a gotcha there you go
Ben Stein of course spends a lot of time
in the the black community trying to
figure out how everybody's feeling you
guys used to be underdogs is that right
yeah I wonder when he thinks that
stopped exactly when did he think that
systemic racism stopped like what year
and after after which anyone who
complains about it is just being a
whiner
a Brock Obama you know we should just
address for people who don't know this
but assume most people do that the labor
force participation rate for black
people has been going down on a fairly
straight trajectory through the Obama
administration into the Trump
administration all right
