[Music]
do Bernie and Carter be first
yeah let's do that this clip is pretty
great and you know it's gonna be
interesting to see I I mean I mean of
course you know just beyond that
obviously you know stepping back from
just sort of the the broader
implications of of this campaign etc etc
but it's gonna be really interesting to
see what the implications are of a
candidate who is going all in with a
specific cohort in the Democratic Party
and specifically I'm talking about you
know like younger people that Bernie is
pursuing and I don't know I guess we'll
we'll see but here is Bernie with cardi
beaten is this like a show that she has
no this is just a specific this is just
a specific event okay all right good
deductibles co-payments and what are we
gonna do about wages good in America
like for example like me as a New Yorker
not now but you know when I was not
famous I just felt like no matter how
how many jobs I get I wasn't able to get
to meet any needs like I wasn't able to
pay my rent get transportation and eat
that is an excellent and important
question cuz right now
we have tens of millions of people who
are earning what I consider to be
starvation wages can you imagine
somebody today earning $9 an hour it
don't make no sense no it doesn't how do
you pay your rent how do you pay for
food how do you pay for transportation
right
you can't and if you have a child
yes and my thing is that you know
certain people like to brag that there
is more jobs now in America but it's
like yeah there's an increase of jobs
Gary but what are they paying in these
jobs they practically claim nothing you
got it that is exactly the issue so you
can get a job but maybe you're gonna
have to work a two or three jobs
exactly legislation that I've introduced
which was passed in the house recently
US House would raise that minimum wage
to $15 an hour and what we also have to
do is make it easier for workers to join
unions so they could sit down and engage
in collective bargaining and earn a
decent living there you go they're both
so great I mean I don't know Michael's
just know they are both so great it's
gonna just be interesting to see to what
extent you know I'm not saying that
bernie is ignoring other cohorts within
the Democratic Party but this is very
much a test of like the idea that he can
reach people who don't normally vote
young people broadly speaking don't vote
at the same rates as anyone else in the
and if this is if this is gonna work
particularly you know the tough part is
is that you know to what extent I don't
know maybe you know is this gonna help
in a place like Iowa or New Hampshire
and but you know Bernie's in it for the
long haul so those states are not quite
as important as they are to maybe some
other candidates but it's going to be
fascinating to see just you know in that
respect
