so Heather obviously we're talking about
impeachment I'm gonna be talking to Paul
Waldman about impeachment more in the in
the bottom half of the hour I should and
but obviously this is a big story and
this is gonna totally change the dynamic
and what's fascinating on some level is
you know you made the point that the
that we anticipated this would happen in
January that that at least we would lead
to this and I think frankly the
Democrats have been able to dodge a
bullet of some to some extent that
because they had not filled this vacuum
that is created when they're in power
that the Trump administration or the the
right didn't fill it themselves now I'm
not convinced and you made the point
that the the phone call which has been
me sort of I guess the straw that broke
the camel's back or at least appears to
be the one and and you cited reporting
uh Ryan Grimm in the intercept had a
piece that apparently was basically he
was waiting to publish about the
pressure that Nancy Pelosi was getting
from those frontline Democrats these are
freshmen who are elected in districts
that are not are either only slightly
Democratic favorable to Democrats or
slightly favorable to Republicans then
known as the front line Democrats the
ones that are theoretically most
vulnerable and apparently they went home
on August recess and they were inundated
by constituents who are like you must
impeach Donald Trump that's why we
elected you and and and so this was this
was happening and then I think
fortunately for everybody this this
whistleblower report came up we haven't
even fully seen the whistleblower report
but I imagine we will soon comes up and
falls into Nancy Pelosi slap and becomes
sort of the the the the catalyst at
least for this reversal and I you know
again after Corey lewandowski's
performance last week
I think the the the momentum was already
headed there and I think it's not a
coincidence like you said the day after
the the phone call between the Trump and
the president from Ukraine happened the
day after the mall report and or I
should say Muller testimony and I think
it's quite clear that that was also the
day they had decided we're going to turn
this around and we're going to
investigate the investigators and part
of that is gonna be digging up this
stuff hunt on Joe Biden and this is
they've been sort of hung in some
respect by their own petard but how do
you think this should go I mean there
are you know that's the other thing that
I think that the Democrats I think it's
I think it's an absolutely necessity I
think once they vote for impeachment
they are at the very least they have
done what the American public asked of
them to do to some degree but I would be
worried if they did it too quickly I
feel like they can't totally bungle it
but they can bungle it campaigning you
bad and there I mean there is discussion
of you know well let's do this you know
this is the one this is the the
impeachable offense let's deal with that
we'll get that vote and then you know
we'll move on well you know that's not
actually that's not going to be good
enough because what what Trump has done
I mean this is an entire you know
systematic a sort of an assault on
presidential norms and rules and laws I
mean you know the the Moller report
itself had ten instances of potential
obstruction of justice which are pretty
clear that should be dealt with and and
you know that they don't have to do a
lot with that he did all the legwork and
the investigation but they do have to
lay that out and that needs to be part
of any impeachment proceeding there's
also the corruption in office which i
think is terribly important you can't
just let that pass you can't just say
well you know that maybe that wasn't
impeach able I mean once you've opened
this case
worms you kind of have to look at it in
a holistic way because it isn't just
this election interference although that
is certainly you know that's kind of the
original sin right of the the Trump
campaign and the trend Trump's
organization but there are all these
other things that he has shown that he's
exposed these weaknesses in the system
and these weaknesses much must be shored
up and there's no way to do that not
really if they do not you know did take
this up in impeachment now some of the
the impeachment counts may not actually
you know get a majority that happened in
the Nixon situation there were some that
came up there was one about his taxes
there was a couple of them that they
didn't get a majority out of the
Judiciary Committee but that doesn't
matter
you know that doesn't exonerate him it
just says that they were you know unable
to quote prove the case they need to do
these things I mean this is important
and by the way it isn't that hard you
know there's a lot of documentation of
what's been going on I mean there is
this idea that somehow or another is
just overwhelming to you know to get the
investigation we've got to get people to
come up here and testify in the White
House won't let us and we don't have the
documents and all that that's that's
those are excuses there's plenty of
information out there that they can't
they have access to now granted you know
holding hearings has a dramatic factor
there they're useful I think in what you
said earlier about Corey Lewandowski his
you know absolutely contemptuous
attitude toward the Congress it you know
that I think that contributed to the
fact that Donald Trump is going to be
impeached you can imagine Rudy Giuliani
doing something like that I mean these
are these are youthful but but they're
not required I mean they have a lot of
evidence already so in any case what
there was talk of Pelosi naming a you
know select committee like they had in
the Senate in Watergate but she decided
not to do that largely on the basis of
her progressive members from what I
understand standing up and saying
absolutely not because they were afraid
that this was going to be sort of siloed
into one narrow
right narrow impeachment account and
instead she agreed would you know facing
a facing her rebellion and her truth to
allow the six committees which I you
know it's oversight Ways and Means
Foreign Relations intelligence judiciary
and Finance that all of them could
continue their investigations and would
report their findings to the Judiciary
Committee so that's where the central
sort of gathering place will be this is
going to be important we're going to
talk to Paul Waldman when we come back
and you and I will continue this
conversation in parallel in the next
hour I'm Sam cedar ring a fire radio be
right back with Paul Waldman Digby will
join me in the next hour
