[Music]
we'll go to the phones in a second but
ben shapiro finally got around to should
we listen to the reagan tape first or
should we listen to i say we listen to
shapiro okay so here's ben shapiro how
do you deal with and it's i'll tell you
something it is stunning to me that it's
taken this long for this tape to come
out apparently this is a tape that was
in the Nixon Library the curator refused
to release it because it dealt with the
personal it was like a personal thing
was about personal stuff for Reagan this
is when Reagan called Richard Nixon upon
seeing which African nation was it
headed to to the UN I think it was a
People's Republic of China versus Taiwan
sort of thing and it would people the
Republic of China was going to be
acknowledged by the UN right and and and
so Reagan calls Nixon and but the idea
that this was well we'll talk about that
in a minute does he actually play the
line in this whole joke okay Ben Shapiro
basically trying to sort of poopoo it
yeah it looks like he was asked how do
you respond to some practice and I think
it's a great question so for folks who
missed it there was a story in which
somebody revealed an old tape from
President Nixon's term is like 1973 and
governor Reagan who's then Governor of
California called up Nixon and used an
ugly slur talking about African leaders
and it was it was a racist slur he used
on his phone call and this has been used
by a lot of folks on the Left to suggest
that Reagan was a thoroughgoing racist
and therefore his policies are racist
and wreak a I honestly think that the
the best way to approach these issues is
with a simple recognition that human
beings are human beings and are
multifaceted that some people may say
ugly things behind closed doors and some
people may say dumb things and some
people may say bigoted things but if you
are going to jump to make a decision
about policy on the basis of human
beings are
and are sinful and do sinful things well
then no one's ever gonna make policy cuz
it turns out everybody says bad things
behind closed doors everybody has made
terrible jokes everybody has friends
they they regret having had and has said
things they regret having said and
people change over time a little
forgiveness would be necessary and if
they don't believe you then you then
it's it's pretty easy to point to people
on the left and that's not what about it
and I'm not posit for a second first of
all well let's play this but I want to
remind you as you listen to this and
we'll go back to a bent apology for that
making policy around people's failures
and and shortcomings is all that
policies for frankly there's a reason
why we need a Civil Rights Act because
of the failures of human beings to allow
people of different races to maybe sit
at the same lunch counter that's one
point I want to make the second point is
Ronald Reagan never apologized Ronald
Reagan never regretted saying this he
never expressed any regret from it no
this is really hardly wasting thirdly
nobody's saying that oh my god we had no
idea we have to reevaluate Ronald Reagan
this is the guy who launched his
campaign at the Neshoba County Fair in
1979 whatever was for the presidency
within a couple of miles of where did a
movie on this Mississippi Burning for
you young uns where three civil rights
workers were killed by some local
sheriffs in Mississippi and he went and
talked about states rights which is I
don't even know is it code I mean do
people do people to even perceive it as
code anymore it was explicitly about an
argument
about how the local should treat their
blacks and he went there and promoted it
I mean this was the only the only thing
that I think people gleaned from this
was like oh not not that we reinterpret
his public policies based upon what we
hear privately it's that oh those racist
public policies
we're actually reflective of his
personal feelings it's not the opposite
well this is the crucial point I mean
also let's also add vetoing sanctions
against South Africa and the way it's a
direct point and it's so frustrating
because I I actually completely agree in
of a good-faith version of that public
culture should be much more focused on
people evolving and changing and not
sort of endlessly re litigating things
but this is what ben shapiro does in his
own rebrand and i've had to go over this
for my book and it's exhausting
he has a page on his website which is
things i falled a stupid things I've
said and it is all like this is an
obnoxious way of conveying it's either
something like yes I probably shouldn't
have fallen for a chuck hagel like being
friends with Hamas that's a little
embarrassing okay sure but all of the
other things are appalling things that
he's had no substantive upgrade on it's
all just like I put it in a juvenile way
fifteen years ago not now I do recognize
that Palestinians are human beings right
exactly I just shouldn't be so vocal
about saying they're not precise and
here is Ronald Reagan what he had to say
at that time President Richard Nixon
recorded himself talking to then
California Governor Ronald Reagan in
October 1971 the day after the United
Nations voted to recognize the People's
Republic of China Reagan had phoned
Nixon at the White House to vent his
frustration at African delegates who
celebrated the vote
to see those monkeys those African
countries damn them they're still
uncomfortable wearing shoes remember
what this tells us about Ronald Reagan
is not that his he had a whole host of
racist policies and remember all of the
your Supreme Court justice who sat upon
the reversal and the destruction of the
Voting Rights Act was in his civil Civil
Rights Division of the Justice
Department John Roberts coming up with
these ideas was basically commissioned
to develop these racist notions of how
to get rid of voting protections for
black people and John Roberts says in
2007 or Ice excuse me mm uh whatever was
14 or 13 or do they excuse me 2010
Racing's over we can get rid of the
Voting Rights Act but he first conceived
of these ideas 30 years earlier I also
like the notion of personal conversation
you think of like you know I'm having a
really hard time with Nancy because her
astrologer says we should have fewer
days shame exactly and that's really
difficult and incidentally these
got-damn monkeys at the United Nations
do you think owning on recognizing the
People's Republic of China I'm governor
of California so obviously talking about
international relations is a person
that'll come right right of course I
can't mean if he had said I'm sure they
would have said we're not gonna release
this thing where he praises the courage
of the African nations coming to to the
you I would just like to say even though
I disagree with him ideologically Kwame
Nkrumah's a fantastic leader but please
keep that off the record yes it because
it's a personal conversation Africa
equals personal yes friends day they
regret having had and has said things
they regret having said and people
change over time a little forgiveness
would be necessary and if they don't
believe you then you then it's it's
pretty easy to point to people on the
left and that's not
what about ISM game that saying it's bad
when it happens on the right it's bad
when it happens on the left but we're
talking about which policy moves the
country forward
we need to instead of looking at the
people which is a character attack we
need to look at the policy that moves
the country for it after all we're not
electing these people to be our friends
or even really be our moral guidance
counselors we're electing these people
to implement policy and I think frankly
that that's the best way to argue in
favor of politicians because let's be
real most politicians or Schmucks right
so there you have it he completely
ignores the public record on Ronald
Reagan talking about the the welfare
queens in the Cadillacs and the young
buck getting his welfare check his
welfare check and you know South Africa
we need constructive engagement and the
idea of states rights right around the
corner from where are we where are you
good you guys had to kill those uh civil
civil rights workers I mean and the list
goes on and on a you know the the DOJ
Civil Rights Division that is plotting
on how to get rid of the Voting
protections that have been put in place
at that point for about 15 years 15
years when you get to 1980 15 years
worth of voting protections after almost
a hundred years of Jim Crow laws guess
who took photos with Michael Jackson
go screw yourself Jew oh whoa I mean
last thing was on the privates person
that was the person I mean that by Matt
I mean per you shifty Jews on the
majority report that's the personal part
folks on verse Asian you should also be
aware of of a podcast called the
information er which was the basically
the there were two reasons why a Matt
works here one was his mechanism for
reading a hundred and fifty books the
year before he showed up and then him
telling me I have my own podcast where I
take Reagan when I take Dixon tapes and
put them to music so my friends
here's a little taste of actually did
record this conversation but when I did
this remix the part about the Monkees
that didn't like to wear shoes was not
that was released it was bleeped over
but yeah here's how we start
hello okay spread that hope I didn't get
you out of bed no I'm my state my father
oh I'm trying to sleep on oriental time
but isn't working very well still trying
to sleep on oriental time
oh that's personal I said oriental try
oriental means personal I'm still in the
chopstick continent personal personnel
