oh this is good and Jamie you were
involved in some of these protests over
the weekend too right I was what tell us
about what you did this weekend in terms
of the I stuff okay
so close the camps NYC had a nonviolent
direct action on Saturday where there
was a rally then there was a March we
marched to the ice office which is on
the West Side Highway and a bunch of
people who had signed up to get arrested
blocked the West Side Highway for a
little while until the cops arrested all
of them I did not sign up to be arrested
this time around because I was actually
meeting my mom afterwards but I was a
marshal
which means you kind of keep the line
moving together you get him in between
people in the cops you make sure nobody
gets her oh my god that's my friend Emmy
ah those are some of my some my friends
in there really awesome people all of
them we were chatting close the camp's
shut down ice no nations no borders
thanks of that nature and it was a
really good action almost a hundred
people got arrested there were a few
hundred people there at least 300 which
is pretty good considering that the main
organizer is behind this one movie me
and choke on set Jeff is only like 20
people right now well but they really
need to get more people involved so if
you see this and you want to help out
you can go to close the camp's NYC calm
and get involved and then on Sunday
there was a protest at an amazon store
in new york city by some Jewish
community groups the Jews for racial and
economic justice JFR EJ and they they
went to Amazon to get to basically
protest tech helping people helping
these ice raids they did it in in in DC
and in New York
there was other Jewish groups that were
also involved the specifically yesterday
was Tish Bob and Tish Bob is basically a
catch-all holiday where they they
observe like Jews observe like the
destruction of the temple back like to
where are we
mm 20 some odd years ago and no wait
that would have been actually like 30
years later or some somewhere around
there the destruction of the temple and
and then also subsequent tragedies hit
some people fast I never we didn't
really celebrate Tish buff but and here
are some pictures from there and then
this audio to a lot of people got
arrested and they didn't anticipate it
so here's this was a this is a little
fun fact sometimes the the the cops can
commandeer an MTA bus so there are so
many Jews who got arrested at the Amazon
flagship store protesting their
connection with ice that the NYPD has
brought a bus
they've commandeered a bus
to take the arrest I've never seen that
before ever
[Applause]
there you go and I think it's taking
them to the sea Phantom of the Opera
yeah I wonder if Phantom of the Opera
people like their advertisement used on
a bus those commandeered to take away
because the protesters against ice of
all things - oh and I should mention two
friends of the show were among the
arrestees who's up on Sunday Molly
crabapple and Ella Valley oh great well
I mean great also solidarity with Ella
Valley because he got his Twitter
account mass reported by a bunch of
Nazis so Jewish Voice for Peace was also
big in the in action on Saturday and I
met a lot of those people and they were
really cool
