we talk about how Republicans have a
conscience all of a sudden when it
affects either them personally I
remember their family so if they have
discriminated against and campaign
against gay and lesbian people in her
whole career they might all of a sudden
support marriage equality if one of
their kids turns out to be gay or
lesbian or if they're Conrad black they
might say hey I went to jail and
actually I realized that the system is a
little harsh on people because I
literally had a personal experience of
it so that's the Republican track record
and the joke has always been you just
need Republicans to go out and
experience all forms of political
economic sexual and racial oppression
and then they might all of a sudden have
a conscience well as so many comforting
thoughts like that about Republicans
this is just getting totally debunked in
2018 Josh Hawley is a Republican
candidate running against Claire
McCaskill for Senate in Missouri and he
is gonna deploy an incredibly novel
reason for wanting to get rid of the ACA
and get rid of protecting people with
pre-existing conditions and we are
clearly turning a new leaf here in
Republican politics we've got two
perfect little boys just ask their momma
earlier this year we learned our oldest
has a rare chronic disease not existing
condition we know what that's like
I'm Josh Hawley I support forcing
insurance companies to cover all
pre-existing conditions and Claire
McCaskill knows it you deserve a senator
who's driven to fix this mess not one
just trying to hang
to her office and that's why I approve
this message I'm trying to get rid of
the legislation that protects the little
prick and we've got a magic one in the
works I mean as far as I understand he's
on record of supporting the Graham
Cassidy repeal which this is from
splinter news yet earlier this year
Holly's office became one of the night
one of 19 state attorneys general to
join Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton
and suing the federal government over
Obamacare
my kid isn't that perfect after all
maybe you should enjoin that suit if you
love your kids so much Joshua yeah I
don't know Josh doesn't seem like you
love your kid but they're going for it
right that he's just going to try to lie
about this and yeah this whole
pre-existing this is just the flow this
is just the shift from let's let's just
let's like as I say it's like the Bush
administration lied about WMDs in Iraq
consistently thoroughly and fully Trump
would just say we found them they're
their watch in force yeah and this is a
the main important thing about this is
how much it shows how afraid Republicans
are of the health care stuff right
because Kevin Cramer has been doing this
with the Heitkamp race - there's like
there's like fuzziness over what
Heitkamp said that the repeal would do
about pre-existing conditions but
they're hiding behind that fuzziness
because they ultimately know that it's
true that these Republicans are suing -
to kibosh those pre-existing condition
no protections and that's and Jeff and
sessions isn't defending it right I mean
it is a next level to put your kids life
on the line in order to it's not his
kid's life in the line he's gonna have
coverage for his kid it's it's the
opposite it's like if Jimmy Kimmel went
out on late-night and said I had my own
experience with this and that's a really
important issue to me and I care about
it deeply which is why I support the
Graham Cassidy Hill because it would get
rid of the problems with the ACA what
sad invigorate our markets but also
protect people like my son no this guy's
fine he's just a complete sociopath and
he's a debunker of the if it happens to
my kids I get a conscience theory of
Republican policymaking to use your
children
in this kind of ad where you're ignoring
the fact that one of your main public
acts in in office is to sign on to an
anti pre-existing condition coverage
lawsuit is that is like that's
next-level sociopathy but his next level
sociopathy I like I like what you bring
into Josh she's bringing a lot you know
he looks like a nice clean-cut
Midwest guy not much going on maybe a
little bit of an airhead but when I saw
him put his kid I mean that'd be like me
putting a vodka and incest awareness hat
he's like a prize I was super impressive
sign him up
