the announcement by SIA Vance to me
indicates a significant amount of
cooperation between Muller and the
Southern District of New York and then
of course the Manhattan da because it it
seems designed to make sure that mana
fort or other witnesses give up more
information on investigations that would
not necessarily be run by you know Cyrus
Vance and so tell us of all the II wrote
a piece in salon about a whole week's
worth of basically legal proceedings
around some of the greatest hits as it
were Paul Manafort Roger stone Rick
gates Michael Flynn that come up this
week well it's an interesting week
because you know that started off on
Monday with a hearing and before the
same judge who sentenced Paul Manafort
this week Amy Berman Jackson who had
Roger stone and his lawyers before her
trying to explain why he keeps violating
the gag rule and had why he didn't
mention that he you know had a book deal
going that had some disparaging remarks
in it or had he it's not a book deal he
actually was reissuing a book that he
had created a new chapter where he was
disparaging the prosecutor and so we
don't you know she had the week started
off with him being you know trying to
explain what he was trying to do and
then we news going forward that there
was going to be man afford and that
Flynn as well who had you'll recall been
before a judge Emmett Sullivan back in
December and the government was all
prepared to you know let him off easy he
didn't need to do any jail time he'd
cooperated fully we're all good let's
move ahead and the judge exploded when
he saw the evidence in the case
and literally use the treason word and
said told Flint that he'd sold out his
country and I mean it was a you remember
it was a really volatile hearing and he
gave Flynn and AH you know a sort of a
you know an ultimatum said you know if
you want me to sentence you today I can
do that but you might want to think
about whether or not you can cooperate a
little bit more with the government
before I do that and Flynn who is one of
the few people in this whole thing who
so far has listened to his lawyers came
back said oh yeah I'm sure that I can do
some more cooperation I'll get right on
that and let you know no I don't want to
be sentenced today and judge said okay
come back in March and when the
sentencing memo that that that Flynn
sent to the judge said that he thought
he had some more cooperating to do in in
March so you know that that just shows
that that judge who came down pretty
hard on this guy and in weirdly the
government that Muller teams keep saying
you know hey he's fine with us he's
really he's done it and even the
prosecutors around you know in
Washington are kind of like you know
that's weird cause he hasn't testified
in anything yet what what is the story
there so there's a mystery going on
about Flynn's cooperation we speculate
on that for a moment I mean what what
kind of cooperation could he give that
has borne no fruit at this point that
the Muller people say he's good it's it
is a mystery because if these there are
two possibilities one of which is you
know and we should say let me just set
this up properly because the judge has
looked at it and the judge has said
you've done some horrible things here so
you've done some really bad things so
it's not like Muller's you know realize
like god this guy's just he is a good
guy and yes right I mean there's some
dynamic here that does not that is not
only opaque but deliberately so right
and and I you know I to me it
Pearse and in this you know I'm sure
that somebody you know smarter than I
can have some more informed speculation
but from the way it looks at it the way
I see it is it's two possibilities the
first is is that is that Flynn has
information about something that Muller
has not charged yet and maybe doesn't
need when's testimony for in which case
I would expect that that means the
president and my suspicion would be that
it would be that the president's the one
who ordered him to talk to kiss lyac
about the sanctions wild guess but if
Muller's determined that he can't indict
the president then there's no testimony
involved and he is willing to let Flynn
go because he's got him on the record
under oath saying that he got this from
him and and Muller doesn't expect a
trial of the President of the United
States the other is and and you know
maybe it's bad or maybe something else
maybe there's something we don't even
know yet you know on diamonds coming
down the pike that we haven't even
thought of yeah that's a possibility
the other is and this is really
disturbing is the idea that because
Flynn was a former general you know kind
of he fought for his country you know
thank you for your service that mullahs
gone easy on it and Muller sees him as
somebody who just got caught up you know
or is in over his head and you know
didn't really know what was going on now
remember this guy was a head of Defense
Intelligence Agency it was also the
chief national security adviser meeting
good seems like we've got some real
problems if this guy is sort of a naive
you know deer in the headlights
exactly and you know so I I hope that
that's not it and under other
circumstances though I mean if you know
I and I have to check my biases here
because I'm hoping that Muller is
operating as a man of integrity in all
this and that this is actually the
unimpeachable you know special counsels
office that we all hope it is but you
know there's something weird about this
with Flynn that nobody really gets it's
bizarre and you know that the contrast
between what the judge saw and what the
government keeps saying which is you
know hey he's good you know
it wasn't just he was involved in some
other stuff and apparently he he is
going to testify in this case with this
Turkish you know foreign lobbyists who
was working with Flynn to actually
kidnap a Turkish dissident and take him
back to Turkey flan you know has turned
in that case and he is he is cooperating
and he he'll be testifying according to
the the defendant I don't know I don't
think that's ever been been confirmed by
the prosecution in that case but
nonetheless I mean there is that out
there but I think that Flynn was always
going to do that I don't think there's
anything anything unusual there and and
to let him off the hook again no
sentencing at all no no time served when
he still got to testify shows an odd
amount of trust in a man like Michael
Flint who by the way is nutty as a
fruitcake I'm sorry the guy is out of
his mind and he was tweeting about pizza
gate and stuff like that I mean
something wrong with him so you're not
like he's just some normal guy who you
know just sort of well look well that's
I mean Obama had warned Donald Trump
about him all right well look let's take
a break here
Digby when we come back I want to
discuss a little bit more about what we
can anticipate this week but also the
question of impeachment Nancy Pelosi had
something to weigh a weighed in on the
idea of impeachment and frankly I think
even if I agree with where we land on
impeachment proceedings the way that she
characterized that I think is incredibly
dangerous and damaging we got to take a
quick break we'll be right back with
more Sam cedar ring of fire radio
