[Music]
it's a carnival in a second this is
really important and I will say in
generalities that people particularly
with TMDs but obviously also this show
[Music]
we're part of the context of helping
make this letter happen is how I'll put
it and I about 30 members of Congress
included by congresswoman Susan Wilde
who's a really good labor oriented
congresswoman out of Pennsylvania and
also co-led by Roe kana and maybe let's
just you know run down some of the other
names on the list of course Alon Omar is
there Jamie Raskin Bobby Rush Adriano
Espaillat Roe Cano was the other lead on
it Alexandria Acacio Cortes Deb Holland
Jose Serrano Frank pallone jr. but also
charlie Crist as an example mark Pocan
James McGovern Alan Lowenthal and others
I wanted so these are people you should
look at the letter and make sure that
you thank them and they have signed a
letter written to Mike Pompeo and again
this is the type of thing that will
register in Brazil it's gonna make no
difference obviously to current US
policy but this is a big deal in Brazil
and I'll read just briefly I'll read the
first two graphs and then it goes into
detail on the abuse of the LGBTQ
community under bolsa narrow the assault
on indigenous people as well as the
assault on labor and pensions dear
secretary Pompeo for writing to urge you
to publicly emphasize the importance of
defending the human rights of the people
of Brazil since the election of
far-right candidate gyroball sorrow as
president we have been particularly
alarmed by president bible senarios
threat poses to the LGBTQ community and
other minority communities women labor
activists and other political dissidents
in brazil we are deeply concerned that
by targeting hard-won political and
social rights bolsa narrow is
endangering brazil's long-term
democratic future as a still developing
democracy brazil must be particularly
vigilant in protecting its institutions
and ensuring the separation as a power
in the country even before bolsa narrow
took office the regressive trends
pushing again
Brazil's democracy were clear should
concern all who are committed to
Brazilian democracy that bolson era was
elected after former President Luiz
inácio Lula da Silva widely acknowledged
that's the most popular leader in the in
Brazil as the most popular political
leader in Brazil was barred from running
in controversial circumstances that put
to risk the right of the people of
Brazil to truly freely choose their
president of course the next letter must
be stronger zero evidence and he is in
fact the world's most prominent
political prisoner and there's some new
stories about that case again zero
material evidence is literally jailed
for indeterminant acts the second
sentence he was just hit with a forensic
analysis showed that the judge copied
and pasted part of the first sentence
into the second sentence and there's
another story that might be coming out I
can't comment on yet that will blow a
whole other hole into judge Sergio
Morrow's case carnival is a site of
resistance in the Caribbean and it was
no different at this year's Brazilian
Carnival which is part of the freak out
of the bizarre Brazilian president this
is a report from Michael Fox for the
world news network about resistance and
Lula Libre at Brazil carnival Brazilians
are in the streets for Carnaval millions
across the country and for many of them
it's an act of resistance supporters of
former President Luiz inácio Lula da
Silva have formed free Lula Samba groups
around the country like this one in
florianópolis they've been practicing
for several weeks they took the city
streets over the weekend we are here
today with everyone who wants to combat
fascism in Brazil this is a political
act to combat Lula's unjust imprisonment
and transforming carnival into a big
grassroots action against this former
president Lula has been in prison since
last April he was convicted of accepting
a beachside apartment from a company
seeking government contracts but the
ruling was based on plea bargain
testimony no evidence was ever found his
jailer judge says Yamato is now
president gyre bullsh
Justice Minister Lula supporters say his
imprisonment was just a move to block
him from running in last year's
elections today the greatest grassroots
leader that we've ever had is unjustly
imprison accused of crimes that he
didn't commit and for which there is no
proof and we need to agitate so we can
get him out of prison so he can be free
they've also removed a protection for
the Amazon and indigenous people which
is an almost genocide all threats to
those communities in Brazil and a threat
to the entire global ecosystem of though
leaders in both scenarios new government
have called things like global warming a
cultural and Marxist plot they also have
an advisor from who's a Brazilian who
lives in the state of Virginia who's a
fascist that does astrology consults who
recently was actually asking on social
media for money to help get health
coverage the ironies and disgustingness
of these people abound Lula lifteth our
neuro Dole siren er Oh Lula lifted 40
million people out of poverty and he and
the Workers Party helped transition
Brazil out of a military dictatorship in
the 1980s so thank all of the Congress
people particularly congresswoman Susan
wild and ROH Khanna but also AOC Jamie
Raskin Jim McGovern Audrianna s Pilat
Bobby Rush we're gonna all be tweeting
this out again and an app Ramallah Gipe
all Jesus Chuy Garcia Peter Welch and
many and Jayne Schakowsky rosa DeLauro
and several others they need to be
thanked and they should be pushed to do
further letters maybe even a resolution
in the house condemning the political
imprisonment of Lula and the
cancellation of democracy and fast rise
of fascism in Brazil and also if your
congressmen didn't sign it your
congressperson then sign it call them
and ask them why not all right
