the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of an ele
they are unanimous hate for me and I we
must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday October 8th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Trump
blocks Gordon Sunland the Ukrainian
message boy from testifying in Congress
it is on ladies and gentlemen new polls
now show a majority of Americans 58
percent now support the impeachment
inquiry meanwhile Supreme Court of the
United States starts its new term with
possible assaults on women's sovereignty
over their own body attacks on daca
recipients and on the rights of LGBTQ
folks meanwhile Joshua Brown key witness
and the amber Geyer conviction killing
Botham gene shot in the mouth in Dallas
following his testimony
[Applause]
new nafta may pass in the wake of
impeachment embedded in it protections
for drug makers content makers that have
nothing to do with trade meanwhile China
sneezes and the NBA is punishing the GM
of the Houston Rockets for tweeting in
favor of Hong Kong protesters 40 AG's to
probe Facebook for antitrust violations
and a judge says Betsy DeVos is on the
brink of contempt for screwing screwed
over students of for-profit university
and lastly how serious a problem is the
Trump worship in the military
hopefully we'll never know all this and
more on today's program this very
Tuesday October 8th welcome ladies and
gentlemen we will be doing a breakdown
to the news today as things are quite
busy
everyone is here Michael is out because
yesterday was Monday and presumably
he'll be back this evening for a show a
couple of housecleaning things to do
tomorrow and the next day Michael be
doing the fun half I will be doing the
first half interviewed we've got a great
interview tomorrow with Brad Miller who
is the former congressman from North
Carolina and he wrote a piece in the
American progress on the 40 year war
that William bar bill Barr the Attorney
General has been waging over
congressional oversight and we get into
like you know how does this thing get
resolved and why were these why is this
not up why was this not a problem
20-some odd years ago and and this is
going to be a problem we're gonna get
into impeachment in just a second but
before I forget
a couple of things one this tweet went
out I don't know we haven't been able to
confirm this but people should check it
out GM has hired scabs from black horse
to do UAW members work there's a new
picket line I think this is in Detroit
right and Langhorne up in langhorne I
get Langhorne I guess Michigan two two
zero one Cabot Boulevard West
Pennsylvania
okay sorry Langhorne Pennsylvania two
two zero one Cabot Boulevard West if
you're in langhorne put the show on your
phone go down there help out those GM
workers this thing is gonna go this
thing has gone long and it's gonna go
longer I have feeling just I guess
yesterday there was word that you know
and yeah it's very hard to know when you
hear these pronouncements sometimes
management will try and scare people but
this thing could go on for a while also
I want to encourage you to go and sign
up for our you know what do you like us
on Instagram follow us on Instagram it's
still getting down the lingo of this
whole internet social media stuff follow
us on Instagram it is a majority report
dot F M don't know why we did that I
don't know why we did that it was a
majority of feminine you changed it why
didn't we just do majority report was
that already taken I'm not sure majority
report dot F M maybe if we can change it
again but majority report dot F M head
over there wonderful picture of the
morning meme is there from I guess it
was who did that Matt McCready and it is
a picture of Stephen Crowder cold feet
yeah cold feet Crowder and me and a as a
butterfly so I don't know you can check
that out but here's the deal when we get
to ten
thousand followers and we're only about
1400 away we're doing the merch that's
it boom I don't care what you say I know
there's been people who are like please
don't do any merch and they've been
saying that for nine years but forget it
we're gonna do merch if we get to ten
thousand Instagram followers so do what
you got it
also the a.m. quickie go sign up for it
right now you can subscribe to it at
a.m. quickie dot-com and you can
subscribe to it on stitcher you can do
it on Spotify you can do it on iTunes
you can do it on your Alexa wherever
a.m. quickie five minutes every morning
we will tell you the news at least the
headlines that you're gonna need to know
going into the day so you're not
surprised by anything
cuz you know I know you don't like meets
Christ and that's that alright let's get
into this first about a week ago the
Gavin Newsom the California governor
signed the Fair Pay bill which is going
to allow college athletes and I'm not
sure exactly what the specific
parameters are but the it will allow
college athletes to get endorsement pay
to profit from endorsements and I don't
know if it requires anything else but
the NCAA is saying that the law is
unconstitutional I'm not exactly sure
why that would be the case but maybe
they're talking about their own
Constitution but the bill has been
signed and here's a moment on Fox News
live
with what's the the woman named Sandra
Smith and Bill hammered here with
Charles Payne and Charles Payne this is
fascinating because Charles Payne is
really really emotionally invested in
this issue
just great I'm glad he is the funny
thing is what he attributes it to is not
exactly he Charles Payne who has a show
on fox business may not be a hundred
percent clear on what a capitalist is
its story this was an interesting
perspective from that coach there yeah
you know I think he says though that he
does support the athletes even being
paid he thinks that governor shouldn't
be involved I don't know about this
thing Yelena
that's a red flag for me when anyone
tells somebody else to stay in their
Lane I'm not sure if he thinks the
governor shouldn't be looking out for
everyone who lives in his state
including the homeless including the
under privileged and including kids who
are going to college there so I don't
know that that's outside the lane his
point is why are you focusing here well
we've got a series you could do more
than one thing right now I think you can
deal with almost in this and say by the
way you know these kids who are at
schools where the coach is making 5
million dollars a year from wearing a
you know Nike shoes maybe they should
get paid a lot of them don't even eat
well I'm a capitalist and I believe you
know when I hear when I hear people
defend the status quo that I think is
unfair whether you know the people who
came out and said they hate a president
from straight tariffs battles with China
although China is ripping us off it's
not the right way to go they hate this
house it for one second I just I just
can't let that slide by you can be a
capitalist and want people to get paid
who are working for you but it is not
that is not your being a capitalist does
not require you to demand fair wages in
fact one could make the absolute
argument the absolute opposite argument
that in fact it is the capitalist ethos
that says if we can get these folks to
play for us for free and we can make
money off of them that's capitalism that
is capitalism that's a structural
imperative it is you need that dynamic
yes indeed
yeah the capitalist storms into the room
and says I'm shocked shocked to defined
that exploitation of labor is occurring
in here right exactly
now you don't necessarily
have to have slave labor to be a
capitalist but you need a delta between
what you make off them and what they're
making that is capitalism so to say that
you're a capitalist and that's why you
want them to get Fair Pay makes
absolutely no sense you can be a
capitalist you can say I happen to be a
capitalist who wants these players to
get paid at least somewhat what they're
worth not totally what they're worth but
somewhat but you cannot say the reason
why I want them to be paid is because
I'm a capitalist how many Charles Payne
doesn't know exactly what a capitalist
is the Finn the status quote that I
think is unfair whether you know the
people who came out and said they hate a
president from straight tariffs battles
with China although China's ripping us
off it's not the right way to go they
hate this idea although I do think
players to get paid it reminds me of the
abolitionist movement it's country I've
studied it I continue to study it and so
many quotient could good people say yeah
I'm against slavery but now it's not the
time to fight it you know and if we well
why is a full-ride not enough Charles
for second can I also just comment on
Bill hammered yeah there's something
very odd about his behavior and I can't
quite put my finger on it but he has
that thing let's just when when you've
got to do this thing where it's like you
your your expressions just listening are
so studied that you need to freeze after
you say something like that it suggested
me something's up I'm a little bit
concerned but mr. hammer we well why is
this a full-ride not enough Charles it's
not because if I bring in ten million
and you gave me a hundred thousand
dollars of value for it it's a great
American in this version another chance
you can't make five million dollars off
of me and tell me Oh in return I'm going
to give you a 50 thousand dollar
education it's not there it's just not
there you're ripping these people off
they are being you
it abused okay give them something
because you are making millions off of
them I said what's this usury
what do you pay him BAM something more
than zero pay him something more than
zero you are making millions off of them
Millions
it's an unbalanced relationship nobody
in this building what worked for Lele
when I was 18 years old if you came to
me with a full-ride for a scholarship I
be lining your coats very five million
dollars a year because you could do that
I'd go to the NBA and I make you before
not even ever talking about the bottom
line is I think people should get paid
for what they're worth we you made it
there you go
you know there's nothing like I this is
where I feel like I what I should do is
just quit this job and spend my entire
time to develop a mechanism that can
tell me what those Fox hosts are
thinking as they keep their mouths quiet
and watch watch something like that
because they're you know they're going
like this is getting uncomfortable
he seems really passionate about making
sure these people get paid weird super
weird and a hammered is just trying to
you know maintain but there it is good I
mean III wish that someone like Charles
Payne had the ability maybe he does and
maybe this is you know maybe this is one
of those inciting invent events like
Shep Smith Shep Smith basically inciting
event was Katrina who's on a bridge in
Katrina I remember this
Bill O'Reilly was saying like they don't
appreciate what's going on there and
chefs it's like you're no you don't get
what's happening here you don't
understand it and I think that's
basically when Shep Smith decided like I
can't do this anymore maybe there'll be
a moment where Payne realizes like maybe
I'm not so much of a capitalist or maybe
like there's something wrong with
capitalism because it was structured
under a specifically a capitalistic
principle and it will be structured
under capitalistic principle when these
guys get chicken feed for what they're
doing and the idea that bail hammered
thinks that these guys you know a small
percentage of them will
to the NBA and the rest of them will
have bodies that have been beat up by
playing college bass parts some
instances you know debilitating injuries
for the rest of their lives they will
have had their studies largely largely
not all college athletes but their
studies largely ignored because their
job is to go and play on that team and
so it is so overdue it's unbelievable
like this this pretending that they're
anything but professional athletes it's
a similar thing with grad students who
teach classes right grad students that
teach classes and frankly adjuncts too
for that matter but I mean there's a
whole series of of these questions and
and I think frankly you know for grad
students and adjuncts it's gotten worse
it's been this bad for athletes you know
forever
and each time they renew a TV contract
it just looks worse it looks worse and
worse well welcome to the left comrade
pain there you go
who knows he could be sitting right next
to you seems like he's got a critic to
throw liberalism
let's throw to our economics report
folks would you rather be busy or be
productive here's how you can start
making your work take less work and find
the right software for you at kaptara
dot-com slash majority kaptara is the
leading free online resource to help you
to find the best software solution for
your business there's over a million
reviews of products from real software
users you can discover everything you
need to make an informed decision you
can look at 700 specific categories of
software 700 specific categories with a
million different options
doesn't matter everything project
management - email marketing - yoga
studio management software no matter
what kind of software your business
needs kaptara makes it easy to discover
the right solution fast join the
millions of people use kaptara
each month to find the right tools for
their business not only that I bet for a
lot of people you go and you look under
the category of what you do you will
find that there's actually software I
bet you there's a lot of people who do
not realize there is specific software
for their business I've said this before
I've done it many times I look through
here just to find out like what people
do for livings like an other you know
this is sort of like my own personal you
know you go to those life coaches and
they tell you what job that you're
suited for I've been going through this
thing just to look at different ideas
Mac CRM software I don't know what that
means
machine learning software that sounds
fascinating
maid service software I guess if you're
you have a maid business mailroom
management software maintenance
management software manufacturing
software manufacturing execution
software I don't know what the
difference between those two are but
somebody must marine software market
research software marketing analysis
software that I that actually might be
something for us to use
forget the a.m. quickie on a bunch of
different data servers and so you know
we combine them all I don't know we
gotta check that out marketing
attribution software marketing
automation software marketing planning
software marketplace software martial
arts software massage therapy software
master did you get the idea I'm not even
through the m's yet visit kaptara comm
slash majority for free today to find
the tools to make an informed software
decision for your business kaptara
dot-com / majority it's free folks it's
free it aggregates all the reviews for
all of these different categories of
software kaptara CA p te RR a.com slash
majority kaptara software selection
simplified
all right let's get into this the this
is a big deal on Friday and if you have
not if you did not hear this
I don't usually pimp our own content but
what was the name of the video that we
did we clipped it was the first like 20
minutes of Friday's show and I was going
through the release that came from in
the wake of the testimony from Kurt
Volker Kurt Volker was the special envoy
to Ukraine unpaid position one of those
john mckay nights and via volker the
committee the Intel committee got a
little trove of text messages all that
included Volcker I guess so he must have
been cc'd on these even ones that didn't
necessarily involve him right and they
are between him the former ambassador
Ukraine Bill Taylor and the US
ambassador to EU also a hotelier friend
of Donald Trump's Gordon Sunland and
they basically are talking about and
there's one or two also I think with
with Andre your Mac who was a top
adviser to president Solinsky this is
all around the Ukraine call and
basically the dynamic of Donald Trump
holding back unilaterally money that was
earmarked and appropriated by Congress
statutorily for Ukraine he was holding
it back lying as to the reason as to why
he was holding it back to the Congress
and who was holding it back to the
Congress and then getting on the phone
with the Ukrainian president and say hey
look we need to have some reciprocity
here you know I scratch your back
you scratch my back I want information
on you know what happened in 2016 if you
know what I mean and also hunter Biden
can you deliver us something you should
investigate it if you know what I mean
because it's dirty so dirty and these
exchanges between Bill Taylor Gordon
Sunderland and Kurt Volker basically
outline I mean they show without a doubt
that like the president was holding it
back because he wanted him for this
stuff the deliverable the deliverables
that's literally the word that they used
Gordon Sundlun said on August 9th 2019
at 5:47 p.m. in fact 34 seconds passed
that 547 he said I think POTUS really
wants the deliverable and and it goes on
and on and to the point where Bill
Taylor and this is going to be important
says as I said on the phone this is on
September 9th 2019 - Gordon sunland as I
said on the phone I think it's crazy to
withhold security assistance for help
with a political campaign so Gordon
sundaland was scheduled to show up and
testify to the House Intelligence
Committee behind closed doors today and
[Music]
that's not going to happen here's Adam
Schiff chairman of the Intelligence
Committee to tell you why
the failure to produce this witness the
failure to produce these documents we
consider yet additional strong evidence
of obstruction of the constitutional
functions of Congress a co-equal branch
of government there are four issues that
we are looking at at least four issues
that we are looking at all that go to
the heart of our national security and
by preventing us from hearing from this
witness and obtained these documents the
President and Secretary of State are
taking actions that prevent us from
getting the facts needed to protect the
nation's security we are looking into
whether the president solicited foreign
help in a u.s. presidential election
again we are looking into the issue of
whether a meeting that Ukraine
desperately sought with the president at
the White House was being conditioned on
the willingness of Ukraine to
investigate this bogus conspiracy theory
about 2016 and investigate the Biden's
we're looking at whether Ukraine was
given reason to believe that military
assistance that desperately needed to
fight off the Russians was being
withheld until it made commitments to do
these political investigations for the
president and we are looking into the
question of whether there has been an
effort by the President the Secretary of
State and others to cover up this
misconduct omastar Sandlin is a
important witness on each of these
subjects but he is not the only
important witness and we will consider
this act today and we've had members fly
in from around the country to hear the
ambassador's testimony as well as the
withholding of the ambassador's
documents as well as efforts that may be
made to discourage or having the effect
of discouraging other State Department
witnesses from coming forward and
testifying as they have agreed to to be
further acts of obstruction of a
co-equal branch of government this will
all be in the articles of impeachment
and make no
make no mistake about it there's going
to be articles of impeachment they're
going to be voted upon they could be
voted upon right now based upon just the
information I have here in this document
that just includes a very limited set of
text messages like I say only the text
messages I think that Kurt Volker had
access to but there are other text
messages says Adam Schiff not only is
the Congress being deprived of his
testimony and American people being
deprived of his testimony today but we
are also aware that the Ambassador has
text messages or emails on a personal
device which have been provided to the
State Department although we have
requested those from the Ambassador and
the State Department is withholding
those messages as well those messages
are also deeply relevant to this
investigation and the impeachment
inquiry and I want to just explain for
the public the significance of this
witness and the significance of the
decision evidently by the secretary of
state and president or president or both
to withhold this key witness's testimony
today so the White House has made the
calculation that it is better for them
to not have sunland go and testify and
give up the entire game because he
because look they have these text
messages and you'll recall Bill Taylor
says as I said on the phone last night I
think it's insane crazy to withhold
security assistance for information for
a political campaign Bill Taylor is
going to testify bill Taylor does not
sound like a guy
who wants to protect the Trump
administration the reason why he said
that in text that I wanted to do this
that I said that on the phone last night
is the same reason why everyone who says
who recounts what they said on the phone
they said not this is not a soap opera
it's not there's not bad soap opera
writing it is to to make it clear that I
understand that this is gonna be
subpoenaed at one point now I want to
make it clear where I stand
and that's why Sunland then responded
even though he had said a month earlier
the POTUS wants the deliverables there
has never been a quid pro pro I have no
idea what you're talking about who dis
new phone I have no idea who you are
well bill tellers gonna have a different
story to tell but the administration
decides we don't put Sunland in there
better that we will have an indictment
for obstruction or I should say a an
article of impeachment for instruct
obstruction then the whole kit and
caboodle cuz they know they're in
trouble on this but the fact of the
matter is there is more readouts from
other phone calls in that highly secure
safe and the Democrats should just
continue on this path and anybody who
told you two months ago that this was
going to be damaging for Democrats if
they impro chub Pietschmann you should
reassess what they know about politics
and whether they can with a clear eye
see what is clearly an impeachable
offense I will remind you impeachment is
a political process it is not a criminal
process it is a political process we
already know according to the Office of
Legal Counsel this specific office of
legal counsel in the Department of
Justice that a sitting president cannot
be criminally indicted because there is
already a mechanism in which to deal
with him in
is a political mechanism and it is
called impeachment the standards of
impeachment are not the same as a
criminal trial so now we have and
tomorrow I'm going to be talking to Brad
Miller on the program and about the
dilemma that Democrats have how do you
compel this testimony how do you compel
this testimony there are two ways an
apparently Adam Schiff anyways expressed
the desire to pursue both of them one is
you just go ahead with impeachment all
right excuse me there's three ways one
is you just go ahead with impeachment
you impeach them and you pursue a compel
to compel them in a criminal court to
testify someone he's not the president
he can be criminally indicted and if
court orders him to talk and he's in
contempt of court then he can go to jail
and that has a way of focusing the brain
particularly when you're a major
hotelier and used to having nice meals
at the EU as an ambassador that has been
appointed because you've given Donald
Trump so much money I mean jail is a
hotel of sorts it can be that's the way
you should think about it manna fort
seems fine and then this you'll recall
that the squad was the first crew of
freshmen Democrats to come out for
impeachment in the strongest fashion and
they pursued it all the way until
essentially the front line Democrats
came back from recess in August and said
to Nancy Pelosi my constituents want me
to impeach and then all of a sudden the
heroes of impeachment became seven
National Security Democrats who were not
members of the squad nevertheless they
done it did another op-ed these seven
national security Democrats basically
writing if true and I don't know how
much more evidence
you need then he withheld these funds
they lied to Congress as to why they as
to the who withheld them he has no
possible reason to withhold them and the
only evidence of what it was is that not
even half-assed transcript that we have
and these corroborating texts we don't
need anything else I'm all in favor of
getting more of it but we don't need it
but if true
Trump's actions are impeachable but this
is a this is even more important they
right in the third or fourth graph if
these allegations are true we believe
these actions represent an impeachable
offense we do not arrive at this
conclusion lightly and we call on our
colleagues in Congress to consider the
use of all congressional authorities
available to us including the power of
in tarrant contempt and impeachment
hearings to address these new
allegations find the truth and protect
our national security inherent contempt
is the ability of Congress to imprison
and levy fines and we are going to head
into a territory I mean I think they've
done this but not and I know not in the
20th century not in the 21st century
either of course but not in the 20th
century and we're gonna see if there's
going to be if they're gonna take a guy
like Sunland and say like we'd like to
introduce you to the dungeon that lives
below Congress I'd be awesome
damn a guy like someone I don't think
you know you could slap $2,000 a day on
him and I think you'd be like I can do
it I can handle that and Trump will glue
slide me some cash some of those guys
pay good money to go to the dungeon
that's true but this is the one where
they're all alone and they just get
gruel you're not the sexy kind so we're
gonna be following this it's important
and I will also tell you this so that
you know that's the their two arguments
right I mean people call it the moral
thing I don't think it's you know
morality forget about it it is simply
accountability as to ethics in
government and the president has a
certain narrow set of parameters I mean
they're pretty wide you can get away
with a lot of stuff if you're president
and I understand that accountability has
not always worked but this is cumulative
this is cumulative and and look there's
a lot of things in life where you're
like the UH you know there's a 15%
chance that this could happen I'm gonna
go for it I mean well you know why do I
support Bernie Sanders whether you think
that Bernie Sanders is like marginally
more progressive than Elizabeth Warren
or hugely more progressive it doesn't
matter or you know there's some people
who think that they're the same whatever
from my perspective I think he's more
progressive than Elizabeth Warren I
don't think either one of them are gonna
be able to implement the the plans as
they have presented them but if there's
a 10% chance that they can I'm gonna go
with the one who's gonna push it further
just on that 10% but and that's the case
with this accountability you hold Donald
Trump to account that doesn't mean that
you're gonna be able to hold every
president to account coming in the
future you're not gonna be able to hold
the elite broadly to account you're not
gonna be able to hold bankers to account
when they rip people off with
foreclosures or shove you know put down
an edict that says 5,000 of their
employees end up just coincidentally
putting people into fake accounts etc
etc whether it's cops who are profiling
would you need to attempt to try to hold
people to account because if you
completely in in light of obvious ethics
breaking law breaking I think there's
multiple counts of actual law breaking
here not just elections violations but
extortion using government the power of
government to extort for own personal
gain I don't know what more basica
premise that you don't want your
politicians to do and that's the
argument from
the Civic argument I guess you would say
I don't like to use the word moral but
the political argument is becoming quite
clear and I think it was quite obvious
frankly before this but we now have
impeachment in just a matter of days
gone up in by support for the inquiry
has risen since July in a ABC Washington
Post poll has risen by 25 points amongst
Democrats 21 points amongst Republicans
traitors and 20 points amongst
Republicans it is now more than eight
and ten Democrats endorsed the inquiry
as well as eight and ten want to get
Trump removed from office Republicans
three and ten now three and ten 70% he's
got an 85 percent approval rating
amongst Republicans he did over the
summer so you moved the needle slightly
that is like I say a 20 point bump
amongst Republicans no three and ten
support the inquiry 1/5 say they favor
of a so 2 in 10 favor a vote
recommending his removal and among the
critical voting bloc of independents
support for the impeachment inquiry hits
57% 49% of the 49% of independents
saying the house should vote to remove
him from office so they just they want
the input the impeachment query and
we're almost at a majority now where
they want him to vote yes impeach
there's a story out of The Times today
they love going back and talking to
Trump voters well this time they went
back to Erie County in western
Pennsylvania which in 2012 2012 to Trump
17 points swing
now I would imagine without knowing Erie
County that you also have a lot of
changing demographics there but even
still 17 points is probably more than
one would imagine and at the very least
they found one guy mark Graham a real
estate appraiser 69 who in mid-september
this is a guy who voted for Obama called
the president's office a joke in
September but he was unwilling to commit
to voting Democratic in 2020 as of the
September democratic debate and he says
as of yesterday things have changed in
the last couple of weeks more stupidity
has come out said this last week he
hopes Democrats nominate Joe Biden but
he's not particular I'd vote for the
Democratic nominee no matter who it is
at this point and he says if mr. Trump
gets another four years where he's a
lame duck it's going to be like adding
gasoline to the fire so what was that
tally in Pennsylvania Clinton lost by
40,000 well now all they need to do is
get another thirty nine thousand nine
hundred and eighty eight eight and
ninety eight people just switched to
votes essentially not one for Trump now
it's for the Democrat and the political
value of this is not just in terms of
the presidential election the political
value is at every single election across
the country that Republican incumbent is
going to be forced to make a vote and if
they vote to impeach Donald Trump the
Republicans in their party are going to
be extremely angry at them if they vote
to protect Donald Trump all the normal
people are going to be angry with them
and
and to the extent that this is good for
Democrats it's also good for
progressives it's good for DSA
candidates running because if they have
a better shot of getting an office they
have a better shot of getting into
office if a Republican is standing in
their way they have a better shot of
getting into office and if they can
offer the same sort of like partisan
perspective on this but then offer
material benefits for people all the
better this is it this is a good thing
and for those people like well it's it's
gonna stand in the way of a legislation
being passed I would say to you with all
due respect take the needle out of your
arm that's all I would say cuz nothing's
getting past that would have gotten
passed in the absence of here's here's
just a partial list of what the House
Democrats have passed that is sick
languishing in the Senate something like
250 pills for the people Act the
Equality Act the American dream a
promise Act the Paycheck Fairness Act a
bipartisan background checks Act
enhanced background checks act climate
action now act raise the wage Act
federal civilian work I don't know if
these bills are any good some of them I
think a decent some of them are
half-assed it doesn't matter cuz
nothing's getting through the the
Republican Senate there's only one way
you're gonna get something through the
Senate that is to get no Republican
senators in Colorado no Republican
senators in Maine no Republican senators
in Arizona maybe North Carolina maybe
Georgia that's what it's gonna take
bottom line so anybody who tells you
that it's bad politically is foolish
anybody who tells you it's bad in terms
of civics is foolish in my estimation I
may be wrong do you think it's gonna
change the minds of Republican voters or
do you think it's more a matter of
driving turnout among Democrats I think
it's more a matter of driving turnout
among Democrats I mean I think it's
quite possible that some Republicans
Minds will be changed
it'll depress turnout I think but it's
hard for me to imagine it won't depress
turnout I mean if you have three and ten
who think that he should be impeached
and two and ten who think he should be
voted out of office
when over the summer he had over 80
close to 90% approval at the very least
those people won't show up and then when
they don't show up not only do they not
show up to vote for Donald Trump they
don't show up and they don't vote for
Susan Collins they don't show up and
vote for the Republican candidate every
non vote counts every non vote counts
and that is the name of this game in
this era and the way this she's shifting
you've brought this up with your
reaction shot theory but it really makes
a lot of sense to me that you know
before Pelosi came out with this people
would hear about impeachment then look
to like what the authorities are saying
base of course and oh she's not even for
whether you're even a Republican or a
Democrat you say well Pelosi is not for
it there must be good reasons I'm just
gonna move on with my day what person
who only like casually Falls politics is
gonna say I'm more equipped to tell you
that the president should be impeached
then the leader of the Democrats like
what what rational person would say that
if they just think they just sort of
casually look at politics dip in dip out
who would say that I mean this is just
you know I would love if we lived in a
world where even a I don't know 40% of
the population was engaged in politics
but 30% of the population was really
engaged in politics of course I would
love it our audience would be three four
times the size just by just law of
averages but the fact of the matter is
it's not and that cuts both ways because
that's why you only need like three
million comments when
have a Democratic president to
completely reverse things like I can't
remember the name of it now
net neutrality that's why you don't
really need a tremendous amount of
people for any social movement what you
need is a critical mass but that
critical mass does not have to be 51% it
can be like 7% if they're dedicated
enough and they're in the right
positions I mean there's a you know keep
referencing that recht book but there's
a reason why those dumb car makers
destroyed their business it was because
they were afraid of what just a handful
of workers could do on their supply
chain in terms of exercising their power
and that is the they should be yeah well
they should be but the key is the key is
is to find leverage points and use them
and yeah that's what impeachment is it
is the lever it also happens to be I
mean I think in arguably appropriate for
this president because if it's not like
when would it be appropriate oh
absolutely
I do find it somewhat depressing though
that the best-case scenario here is that
they bring up impeachment proceedings
and we know that the Democrats don't
have the votes to remove him from office
so he's gonna stay in office the
best-case scenario is that Trump still
gets away with this but but but there'll
be another up bite at this Apple when he
leaves office and that'll be a criminal
that'll be criminal proceedings frankly
but it will have gotten to be president
well I stayed president yeah it's true I
mean it's true and he could win again
you could win a second term it's true
but it's nice to know that that's
waiting for him on the other side yeah
and and I mean I think like
it's you're still to be impeached is
still a form of accountability you're
not removed from office but it's still a
form of accountability it's urine pH on
it you're impeached for the rest of your
days
Quentin believe me if Bill Clinton was
not impeached there would be a marginal
difference in the way that we perceived
this guy there definitely would be
particularly now particularly now but
the fact that he was impeached is
despite the fact that most people didn't
think he should be it it hampers him in
some respects all right let's just talk
briefly about what's going on with Syria
and then we'll go to the fun half so
apparently in August and and I think
this you know look there was an
understanding I think prior to this as
well but August came to the point where
the fighting was had hit a a stage where
the United States basically made a deal
with the Kurds the u.s. needed courage
to face off against the remnants of of
Isis fighters ISIL fighters but they
were afraid to leave their defensive
positions on the border with Turkey to
do so so the United States said we got
you we will we will have a five-mile
wide safe zone along the border with
Turkey in Syria Americans would patrol
alongside Turkish forces the Kurds would
dismantle fortifications in those areas
that were designed to defend against a
possible Turkish incursion Turkey would
also join the american-led air
operations against the ISIL there's
still be a thousand American troops in
the region but it would protect the
Kurds in northern Syria and maintain
pressure on the Islamic state Donald
Trump announced apparently nobody knew
this was coming that
change of plans turkey can go invade can
go invade and kill all the Kurds I mean
you didn't say that that many words but
that's basically what it was it really
read like he wrote it himself the the
one that he wrote himself was he was mad
because France and Europe wouldn't take
any of the Isis prisoners that the US
has but more importantly the Kurds have
40,000 Isis prisoners I excuse me
10,000 Isis prisoners still it's still a
lot and they basically said I guess what
if we're getting attacked by Turk Turkey
we're letting those guys go and air
Dewan needs to do this apparently
because he lost that election in
Istanbul his peeps didn't win in the
Istanbul local election he's trying to
shore up his domestic political support
there's nothing better folks to shore up
your domestic support then by engaging
in a war with someone outside of your
country and the Kurds yeah particularly
a hated minority exactly now why did
Donald Trump do this nobody seems to
know I mean there doesn't seem to be any
particular logic it's possible that he
feels like if I bring home those a
thousand US troops
I'll get rewarded at the polls
oh I suggested maybe he wants a Trump
Tower in Istanbul the other day he
already has a Trump Tower in Istanbul
interesting that you bring that up here
is an interview from December 1st 2015
between Steve banning doing the podcast
for the Breitbart news daily and then
candidate Donald Trump you will notice
that at this time Donald Trump actually
sounds somewhat coherent it's odd it's
gonna be a little bit jarring for you so
before he either lost his mind or
was in a position to have someone sit
down with a piece of paper in front of
him and tell him to read it here he is
with Steve Bannon talking about that
very thing we started the show with our
live reporters in Turkey London Paris
Rome etc talking about this this fracas
right now between Putin and erawan the
BBC we've talked about this ten days ago
on Breitbart in our listeners about
Turkey making money off of Isis oil that
one of the revenue streams major revenue
streams is oil as you've talked about
Turkey's been the middleman Putin now
finally nine days after it's over
Breitbart BBC lead story Putin saying
hey we got a problem here
Turkey's turkeys the middleman and
making plenty of cash off Isis and has a
has skin in the game keep it Isis around
Berta one immediately goes back and says
hey you can prove it I'll step down what
would if your plan in prosecuting this
war is commander-in-chief of the United
States if you're elected president in
prosecuting the war what do you do with
Turkey is turkey a reliable partner
another NATO ally are they a reliable
partner well I also have I have a little
conflict of interest because I have a
major major building in Istanbul and
it's a tremendously successful job it's
called Trump Towers 2,000 stead of one
not the usual one it's two and I've
gotten to know Turkey very well and
they're amazing people they're
incredible people they have a strong
leader the strong leader is now fighting
pretty much with Putin if you look at
what's going on there's a lot of there's
a lot of angst and a lot of anguish
going on over there I think this I think
Turkey has been a good partner for the
United States but things are getting
very complicated because you have Isis
you have Assad in Syria where they're
fighting Isis and you know we're
supposed to be fighting I guess both
according to the Obama administration
and lots of times that doesn't work out
too well how you gonna fight both and
you know the people that were we're
fighting for against Assad or rebels
that we have no idea who they are so we
have a very complex set of circumstances
and if you look at Turkey turkey looks
like they're on the side of Isis more or
less based on the oil now I don't know
how to
explain Donald Trump sounding so
coherent at that time and now sounding
like I don't feel like he could make a
phone call like that if his life
depended on it but that be be that as it
may he felt he had a pretty severe
conflict of interest back in the day
it's like even when he announces his
conflict of interests it's like he's
promoting them right but here's the
thing we don't know we don't know if
there was a way for her to on to promise
via Trump Tower to here's 60 million
dollars here's 100 million dollars
here's gold ingots I'm just gonna drop
off next time I'm in town we'll have
them in the back of uh the you know the
the Bentley that I get shipped over on
some type of cargo plane or what we
don't know oh there's a new tax cut if
you have two towers thank you president
exactly maybe he's gonna put the next
tower in a friend I mean yeah exactly
you just you just you don't know and we
do know that he was willing to hold up
four hundred million dollars worth of
aid getting phone calls from Ron Johnson
and did we to play that yesterday did we
have that yesterday we did play it right
with Chuck Todd we didn't play it
oh let's yeah let's pull that up we do
know that when he withheld the aid from
Ukraine he had senators calling him
that's why they ultimately released the
aid was because they were people were
caught up going what's going on why I
just a month ago we we passed the bill
to send this money off and I just found
out through the grapevine that you're
the one who's holding it up what's the
deal and I got sunland telling me that
you're holding it up because of
something to do with the Biden's what
because you think there's some type of
like scam that was going on in 2016
Ukrainians were framing the Russians for
what if Donald Trump did that
for 400 million dollars just just to get
just to validate the story that he was
not guilty of something in 2016 or to
get dirt on Joe Biden what do you think
he would do for 200 million dollars of
cash like do you think he gives one F
for a single person for a single curd no
he doesn't even care about his own wife
yeah of course does he recognize that he
has a child for God's sakes the son that
show with me get out of here Curtis as
this impeachment inquiry goes on they
should be asking for more and more and
more there should be some I don't know
if they can do it on a rolling basis but
every Tuesday should be voting on a new
impeachment indictment and they should
keep going for more and more and more
and I would say that as they start to
look at this and I don't think you can
call I don't know if you could call a
senator to testify but I'd like to hear
Ron Johnson explain this away Ron
Johnson there was a story that came out
three or four days ago that Ron Johnson
sometime in late August called the
president because he had talked to the
guy Sunland the guy who was supposed to
testify today and didn't the guy who
said I think the president wants the
deliverable on text messages to other
people who wanted to know if the
president was prepared to have a meeting
and to release the funds so Johnson
heard from Sunland that the president's
holding up the the defense funds because
he wanted dirt on Biden and he calls the
President and then Johnson says but
because Ron Johnson's not a bright guy
he's just not a bright guy this is what
I've heard from people in what's not a
bright guy he must have realized like
oops I shouldn't have told everybody
that in a political story
Hajis but but
president Trump denied it so there's
that but here he is and Chuck Todd is
just getting incredibly frustrated
because well I don't know I don't know
why Chuck Todd is getting frustrated
maybe he just sort of thinks like this
is come on seriously or maybe he thinks
it's you know and his best interest
whatever I'm happy to see it when it
does happen he vehemently angrily denied
he said I'd never do that
so that that is the the piece of the
puzzle I'm here to report today that
unlike unlike the the narrative of the
press that President Trump wants to dig
up dirt on his 2020 opponent what he
wants is he wants to an accounting of
what happened in 2016
who's fed him Oz it for one second okay
so Ron josh has just said that Sunland
told me that he was doing this but the
president denied it so that's why I'm
here I'm here to deliver the fact that
the president denied it because he
realized Ron Johnson realized like I
screwed up I'm not very bright I screwed
up but I'm gonna try and make it better
now and here I here I go I'm gonna make
it better for the president I'm gonna
talk about this bizarre conspiracy
theory about 2016 I think of what
happened 2016 who set him up did things
spring from Ukraine you know there's a
good piece we've got an oversight letter
on from political in 2017 where let me
let me quote the article it says the
Ukrainian government officials tried to
help Hillary Clinton and undermine Trump
they did so by disseminating documents
implicating a top trump aid and
corruption suggesting the or Nestle in
the matter Ukrainian officials also
reportedly helped Clinton allies
research damaging information on Trump
his advisers there is potential positive
now I just want to make it clear
Clinton allies I don't know who that
constitutes Paul Manafort was involved
in some very corrupt stuff apparently in
Ukraine and so they did investigations
on it but I also want to remind
everybody that no one he's just
mentioned was a government US government
official at the time not to mention not
president
his advisors there is potential
interference in the 2016 I'm asking us
that's what Trump wants to get to the
bottom of but the press doesn't want to
ambassador this article are being
pilloried I'm being called a conspiracy
theorist
John Solomon's being called
conservatives conspiracy theorist
because the press is horribly biased in
Trump and his supporters and unclearly
and that I understand that the a way to
avoid answering a question is to attack
us in the press I'm well aware of that
and that's trying trying me ask you
something Boulder said let me tell you
what ambassador Volcker said under oath
and I'm curious if you shared this
concern ambassador Volcker said this I
explained that I believe that Mayor
Giuliani continues to have a negative
view of Ukraine based on assertions of
actions that happen in 2016 and that
this viewpoint is likely making its way
to the president were you concerned that
Rudy Giuliani's disinformation campaign
sort of Ukrainian propaganda campaign
was negatively influencing the
president's views of the current
Ukrainian president well civilly the
reports now from you Giuliani but from
Ken Vogel out of political and John
Solomon doing some pretty good
investigative reporting now the
Washington force is attacking him
undermining him all that information we
have never got the answers to those
questions Chuck I want to get to the
truth I'm not here defending the
president I'm not here to denounce him
either what I'm here is telling you my
my piece of the puzzle here giving you
my honest assessment of what I heard how
the president told me repeatedly in the
May 23rd Oval Office visit on the phone
of the 31st the reason he had very
legitimate concerns and reservations
about Ukraine is first corruption
generalizes endemic we all know that and
then specifically about what they Paul
Manafort was for a 2016 election wait
this isn't this was not the clip that
where he went off there's a point in
this where he went off we don't we don't
have a themes pretty lit oh no there's a
there's a point where
where he goes off I don't know where
that clip is but he's about to pop off
oh yeah no he goes off big time on him
because this story is just a joke Paul
Manafort was not framed Paul Manafort
was not framed here let's pop this one
up you don't trust the CIA no no I ghost
here
you don't your page okay after James
Cole you believe the FBI John these guys
in the Obama administration I don't
trust you if you don't trust him now you
trust him now no I didn't trust him back
then and you don't trust them now I do
not trust John Brennan I do not sure you
trusted CIA FBI because none of them
have some conclusions you're trying to
come to I'm just curious do you trust
them now no who are you talking about
the CIA and the FBI
Andrew McCabe McCabe I don't trust James
Comey I don't trust Peter struck I
didn't trust John Brunner the Senate let
me ask you this one of the things that
you face not here we do truth so you
know you set this thing up totally
biased I could never really get into the
full narrative we don't have to go
through all the things I can talk about
it you're right because you can hear and
chose to bring up something about Lisa
so you usually start with something
incredibly biased that I would never be
able to get the truth out senator III
don't know why you just came on here to
personally attack the press and avoid
answering questions about peace what's
happened here center it's pretty clear
we're only dealing with the facts that
we have not the family and I can't get
the answers and I can't get the answers
the American people can't get wait
there's another there's another clip
that it gets even even here I mean it's
an it's an amazing it's it's it's it
really is a like amazing because you
know
and to a certain extent uh you know I'm
not I mean that's just about Chuck Todd
but all of them for years have allowed
Republicans to come on
and just outright lie about things even
the even like but sort of more but now
less controversial things like if we cut
taxes revenues will go up stuff that
everyone knows is not true
everyone knows this is not true but Paul
Ryan spent an entire career going on
these shows saying that and nobody
questioned them and this is where it
leads of course and now not only does it
lead to this the he's just gonna go on
to Fox and he's gonna be able to deliver
his message they like they've reached
that critical mass at Fox where they
don't need this show
in fact he's gonna go on to Fox and
they're gonna play this exchange and
it's going to prove his point because
they allowed the Republicans to lie for
so long oh they were always gonna do
that though like whether the press was
going after them or not they were gonna
go on and say the same lies but the
point is is now because of this I
because of the polarization in the media
worlds that this was not the case ten
years ago ten fifteen years ago you
needed to launder stuff through Meet the
Press through Fox News to make it to
meet the press and now it's going the
other direction nor is he like the the
media the media environment fifteen
years ago was the trick was you get it
onto Drudge
you get it onto Fox then you get it onto
Drudge then it ends up on ABC and now
the goal is not to get it on ABC they
don't need to they just get it on Fox
they don't even need Drudge anymore they
just get it on Fox then you go on NBC or
ABC or wherever it is to have them deny
it which proves it to the people on Fox
they don't need this part of the media
anymore only as a punching bag to show
off to their base well that's what I'm
saying
and and and that's why in many respects
Chuck Todd is reaping what he sowed and
other sowed by allowing Republicans to
come on and fabricate things and now you
get this Looney tune stuff generally
tells us an attorney asking to just
confirm just confirm are you
investigating those leaks that Peter
struck talked about nine senators I
ain't no idea again no that's a dancer
set up what doesn't want to this point
why a Fox News conspiracy propaganda
stuff is popping up on here I have no
idea I know that is exactly why
President Trump is upset and why his
supporters are upset one news media
johnson Silas Johnson please please
answer the question that I asked you
instead of trying to make Donald Trump
feel better here that you're not
criticizing that I'm just wrong a very
simple question everybody's made uses
what made you wince what what is but I'm
asking a simple pair of intelligent
senator okay and what made him wince was
in that story when Sunland said he's
holding it up he's holding up the stuff
for to get this information and and and
that him making him wincing is what
Johnson said he did he went waste he
Winston how appropriate it was there you
go
I always wince when things are really
good the news is getting so lit it's
making me wince it's so lit all right
folks I'm gonna head to the fun half
just a reminder your support of this
program makes it possible
we keep doing these long free shows and
I know that we shouldn't I see the data
people can't listen to the whole thing
but if you stuck with this this whole
time and you have the means to support
this program please do you can become a
member by going to join the majority
report calm when you do you get the you
support this show and you get it for
commercial free and you get extra
content and that's it that's all we have
for you for that just coffee co-op very
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority don't forget to sign up
for the a.m. quickie don't forget to
follow us on instagram majority report
dot FM and folks a reminder cap Tara
it's the leading free online resource to
help you find the best software a
solution for your business with over 1
million reviews anybody who reads all
million reviews on cap Tara
we will give them a free majority report
t-shirt I don't know how we prove that
but a million reviews of products from
real software users you can discover
everything you need to make an informed
decision for your business visit kaptara
dot-com slash majority for free today
find the tools to make an informed
decision for your business cap Tara
dot-com / majority cap Tara that's
kaptara CA p te r r a.com slash majority
kaptara software selection simplified
tonight it's Tuesday TM BS should be
happening I believe it will as far as I
know you check it out at 7 p.m. on
YouTube or wherever later wherever your
podcasts are served Jamie
the anta fada o we have so much stuff
right now you're a week away from your
show no I said a week I know it's crazy
so yeah I guess I'll start with that
this weekend with the anti Fattah we
have the goth socialist variety hour
which we are doing with our goth
socialist sister show PHA damn America
very good show led by Jake Flores very
funny guy
and it's gonna be at Littlefield in
Brooklyn
this coming Saturday we're gonna have
merch available it's the only place you
can get an anti Fatih t-shirt right now
and stickers we're gonna have some
really good guests including Leslie Lee
the third from struggle session my
collaborator on the vampyre castle as
well as Matt Chrisman and virtual Texas
from Chapo track and I do some little
debates that you the audience will get
to judge it's just gonna be a big guy
yelling out a little guy it's gonna be
great and it's all a drag performance of
course
your friend and mine comrade Barbie Wow
and Matt yeah literary hangover check
out my most recent episode on the
abolitionist and feminist Lydia mere
child's hub amok this month is going to
be a witch month so we're going to be
doing crucible at the end of it and I
might do might do some other stuff too
so alright folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun half Jamie and
I may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cuz you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube he's up
there buggy whipping like he's the boss
I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you're nervous a little bit upset you
riled up yeah maybe you should rethink
your defense of that you're
idiots we're just going to get rid of
you alright but dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes do you feel
like you are a dinosaur
good exactly I'm happy now so
win-win it's a win-win-win
hell yeah now listen to me two three
four five times eight four seven nine oh
six five oh one four five seven two
thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion
Wow ultimate math bird don't you see why
don't you get a real job instead of
spewing vitriol engage with your left
one bomb everybody's taking their dumb
juice today come on Sammy
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first postal seat I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
yes this is a perfect moment no all
right a quick break I want to take a
moment to talk to some ability Ria's out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber silastic I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses it's a free
speech issue if you don't like me thank
you for calling into the majority report
them will be with you shortly
oh god oh god making powerful enemies
folks there's nothing worse there's
nothing worse than a democratic primary
season nothing worse and you know why
because it's endless and it's it's it's
impossible like I remember I remember in
2004 just being grateful that I was not
on the air until April of 2004 when it
was basically just like Kerry I mean I I
think at that time I think it was Dean I
can't remember who else was running but
Dean was the most interesting to me just
basically because he had had all small
small donors
The Scream was not uninteresting well I
mean the yeah but my point is just like
he you know his politics were not
necessarily particularly left or
progressive he was against the war which
was good and that was hard to find in
that era but I really did appreciate the
fact that his campaign funds came via
the internet and were small donors at
that point yeah I still remember my
friend's mom had some kind of a
chocolate dessert party for him at their
house there you go and chocolate that
was another reason well had to support
him but I do remember I do remember in
coming on the air
in April of 2004 and being grateful that
I had missed that primary season and
that was that opinion was validated in
2008 when it was unbelievable
the Pumas which he don't do you know
what Pumas is Pumas were the Clinton
supporters who party unity my ass was
what they said at the time they were
very very very angry about Barack Obama
winning oh my god yep guess someone
should make a law about how long primary
season can last oh wait they did that
already in other countries well not only
should there be a law about how long the
primary season can last because it seems
like it lasts about so far five or six
years this country I mean people are
still arguing about 2016 as you can see
so I don't know that it ever ends
calling from a 6-3 one area code who's
this hello can you hear me wow yeah
who's this okay this is LaShawn Payne
from Virginia shoulda said my whole name
but LaShawn from Virginia yes we will
just pretend you didn't say that
LaShawn what's on your mind alright so
uh I got a couple things to you first of
all moving to Virginia have been very
red I'm from New York before that I was
in San Francisco so this has been a real
breath of fresh air just love your show
I don't feel like I've been getting gas
because I wasn't used to seeing front
pads so it's been a real refresher well
yes you have you have my my sympathies
yeah
so moving straight forward a lot of
people that I listen to so you David
Pakman have been saying or were saying
in the beginning of this impeachment
inquiry let's drag this on for months
let's get everything out there but I
think that the speed of the Democratic
impeachment has been playing to the
benefits of the media
and avoiding a mule or a point situation
where it's so long and it's so drawn-out
and it gives the republican media
apparatus which is super strong and
powerful my opinion the ability to sort
of well I'm gonna discredit everything
I'm just gonna keep saying they're of
their lives I know that nobody is going
to read this so now we just have this
sort of powerful and interesting thing
for people to watch and I was wondering
if you think that that's sort of part of
the plan here is to play with the media
and play with speed so that Republicans
sort of don't have the time to run a
mere campaign oh no it's like they did I
think I think I think Democrats need to
maintain the pace of this I think it's
really important that there is that that
that we see a we have a witness not show
up at least once or twice a week frankly
I mean I would do that I would even I
would even pace it up even more but I'm
just saying that there's plenty of
material right like you know I don't
think we need to wrap this up and in you
know in six weeks I think we we should
have we should pace this out but the
fact is is there's plenty of material
like I want to hear I mean I don't know
if they can subpoena Ron Johnson but I
want to hear about Ron Johnson's for a
conversation with Sun glint I want to
hear I want Ron Johnson to say what but
I I winced why did you win senator I
mean I I want I want I want I want the
inherent contempt against Pompeo
I want these documents I want to see it
all I want to see what's in that server
that that deep server like why are you
holding back on these conversations with
G why are you holding back in IG
Congress busy conversations are one of
my favorites well so I have 100% agree
oh come on well that mean that's my
point it's just like I don't think that
the I think the pace of it is important
but the reason why though the
conservative media is having a problem
with it is because it's damning like
it's bad and now that the Democrats have
announced it's
like literally that's all it took it's
bad hmm and people know it's bad but the
the problem has been is like how do how
does a a person out there and this is
the the thing that the Democrats don't
seem to understand or or or do
understand that are just afraid of it or
have a different agenda I think it's I
think all those answers applied to
different ones but that like you define
you you are a politician you are a
leader you define and and basically
provide the first order analysis for all
of these things like you know if and you
know there's a there's a lot of people
out there who actually trust Nancy
Pelosi so if Nancy Pelosi doesn't get
out there and make an assessment about
this stuff that is in any way meaningful
then people are just gonna assume it's
not important I mean like you know you
know for you know for me if like you
know if a OSI supports a bill my first
inclination is gonna be like then I
would support that bill now I might a
little bit more but that's what I do
professionally put the book but the
bottom line is this is the way that is
mmm-hmm there was something that you
said earlier about Nancy Pelosi if I can
continue you said who would say they
have more knowledge than Pelosi on
democratic impeachment and you're
talking about her coming out and and
saying you know let's impeach and
everybody going okay a senator says now
I believe it I agree to an extent but I
think a big problem in the last four
years has been our everybody believes
they're an armchair politician now to be
fair and including me but I think that
like I feel like the guy who likes a
band and then like everyone else gets
into it and I'm like oh these are all
normies these are just vanilla they
really get the culture I feel like since
Trump has come into office a bunch of
political and
except come about that I didn't really
they weren't having conversations at
least with me about politics before this
five years ago and I'm gonna let you go
after that all forever all right well no
but I mean let's I think I mean I won I
would say you're right there's a lot
more folks like that I don't think it's
a bad thing I think it's a good thing I
remember we all felt the same way about
Nirvana people were bummed oh I loved
him at bleach and then all of a sudden
this comes out and they're huge hit now
because uh teen spirit oh now look at
all the idiots who come to the show
well I mean look why shouldn't they have
some success good I you know I don't
think it's everybody I think you know we
can certainly there's a lot more people
who are invested in politics but there's
also a ton that are not and they're not
there they're there they disengage for a
myriad of reasons that range from they
don't feel that government can do
anything for them or they just like I
don't need government that much I don't
think government does I mean I I've seen
people wealthy people upper middle class
people people you know professionals who
are just like ah just tell me who the
Democratic candidate is when we got one
that's when I'm gonna support it and
I'll be back then and I'm gonna take the
next six weeks off and I look at them
with just sort of the greatest amount of
envy that I could possibly have and then
but but but and an impeachment you know
they're just they're gonna read the
headlines and they're just gonna go my
like Democrats say that you should
peached okay I do too
boom 58% appreciate the call mm-hmm
thanks future and this Thanks come from
a seven three seven area code who's this
where you come from 737 737 Colin
786 area code who's this we contract oh
yeah what's up what's up doing that good
who's this right you know this is this
is Michael Brooks Michael Brooks all
right yeah what's up yeah
all right well where are you earlier in
the podcast that you mentioned um Rajasa
and hull nitro Java specifically but
northern Syria in the situation going on
there right and you said that you saw an
article that the Kurds would release
Isis fighters yep yeah I found that
tremendously interesting it actually put
a smile on my face not because of course
we have any interest to support Isis but
this axis of allies America has in the
Middle East between supporting Saudi
Arabia Israel and Turkey is just an
abomination but besides Syria I mean I
don't think of any other sort of
intervention America's involved in that
is like important the hits at the end
right or even justified in what do you
what just you were also saying how there
was a what was going on was that
American troops in cooperation with
Turkish forces were having Kurds destroy
outposts along the Turkish border
correct yeah I mean it's the it really
it's less that what it was is that there
was a deal being made the u.s. wanted
the Kurds to go after the what remained
of Isis ISIL and the Kurd said yeah but
we need to maintain our fortifications
on the border with Turkey because we're
afraid of Turkey and the u.s. said
here's what we'll do we're gonna put a
five mile buffer we will put our own
troops there we will we will patrol with
Turkish troops everybody agrees and then
you can do you can dismantle your
fortifications move that stuff to the
front lines with ISIL and that's what
they did
and now of course and another back is
completely exposed exactly perfect
Michael you have learned so much from me
over the years I appreciate your time
okay thank you thank you
wow he really can't stay away when we're
talking about foreign policy it's true
it's true voice sounds different when
he's stoned his voice does sound much
different when he's on the phone in his
hi come from a 308 area code who's this
where you come from
hello 308 Kowalski hey it's Kowalski
from flatwater
what well you throw us a curveball
well crowder well flat water is the odel
Indian word for Nebraska Oh
alright there you go some more you know
flat land too but hey I was just wanted
to call and because I think I can put a
lot of stuff in context for the Middle
East norm
yeah for what it's worth my take on some
foreign policy it's just basic some
information I've been looking into but
if you give me like two minutes to
explain I promise you there's a point
okay go
alright so the United States this year
will become the world's largest exporter
of oil because last year we became the
world's largest producer of oil right
now it is in the US interest not to
secure global energy trade but to
disrupt it because it's good for
American business therefore we stand to
gain more by disrupting Venezuela by
allowing the Iranians or the CIA to
destroy Saudi Arabia's fat feed export
oil and completely disrupt the Persian
Gulf it also then stands to reason why
we've been tied to fact stabbing the
Canadians and their ability to prove oil
and if you really think of it that way
it really does explain why we just
simply aren't going to let the world
move forward
that sounds wheat and a gain on pretty
much every front so that being said
support Sanders because obviously he's
the only Democrat who's going to change
that kind of policy I mean I without a
doubt I think that I mean I think he's
the only one I mean he's the only one
who has a
non sort of like typical foreign policy
that we see you know that diverges from
the establishment I don't know that any
of the Democrats would necessarily
frankly be as moved by the same forces
to disrupt let's say the oil business
because I don't think most their money
comes from from oil in the way that it
does with the Republican Party I think
there may be other factors that lead
them to do similar things but it's not
necessarily I think you know it's much
more it's much easier for me to imagine
that the the guy the the fracking king
who supported she's the first EPA guy I
can't remember his name now Hamm is it
Harold Hamm yes Scott not know right I
can't even remember his name but the guy
from Oklahoma the the Pruitt scott
pruett Scott right
Scott Pruett who his benefactor is a guy
named I think Harold Hamm who is a huge
Frakker
who I would imagine is one of those guys
where if the price of that oil goes up
you know even marginally he's gonna do a
lot better somebody is getting in Donald
Trump's ear and and I think that's
really the difference I mean I think
look Bernie Sanders is going would
reorient our foreign policy in a in a
very fundamental way like it would be
actually ethical for a change yeah
sounds incredibly nice but before I go
here I did just want to say I kind of
agree with you on the whole impeachment
thing it needs to be a slow burn over
months because right now it's pretty
much sowing discontent because people
who aren't actively engaged they go home
they see the news it's another scandal
another allegation instead of Trump on
barding and controlling the narrative
the Democrats are actually doing a
fairly good job and I of course support
that because Trump's war
farmers has not been particularly well
so I they are controlling the median
Arif I mean when when has that happened
it hasn't and I agree with you it is
putting all of them on the defensive and
I think it's great
appreciate the call got them on their
heels boys keep it up exactly here is
another example of them on their heels I
mean what what are what are the
Republicans what is the right talking
about they are they are not going out
with any type of like agenda they are
responding to things there's a bench
bureau he's having to try and figure out
how to deliver this I guess he's in a
hotel room somewhere doing his radio
show maybe I'm not quite sure maybe he's
just doing a part I don't know what he's
doing but here he is basically trying to
explain what like I mean I think this is
this is where one of those things were
form meets function it's so
incomprehensible but all the words
individually make sense it's just that
there's some type of jumble let's play
this when it comes to scandals when it
comes to President Trump came up with a
plan the plan was deployed Rudy Giuliani
to uncover the specific corruption of
Joe Biden and then leverage the
Ukrainian government to help renew
Giuliani to go after the specific
corruption of Joe Biden because the man
he has a gimlet-eyed sharp posit oh I
guess here I know I understand it what
he's trying to say is like this is such
an intricate plan that Donald Trump it's
ridiculous that Donald Trump could come
up with it let's be clear on what the
plan was I know that you're getting
money from the Congress I'm not gonna
give it to you until you give me what I
want that's like well dimensional chess
yeah I'd say I Got News for you
my six-year-old son comes up with more
sophisticated plans than that that's a
pretty basic plan and they're like wait
second president trip why are you
stopping why
you holding up this money just say the
agencies are doing it or come up with an
idea like maybe bench Pierre doesn't
remind realize that he's surrounded by
people who are not as incoherent as he
is they're bad people but they're not
incoherent to problem solvers
if the Mad King is going around saying I
want the stuff on Biden and they're not
gonna get their money until I get it you
tell Mike Pence he can't go they're
gonna come up with some you know lie to
protect it but for Ben Shapiro I'm gonna
try and make it like it's impossible for
Donald Trump to come up with this the
intricate of a plan go back and then
leverage the Ukrainian government to
help renew Giuliani to go after the
specific corruption of Joe Biden because
the man he has a gimlet-eyed sharp-eyed
steely steely missile man I'd plan he's
just gonna carry that here's the best
defense No right that's the best the
best of it is no you got to be kidding
no that's this is not a dude with a plan
and the problem for Republicans say that
that's the problem for Republicans is
that if you're a Republican senator and
you say that Trump might attack you
current might go after you so instead
you have to somehow plan that you have
to say this is all for T chest but the
problem is if you say it's for T chest
then he's capable of seeing what he's
doing if he's capable of seeing what
he's doing it makes me look more guilty
not less guilty plus it this is funny
but it's not for DHS saying I'm going to
keep you from getting the money that is
been appropriated to you unless you give
me dirt on Joe Biden that's not for DHS
that's not even 3d chess that's not
checkers
that's not even checkers it would be
checkers if you couldn't do double jumps
I would say right
it's like tiddlywinks is really what it
is but Ben Shapiro wants to tell his
conservative followers that's so
intricate that child could never come up
with it and the order is why people
aren't saying that Donald Trump doesn't
have the intelligence or coherence to do
that is because they're afraid of Donald
Trump
what kind of messed up like dynamic does
he think is going on in the Republic oh
I know if he's capable of seeing what
he's doing it makes me look more guilty
not less guilty so here's the thing as
every good defense lawyer knows there
are a few defenses that are available
when it comes to crimes of intent hey
and when it comes to a bribery situation
like this like a bribery case that
they're trying to make or a quid pro quo
or a targeting case which they're
talking about an abuse of power you sort
of require intent as an element of the
crime the quick answer for defense where
is intent was not here there was no
intent the intent was not present and
here's the beautiful thing about Trump
is the clients the intent is almost
never there
because Trump doesn't have requisite
intent for nearly anything the man has
the attention span of a gnat posited
this is just a bizarre thing to say the
only thing that Donald Trump has his
intent he doesn't have the ability
necessarily to execute but all he does
is have just naked desires and yeah he's
a walking it'd but exactly it's all he
is now I would also add that any defense
attorney would say to you but this is
not a criminal case this is an
impeachment it's a political case and we
don't have to prove intent we can prove
that he elicits Lee held up this money
and then also elicits Lee requested aid
from a foreign government for his
political campaign and then we could
combine those two and say he extorted
this government for falsified
information and we can impeach him you
can impeach him on any one of those
counts frankly and I hope they do good
attention span of a gnat that doesn't
mean that he can't actually do wonderful
things as presidents and many wonderful
things that I appreciate it's why I'm
more likely to vote for him now that I
was in 2016 I get all that I get that
he's delegated a lot of stuff that's
great he's done a lot of things I think
no other Republican would do sometimes
it's great that he's punching back at
the media all of that is granted taken
for granted if you are his defense
we're his best defense - he had a plan
in Ukraine to go after Joe Biden is dude
doesn't have plans here's the evidence
he doesn't plan things ever when is the
last time Trump had like a four-step
plan
he just doesn't his great instincts
great political it no plan this is one
of the I want to say dumbest arguments I
think I've ever heard I'm gonna vote for
this guy who has no plan he has no plans
he has no plans because he has no plans
because and the evidence is because he
has no plans believe that's what we call
a tautology something to that if it's
only two steps Ben it's called Ukraine's
not playing ball on Joe Biden so we're
not gonna play ball with them two steps
how many argumentative fallacies do you
think we're in that clip should we ask
Ben Burgess III mean there there's a lot
but it's also just sort of like
ridiculous
fantasy land premises yeah the category
error where you substitute intent for
intelligence maybe it was philosophy and
I just didn't understand it because he's
the cool kids philosopher it's possible
like I say the Republicans are on their
heels here is Scott Walker who was a
creation of the Koch brothers through
the AFP this is Americans for Prosperity
he was one of the early states to adopt
voter ID and vote suppression tactics on
voters and he also oversaw the
redistricting in Wisconsin which allows
for Democrats to win fifty six percent
of the vote and yet control only 36
percent of the Wisconsin Senate you
heard that right
here he is sitting with Pete hagseth
talking about the coup that is taking
place in terms of redistricting I mean
there's so much better at this in some
respects but God
Eric Holder facing backlash for what
Wall Street Journal editorial board is
calling a quote redistricting coup
Holder is part of a national
redistricting Action Fund that's
launching initiatives across the country
to throw out Republican Maps
and turn districts blue in time for the
elections and they've already had
success in North Carolina former
Wisconsin governor and finance chairman
of the repository the success they had
in North Carolina was because the
Supreme Court found what the Republicans
did there was racially gerrymandering
well he literally just admitted that
their Republican Maps exactly yes in
North Carolina former Wisconsin governor
and finance chairman of the Republican
National redistricting trust Scott
Walker joins us now remembered how he's
fighting back
thanks for being here governor great to
do with and I hear you played the drum
so if you want to join little Bradley
over at some point you can but this is
this is serious stuff it's it's you it
feels like you're getting in the weeds
but you're fighting for the future of
maps that matter for who wins elections
and I already have I mean Eric Holder
has been at this for years they have
this whole suing - it's blue mentality
you until the district is blue right so
until it's blue so even in a state like
North Carolina where Republicans are in
charge of the assembly and the Senate
the two houses there they've gone to
court and over the years they've gotten
involved in Supreme Court races so now
the Liberals Eric Holder's team now
controls who's on the Supreme Court
North Carolina and after the federal
government the US Supreme Court said
they weren't going to get involved with
this it's now in every one of the states
so North Carolina is one of the many
states where holders been doing this for
a year you mentioned North Carolina
here's a statement Eric Holder put out a
possible I love the fact that Eric
Holder has the ability to stack the
Supreme Court but can't get anybody
elected on the Statehouse and I wonder
why that is
I wonder why it is democratic voters can
elect the Supreme Court justices in
North Carolina but they can't seem to
take the house in the Senate I wonder if
that has something to do
those maps that the Republicans drew
here's a statement Eric Holder put out
about those maps on September 27th he
said from nearly a decade that people of
North Carolina have been forced to vote
in manipulated electoral maps that were
drawn by Republicans in the legislature
to create a partisan outcome it's time
for this era of gerrymandering in North
Carolina to come to an end he says he's
just fighting for fair maps governor
wait and the irony is if you look at the
forming files they are s they actually
say not that they're fighting for fair
maps they talk about giving Democrats
and advantage in this this is what this
is all about his efforts last year in
2018 even before the next census in 2020
already had an impact on 27 different
house seats so in large part because of
what Eric Holder and his cronies and
he's got a lot of support with Barack
Obama Barack Obama's organization
organizing for America is now a part of
that as well they affected making the
elections in 2018 effectively making
Nancy Pelosi not Kevin McCarthy the
speaker yeah I just want to give you the
opportunity to look at the face of a guy
who is knowingly lying and doing it with
just total ease and I mean this is this
is terrifying stuff it's terrifying to
me to watch a guy lie no he's lying
not only know that he's lying but know
that he was instrumental in all the
components of that lie in all the
real-world things that he was lying
about he was instrumental in in in
creating and yet he just sits there
maybe they paid for his flight in to New
York or I don't know maybe his election
trust oh I'm sure he's getting paid by
some PAC super PAC that has hired him to
go around and do this stuff no doubt I
really don't want to do this I really
don't want to do this but we got to do
it we got to do it and and you know what
I'm so annoyed that I've got to do this
but my I you know I don't know if my
daughter is a fan of Ellen's right now I
mean I know that she's talked about
Ellen in the past and this is why this
is important this is why this is
important because it takes very little
time we used to get gore Vidal used to
come on the show the majority report on
air America you come into studio and I
think around the time that he had
written United States of amnesia and I
couldn't quite get what he was talking
about I mean I understood what he was
saying but I didn't I didn't really
genuinely feel it and I think part of it
was that I was not engaged in politics
you know in 2004-2005 to the extent that
I have been now I've been doing this for
15 years on a professional basis looking
everyday at the news and so I'm hyper
conscious to the fact of how quickly
people forget certain realities and
that's why we got to do this
this is Ellen DeGeneres this is just a
picture is the still yeah this is still
shot of her at a football game with
George Bush and Laura Bush now you could
probably say criticize people you know
in the same way like Michelle Obama big
fan of George Bush's because you give
air mint now there's different pressures
on Michelle Obama than there is uh
nellen right I mean Michelle Obama
you've got to sort of maintain there is
a civic sort of duty to maintain some
semblance between presidents of like
some type of you know nonviolent
transfer of power type of stuff but
nevertheless I would criticize Michelle
Obama for this and I criticize Barack
Obama for not impeaching the guy and for
trying to turn the page instead of
looking back on things like torture
instead of looking back on things like
bringing this country into a war where
we were responsible for the deaths of
hundreds of thousands of civilians
probably in some level you could
probably track it just to the hundred
who died this week the 6000 who were
injured and you know what Jane would not
take the candy exactly and so it's not
just Ellen
but Ellen's the latest so we're gonna
talk about it here she is she goes on
her show I will remind you too and maybe
Ellen's only referring to this but I
watched George Bush go on national
television a prime time to address to
the country on how he had to change the
constitution to make sure that gay
people were not allowed to get married
and have the 1900 rights that are
attributed to married people in this
country but maybe she's not thinking at
all of the the thousands of hundreds of
thousands of innocent civilians who are
killed these are by our own Defense
Department numbers I'm giving you I'm
giving you the conservative numbers 4
million refugees 2 million external 2
million internal here is Ellen DeGeneres
talking about the haters who have an
issue with the fact that I hung out with
George Bush during the game they showed
a shot of George and me laughing
together and so people were upset they
thought why is a gay Hollywood liberal
sitting next to a conservative
Republican president didn't even notice
I'm holding the brand new iPhone 11 and
but a lot of people were mad and they
did what people do when they're mad they
tweet and but here's one tweet that I
loved this person says Ellen and George
Bush together makes me have faith in
America again
here's the thing I'm friends with George
Bush in fact I'm friends with a lot of
people who don't share the same beliefs
that I have we're all different and I
think that we've forgotten that that's
okay that we're all different for
instance I wish people wouldn't wear fur
I don't like it but but I'm friends with
people who wear fur and I'm friends with
people who are furry as a matter of fact
I have those who should tweeze more and
I I have but just because I don't agree
with someone on everything doesn't mean
that I'm not gonna be friends with them
when I say be kind to one another I
don't mean only the people that think
the same way that you do I mean be kind
to everyone I wonder if she really means
it
I mean I wonder if she means that would
you be kind to someone who you know to
be a serial rapist would you be kind to
someone that you know to be a serial
murderer
my guess is well maybe maybe if they
were what would it would you be kind to
someone who you saw beating a child
maybe if we went to the same Country
Club well I mean yeah I mean I'm curious
maybe maybe she has the ability to be
kind to every every human being even the
most even Hitler I would be kind to I
would hang out and laugh at a football
game at Hitler now I know I'm using an
extreme but my point is is like there
must be a line where you determine that
you will not be kind to someone that it
is actually unhelpful to a better
society to show that you can get along
with them unhelpful to endorse them by
being around them and if there is a line
then what we're doing is we're arguing
what constitutes someone who has passed
that line and I would argue that someone
who allowed promoted protected the
United States becoming a torturer nation
I would argue that someone who lied the
country into a war that killed
a hundred thousand-plus innocent
civilians I would argue that someone who
expanded the ability for us to be
surveilled I would argue that the person
who ignored warnings about a terrorist
attack to hit the United States I would
say that person crosses the line for me
and if Ellen got up there and said like
look I can forgive the killing of the
hundred thousand plus civilians and I
can forgive the torture or I have a
problem with it but that doesn't mean
that if I'm gonna get in the way of me
having fun with that person that would
be the honest response but basically
what she's doing is burying history
burying truth and that's what I have a
problem with you know I bet she wasn't
even thinking about all the bodies he's
got on him when she said that I bet she
was thinking about like the gay marriage
stuff yeah III think she was I think she
was and you know what on some level like
I can understand that
I can understand like you know saying
that like people evolved you could
pretend that it was you know he evolved
as opposed to just like was leveraging
it for his own personal gain but I mean
I I don't know that I would do it but if
if that's what she's talking about but
she's ignoring the the the incredible
human suffering and toll that this guy
presided over and just complete not even
ignoring it she is eliminating it acting
like it's were upset because we won a
police George Bush for Thought crime
like this isn't about sharing beliefs
with him this is about him acting on
those beliefs as the most powerful
person in the world he I mean he harmed
this country Donald Trump would not
exist but for George W Bush and if you
dislike Donald Trump
maybe you should dislike the one who's
got a million bodies on him just as much
at least but of course who will come to
her defense
who will come to her defense why look
it's Eric Weinstein from the IDW great
to have you aboard Ellen because and and
and then Weinstein says now I should add
that what I'm affirming is the general
principle that she is stating and not
that we should all break bread with
anyone and everyone now it sounded like
she was saying we should break bread
with anyone and everyone but he says
there are bloodied hands that I would
shake and clean ones that I would not so
then he's saying like I'm completely I
have a whole nother agenda I don't have
a problem with people whose hands are
bloodied but mostly shunning and shaming
just tears this part well mostly
I mean if someone said like well this
guy worked for the bush administration
but they just worked in you know the
Justice Department and they worked in
the Civil Rights Division or whatever it
is or this guy worked in Bush's EPA but
he was just you know I'd have no problem
with that but what Eric Weinstein is
saying here is nothing he is saying
nothing and she is not saying mostly
shunning and shaming just tears apart if
you don't shun and shame someone like
George Bush who do you shun and shame oh
I know Erik shun me you refused to
engage with me do you have the clean
hands he wouldn't shake
I guess maybe my hands are the clean
ones that I wouldn't shake he would
engage with Billy Bragg even though
Billy Bragg said much meaner things
about Eric than I did this is I mean
these people are celebrity chasers you
just look at dave rubin has done this
desperately i know for a fact I have
talked to reporters who used to do the
comedy beat Dave Rubin will write brag
about and you know like please write a
story about me I just had a tweet
that went viral I'm not kidding um the
way that they chase Hollywood I think
really really exposes what what these
guys are about I got news for you
I don't perceive Eric Weinstein as a
celebrity but I am very very interested
in talking and engaging with him I don't
perceive dave rubin as a celebrity or
steven crowder i have friends who are
significantly more famous than these
people that is true and yeah some who
have been in the studio but I know how
destructive their their stuff is I don't
care about a you know in any way
engaging with Ellen DeGeneres but I do
care that there's going to be and that
video will probably get I don't know
several million young people out there
who are just not going to get she's got
thirty five million subscribers we're
just not going to understand that could
you have no sense of what George Bush
did at that time and the people that do
our donors yep and she's not gonna tell
them that's right
she's gonna do worse than not tell them
she's gonna give them another narrative
like we just had a disagreement about
whether you should kill all these people
top police yep yeah and the last thing I
ever wanted to do is address what Ellen
DeGeneres is said on our TV show but
that's what it is well it seems like the
tide might be turning against that kind
of thing at even among liberals like the
amount of uproar that we've seen over it
or is that just like no Twitter no maybe
just Twitter but it's nice to know that
least there are some people who are
conscious of it and if it's on Twitter
at least
is an opportunity for them to tell other
people I mean I you know it's different
than when dot when George Bush was
president because there was a lot of
people who spoke out about George Bush
who got a lot worse treatment than Ellen
DeGeneres did now the Dixie Trix they
they built bonfires when they said they
were embarrassed by her
I don't remember Ellen DeGeneres going
out there and saying hey whoa wait a
second but be nice yes seriously Janeane
Garofalo was constantly harassed and I
don't remember Ellen DeGeneres coming up
and saying hey wait a second I mean give
me a break
well that's the great thing about
alternative media and social media for
all the bad parts of social media like
yo know you can say stuff back to these
people and you know that you're not
alone and you're not crazy for thinking
that they're ghouls it has for all the
things that suck about Twitter it has
democratized things in a way you know as
far as it goes that I think are positive
it gives the opportunity for people who
don't have a platform to actually get
you know to influence the conversation
and I think that's really important I
mean you know see the people one of the
problems that we have with with with you
know having all billionaires in the
Senate and just wealthy people oh this
congressman is that they don't hear from
other people and it was also a very much
a problem within the media to a large
extent and for better for worse
sometimes it's bat worse the better part
is a lot of media people that hang out
on Twitter and what they're hearing that
that what they're swimming in is
influenced by people who don't have
power don't have a sort of a platform
outside of Twitter that's very helpful
and you don't even need a huge platform
in the context of Twitter you can have
you know several thousand followers you
could have a hundred followers and if
you say the right thing to the right
person
it can expand it you have the
opportunity to sort of like carry a
message and I know I think it's I think
it's pretty good I have a friend who
knows some people in like local Texas
politics and talking about staffers on
like Congress people's staffs and stuff
like that and just tell me about one
who's have currently having his mind
blown by Thomas Franks listen liberal
and Jane Mayer's dark money I think we
underestimate how much like people just
haven't been open to like those
arguments at all yep nice this is
encouraging let's do one on a good note
here is a shot of Bernie Sanders going
out taking a walk in Vermont one of his
palacios palatial abodes it's crushed
the moat look at that garage it almost
looks like it's electric look at that
fancy other Ford Fiesta is that is that
a jacket for when it's cold out that's
fancy - oh I see your uh Democratic
Socialist but you got no problem wearing
a coat uh-huh
and I see you got a lawn - whoa it's
sort of shocking to see like a you know
potential the president walking out of a
house like that that's one of the things
that I appreciated about Mike Dukakis
I think the caucuses house was very
similar but no Bernie Moe you know
shovels the snow like the caucus David
can't stop him he's a cyborg now there
we go it's posthuman we will see Bernie
in within a week a week from today we
will be doing a live coverage of the
democratic debate
all right here's something since we were
talking about comedians and I'm Erin had
something good I noticed on Twitter the
other day my old friend Marc Maron about
you know if you're punching down you've
got a problem in comedy and here's Chris
Morris I don't know if you ever seen the
brass eye but if you haven't seen
this British brass I he if you want to
understand where so much of like British
comedy has come from over the past five
ten years etc etc the brass I buy these
you know it's like I don't know I don't
know how big it was in in in England I
don't have no idea I think it was pretty
pretty big I mean they don't have you
know but there's a quality for someone
like this guys like you know like like
The Velvet Underground and music where
it's like they sold the thousand records
but everyone who bought a record started
a band that you've heard of
by the way brass I and I believe the day
today they're both they're all on
YouTube so people watch those Oh YouTube
yes I've heard of that and here is uh
Chris Morris talking about the point of
satire in this day and age I think he's
he's reacting maybe to or you is this
just an example that we have of Maya
Rudolph yeah but here I don't really see
the point of comedy and that's there's
something underpinning it I mean what
are you doing you know are you doing
some sort of some kind of exotic display
for the court to be patted on the head
by the court or are you trying to change
something isn't Trump half the time many
steps ahead of you ahead of you in the
sense that he's doing things even you
might not have dreamt an American
president could do but it's not it's not
about the the failure of your
imagination to get to a point it's what
he's doing Trump's move is to confuse
people yes but you've got to stick to
what's actually happening and I think
that yeah you need to take notes pretty
fast right now
but I don't think he's escaped ridicule
I mean he is self ridiculing but you're
always gonna be able to ridicule someone
like that the problem is that I think
we've got used to a kind of satire which
essentially placate the court you do a
nice dissection of the way things are in
the Orthodox elite and lo and behold you
get slapped on the back by the Orthodox
elites you say jolly good can you do us
another one that's not what it's about
so in a way these times should bring on
something with a bit more clout and you
really don't feel out Frank
by the bonkers which is going on right
now no I really don't want
I don't feel out flavoring you couldn't
have conceived some of this stuff but
it's not about that is it it's about
looking at what's happening and deciding
where what's ridiculous about it it's
not about I mean at the time we were
doing the day to day the Sunday sport
was reporting World War bombers on the
moon you know it's not it it's never
about that it's about the thrust and
it's really about whether whether the
people that you're Lansing can get off
your spike I mean it's very stunning I
don't know if that guy actually got it
the idea is not like oh I sit around and
imagine what's silliness the President
Trump can do again or anybody in power
what they could do again the idea is
actually reinterpreting what they're
doing and showing people what the
essence of what they're doing is and
what is problematic about it and the
idea is you've got to draw a blood and
if if people can appreciate the work you
know the way that you're satirizing them
then you're not doing it correctly and
by people I mean the people in power
you don't need to satirize people who
don't have power because the it's
irrelevant and largely irrelevant I mean
unless it's really just to edify
people's superiority over others this is
a good example of this Maya Rudolph
playing playing Kemal Harris now look
just write this stuff and you know sorry
not live is really fundamentally about
talking to fifteen year olds and I'm not
being facetious about that I mean I
think that is like the specific do kids
really watch SNL anymore oh I think
they're like it's for baby boomers I I
think that it's probably like 15 year
olds and 65 year olds I don't know
people who don't go out on Saturday
night that's right but I don't go
Saturday night and I don't watch Kamala
Harris the girl being played by Maya
Rudolph on NBC that girl was me and she
talks about that and then Maya Rudolph
is like yes senator and honored to
attempted to be as cool as you I mean I
guess maybe maybe the writing was was
more biting and she's just happy to be
the vehicle but I don't know my god
I mean look people can also get really
triggered and have intense reactions to
satire that's not even that good of them
like see also Donald Trump
Jimmy absolutely wants to put all of SNL
in jail for their weak-ass satire but if
the people in power do like it then you
know you've done it wrong exactly
exactly them not liking it could be just
a function of their narcissism in their
their ego
we're not gonna be sad when Trump puts
them all in jail lastly speaks very
highly of Barack Obama I had no idea
Barack Obama does not get the credit he
deserves in trying to de-escalate our
imperialism and our militarism around
the world apparently and this is
breaking news
according to the president United States
he entered office military did not have
any bullets let's play this course the
UK was very thrilled at this decision as
you know they're over there they have
soldiers over there also and others but
many people agree with it very strongly
and I understand both sides of it I
fully understand both sides of it but I
campaigned on the fact that I was going
to bring our soldiers home and bring
them home as rapidly as possible why is
it for one second he is talking about
trying to explain his decision to
essentially screw over the Kurds I mean
let's be clear to these troops in that
area whenever you're in the field you're
in harm's way but this is a
demilitarized you know it's supposed to
be a demilitarized zone I mean they're
trying to maintain at least they're
really basically there as a buffer zone
I don't want to say a peacekeeping force
but it's pretty close but good as
rapidly as possible
I we all together you we defeated and
took over 100% of the ISIS calabaza I'm
sorry I've got to do that again did you
notice how he said I and then he
remembered oh they told me not to say I
I didn't defeat it we you all of us all
of us literally none of us right right
nobody here maybe he's pointing there
could be some military personnel in
front of him who may have come back from
the field
well I defeated I mean we you I he
catches himself go back and play that
because it takes him about 15 seconds to
forget that he was supposed to attribute
it to other people besides himself as
rapidly as possible I we all together
you we defeated and took over 100
percent of the Isis Caliphate everybody
said that was going to be an impossible
thing to do I did it and I did it
quickly because we have a reality right
now quickly when I took over a military
we didn't have ammunition I was told by
a top general maybe the top of them all
sir I'm sorry sir we don't have a
militia
I said I'll never let another president
have that happen to him or her we didn't
have ammunition
now we've captured Isis we've done what
we've done we had 50 soldiers in the
area you're talking about and I said we
want to bring our so first off I want to
thank Barack Obama for getting rid of
all the ammunition that the military was
supposed to have pretty stunning stuff
that they've been able to keep this
under their hat for this long that
there's been no ammunition
I like the idea of like a general maybe
the top general maybe I don't know we
don't know maybe it could be a top
general I like how he remembers not to
just say I and then forgets again
immediately it took one second it took
like I already I did the effort I did it
and so I'm not gonna do it again
Obama had is perfectly set up for a
violent revolution that we thought was
impossible totally dropped the ball the
time is the time to do this the time to
do it was when they had no ammunition
now that windows closed yeah yeah a bad
mistake again he said they would never
make that mistake again we're totally
screwed coffee about that come from a
seven to zero area code who's this where
you call them from 7:00 to 7:00 I'm
excuse me seven two zero seven two zero
seven two zero okay 306 306 Hey okay yes
I can
hey there Jeff I'm Regina calling how
are you doing today I mean who's this
Jeff Regina Regina Jeff what sunshine
from the picket line me and my you need
have been on strike for with it for days
now Wow what you need me apart
what union do you belong to
that's uniform
local f1 right Sarah yeah our local is
from a the provincial telephone company
here so yeah basically just want to call
in give an update I guess not I guess me
with anybody cares that much but no for
four days
basically our so our executive what
stuff is been coming out our our
telephone company is owned by the
government just to be clear your Regina
is the capital of Saskatchewan right
that's right okay
and it's provincial telephone company
reservists whole province we're
government owns and basically what's
been happening like our executive
assessment tell me okay and kind of
supporting the udders and stuff like
that and really the whole hold up is
with the government it's very
frustrating the they gave themselves a
two point three percent raise this year
but really they're offering us zero
percent for the next two years and then
one percent after that and and yeah and
our preview just left the province went
to Japan on a trade mission very well
this is going on so so yeah it's a
pretty frustrating situation I bet
sounds like and so well I got what so
how does it work with you guys do you
guys have like a strike fund when does
that kick in we do have it sorry we do
have a strike fund we get yeah we get
paid to a few 20 hours picketing every
week and then we get paid a stipend or
whatever so and we're part of a fairly
odd Union I mean we've got 5,000 workers
right now that are out on strike Wow
but the unifor Union is Canada wide so
they've got I think over 300,000 members
so yeah it's a large large Union I
haven't heard any concerns about a
spring fund they're running out or
anything like that so so I mean it's
good on that and it's also you know is
what it is I'd rather rather be at work
making my paychecks but let's get by
again how can how can people support you
up and
oh no no no I guess mainly if people
want to figure out people on Twitter mm
I guess I'm putting most of it on Scott
mo that's our premier he's the one
that's really excuse me holding things
up people want to tweet at him his
Twitter handle is at Peter Scott mo
Jeff so I say get back to the table
let's make a deal yeah that's about it
other than that there's not much
probably probably people out there can
do for us whatever well if you're in
Saskatchewan where where are you guys
located people made people bring you
some pizzas I'm right on the corner of
Gordon Road and what is it I think it's
Harbor or landing Drive it's uh it's a
great by the yeah the coops right on the
corner hear about it uh if I can be any
more specific than that all right how
long you have to anybody else from
Virginia what's that how long you be out
there I'll be out here it's four hours
shifts so I'll be out here till one
o'clock and then we all have another
crew showing up and yeah keep it
rotating you guys gonna need lunch let's
get a pizza out there you're not lactose
intolerant or anything like that right
yep all right great yeah thanks a lot
thanks for the platform help them get
the word out there I really love you
guys program Thanks good luck all right
there you go folks
somebody's up in uh Regina Saskatchewan
sent a pizza down to that corner they'll
appreciate it yeah I mean you can send
like sandwiches to everyone I guess but
pizza everybody who does everybody loves
pizza come from a 7:04 area code who's
this where he come from 7 0 4 7 0 4 7 0
4 it's weird call him from a 484 area
code yeah yeah
is this happy anonymous oh they'll be
okay sure where are you from or do you
want to be of nonnamous about that too
if I could it's nothing okay it's not
like I can major second anyway I have a
little bit of knowledge on the situation
in northern Syria and you did make one
mistake earlier and the analysis of the
situation when you're talking about how
the prisoners are held okay so okay so
to clarify when they say the Kurds
that's kind of it's more complicated
than that over there there's a lot of
courage involved but they're the Arabs
and there's actually even some Turks and
there's a lot of people actually from
other countries who are there as well
and there's a shitload so sorry but
there's a bunch of contractors like from
US UK lots of different parts of the
West but who are paying the contractors
is it the u.s. paying them or different
different entities paying the
contractors yeah they're usually
Pentagon contractors that's what most of
the money comes from the I don't want to
yeah basically like a lot of them are
like your ex cops or you know I have
been like in some forms of military
service at some point right and then
it's just like it pays a lot better if
you get into that and you have a lot
more freedom it's more dangerous in some
ways because you think about you left
there yeah I know I remember this from
the Iraq war there was a lot of
contractors they had a lot more latitude
but there was also times where it's like
oh you guys got surrounded we don't have
anybody to send to get you yeah yeah
yeah yeah I left up up with friends that
way one time ago anyways um so good so
okay technically there are no flowing
Western powers like the United States
has no control
over any prisoners in that area okay so
that would all be under the the Syrian
forces for the Kurdish forces right
right so there's a democratic like
Syrians Federation okay that that balls
bata Kurds and then you have like the
people's protection unit which is you
know there's there's the Kurdish
nationalist they want to see Curtis am
right so they effectively probably with
the us point out are going to be the
ones that have control over all the
prisoners now when you talk about these
guys releasing them I don't think they
would release them
I think they would just start actually
cheating and mass there's no way those
guys the ones that I know are gonna feel
comfortable to say we're gonna let right
those guys these guys who we captured
and we were fighting against and trying
to kill three months ago we're not gonna
let them go because they're gonna go get
armed again they're gonna come back and
fight us it was difficult to convince
them to not just shoot them in the head
to begin what about what okay like third
sense they're not they don't like the
idea that they even have to put them in
prisons there's that's that's like test
the subject I don't want to get into
like all the details of everything that
goes down over there and whatever but I
think that the thing that's like
difficult to understand is like this is
there's a lot of there's a lot of
different interest going on here this is
pretty much the way I look at it I think
like yeah okay it's possible sure he has
some business deals with Turkey because
real estate situation in Istanbul and
then for your earlier callers like you
know more instability how higher oil
price is going to be good for the US and
from the perspective of political
economy though that's pretty much always
the case for all whole producing nations
and its ability in the Middle East has
been you know beneficial but III think
that's kind of well I think that the
issue with that is you know you
by the number of people that have
resigned the situation area could
potentially turns like a serious
bloodbath we're like more people into
dying than died in Iraq just it could
get it could get way worse and I think
the major issue they're dealing with is
the idea of a formation of Kurdistan
right or of any Free State in that area
that would be democratic isn't in
Turkey's interests isn't in Israel's
interest because it's not US interests
Russia's interest isn't in Iran's
interest so they're really surrounded by
enemies on all sides I the Kurds don't
really have any friends
real friends in that area and now with
this occurring even though they're still
going to have contractors working with
the Kurds I guarantee it they're still
going to be sending them a bit of a
because I don't find what I want to get
into that but um the they're basically
surrounded on all sides and III just
whatever is going to happen they're
going forward it's been inevitable is
gonna probably involve like a lot of
people die no no pretty much no way out
of it and as far as those prisoners go
when I hear people saying like they're
just kind of let them go loose you gotta
understand these people are really
dedicated to their cause and they they
would not just say oh we're gonna allow
Isis to reform I'm pretty sure they
would execute every single person in
those prisons before they would allow
somebody to go out and reconstitute Isis
that that's just I just think that's
very detached from the reality on the
ground and my personal experience well I
mean fair enough and people have to you
know obviously take this with a grain of
salt you're anonymous here but sound
like you put it so people can make their
own assessment about this story but what
you're saying I mean it did occur to me
the idea that they would release 10,000
prisoners would be at a time where they
feel like they have to wage a war
against Turkey seems to me to be hard to
imagine I would be very concerned that
those people would recon
and fight me again and which is not
where are you gonna release them right
we're gonna teach them to release them
like you got a thing to come just think
about it practically okay you've got a
Sunni of like Omaha be extremists okay
ku Mike thinks that your ethnic group
should be basically extinguished you've
captured them to a bloody war where
you've been killing people they knew
they've been killing people unit you
know hey what are you where you gonna
put them they just gonna like take them
out in a pickup truck in the desert and
say walk that way
it's just put a bullet in the back of
their head it doesn't make any sense
like I don't know like I don't know
what's gonna stop that from happening
but it's like this I think I think a lot
of it the whole idea of like releasing
the prisoners I don't even understand
how that would work practice well let me
let me ask you this this might be
outside of your you know your your
purview and I get the sense that you you
had some first-hand experience obviously
with the with the in this region I mean
I can imagine under what context it
would be but and I get what you're
saying in terms of the idea that a
successful semi-autonomous or autonomous
state in you know would is now northern
Syria and it sounds like it's going to
be occupied by Turkey like Turkey would
come in and basically annex this part of
ya annex this part of Syria but I
understand the idea that it's not in the
interests of Turkey or Iran or or
anybody to have a like a an autonomous
region there but I still don't
understand like what Trump like I don't
think let's put it this way the national
security apparatus of this country they
may not necessarily see the value of an
autonomous state there but they
definitely seem to feel like the price
that we're gonna pay insofar as you know
looking to exploit other people to fight
these type of conflicts is going to be
diminished and
certainly the national security
apparatus of this country seems to be
pretty upset about it
what what what else would be I mean I
understand the lack of of compulsion to
sort of create a an autonomous state but
I'm just not clear on what why Trump is
acting in this way like I don't
understand like what what makes him
decide to do this now if not some amount
of personal benefit I think I think one
thing to consider number one if you work
and I think if you ask anybody who who's
been involved in any activities of
lights all the interests that are
working over there it doesn't really
make a lot of sense like it none of it
really makes that much sense okay from
like the ground level all the way up
that's why so many people keep resigning
because it doesn't really like I get
what you're saying you're looking for
like a logical progression but it's not
really there and I I mean I think
everybody on pretty much every level
whether you're looking at like the State
Department official that resigned like
McGurk who was the special he was kind
of like a soup
he was like special envoy for defeating
Isis or whatever this guy's a tool okay
like he you know I want to get into like
that could take forever but this guy is
basically a tool right even he resigned
after a certain point because he didn't
understand what was going on and he's
released a lot now he's just pretending
like oh yeah Trump I had no idea what
he's talking about blah blah blah but
you know when they initially had the
strategy go in right they were saying
okay we're gonna form an alliance with
the YPG and then they were always trying
to say like always support you and
courage the brave people and blah blah
blah but the question which came up okay
so are we going to support the formation
of Kurdistan then you know that question
that doesn't get answered you get kicked
down the road okay we got more important
work to do than worry about that right
now Isis right right now and then yeah
when everything's said and done just
like well you can't continue to support
them because eventually that leads to
Kurdistan you would think if
no you're actually gonna main supporter
so let's just dump get out and I don't I
don't think there's like that I think a
lot of times because sort of taught that
like people in power smarter than us or
more confident in my personal experience
and I mean obviously you document
everyday how that's not really the case
like I think they're just doing
something really stupid yeah I don't
think there's a lot of logic behind it I
don't think it makes sense it's just
it's just kind of they're not able to
figure out a solution because there is
no solution because what we're watching
is fundamentally the main it all the
things everything going on over there
and you can ask anybody it all comes
from the sykes-picot tree if the
sykes-picot tree had never existed if
those countries have never been
partitioned in the way that they were
that's wouldn't happen but because the
British and the French established that
dominion over the Middle East conflicts
are basically inevitable well I mean we
so much of the of the problems that we
have in this world are I think you know
it's it's hard to do a counterfactual
but one can imagine if we had you know
less imperialism starting in like the
early 1800s in the world you you get the
sense that a lot of this stuff probably
could have worked out in a lot better
situation but alright let me ask you
this this is this is you know and maybe
you know nothing about this but since we
have you on the line there was a report
from a someone who worked at CENTCOM
she was a I just gets it hold on one
second here it is a CENTCOM analyst
Patricia Ravalli she'd just she was a
Red Team analyst an intelligence planner
at the US Central Command you would have
a better sense maybe of what that is and
I would she wrote a piece for the day a
Daily Beast you have like a position and
your opinion matters it's really nice
there's not they just kind of make all
their positions pretty much overlap they
just like this person is smart they went
to college you have to listen to them
because they were sorry that's basically
working she said that the there's a lot
of very very pro Trump people in the
military these days and I've read
speculation that one of the reasons why
mattis was so you know treating such kid
gloves with Trump when he left the
administration was that there is some
concern that like you know with the
military is being is so pro Trump what's
your sense of that um all right so right
now I couldn't tell you like active duty
you u.s. combatants or I don't know I'll
just put it this way the reason you get
into that professional other time is to
the toxic masculine like even real well
yeah I mean it's but it's more
complicated than that like yeah there's
a lot of people to support Trump for
those kind of reasons but so I'm like in
the regular work force I'm working
construction but you know once those
guys get out and they start reassessing
things you get a little more out of the
chain command and yet you're able to
talk to more people they're in a
different environment I mean people can
change up very quickly and I think it's
like there there's a lot of smart people
over there there has to be you know
there's a lot of really competent people
who make like good decisions that's
usually not the people that are valued
to go up the chain a lot of the time
because just like in any company like
right if you're a yes-man
you're gonna do better you know I think
like and he encourages that but that has
like operational consequences you know
what I'm saying
yes like because you do need you do need
people to know what they're doing like
as much technology as the US has and as
much money like with the situation there
I mean stuff was getting really people
had to get really created there and it
was an extremely volatile dangerous
environment and you were under a mandate
where
you had to keep us casualties at
absolutely zero yet I mean the
consequence the consequence for people
finding out Americans were in danger
Americans were in combat in Iraq at that
time was probably like they prioritize
that over actually losing a life like
they cared more about the imagery around
right and you had to have recreated
people who are very confident at their
jobs
you know executing that well more and
more and more as it's apparent that
people keep jumping out close any level
of confidence your understand the
situation once again I'm not trying to
say that these people politics are good
or whatever I'm not saying that's just
they're given a job to do right and
feels better than others that that
creates a more volatile situation
because if they're gonna now say all
right we're going to step back and allow
this to go where it goes it's it's only
going to get bloodier and I think like
okay so there's you can say like okay
there's pro-trump sentiment and then
that's what they're scared of people
people follow orders man like they do
what they're told
I don't care like if you're there you're
in that situation like right now I'm
sure there's guys who don't want to
leave who are like okay I guess I gotta
go like you just do what you're told
like it's a very top-down situation
mattis I think there's been a lot of
talk about him and how great is you know
people like with up to him or whatever
see another day the guy's a politician
we don't get that Frank without being a
politician it's just like any business
or that's no that's why I think you know
there was conjecture that he was worried
about his constituency and you know he's
not like he doesn't have a popular
constituency he has a corporate
constituency I mean all his power comes
from the top he does nobody elected him
to anything he's a good speaker I mean
he seems pretty well-read he's pretty
intelligent he is good at his job well I
mean he listen we got a wrap up here but
I appreciate your calling and calling
again wait can I ask one question yeah
well kind of I had two questions well we
got it 8:40
he's 240 and I get a do some recordings
okay so we had David Graeber on a while
back to talk about his trip to ro Java
specifically and the sort of libertarian
socialist experiment going on there to
what degree is that still a thing
and to what degree is the whole region
more focused around creating sort of a
more traditionally nationalist ethno
state that was one of the first things
that had to be dismantled in order for
us turns to be fulfilled so the that's
the worst worst worst case scenario but
there's no chance for that expanding
much was it I mean I don't know where
the hell is right now I doubt it exists
in much form whatsoever there's not
enough controllable resource well for
that to go too much past that I mean it
people who believe that are probably
more danger than anyone else but yeah
any hopes that that was gonna be like
barcelona in the 30s it's not I mean it
might end up being Barcelona 30s enough
they get horribly defeated but I think
that's been way overblown personal yeah
all right well thanks for the call
really appreciate it
yeah thanks fascinating stuff folks I'm
sorry we're out of time we will have
shows tomorrow and on Thursday and on
Friday but for those of you who are
Jewish and are celebrating Yom Kippur
I'll give you one of these
[Music]
I wish you wish you a Happy New Year a
young Tove l'shanah Tovah and say
bye-bye in that sig goes back to get sue
[Music]
no son
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
