[Music]
okay Alon Omar we stand with Alon Omar
every day
we've obviously played these recent
disgusting clips of Ben Shapiro and
Megan McCain to relentlessly disgusting
people continuing to lie and smear and
incite against her I would use the word
incitement here she is at a rally in
Washington DC correctly identifying the
hate and extremism emanating from
Trump's white house and how it harms
both the Jewish and Muslim communities
they forget that were the party of love
we're the party of commitment were the
party of inclusiveness what we are
fighting for it's not for the few but
for many every single one just this week
when we've had the attack in California
on a synagogue it's the same person
who's accused of attempting to bomb a
mosque so I can't ever speak of
Islamophobia and fight for Muslims if I
am not willing to fight against
anti-semitism we collectively must make
sure that we are dismantling all systems
of oppression and this is a person of
course who has never been and never said
anything other than she fights
anti-semitism she's criticized the
nation-state of Israel which in addition
to objectively being enormous ly abusive
and harmful to Palestinians is a nation
state and not a people and certainly not
in essence of a people
queen queen
