Stephen Miller and Jared Kushner and
Donald Trump got together and put
together a a plan to I guess a new
proposal they called it to to get the
government to open up the idea was a
three-year extension of daca for
dreamers and now this is a hollow
promise in in many respects first off
right now essentially until the 15th of
February and we may hear something
different there's a good chance this
ghosts not going to take up the case so
doc is already in effect for at least a
year nevertheless still a horrible
situation for them but two or three
years does not solve the problem at all
there's also a TPS fix no I'm sorry the
bill would not extend TPS status for
300,000 areas they didn't even put the
right nope it also limits asylum for for
Central American miners they will init
be ineligible for asylum if they don't
apply at a processing center to be
established in Central America now what
is problematic about this why do you
seek asylum you seek asylum if you're a
child because your parents are afraid
that you're going to get killed or
recruited into a drug game in this part
of the country or or raped can anyone
see the problem with sticking around and
filing your application they're like
who's gonna be standing out in front of
the door watching who's trying to get
away like that's gonna be someone's paid
job you're the guy who stands in front
of the door and finds out
we're intimidating who's trying to get
away and then we kill that person this
is not a situation where people like oh
I'm going to spend the next three months
and I'm going to plan my trip to the
United States and then I'm gonna go it's
oh I got threatened today I'm leaving
tomorrow
that's why asylum is all about getting
to the country and then applying because
theoretically these people need to get
away from their situation and only fifty
thousand Central American miners would
be allowed to apply for asylum each year
only 15,000 asylum applications can be
granted well this is just absurd right
it's just absurd so the bill was dead on
arrival they knew it it was a the same
type of publicity stunt that Jared was
pushing the week before and the whole
thing is geared towards getting people
to say look this is the fault of both
sides this is the fault of both sides I
remind you that we are still that three
weeks ago the Republicans were control
of everything and that a year ago the
Democrats had offered five times the
amount of funding for a deal and that in
between those two times Pence tried to
make a deal and Trump reneged there had
been a deal made and Trump reneged
no one can negotiate with anybody so
what kind of stooge would go on and say
this is both sides well Jake Tapper but
who's he interviewing so long as both
sides are not willing to come together
and have a real conversation and hash
out the differences and come up with
something that works best for the
American people
it's interesting though because it's
that you sound like you're not just
blaming President Trump on this you're
also blaming democratically
in Congress its art both sides have
completely hardened their positions and
are unwilling to come together and work
out the differences and that's the
problem here
it's a problem that we see with a lot of
issues that come before us in Washington
is an unwillingness to just say hey
here's my position here's your's let's
figure out how we can work out the
differences that we can mmm putting
forward the best solution for the
American people our federal employees
and contractors and their families have
gone on for far too long suffering as a
result of this intransigence where
people are putting politics before the
well-being of the American people and
our country now even in my most generous
moments I would say oh yeah the politics
are when Pelosi says you can't come to
give the State of the Union address that
is you know politics she's trying to
highlight the fact that the government
is shut down and when Trump endangered
the lives of Congress people by saying
oh go you're going on commercial flight
you have Afghanistan that's politics but
there is a real difference of opinion
here I don't know what Tulsi gabbard's
um what hurt what she's offering what
she thinks the solution should be but I
would be curious to know what that is
maybe it's a non sellout
solution like slats I mean she's a
reasonable bipartisan okay if the
Republicans want to lock all the kids in
cages and the Democrats want to luck
none of the kids in cages the moderate
respectable reasonable solution is to
lock some kids in cages I want to see
what I want to see what exactly what
hurt what she's putting on the table
like what's her solution to this what's
the solution that's gonna bring
everybody together without politics
I think what's I think what's
particularly funny about this is I I
mean we've already talked about all of
the really serious policy areas where
she's got you know where there's major
problems with her but like her record on
this is not particularly even her
previous record on this is not rhetoric
is not particularly bad at all so
in this is also just like if you press
your political malpractice like this is
somebody like if you're interested in
her and you want her to cut a lien for
herself in this primary this is like
opposite of proof of concept like this
isn't speaking to anybody in this
Democratic primary from the most
conservative to the most left there is
no constituency there for this kind of
comment I mean it's it's actually quite
bizarre I don't know what like all of
the people who have records like this
and I've talked like this in the past
I've been like been like cut it's almost
like you know those old like those like
cartoons like the roadrunner like there
they have like like smoke traces to get
away from this kind of rhetoric people
like Cory Booker and and she's just like
stepping right into it as if we're like
in 2008 maybe she's so confident she's
are looking ahead to the general or or
exactly yeah I think it'll be
interesting straight to the general John
Kasich Tulsi Gabbard on third-party bid
John Kasich it's all secret I'll tell
you what Tulsi Tulsi uh she she surfs
and I see a lot of people out here and
in Ohio that are upset
hey Tulsi do you know surfboards work
I'm in their campaign events he likes
taquitos I don't know what that would be
the ticket but not only do I think that
both side ISM is hollow gratuitous BS
right if you think that's the case then
you should lay out where you think the
two sides can meet if you're so
convinced that it's just politics there
could be an association but the Wrentham
OD it is also super super bad political
instincts unless you're already running
to get a you know a VP ticket that is
not on the bill labels rear oo relaunch
or I don't know I don't know I don't
know I don't know it's it's bizarre it's
bizarre
totally bizarre huh what it's worth even
and that sort of like Lane you're
talking about like the kind of No Labels
garbage that that rhetorics built for
like her record is not in some ways in
some very good ways it's not in
alignment with that and in somewhat like
those happy buchanan I mean I don't know
that it would be Pat Buchanan but who
knows well that's a hole who knows
