so Rick let's talk about Florida because
you know Stacey Abrams going to what
appears to be a runoff in Georgia I
think a lot of people deeply emotionally
invested in that race and you know
Georgia and some respects is trending
blue of course bait o'rourke people had
deeply invested in that race to in texas
but you know it's texas and folks gotta
have a little bit of patience
I think ver Texas you know turning blue
in that way and and and maybe the same
with Georgia but Florida is a swing
state I mean and and Donald Trump wanted
fairly handily in 2016 and perhaps it's
trending red you'll tell me
but the Andrew Gilliam race
I think garnered an inordinate amount of
attention for all the right reasons one
because of its implications or its races
implications on Bill Nelson or what
people anticipated would be its
implications and well I'll talk to you
about that as to whether that bore out
but also the idea of the first
african-american governor of Florida a
guy who is also very progressive who
surprised people in the Democratic
primary people didn't think he was going
to win and and on top of that you know
you when you're governor you're in
charge of the big apparatus that makes a
big difference on these off years and of
course it never mind things like global
warming which was outlawed couldn't say
those words under the rick scott
administration all right so we should
say right now before we get into this as
we speak there is a question because
we're recording this a little bit
earlier in the week there's a question
and and i want to get your take on what
you think is gonna happen but there's a
questions whether or not Gilliam who who
appeared to concede
the night of the election has actually
headed to a mandatory recount
you can't even avoid it if he wanted to
what what what's the deal with that
well Florida law has if you're separated
by half of a percent it there it's a
mandatory recount of a rerunning of all
the computer ballots that's mandatory if
it's 2% you know 0 2 % or I think you're
- yeah if it's so I can't remember what
about you
point 2 percent then then then they have
to manually count everything which is
what happened in in 2000 but so this is
this is the closest governor's race ever
and it's as we're speaking the numbers
are changing because what we have
happening is if a mail-in ballot is
properly postmarked the day of the
election it still gets to be counted so
that's what's going on
you know Wednesdays and Thursdays that's
happening then we can get if it's still
close
we have provisional ballots out there
those ballots that were set aside to
work out problems with driver's license
and addresses so those are still sitting
out there so it is bill Nelson's race is
very very tight we have a commission of
agricultural race that is tightened up
and the same things happening with the
Gilliam race we're it's so it's this is
a very fluid situation right now and
that's just how divided this state is
yeah there is uh almost all but assured
a recount in the in the Nelson yes Scott
and now now let me ask you about this
about start I guess with these
provisional ballots now I had a caller
and I had a subsequent caller refuted
this but I had a caller on my program on
the night of the election from Florida
who got there early morning who had a
new Florida ID recently got his new
license and he said that the scanners
that the
election officials had at the voting
booths were not calibrated to scan the
barcode on these new licenses because
they were interfered with with like a
holographic figure on the license they
you know states do this to prevent
counterfeit and he said that he was
forced to they told him to do a
provisional ballot and he went on to I
guess he said like you know force them
to do it mandatorily to look up his his
address and he was there but he's
convinced that because of that there
could be an inordinate amount of
provisional ballots out there based upon
people getting their licenses I I had a
subsequent caller who told me that was
not the case but I wonder if you heard
anything about that no I haven't I mean
I was voted on Tuesday I had a variety
of Ages of course my license could be a
bit older it's not a new one but but all
of them were being scanned and there was
not one that I saw had a problem when I
was there and we got no reports in the
pain handle of having that kind of issue
burn oh there you go yeah anybody
doesn't mean it's not out there but at
least it wasn't to the level that the
media picked it up now have any like
when you say the absentee ballots need
to be postmarked by by Election Day does
that mean that the the Secretary of
State has counted all the absentee
ballots that came in in the days before
then or do they wait okay so it's just
ballots that came in on that last bit
right right what what typically happens
across the state elections close the
polling place is closed at 7 o'clock
they have already run through their
machine they already have all the early
voting tabulations they've run through
every mail-in ballot that they validate
it and they that's almost within five
minutes the really good supervisors can
tell you what the early results are
within you know within five minutes of
closing the polls so that's why you get
that initial hit across the state and
then it starts to you know evolve after
you as a
through the different precincts okay and
so now that we've got this voting stuff
out of the way i wanna i want to just
well i want to talk about the
implications of this i mean i think in
terms of the senate seat obviously the
democrats at this point don't have an
opportunity to get the senate although
it is certainly worthwhile to have a the
slimmest says margin as possible because
it gives someone like mitch mcconnell a
lot less leeway and i want to talk about
what you know what happened during this
election but before we get there the
import of the governor's seat there's a
lot that I think people outside of
Florida don't realize in terms of the
Supreme Court tell us about the
implications of the Supreme Court what's
been going on with that well the one
thing that we've had that's kept
Governor Rick Scott in check for the
last eight years has been the Florida
Supreme Court it's it's considered
liberal by most of the votes of four to
three I think it's more moderate than
liberal but but they have been willing
to challenge some of Rick Scott's
initiatives over the years three of
those seats are up for appointment Rick
Scott fought hard to try to appoint him
before he left office the court system
the Supreme Court said no it's the new
governor's job so however this turns out
if the Santas wins we will have a we
could have an extremely conservative
Supreme Court that could last for
decades so that's that's a worry give us
a sense of what and what what kind of
decisions the Florida Supreme Court
makes I don't know if people are sort of
conscious of the implicit I mean aside
from you know we should count every vote
in the 2000 election well I think
primarily they look at what laws that
are passed by the legislature whether
they've overstepped their bounds they
look at the procedures that the governor
follows in implementing those laws
whether he's implement implementing them
properly or not it has a lot to do with
civil rights cases that that come up a
lot of the voting rights issues
is voter suppression those issues go
before our Supreme Court before they go
to a federal level so it has a
significant impact on how the day-to-day
operations of local government state
government is handled so it is really
that last big check that we have over
our Republican legislature and our
Republican governor all right well look
we got to take a break when we come back
I want to hear about exactly how I mean
we don't know the results really the
final results of Florida but how did we
get here in terms of who voted for whom
I also want to talk about the this
referendum that will presumably open up
the voting franchise to over a million
people and what the implications of that
would have been and what rick scott was
doing with a limited rien franchise 'men
program that seemed to favor just
himself and lastly I want to talk about
this indoor vaping and offshore drilling
referendum that seems like a weird combo
we'll talk about that and more with rick
outs and when we return i'm sam cedar
this is ring of fire radio
