with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex zama chart a report with sam
cedar it is Thursday January 3rd 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Washington Post reporter author of
Washington Post plumb-line greg sargent
on his book on uncivil war taking back
to our democracy in an age of trumpian
disinformation and Thunderdome politics
also on the program today
Pelosi sworn in Paul Ryan unemployed
meanwhile progressives launched an
assault on Pago no progress however on
the government shutdown among other
things
snap has about thirty days to go section
8 housing in jeopardy but fortunately
Mitt Romney flashes his Maverick bona
fides by supporting everything Trump
does Democrats plan a series of rather
uncomfortable votes for Republicans in
the house and former Blackwater ahead
seeks to double-dip
on one side were a private occupying
force and on the other side were a
private mining company extracting
resources from those occupied countries
synergy meanwhile the Trump's tax cut
worse than you thought
new governor Tony Evers on the Wisconsin
GOP lame duck assaults on our democracy
he says sue me and a new report de
Blasio's universal pre-k in New York is
working and it's great all this and more
on today's program now folks let me just
start off by saying that I want to
apologize I lied to you yesterday we had
about 35 people on hold about the end of
the show yesterday and I said you know
maybe tomorrow what we'll do is we'll
just do well just do all phone calls you
know just to catch up at the beginning
of the year because people have been on
break and there's a lot of pent up pent
up demand or a lot of pent up demanding
I think it's probably more accurate and
so I lied we're not doing that today but
tomorrow I think we'll do that tomorrow
we'll do a Week in Review short week not
a huge amount of news we'll have some
stuff to talk about in terms of the new
rules in the house there's a couple of
interesting ones the pay-go thing maybe
we'll get into with greg sargent here
and we'll talk about it more but the
long and short of it is that the leaders
of the Progressive Caucus Poe tuck and
jeyapaul Poe can excuse me and Jay Paul
were supporting the the rules package
jim mcgovern
who is the chair of the the Rules
Committee also my why I wouldn't say
he's my congressman but I think of him
that way because he's from Worcester but
very solid solid progressive big time
and he says they can be waived there is
going to be in a so essentially an
attempt by the progressive caucus to
reverse not just the rule but the
statute that undergirds the rule so
we'll have more on that later
and another there's a couple of other
aspects of the new house rules which
will implicate Republicans and and we'll
deal with you know stocks I think and a
Congress person's ability to you know
petty corruption every little bit helps
so we will talk more about that tomorrow
we'll take more phone calls and instead
of getting a movie recommendation we
will talk about movies that we saw on
the break so we'll have that going for
us tomorrow before we get to greg
sargent this was odd Donald Trump
decided to have a cabinet meeting we do
have moments of of obviously the grand
fealty that we usually expect to see in
a cabinet meeting not unlike what we do
around this office when we have an
office meeting I like to just assemble
everybody here and have them tell me how
wonderful I am and how much of an honor
it is for all of them to to be on the
program but before we get to that clip
let's play this clip where the president
as far as I can tell is talking about a
dream that he had different country than
it was when I became president I ran
when I became president I had a meeting
at the Pentagon
with lots of generals they were like
from a movie better-looking than Tom
Cruise and stronger and I had more
generals than I've ever seen and we were
at the bottom of this incredible room I
said there's the greatest room I've ever
seen
I saw more computer boards and I think
that they make today and every part of
the Middle East and other places that
was under attack was under attack
because of her wrath and I said to
myself wow I mean you look at Yemen you
look at Syria you look at every place
Saudi Arabia was under siege they were
all I mean they wanted Yemen because of
a long border with Saudi Arabia that's
why they're there frankly what what
every place was under siege and I
actually asked a question how do you
stop these people they were all over the
place had plenty of money President
Obama had just given him a hundred and
fifty billion dollars who was he even
talking about it was like honestly this
is like I had this dream I woke up I was
in the room and there was computer so it
was more computers than had ever been
built I'm gonna use that longboarder
thing I just learned there's so many
computers and then I remembered exactly
what I memorized for the quiz about
Yemen and I said it and all the generals
liked me and they said I was very strong
so strong and they were strong and John
is something perfect not like Tom I feel
like Anthony and Adam Eric should sue
Trump for doing this like trumps are not
even doing it like Trump did it he's
doing it like Adam right it's like if
Dennis Miller literally started saying
bop bop bop
yeah exactly I was becoming myself on a
satiric TV show Comedy Central do we
have the clip of him also talking about
why Russia invaded Afghanistan I mean
the it is doing lots of studying Sheree
read Steve calls ghost wars during the
shutdown well first off the the story
that he tells about Russia
like I where could he have gotten this
from I mean that's a good question this
is Rachel no no no I mean honestly like
there's word
he got that it is it is it's beyond
reader's digest and like he has access
to all the advisors rights Bolton right
you think Sarang know this Iran is Volta
the Russia stuff probably does come from
conversation of a Putin probably right
like literally I thought that's nice you
don't have to be Jonah this is think
that there's nowhere else she wouldn't
have had a this conversation or be
gotten this interpretation from the
reason why the Soviet Union went into
Afghanistan was because they had a
client government in Afghanistan that
was essentially being assaulted by all
fronts because they were so oppressive
and the the Russians wanted to maintain
their client government and but but
listen to Donald Trump try and explain
the Russian or I should say the Soviet
Afghanistan conflict we're gonna do
something that's right we are talking to
the Taliban we're talking to a lot of
different people but here's the thing as
you mentioned India India is there
Russia is there Russia is to be the
Soviet Union Afghanistan made it Russia
because they went bankrupt fighting in
Afghanistan Russia so you take a look at
other countries Pakistan is there they
should be fighting but Russia should be
fine the reason Russia wasn't in
Afghanistan was because terrorists were
going into Russia they were right to be
there the problem is it was a tough
fight and literally they went bankrupt
they went into being called Russia again
as opposed to new Soviet one of these
places you're reading about now are no
longer part of Russia because of
Afghanistan I mean so that's oh that's
really inaccurate like no but that's but
that's the kind of inaccuracy that it's
hilarious to hear him say and he
probably
here from Putin but it's also like the
broader fear-mongering and a just
complete lack of historical information
could lead a lot of people I bet to
accept that interpretation oh and and
made Russian specifically with their own
sort of Imperial projection you got to
connect that understanding to justifying
what they do in Chechnya they run their
own Rite Islamophobic foreign policy and
then the take the part about how I like
it turned him into Russia you know like
I could understand if he was trying to
explain this to a five-year-old but he's
sitting in a room full of people who
theoretically at least have a fairly
sophisticated understanding of world
politics he was and again purely
recycled from Putin was he trying to say
and this a factor in the Soviet Union
collapsing was how much they were bled
out by fighting war so is he so as he
says he trying to say that in a dumb
whoa oh yeah yeah yeah oh yeah I think
that is I think that is key I mean I
don't think it was certainly wasn't the
only reason why but it was a big factor
no it was a big factor no doubt but I'm
saying like he's so dumb that he doesn't
have the ability to express that like
the the Soviet Union broke up and and
but they called it Russia but it turned
him into a they had a big meeting
and that guy like that's how you would
chorus yes and this is how you a
five-year-old he loves but you're in a
room of exclusively adults sophisticated
adults and you figure out that he's not
explaining it to a five-year-old he's a
five-year-old
I'm sorry tangent and petty tangent has
Jonathan Chait written a piece about
this yet right
because I would very much like to see
what kind of fever dream that's it's
like renaming a building like that do
rename it had to rename the building yes
all right we gotta take a break when we
come back we will talk to greg sargent
about his book and on civil war and find
out if we can ever recover
from any of this ever will see me right
back
just change the name
you
ax√© Sam cedar on the majority report on
the phone a pleasure to welcome to the
program
he is a Washington Post opinion writer
the author of Washington Post plumb-line
and author of is his latest and uncivil
war taking back our democracy in an age
of trump 'i'm trumpian disinformation
and Thunderdome politics we'll put a
link at majority dot F M greg sargent
welcome to the program thanks for having
me on so Greg it's a real pleasure to
have you I read you almost on a daily
basis and I have for a long time
probably I think I don't know Talking
Points Memo right so you're this is
pretty oh gee stuff here on some level
because the the argument and you know I
think like you know this audience is
well versed with the the machinations
the implications of gerrymandering and
self sorting to the extent that that has
taken place I think this audience is is
fairly well briefed on the the assault
on on our democracy and the norms but
let's talk a little bit about that I
mean Trump place Trump in context within
the modern Republican Party as to what
is straining our system if you will well
the case I make in the book is that you
know Trump represents both an
exacerbation of and a kind of
exploitation of long-running trends so
to talk about the topics that you
brought up I mean here's a guy who took
the conventional Republican complaints
about voter fraud which Republicans have
been you know claiming for many years as
a justification for suppressing the vote
of democratic constituencies and he took
that claim and ramped it up to a kind of
cartoon
level of of hyperbole and warning that
that really you know pushes it to an
entirely different place right he he
went out there and he I think I talked
to historians about this and I really
couldn't find another example of it in
American history but he explicitly and
openly and the run-up to the election
said the outcome of the election won't
be legitimate unless I win it now that's
not something we've heard before and
it's really it's a fundamental break in
certain ways from what we've heard from
Republicans in the past in in the 2018
elections he went out there and and he
essentially did the same thing kind of
attacking he led the white houses and
premature to voter fraud by saying in
pretty much every forum that he could
that voter fraud is a real thing and we
need to watch out for that's the
President of the United States and
endorsing voter suppression tactics I
mean we've seen some of that under Bush
but that this was really a different
level entirely and so the case I make in
the book is that he couldn't have done
this if Republican audiences hadn't been
primed for it for many years but on the
other hand he's you know taking it to a
level of irresponsibility and
recklessness that I don't think we can
say we've seen before right and so any
and you make the case that any solutions
to something like this have to sort of
go beyond Trump but I mean let's talk
about some of the other problems that
exacerbate this because I am with you in
that that that that dynamic there that
Trump was sort of the the the natural
progression but maybe a crosses a line
that just makes it a little bit more
cartoonish but in in some respects I
mean you you talk about also the the way
that that Trump lies let's talk about
that but I also because of your history
in covering this stuff and particularly
sort of with a you know somewhat
critical eye to the media
I see a similar progression between the
way that the press deals with Donald
Trump lying and the way that the press
dealt with frankly Paul Ryan lying you
know they would lie about different
things but there was a sense that like
you know nobody challenged Paul Ryan on
stuff that everyone sort of knew was BS
but what do you think about that point
yeah well I think that's a legitimate
point and and you know we can't let the
criticism of Trump distract us from what
we've seen from the Republican Party for
many years for sure but on the other
hand it really is true that Trump
represents a bit of a break from from
conventional Republican practices when
it comes to the press as well I mean if
you look at the level of lying it's
really I think it really is important to
understand that there's a kind of a sort
of quasi totalitarian style of
disinformation that that is in some
respects new and is in some respects
placing new strains on the press and the
media we just haven't seen this kind of
concerted level of intense non-stop you
know in repetitive dishonesty and
disinformation from the White House
before I don't think I mean you could
argue that the consequences of which is
lying or worse in certain ways I mean
the Iraq war and so forth but this still
is a sort of level of destructive lying
that is its own thing right and you have
to pair that with the way he's attacked
the press which is also something a bit
different I think you could you could
look back at other Republican presidents
who have attacked the press like Nixon
and and so forth and w and obviously a
bomb attack over the press and he had
his own you know his own terrible
anti-media
conduct in the form of the intense
efforts to ferret out leaks but what
Trump's doing is casting the the media
as a fundamentally illegitimate
institutional instance as
institutionally illegitimate right not
having a
real and functional role in our
democracy I think no president has quite
done it this way even other presidents
like Nixon who tangled with the press
still maintained the general sense that
the press played a fundamental
institutional role in democracy right
and Trump by contrast really is trying
to obliterate that role it's really
something new I mean it's something new
from the context of a president right
but this it seems like this dynamic was
ongoing I mean I remember back in the in
the blogger days you would have
right-wing critique of the press and
left-wing critique of the press and the
left-wing critique of the press was
accepted the premise of the press right
it basically said like we just want you
to do better in these instances as
opposed to the right-wing critique of
the press which was that it was
fundamentally dishonest and couldn't be
trusted period and right that's a real
distinction for sure yeah in Italy I
mean so I mean what what is Trump able
to come in and do this because there's
nothing unique would trump or were was
like the was there already a failure and
I'm not saying this sorry of the
administration the story I tell in the
book is is sort of I agree with you that
I in the sense that I think when you're
saying is that Trump couldn't have done
this if the groundwork hadn't been laid
for it and I think that's absolutely
right and that's the story I tell in the
book which is that we keep hearing about
the declining confidence in the media
and in our institutions but that's
largely a Republican phenomenon I I have
a lot of data in there which essentially
shows that it's mostly Republicans that
have turned on the media and I agree the
story I tell there is that we've had
decades and decades of conservative
attacks on the press that have
essentially been fundamentally different
from the liberal party to the press the
left accepts the fundamental and core
liberal democratic values of the media
and accepts that the press has
a core institutional role to play the
right is is trying to really deal agenda
my's that role and I don't think you
could have had Trump step in and do this
if Republican audiences hadn't been
primed by that message for many years I
still think though even though that's
the case in Trump there's a kind of
intensity and frequency and audacity to
the disinformation that just seems to me
to be something a bit different
especially when you pair it would be
outright casting the media as as the
enemy of the people which you know
that's that's just there's a level of
recklessness and and and really an
effort to I think incite violence
against the media I don't think it's
that's an overstatement right think
about this go to Robert Shane
I remember when Robert Shane was
arrested for allegedly leaving
threatening voicemails on the on
reporters at the boss I believe was the
Boston Globe wasn't it he was literally
parroting Trump's language while
threatening the lives of people now a
president who hears hears that news what
you'd think would say to himself you
know what maybe I'm pushing this a
little too far I could be responsible
for a bloodbath one of these days right
but he went out and repeated the
language like within 48 hours and and
that's that seems to me to be a level of
incitement that I'm not sure exceeding
for okay so what what what is going on I
mean what is that because he's just
crazy I mean the funny thing is that the
ground was softened and I think it was
softened it was softened largely by
design right like I don't know that
people were anticipating that Donald
Trump there but like my metaphor about
Donald Trump and the the the
can party that the voter that supports
him is that you know they created a
Frankenstein and then Frankenstein got
out of the laboratory and just started
running amuck on the village and they
couldn't get him he the there was a
strategy to undermine the press there
was a strategy to undermine science a
long-term strategy it seems to me of the
conservative movement to do this Trump
comes in and it kicks it to another
level because the ground has been
softened but he doesn't do you think
he's doing it as a strategy or is it is
it just more of like it's just he's just
like a trapped animal and the ground was
softened enough that that type of animal
could become president
very hard to say with him yeah I mean
it's very hard to say with him were
instinct and and Etan chess deliberative
design begins but you can say that his
background very much conditioned him for
this his reality TV background was
really a long exercise in experimenting
with how you can remake reality through
sheer force of personality right and
Steve then and came along and Steve
Barron is a worshipper of totalitarian
propagandists this has been documented
in Josh Greene's excellent biography of
Bannon and so the kind of meeting of
their two minds is I think instructive
that a knew that he had a fellow
traveler and Trump instantly right how
did he know this he saw Trump
experimenting with this sort of type of
quasi totalitarian disinformation
he understood Trump to be using the
force of personality to remake reality
right and and so how much of it is
instinct how much of it is conditioning
how much of it is conscious it's hard to
say there are times when though he seems
to be lying solely because he know it's
pissing off the people who he thinks he
should be pissing off right and so I
don't know we can kind of go down a
rabbit hole endlessly trying to figure
how how carefully crafted a strategy it
is it's it's just an approach I think is
the way to think about it that maybe he
has taken on the cultural life of its
own under Trump and I don't know what to
say other than that about it I feel like
it's it is in in some key ways it can be
seen as delivered because he seems to
know that he can rub out any kind of
collective agreement on facts or at
least that he seems to want to do that
III think he clearly understands that
that's what he's trying to do well I
guess the question is relevant only
insofar is is it that he is so good at
this or is it that our system is so
weakened that it is susceptible to this
right like we're like what I mean that
to me seems to be the the relevance of
that of that question is just that is it
is it he is a genius or is it that like
we as a country are because our
institutions have been so weakened or
because and and and I want to sort of
start to focus on the media because
presumably right this is one of the key
institutions that's supposed to sort of
guard against this has been so
undermined that we're susceptible to to
it well I'd give a double answer to that
I might take on it and this is what I
discuss in the book I think it's true as
you say that one of the big stories at
least of the 2016 election was that in
so Trump really did find a way to
exploit some really profound
institutional weaknesses on the on the
part of the media that was evident in
numerous ways the the as I as I recount
in the book there's X there there were
extensive examples of running of the
rallies unfiltered with news executives
even admitting at one point that they
were doing it for the purposes of
ratings and then it was irresistible to
them
then there was also Trump skillfully
exploiting the what we all call both
sides of them of the media in which the
press simply couldn't refrain from
placing a kind of equivalent question
mark over the heads of both Hillary
Clinton and Trump even though Hillary
Clinton was at worst right
maybe being dishonest in a very
conventional political way whereas Trump
had been engaged that had been for many
months engaged in the kind of level of
disinformation that was clearly
something else entirely so those two
institutional weaknesses right there
were very clearly exploited by Trump and
by the way you saw that very high
negatives for both candidates right and
many polls showed that people view
Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump is
equivalently dishonest which was an
amazing thing right but I think since
then the the press has actually started
to find its footing I don't think it's
it's a done deal for sure but my view of
this is that the strategy on Trump's
part at least as used from the White
House is essentially failing and that
our institutions are holding up more or
less especially the press I think there
are plenty of flaws but look look at
that last election right I mean they ran
one of the most virulent we xenophobic
campaigns I think we've ever seen or at
least definitely not release in memory
with really a level of lying that was
and propaganda that was extraordinary
and it just failed completely right the
press was pretty good on covering that
stuff that really showed you know it
showcased the degree to which Trump was
lying about the migrants and so forth
and so on and and so now if you look at
the Muller probe right there's public
confidence and it is strong polling and
that's been stable for a you know 18
months so I don't know I feel like our
institutions are kind of rebounding in
the face of Trump really but aren't but
because it's funny that you say the
migrants because I was going to cite the
caravan as a perfect example of the
failure of the press I mean it didn't
work right like I mean it's quite
possible that that the elective the the
elections out
is you know was sort of predetermined on
some level but the enormous coverage of
the caravan like literally of the
caravan not of Donald Trump is talking
about this caravan as if it's a real
thing right I mean he could have been
sitting there saying Santa Claus is
Coming Santa Claus is coming with an
evil a crew of reindeer and and you know
the press wouldn't be going up to the
North Pole to look for these evil
reindeer they would just say like he's
saying that there's these evil reindeer
coming you know like that and that gives
me pause and then just as recently as
like the past couple of days you know I
get a clip of MSNBC talking about the
new Mavericks you know Mitt Romney and
Ben Sasse and like right well but
honestly it's like wait a second are you
serious like like like yeah the the both
side isms like Trump is show so
ridiculous that I think it makes it like
almost impossible for the press to do
what the press sort of seems to
knee-jerk want to do
broadly speaking but in any other
opportunity Mitt Romney you know
literally coming out and saying I'm
gonna vote with the president on almost
everything in fact I can't come up with
anything I'm not gonna vote with a month
but I'm going to come out and say when I
think he's being a jerk like what is the
value of that in the context of our
politics right I mean I said so first of
the caravan I think you raised a
legitimate point I want to add a nuance
though so it's true that Trump
controlled the narrative of the campaign
to the degree that the press really did
relentlessly cover the caravan but at
the same time I think the coverage
actually backfired on them and that's
it's precisely because the coverage was
actually pretty good
putting aside whether it was the right
news judgment to cover it as much as
they did right they really did humanize
a lot of the figures in the caravan and
a lot of the coverage really did
aggressively debunk Trump's lies about
you know it being riddled with criminals
and terrorists and and and so forth and
and a lot of the press was pretty
aggressive and really casting it
fear-mongering xenophobic propagandistic
campaign strategy and so even
republicans from the news reporting that
I've read have admitted that Trump's
focus on that backfired for them
terribly in the suburbs right leading to
the wipeout so I don't know I I feel
like it was actually covered in some way
somewhat responsibly it's it's nuanced
but but I think we have to say that in
no way did his sort of quote unquote
master manipulation of the press work
for him in that case fair enough and so
let's move on to this sort of the idea
of the press like desperately needing to
to have a a reasonable Republican even
if they can't really find that one right
like I mean yeah that's I mean like like
honestly if like someone from TMZ
started criticizing a celebrity I would
say that's ineffectual like the idea
that that you know that Mitt Romney is
being hailed as a maverick because he's
willing to say Donald Trump is rude I
think is just sort of rocking right it
is I think it's symptomatic of something
bigger that I think that you're getting
at here which is that the press really
has in in this is a generalization but
in sort of an institutional sense the
press has really had trouble conveying
the basic truth about what's happened to
the Republic part Republican Party and
and I think that's the problem you're
getting at they they just so badly don't
want to admit what it's become but
they'll seize on almost anything to tell
the opposite story right so Paul Ryan
it took them it took many leading
commentators literally years to figure
out what most of us had figured out
early on which is that the guy was a
total fiscal fraud right and and there
was just this effort to try and cast him
as a serious foil to Obama that was just
so riddled with BS right so there's that
example then Romney comes along and
and you know the broader thing here is
that the never Trump errs often kind of
get a kid-glove kind of treatment from
the from the news media that I think is
symptomatic of this problem they so
badly want to portray the Republican
Party as somehow not really responsible
for Trump or somehow distinct and
separate from Trump that they often kind
of hype up these never Trump errs into
something that they really don't deserve
the heroic label for no I agree totally
and I think this is like deeply
problematic and it undergirds I mean a
lot of like the dynamics that you're
talking about in the book I mean at one
point in your book you you ask the
question of you know and we have seen
from I mean at least you know you know
just going back 15 20 20 years or so
everything from the election in 2002 you
know I'm talking about the sort of the
politicization of of stuff that was
supposed to be sort of norms in some
respect the firing of the US Attorney's
which was sort of the the you know the
the first milestone I guess of the the
voter fraud initiative by the Republican
Party right and in and in going through
the ages you know ending with Mitch
McConnell not holding a hearing for for
Merrick garland I mean these are all
abuses of of the the norms
you know we had campaigns can get very
nasty but I remember Max Cleland you
know being morphed into Osama bin Laden
this is a guy who was a I think he was a
quadriplegic who had lost all his limbs
in Vietnam and what you argue though
that the the Democrats how should they
respond to this let's say like with the
idea that it's possible they're going to
have significantly more power over the
next two or three years well how should
they respond
to this well so a couple things so one
of the stories I tell them but I try to
go back to Gingrich as the starting
point for a lot of this which is
something that a lot of political
scientists also think he actually
deserves outside historic importance and
what's happening today you know and look
there's been norm violations on both
sides there's been constitutional
hardball on both sides and it's
important to recognize that but it's
also important to recognize how
asymmetric
the constitutional hardball has been
Republicans really have played it in the
much more destructive fashion over the
years and so the case I make is that
Democrats need to be cognizant of that
reality going forward and they can't
unilaterally disarm by obeying a sort of
set of conventional norms that
Republicans simply refused to obey but
at the same time I think they can't kind
of follow the right over the collision
to procedural nihilism either I think
progressives and Democrats have to stand
for something better
you have to stand for better democracy
for liberal democracy and to the degree
that norm violations can cross over and
to seriously illiberal behavior I argue
that that's something we don't want to
do and we don't have to do and and so
the case I make is for a balance between
not unilaterally disarming which means
escalating where it's appropriate and
where it's justified and with some care
but at the same time moving wherever
possible to kind of opportunistically
take off the table some of the tactics
the counter majoritarian and hardball
tactics that Republicans have used I'm
taking them taking them off the table
means taking them off the table for both
sides essentially disarmament right if
that makes any sense well what does it
look like in practice I mean we here now
I mean because you say let's get rid of
the filibuster which will make things
far more democratic in the context of
the Senate yet Chuck Schumer and a
couple others are saying in the Senate
like maybe restoration of those nor
involves the return of the filibuster
right like like these things right
that's a mistake for sure I think
returning to the filibuster on
nominations and and judicial judicial
and executive nominations is otter folly
I do argue for taking some caution and
getting rid of the filibuster on
legislation right but so to your
question I don't I don't say that we
should definitely on in an unqualified
way rule it out I just think we should
treat it as a that's something we should
be careful about but to you to your
question we're actually seeing some of
this disarming that I'm talking about
happen right now the Democrats are going
to be introducing a package of reforms
tomorrow that includes a push for
automatic voter registration and also
nonpartisan redistricting commissions
and beefed up Voting Rights Act these
are the types of things that you can
pursue either on the federal or the
state level that fit into this category
that I'm talking about of disarming
these tactics on both sides so
nonpartisan redistricting commissions
have the virtue of ending partisan
gerrymandering basically as a tactic
right and we saw I think three of them
pass in referendums on the state level
in the 2018 elections and you know
that's an example and also remember what
happened in New Jersey when Democrats
tried their own hideous gerrymander a
lot of progressives spoke out forcefully
against it and they dropped it I think
that's a good model I don't think we
want to go out there and say well they
gerrymandered so we're gonna gerrymander
Democrats do have a long history of
doing it themselves but but to be clear
but after what we saw from from
Republicans from 2010 onwards where they
really souped up the tactic to
unbelievable levels we don't want to
play that game anymore we want to end it
right so the idea is is is is to push
more of a protect the institutions of
democracy agenda which will I mean for
those of us who are partisan in this
conversation will will ultimately at
least we think benefit
the left broadly speaking because the
people who are disenfranchised tend to
be people who are more amenable to to
the left what about things like when you
cry like so that's the democracy agenda
when we talk about increasing voting
rights and maybe even in some reforms in
the house one of the things they're
passing I think probably as we speak or
shortly afterwards will be the Gephardt
rule which you know no longer allows for
the debt ceiling to become a hostage in
negotiations you know I mean presumably
you know at least in the context of when
the Democrats control the house which is
a good thing what about things like you
know obviously you can't pass these
agendas any more than the Democrats can
pass the the other agendas we're talking
about because the Senate may or may not
go along with it but what about things
like car check what about strengthening
institutions where does that fit in
you're in the matrix of what is and is
not appropriate within the context of
you know sort of maintaining some
structure of norms well let me just back
up for a second say that the the the the
debt ceiling thing you're talking about
is a perfect example of this right so
most many leading Republicans when they
play a debt ceiling brinksmanship that
none of them wanted us to default they
understood how destructive it was but
they used it as a bargaining tactic as a
hostage taking tactic and and you know
that was incredibly destructive and so
now this is something that can be
disarmed for both sides right right and
so now that's getting taken off the
table and hopefully you know if
Republicans take back the house it'll
stay that way but I should also point
out that it's not hopeless by the way
you know we did see nonpartisan
redistricting commissions pass in a few
states we saw automatic voter
registration in Michigan 2018 automatic
voter registration a huge reform it's
passing in state after state I think
it's up over a dozen now right these are
these are really potentially
transformative over time if we can get
these things
on the state level in state after state
it really adds up III think you need to
think if this is something we can do and
not something that's hopeless let's talk
just a little bit about what what do you
think about something like car check
where where the Democratic Party comes
in and starts to also look at things
that aren't necessarily sort of process
process I guess votes or initiatives but
are are aimed at you know solidifying
their power but you know in a way that I
mean I personally think that they're you
know we have a dist
disequilibrium between you know a labor
and in capital strengthening the hand of
unions that you know I mean I don't see
that I don't see that as any kind of
norm violation I don't see why it would
be I mean that's the important dividing
lines B be between conduct that is
fundamentally destructive to democratic
institutions and democratic relations
and conduct that which we should I think
think of as as something we don't want
to do stuff that really crosses over
into a liberal conduct right and then on
the on the better side of the line stuff
that essentially constitutes winning the
argument in in in in in politics which
is really the bread and butter of things
right
so if Democrats can get stuff through
that that that strengthens unions yes
that helps them politically but they
that's that's to me I don't see I don't
see why that's a hardball tactic in the
same kind of way it's it's essentially
this is the give-and-take of politics
right sometimes you win sometimes the
majority wins and gets its way we just
want to I think stay away from the type
of procedural nihilism that the right
has engaged in which really is is
something much more destructive as
fundamentally a liberal and is not
something we need to do I don't think -
which do you think there's a big push
for that well it's a little hard to say
I mean I think there was right that
there's there's a real there was
there's there's going to be a very big
debate about how far Democrats should go
I think some of left Twitter sometimes
wants to see things like Republic rats
being willing to really go whole hog
into into very aggressive gerrymandering
and even potentially things like voter
suppression in order if if only in order
to get Republicans to stop doing that
stuff I'm not for that I don't think you
need to do that I think if we make the
system more democratic over time we make
it you know we make it more amenable to
majority rule our ideas win all right
lastly I want to just touch on this
because I found this fascinating and I
saw it first in the form of I think a
tweet thread when you were talking about
Ben wiggler who was recently as you know
was recently the the move on
communications director also former Air
America producer I should say but he had
a fascinating insight about the
asymmetry when it came to something like
the government shutdown so let's tell us
about that story and then let's just
talk about this shutdown lastly to get a
sense of where we are with this sure
well so in the book one thing that I
discusses is the asymmetric incentives
between the two parties which is one of
the things the deeper structural reasons
that Republicans end up playing so much
more constitutional hardball and
Democrats do and the story that I used
to illustrate this it comes from wiggler
who you just introduced and he
essentially recounts that as the
political guy to move on during the
shutdown that Democrats tried to stage a
year ago over the fate of the dreamers
he went he and left-wing groups liberal
groups went to leading Democrats and
presented them with polling saying we
think this data shows that if you hold
firm you'll win this shutdown fight and
they'll have to cave
and of course that didn't happen
Democrats cave within a couple days and
the message that was sent back to the
liberal groups from some of these
senators was we really just couldn't
take the heat from the mainstream
criticism of us and as a zwickler points
out that is a deep asymmetry the
Republicans really don't care as much
what the quote-unquote MSM the
responsible centrist media says about
them they listen to the right-wing media
Democrats by contrast are very attuned
to what the mainstream press says about
them and and so there you have a really
fundamental and deep asymmetry between
the two parties and and I hadn't
actually a really interesting exchange
with Pfeiffer Dan Pfeiffer him and Jon
Favreau about this the other day they
were saying that this there are ways to
deal with this asymmetry they they posit
that Democrats need to find ways to
communicate with their voters kind of
around the press in a way that
Republicans have done yet without doing
what we you and I talked about early in
this conversation which is essentially
trying to D legitimize the mainstream
press in the process III don't know
exactly what that will look like over
time but it seems generally to me like a
good idea I mean Democrats need to
develop that the conversation they're
having with their voters a little more
democratic operative said something very
interesting to me the other day he said
you know I think Trump and Republicans
have a conversation going with their
voters 24/7 in a way that we meaning
Democrats just don't quite understand
and and I think that's something we need
to all think about how much of that do
you think is because there is I mean
look there is something fundamentally
about the conservative movement I don't
know about the Republican Party but
about the conservative movement that is
anti-democratic that is I mean I mean
fundamentally right I mean
philosophically ideologically the the
libertarian roots of this is is is
fundamentally anti-democratic right and
that
they there's a consistency in an
understanding there but you know when
Chuck Shumer or you know and I I can't
remember who the other senator was that
that can come out you know you know
saying maybe when we get control the
Senate we should reinstate this the
filibuster
yeah that is that to me is like they
don't want to have that conversation
because the reasons why you want to you
want to bring back the filibuster are
inconsistent with stated values right
and like I mean it is true I think that
that Barack Obama was you know fell
victim to a misunderstanding of of this
asymmetry but I also think it was true
that his politics were to the right of
where I think the Democratic Party you
know I'm talking about your average vote
or thought they were and he had some
there was some value for him in not
necessarily having an open and frank
conversation right like you know it took
a long time before he pulled Social
Security cuts off the table and that was
because he couldn't get them to say yes
to it so it was becoming a liability but
I don't think that was just about I'm
gonna be bipartisan I think it was like
no you know I had yeah I happen to
believe that we should do this and you
know that's his prerogative but he may
also be aware that like mmm this isn't
something I really want to advertise to
too much with the Democratic Party well
I think that's true and can I can I add
something about Obama on this but and
ironically enough is really deeply
misunderstood by the write Obama it's
true I think I don't know if he
personally thinks cutting Social
Security is a good idea but but I do
think that in his mind that that by part
he thinks bipartisan compromises are
good and
that's how the system is should function
and he's probably more willing than many
progressives are to give away things to
get that and and you know the cynical
interpretation of that is that Obama
care deeply about his brand as a kind of
transcendent and unifying and bipartisan
figure and so forth the less cynical one
is that he's an institutionalist who
believe that this really is how the
system should function but it's true i
mean i think but there's a third option
dude right though there's a third option
and that is that he genuinely believed
that the way the world operates is such
that you don't want to create this moral
hazard for you know the regulars right I
mean he's surrounded by you know the you
know rubra knights and they certainly
bought into the idea like you wouldn't
want to give homeowners a break on their
their mortgage because that creates a
moral hazard you got to do it for the
banks because they're the ones who are
in charge of the system I mean that's a
political ideology and you know he may
also think that like you know we can we
can strike a deal because I'm actually
closer to you guys than you think and it
just turned out they were even that much
crazier they were even that much further
than right but there is a there's a
third right exactly exactly
but there is a third option there that
he is just more to the right than most
democratic voters understood and they
didn't want that conversation to too
intimately with those voters because
they didn't want those voters to be too
aware of it right I think there's a lot
to that I he's definitely a center-left
figure rather than more progressive only
down I think there are some areas where
it's a little difficult to say whether
that was the real driver I I tend to
doubt that he wouldn't have won to get
the public option or medicare down to 55
right I think those are probably things
that he would think is a good idea but I
I don't know that and and I think he
raised an important point about him but
but let me say this though I think those
days are passed
the Democratic Party now is just in a
different place if you look at who's
running for president now you've got
Elizabeth long you've got Bernie Sanders
you've got discussions about Medicare
for all dominating it's it's simply
impossible for me to imagine the nominee
being in that same kind of place that
you're talking about in that kind of
same center-left economic space there's
just I think part of it by the way
ironically is what you raise which is
the the true the truly reactionary and
plutocratic nature of the Republican
Party is so unavoidable now that there's
no there's no real percentage in talking
about meeting them in the middle on some
of this stuff and so that's having a bit
of a liberating effect for the
conversation among Democrats don't you
think I mean III I do right I mean I do
like no but nobody's gonna believe
nobody's gonna believe we can reach
across the aisle although I gotta say
you know and what gives me the sort of
shivers about this is that and you know
I don't need to use any names I don't
want to put you in any type of
discomfort but you know the same guy the
same guy who realizes five or ten years
too late that Paul Ryan was actually a
charlatan this whole time you know
tweets out today we should really take
Mitt Romney's you know op-ed seriously
and it's like what where did we rinse
repeat you know I mean this is that's
crazy to me so it's just you know you
can you can and you know somehow the
tweet just got on top of the the board
here on on TV but actions ultimately
speak louder the words but Romney's
op-ed is meaningful a real risk from a
usually risk-averse politician but
that's not true there's simply no risk
associated with that he comes from Utah
Utah does not particularly like Donald
Trump they love his policies but they
think he's rude and that's all that he's
doing Mitt Romney has gone as far as
Mitt Romney's going to go which
you are rude sir and I will vote for all
of your policies and that is right
useless it is it's less than useless I
mean it's I agree yeah I mean you know I
I just I just want to reiterate though
the Democratic Party isn't such a
different place now it was kind of you
know this kind of gravitational poll
that the elite centrist used to have I
just think it's a less important force
these days and it's not something to
worry too much about well I will take
your word for it
and I hope I'm right veto Greg pleasure
talking to you the book is on civil and
uncivil war taking back our democracy in
an age of trumpian disinformation and
Thunderdome politics fascinating read to
get a sense of just sort of these
dynamics that take place that are not as
much ideological as much as it is sort
of like this weird sort of I mean I
guess is politics greg sargent thanks so
much for your time today we'll put a
link to the book at majority dot F M
great thanks for having me on much
appreciated
all right folks we're going to take a
quick break and head into the fun half
of the program and again tomorrow
we will take you know we'll go all in on
calls tomorrow and Iams and we'll make
it like a full-on freebie Friday
tomorrow but just a reminder you can
support this program by going to join
the majority of port comm and by
becoming a member you get access to the
extra content that we have after the
show or you get you know sometimes bonus
content like that that our that 90
minutes of my smug condescension to the
to a guy calling him a grifter to his
face that was quite liberating
it was anemic
explaining it shows my words correct
yeah let me just say I chose my words
very carefully
if you don't seen the debate you're not
giving yourself the privilege of being a
member of this show you don't know what
I'm talking about but if you did you
know how funny that is yeah we that may
be that we're we're in the verge of
making a poster for the live show and a
pathetic steam a pathetically stream
rolling the truth may even make it on
there I think actually it's what we're
all about here at the majority report
it'd be good if we monetize that yeah we
should I'm sorry Brandon hi this is I'm
calling from the law firm of 11 Kratz in
Levin and I just wanted to let you know
that you're using a trademark term that
is trademarked by sex we play trademark
they we very consciously chose that
trademark we chose it very sorry brand
apathetically steamrolling the truth on
a daily base nonchalantly trademarking
that's where I just got it it's a
spoiler but just the way it it actually
devolves into like exam is better lot of
pedagogy would be horrible but basically
a condescending frustrated slash
cynically amused middle school teacher
with like a particularly not able to
understand information student who also
happens to be extremely aggressive like
yes not like how can I get my way out of
this c- but like you don't get it my
c-minus is an A+ and you're just like no
it was fun all right folks
anyways so join the majority report calm
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code a
majority to get 10%
as always too we're working on filling
out our website we because of because of
all the regulations in our regulatory
state we're not allowed to fill out our
website for 13 months no no I mean it
would be like we're aggressively or
we're proactively not filling out our
website well it's because of the
regulatory state and we're waiting for
regulations to be rolled back but but if
you ever want to look for one of our
advertising deals that we have just
Google the company and majority report
and it will take you usually to the
podcast description that and you can
find the deal that way today is Thursday
not Tuesday however it is the day that
this week we'll be presenting the
Michael Brooke show is that correct
corrects Bosh Carsten Cara in studio
we're talking about Sanders and Warren
we're gonna break it down and reformism
versus sort of more structural change
60th anniversary of the Cuban Revolution
Haiti bunch of other stuff packed of the
labor unrest in Sudan
it's a jam-packed show I do want to say
really quick for patrons the one that we
released on Sunday the first of the year
not enough Human Rights in unequal world
by Samuel Moines at Yale Law was
brilliant and typical of the sort of
like counter intellectual histories and
good stuff we do for patrons patreon.com
slash TS tonight around seven ish on the
Michael Brooks show YouTube channel
Jamie the Intifada yes so there's no new
episode this week however last week we
posted a very long episode so people
have lots and lots of time to listen to
it we had on doctor nerve V macaw Spock
to talk about the history of Maoist
insurgency z-- and the Philippines and
the rise of rodrigo de ter j+ Marxist
geography presidential foot fetishes and
more oh and also we just got to the very
cool number 420 of patrons so
you excited about that you got a stop
but for 20 nice for while right
but but there's another even better
number that we're trying to get to
called six six six and when we do that
we're going to send all of our $5 and up
patrons dr. anti photos to Lux prize
pack containing stickers and probably
some other stuff right the other
witchcraft mmm-hmm right Satan Satan
exactly Satan stuff and Matt yeah check
out the literary hangover soon for
members actually this weekend I just
have to proof listen to it is part 1 of
2 of the second volume of hope Leslie
for all you hope heads out there and
there's about a thousand of you so
that's going up for members this weekend
you get that market cornered all right
folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is the number see you in the fun
half
you
you
so just you know going back to the the
the theme that we were talking a little
bit with greg sargent in the interview
today the the notion all right and we
you know the notion that somehow a that
that in just criticizing Donald Trump in
just criticizing not even criticizing
his policies but criticizing him the
person saying he's rude essentially like
he's rude and uncouth is in any way
constitutes being a maverick like yeah
the the word itself is just sort of
almost nauseating just because it was so
associated with with John McCain but
Mitt Romney comes out with an op-ed and
says I am me virtually says nearly says
I am in lockstep with you on policy in
fact when it comes to immigration I want
to remind you during the campaign I was
actually to the right of you on Paul on
immigration policy but I'm in lockstep I
will vote with you 98% of the time he
says and but you're really rude and you
have no respect for the office of the
presidency this guy is Schmidt right
I mean Murphy rather Murphy this guy
gives away the game a little bit Murphy
here because he says that Mitt Romney is
putting down a marker I'll tell you what
he means by that now are some of us
completely out of line to think whoa you
know we've lost the whole Republican
Senate has lost bob Corker they've lost
Jeff Flake Rahm let's see Alexander
Lamar Alexander is now a lame duck if
you will not running for reelection but
in the closet now you should know if
you're listening to this there's a
picture of departing Senate Mavericks
bob Corker and Jeff Flake now
Jeff Flake I think there was one or two
votes in the final two weeks of the last
term of the Senate where he in any way
did something that in any way implicated
the outcome I don't know that it
ultimately made a choice because I think
in one instance pence came in and
provided the vote but bob Corker to my
mind did zero in terms of anything other
than talk about Donald Trump
these people are not they're not poets
they're not like they're you know like
the the reason why you listen to what
they say is because it gives you an
indication of what they might do but
after two years of them not doing
anything why do you continue to listen
and if Mitt Romney announces here's what
I'm going to do exactly what Donald
Trump wants me to do however I'm going
to say mean things about him it is
useless useless less than useless
because it provides cover and content
for this kind of nonsense I don't
slander the Republican Party's brand
which should be all of fascism white
nationalism there's a lot of people
whose civic engagement is gonna be like
are we sure this what they're saying
about the Republicans isn't true oh well
look we have guys like generally these
guys who are these like parting Senate
Mavericks now the new generation of
Mavericks is Mitt Romney who has
announced that I'm not going to do
anything I'm just going to say things
and Ben Sasse who has been there the
entire time doing nothing nothing but
continue running for reelection but in
the current Senate there are so few
Republican critics willing to stand up
and here you have Mitt Romney who agrees
with the president a lot of issues on
domestic policy but disagrees with his
character with his demeanor with his
approach you know to public life in
general
is this the opening round of a potential
twenty20 run you know I don't think so I
mean I publicly said I think Mitt Romney
ought to be President I'd love to see
him run but that's not what this is
about this is about putting down a
marker I think what's interesting though
is and somebody has been brave enough in
the past to call out the president on
his misbehavior and when frankly he acts
against our national interest mit sounds
publicly like a lot of senators I've
heard privately yeah okay
well the value of these private senators
is even is probably even more is
probably more valuable than than the
public thing because Romney's already
announced he's not gonna do anything
different but but when Murphy says he's
putting down a marker what he's saying
is MIT Romney will not challenge the
president in a primary what he will do
is pretend that he was challenging the
president for these past two years and
in the event that the president's not
there he'll step in as the guy who was
challenging the president that's what he
means by putting down a marker I just
want everyone to know that I was
appearing to be on the right side of
history and he disagrees very strongly
with his demeanor his demeanor has been
just really bad your whole approach
toward public life Donald that's just
but it's just off-brand but I think that
the that's that is it for these people
right like this is all they they just
see it is like a series of kind of
spectacles and affirmations of sort of
like kind of almost like American Civic
religion that's why they always have a
melt like george w bush giving michelle
obama candy right funerals is more
important than even remembering what was
in the patriot act right like a let
alone debating the merits of like this
is sort of massive new surveillance
state it's like greg sargent may have
some optimism that the press has learned
a lesson but i am quite sure that the
press revert back in such so quickly to
the
default position the moment that Donald
Trump has left the office I'm telling
you they're gonna say that Mike Pence is
some type of great statesman the most
disturbing maybe not the most disturbing
but an incredibly revealing pieces of
content I couldn't say I think of maybe
one I think Alex Wagner talking to David
Axelrod would be an example of this
there was the period in between the
inauguration and you had like including
people I mean obviously the never Trump
Republicans who obviously were you know
they hadn't done the complete departure
yet but a lot of mainstream probably
democratic pundits we're doing like the
you know what I really hope is that when
he gets into office he'll just feel the
gravity of it and he'll really change as
a person like in a ways that like not
only we're contradicted by everything
Donald Trump has ever done but also like
defy the laws of almost like psychiatry
like to the extent there are like it's
just like no somebody in their 70s does
not change all of their life habits when
put in a highly stressful situation when
it'll probably race aw the desk and then
I knew I need to change I saw that he
general had a man then I've been they
looked better than Tom Cruise and I
realize I should say racist anymore
they were so hot I was so hot and I
can't assault beauty queens anymore and
I can't say bigoted things about
Haitians or Mexicans because I'm the
president and then I downloaded fresh
air on my iPhone and I tweeted out that
we should respect Ramadan we don't know
which of course exactly which of course
would be enough for these people you
know that's the thing if Donald Trump
celebrated Ramadan and was like I like
fresh air with Terry Gross and every
single thing else he did with the
exception maybe of some things of Putin
these people be totally cool
like he I hope he rents her that all
vague said I would love to see Mitt
Romney run for president we totally
should
he's enormous for the country training
for the cut a little comic relief but
even if we are gonna think on Romney's
level here if anyone's a maverick in
terms of demeanor within the Republican
Party it's still Trump like sorry right
being transgressive like I said before
isn't necessarily good but uh you know
he says the dog whistles out loud and
the rest of them do not I just don't
think you should get credit for being a
maverick when you're the only person
who's acting like even just a remotely
close to being a human being and in
public uh you know in the Republican
Party that's like one of those things
like you know if you want to volunteer
step forward and everyone else takes a
step back well and he's it's like
they're doing the media bigger favor
than they're doing the Republican Party
it's right because it allowed a meeting
to Phil nonsense content and continue
these fictions meanwhile meanwhile in
the the press conference yesterday the
cabinet meeting we had our requisite
member of the cabinet who was in charge
of fawning over President Trump that day
to make him feel good
who got the short straw this week Matt
well the acting Attorney General Matt
Whitaker yes it was acting Attorney
General Matt Whitaker whose job it was
to make Donald Trump good take it away
acting Attorney General Whitaker that
you stayed in Washington DC over the
holidays giving up Christmas with your
family New Year's with your family
trying to bring an end to this shutdown
and security to our southern border
while members of Congress some members
of Congress went on vacation and ignored
the problem you have demonstrated your
dedication to delivering on this
critical issue for our country and for
the American people but Congress has to
act they have to fund the wall it is
undeniable that a border wall improves
the security of our southern border a
wall would reduce the flow of drugs
gangs like the violent MS there
teams and criminals across our border
like you highlighted the brave officer
who was a legal immigrant who was
murdered by an illegal immigrant in
California I love the fact that they
claim that he couldn't spend time with
his family
it sounds to me like your family didn't
want to spend time with you dude
family left the White House they could
have stayed no you go ahead I'm gonna
stay here I'm gonna rub peanut butter on
my belly and watch Fox News Whitaker
also is a great humanitarian he's hit
hot tub invention for people that
wheelchairs they can't get a dot up sir
can't get it to hot tubs folks did a lot
did a big difference so strong there's
TiVo to skip four minutes of commercials
in the past hour yes I missed it he's
three new Geico ads me that's how
seriously I take the head meanwhile
when we're talking about praising
authoritarian dictators or would-be or
soon-to-be here's nikki Haley perhaps
the first female American president it's
right here you've got it right up there
it's a tweet that she did she wrote
congratulations to Brazil's new
president bolson ro it's great to have
another US friendly leader in South
America who will join the fight against
dictatorships in Venezuela and Cuba
we're so endangered by these countries
and who clearly understands the Dana
danger of China's expanding influence in
the region just for those who are
interested on day one bolson ro
extinguished food Security Council which
provided food security for people handed
control of Amazon protection and
indigenous rights to a huge agribusiness
Lobby removed LGBT from human rights
protections policies and dealt with the
minimum wage by setting it lower than
what was approved by the con lower than
what had already been said and just to
really underline the hunger thing one of
the accomplishments of
the Lula administration was and this is
pretty rare was you know if Brazil was
on hunger indexes and it was just
eliminated
it went from a serious hunger problem
country - we don't have hunger in Brazil
anymore by any serious measurable metric
he eliminated that in his presidency and
the second thing is not only is this an
assault on LGBTQ obviously but Brazil's
actually been a pioneer there was a long
period of time again particularly in the
aughts when the law was president and
bush was president where brazil was far
ahead of us on these issues and but but
Michel you clearly don't understand the
need to be to fight these tutorials of
territorial regimes you mean like in our
hemisphere right they do that are
threatening things like feeding their
people or whatnot
yeah or giving gay people rights or or
also they had a really great
breakthrough STD prevention policy or or
on the other hand authoritarian regimes
that do things like scan government
employees social media accounts in
anticipation of firing them for post
critical the President and have publicly
proposed just banning protests and this
is the also the same mo government that
a Dave Rubin went and did a video on in
one of their major networks that
supports bolts and arrow talked about
how Brazil has similar problems that we
do - with regards to little war
what do you guys well bolson our
arrangement syndrome down there bolson
ro said in his inauguration that
socialism and political correctness were
done he literally used that phrase it's
like when Netanyahu said little
regressive love right yeah
do you have these it's literally you
have these fascistic authoritarian
grotesque murderous leaders and then
they do have fail sons watching
YouTube yep feeding them lines from
people like like Dave Rubin that's an
actual so-called progressives actually
read he's going to get rid of the
world's most important carbons
so there you go yeah it's China's is
China gonna like intervene and is that
what they're talking about well here's
here's just I want to just add this
point really quick cuz people get all
like with their sort of dumb dumb
perspective of not supporting the Kurds
in rojava
I'm also a strong critic as we all are
of Chinese and Russian imperialism and
Chinese having concentration camps or
you Gers is something we're gonna need
to talk more about I think but uh I I
love any move that Venezuela is making
partnering with the Russians or the
Chinese or the Nicaraguans that blocks
US military plans in Latin America
wherever you can get a partnership for
yourself to keep your country from being
invaded or undermined I say take it
that's great so China might be playing
an indirect positive role with regards
to at least keeping away a coup hungry
United States this is nice we have
government shutdown which of course
involves multiple agencies there's
800,000 workers who are either working
without pay vast majority are just
simply not working and we are right on
the brink of a breaking point we are 30
days out more or less from snap funding
ending that means food security for over
37 million people at this point we are
potentially close we just don't know at
this point on housing support via
section 8 the those farmers who are
waiting for relief from Donald Trump's
tariff policy they will stop getting
that relief and also ability for loans
or grants for housing Coast Guard is
going to be starting to completely shut
down its things
licensing and boat boating safety checks
patrolling to make sure that fishing
laws are being enforced DHS people are
starting to shut down obviously all the
museums in the National Zoo
the IRS IRS workers you know we're
getting close towards tax time the EPA
is had some extra money to operate over
the first week of the partial government
shutdown but after that you're going to
start to see a lot less enforcement etc
etc you're going to start to see
training slowdowns that the FAA you're
going to see federal courts are going to
start having problems operating past the
second week of January all this but you
know why we need to do this right if not
let's let Fox and Friends explain it to
you if you're coming to Washington to
see the Smithsonian 19th Minnesota
Smithsonian museums are closing if you
go to the National Zoo no reason to wake
to hit both of the tigers because you
can't get into there I was in st.
Augustine over the weekend or a few days
ago and I want to go to that ancient
first settlement America shut down no
one was allowed in and a lot of people
plan their vacations around that so
already people being inconvenienced and
you wonder if they're gonna ramp up the
pain if that'll improve the process for
a negotiation isn't inconvenience yes
but the president is saying most of the
people are good people but there are
some bad apples in the group and even
though it is an inconvenience he's
saying that your safety and your
security as an American he said you
deserve to be able to go to sleep at
night and not have to worry about being
killed by an illegal immigrant and we've
seen that happen we've are you totally I
think you should be able to go to sleep
at night and not be worried about being
killed by anybody I will I'll match them
and all right I mean that's a bit pie in
the sky I mean make sure you're not
killed by an illegal immigrant exactly
your neighborhood apartment yeah that's
just living here
think the the odds of being killed or
even harmed by an undocumented immigrant
are significantly lower than your
chances of being struck by lightning
over the course of your life you
remember when you did that segment or we
did that segment a couple weeks ago
about the guy used to work at Breitbart
and he was saying like you know Kurt
bargain yeah yeah and he was saying
apparently that like it's a little bit
more emotionally taxing to be on the
left because you're more empathetic and
I get that but I mean it's gotta be
somewhat emotionally taxing and not good
for your body to be like in a constant
state of like anxiety about fictitious
things that will never happen to you
that that fear impulse is cut is like
basically what they eat mostly literally
the cortisol just shooting through your
body all day about things that
legitimately in a complicated dangerous
world you actually could just totally
let right like I wake up every morning
and it is never it's like I am I'm not
gonna get killed by an illegal immigrant
that's Jed is not in the menu about it
with one eye open that's all you you got
to do the Erhart is a demon who eats
your fear you heard it here first folks
there it goes she's the one who's gonna
relieve you of your fear in the morning
she like chews it up like a mother bird
and then like except the babies are all
90 years old
[Laughter]
delightful women alright so this piece
of video was was fascinating first of
all there seems to be like an assemblage
of sort of the legion of doom of
right-wingers where where did this take
place this was in a teepee USA event in
Florida of course Charlie Kirk invited
the grey Jordan Peterson down to student
action summit student actually she's not
dead of constipation yet what why do you
think he's gonna have constituted
Peterson because he only eats meat I
think the other thing happens when you
only eat meat via mmm I think when you
go like full keto diet as he's doing
he's gone beyond keto yeah kita
you still eat but I think basically that
is I think the other thing happens
there's a lot of regulars actually 40
times a day
we don't need well excuse me I know that
is a clip that is the clip that is the
clip this is fascinating
it's fascinating for multiple reasons
one is to watch the assemblage of
right-wing Stooges surrounding Peterson
it's fascinating to watch Peterson
attempt to to project that he is an
intellectual around these people which
is what he's doing right he's like I
just had a fascinating thought and I
wanted to just throw it out there and
it's obviously something that he thinks
is incredibly deep and in fascinating
it's fascinating to watch the looks of
dumbfounded men is that the other word
they're the people around him look
completely dumbfounded and to watch
Charlie Kirk try and say something to
make it seem like he's following what
Peterson is saying and Donald Trump jr.
is also there but the what the heart of
this clip and you need to listen
carefully to what Peterson's saying
because it's completely convoluted but
he's trying to make the argument that he
thinks that he has found the way to
bridge a gap between a very very
important issue that exists on the right
and the left and he sees a coin and that
coin is sexuality and on one side of the
coin the right is upset about something
and on the other side of the coin the
left is upset about something
but they are upset about the same thing
in the essence and when you begin to
understand this equivalence that he's
making you start to realize that the
Jordan Peterson has a very very
disturbing view of what rape is I was in
Washington a week ago
and I was thinking we're talking all
about how to bring people together
across the house divided because the
house is extraordinarily divided now and
people aren't talking and I thought it
would be very interesting all abortion
is obviously a key issue but it's a one
that's unbelievably contentious one of
the things I thought about with regards
to the abortion issue is that it's by
the time you're talking about abortion
you're probably having the wrong
conversation which is why it's so deeply
polarized right there's a sequence of
bad decisions that have already occurred
by the time that's the conversation and
one of the things you see that's really
quite interesting and I just started to
think about it this way in this last
week or so is that you know the
traditional right the conservative types
are pushing quite hard and always have
for the encapsulation of sexual behavior
within a fairly traditional structured
marriage right but you know you're
seeing sexual taboos the sexual taboos
are very common across cultures but
you're seeing the same thing you merge
on the left in a completely different
form because on the one hand especially
the radical leftist types their basic
claim is that anything goes right but
but at the same time they're putting
forward these affirmative consent
regulations and laws in many states and
they're insisting that we live in the
middle of a rape culture and that
they're acting as if sex is a very
volatile and dangerous enterprise which
actually happens to be the case and so
there's even though that that issue is
extraordinary
temps partly because people on the Left
I would say would like to let a thousand
flowers bloom let's say there is an
accruing agreement that there's some
deep discussion that has to be had about
sexual immorality and that's a place
where despite the differences that some
sort of bipartisan discussion might
occur it's like obviously people are
very upset about the manner in which
sexual activity is occurring among
especially among young people they're
upset on the left and they're upset on
the right so it would be well so that's
one of the things I thought in my way
discuss today I think that would be okay
now look before we get to the Charlie
Kirk thing we got to go backwards okay
just a little bit so that we can get
read catch that but understand what he's
saying here he is saying that there is a
sexual taboo on the left which he calls
rape he perceives rape as a sexual taboo
as if it is part of a sexual morality as
opposed to seeing rape as simply a
violent act that happens to involve
sexual organs I mean it is morality and
then it's immoral to rape people right
but it's not sexual morality it is not a
sexual taboo to not rape somebody Tory
is ready it is not a it is not a taboo
about hands that you shouldn't use them
to strangle someone to death or to beat
their face against the curb that's not a
taboo about hands this guy does not
believe that rape is different from sex
he thinks it is some type of sex that
there is a taboo against on the right
such a strong taboo that you actually
need to have affirmative consent and he
like aside from that demented which i
think is the most demented part of his
thinking there the idea that he thinks
that a conversation can happen between
those on the right who have a taboo
against any type of sex that involves no
consequence right because he's going to
go on talking about the aborted the the
not the abortion pill he's going to be
talking about the birth control pill in
a moment but he believes that sex should
have a consequence the right has a taboo
against inconsequential sex and the left
has a taboo against sex that is forced
upon women via rape
he sees that as a possible potential for
members of the US Congress to discuss
now I got it this guy is so demented and
stupid that only he could only espouse
this stuff in a room full of these other
demented people and stupid people and
that you get charlie Kirk just like
literally can't even say with like the
breath leaves him in the middle of
attempting to say that would be really
powerful and just so continued this is
just a stunning is occurring among
especially among young people they're
upset on the left and they're upset on
the right so it would be well so that's
one of the things I thought of my wish I
might I think it's partly also a
consequence of the fact that we haven't
adapted to the bill birth control pill
yet you know it was a major
technological revolution the birth
control pill and it's only been 50 years
and we haven't figured out what it means
for women to have control over the
reproductive function or what the
consequences should that wonder what the
consequences of that should be socially
the leftist types of especially in the
60s thought you could just blow some
sexual morality apart completely because
now people were free to do what they
want but that isn't working there's a
there's a backlash against that on the
left as well so positive the backlash on
the left he is talking about to the
birth control pill is that people are
against rape that's what he's saying
there that's the backlash from the left
look they're developing this taboo
against rape as if rape is a function of
the birth control pill when this guy's
so out of his mind I honestly like I
think he's just like
I like I'm a prophet this is really
really super side point but like he's
talking to Donald Trump jr. and kimberly
guilfoyle about sexual morality like
this is just not your correct audience
like there's justice erica not reading
that they look all of them no he really
whoring this is his shtick are you
kidding he likes about Laura befuddle
mint because it makes him feel like he's
operating on a different name then he
above this just finish this up super
deep fun and necessary to think fun it
would be engaging and necessary to think
that through because maybe there's some
room for a real discussion about that
so I want a lot of your speech say to be
questions if you can 70 percent alright
so how long do you want me to talk I
think we have you slated for quite a
long time
 be trifling no I got it the
right is mad that women have too many
choices and the left is mad that women's
choices aren't being respected it's
totally the same but there is a there is
a taboo on the left like they have a
problem with like this notion that women
should have to give consent that is a
taboo that they they they have developed
I mean this is really is stunning and
there is he is right about the fact that
some people have yet to come to grips
with the fact that women have control
over their own body and the implications
of that and I would say that Jordan
Peterson is is his the is example number
one is patient zero of of people who
have net wealth monkey who you've not
come to grips with the idea that women
can actually support themselves now
because they can control their own body
it's problematic for society also
speaking of sexual morality if we go
back to the clip here you can notice
bumble Jack in the background that's
and identifiable from the major not he's
not quiet above the pan it looks like a
big zit
after his wife hit him with a blow is
yeah speculation and I mean okay I don't
want to argue with Jordan Peterson too
much on his own terms cuz I feel like he
knows he's being a historical but if he
thinks that women have only been
controlling their own reproductive
systems for like fifty years uh I got
something to tell him
it provided I mean the there is no doubt
that there was a revolution that took
place because of the birth control pill
right in terms of like the level of
safety the level of convenience etc etc
but the idea that he thought that that
was that that somehow rape and the
concept of consent became an issue
because of the birth control pill is
beyond demented it's beyond demented it
is it is literally like you know as soon
as I started here screams was when
people got voices like like it's it's
crazy it's crazy he also needs to read
some Sylvia Federici I don't think he's
gonna do much of any of that he should
read more in his read some e Ryan Eisler
let's go to the phone's call him from a
six four seven
area code who's this where he come from
hey this is Cameron calling from Toronto
how are you good hi Cameron thanks for
Jordan Peterson yeah we're gonna maybe
get to that in a little bit because the
reason I'm calling Sam you know it's a
new year now and I think it's important
to be reminded of the humor and the
Manatee kind of in the world today and
when I'm feeling a little bit down I go
to a special place online and would you
like to know what that is
sure okay well it's www.rediff.com slash
are slash Dave
now hear me out the reason why is
because this is the official Dave Rubin
subreddit right but it has become
dedicated entirely to dunking on them
there is not a poster there is no maybe
the youth contingent over there I've
seen this before but there hasn't been a
post in months and months which is not
filled in the comments which why won't
you debate Sam cedar you're a grifter
it's to the point now where people are
making code having discovered that the
page exists as our just thrilled about
the fact that there's a subreddit the
official subreddit it's dedicated to
dunking on them and you know I used to
feel a little bit bad about this but
then I remember that this is a guy who
had stefan molyneux on the program run
gave him an hour to talk about race an
IQ a year ago and to this day you know
despite him having gone I just fight
this are you we're at the page and I'm
I'm very proud it's a really pre ride
title which is why I like it but our new
Michael Brooks show video dummy Dave
Rubin and the dodgy Imam is up there
nice this looks really good and two of
you and david pacman are basically the
heroes of that like the back warms the
cockles of my heart that you know
there's an entire community he knows
about it do it like I wanted me shows
some of the acid why is subreddit like
hate salmon and the look of depression
on his face which with all the well
that's really when you're when you're
gonna have these guys it will erase it
on your show you know the only response
that we have is satire ridiculous so I
think you guys he is willing to have to
have these racists and these types on a
show but but I am not allowed because
Michael once put up a video saying that
he was dumb and I apologized and I
docked Michael about two and a half
years of pay and Wow and you're even
talking about that I was I was frankly
of course I I cared nothing for metier
real things I was just so upset that my
free speech was violated by that it's
recent I was taken off of the
battlefield of idea
I took my red carded him on the on the
battlefield of ideas and and yet he
refuses to to engage with me but all
right well let me ask you this you know
there was a time back when Canada would
send us things like John Candy or the
second city or you know Eugene Levy and
you know the kids in the hall and now
you're sending us stuff like Gavin
McGinnis and Jordan Peterson what's
going on up there yeah you're not
sending us your best well I'm not really
sure because you know first of all you
have to remember that we also sent you
david fromm right like yeah like you
know you are but like it's always been a
mixed bag actually and come to speak
about Jordan Peterson and dave rubin
recorded an episode across from the
building I live in like a year and a
half ago it's not something in the water
like we're not all crazy but I don't
know what it is I think it's just we
have in some sense is the same sort of
well part of it is the fact that it's
like a kind of a provincial country
right like even if you grow up in
Toronto or something you are attracted
to moving to the US right because that's
where the action is we're covered in
your media and part of part of the
nature is that if you're a grifter in
this country it's a little bit more of a
British sort of conservative style of
culture so if you want to just go steal
a bunch of money from people and
talkative your ass on TV you've got to
go to the states but that's just the way
it is you're not gonna get under CBC I'm
not gonna hit the big time unless you
get to the States
appreciate that thank you thanks very
much people encounter - grunts - steed
steak strips calling from a four seven
eight area code
who's this where you calling from Oh
Betty doc just kids favorite children
are you Jeff from Georgia what's
happening Jeff a male
happy New Year to you the holy martyrs
playing your uber is right next to a
secret military installation course
notes that okay they may not you just
don't die just playing along great
military solution yeah I would get me
did not say where's that be New Year
Happy New Year to you
underhanded you're heading heading north
soon I am heading know about month um be
there support my good friend comrade
back books last show right you know to
to you yeah okay okay yeah I think we
can now we're looking forward to it more
than you could possibly imagine and I
mean it follow my heart
I mean hey listen
you got just the wind out of my sails
earlier your guests I do
like Greg starter he's one of their
lives out there but when he said the
media's learned a bit from Trump I also
just about through my television screen
through window I couldn't believe it
but they learned Sam every time
they report what Trump said there was
always like steamy panic voice right but
whatever any other help you get some TV
they continue to treat in with agility
for all manner of yelling stupidity they
say and and anytime you go from the left
comes on there's they're hyper
scrutinize rightly if you want Medicare
for all their first question how you go
caving it right but you want to get out
of the Middle East their first question
is what about our alliances what about
World Order what about is huge
John applause that we're gonna
experience a defense minister you know
they all these questions about that
I got nothing to a spoken except you
know I can feel about how don't so you
know make this country look or how do
you feel about him
prostrating himself to Putin you know I
don't really give here most people
do yeah I mean I think I don't know what
is going to to change the media I don't
think there's been do I think there has
been some change I do but I don't think
it's huge by any stretch of the
imagination
and I again I don't think it's very
durable I think to the extent that we
see any any major changes it's a
function of sort of like the you know
the the anti-trump ISM that radiates
around him but once he's gone I think
it's a total reversion that's it's like
Trump yeah oh snap right Batman
they remind me of a boxer who just got
punched right and it's not that he
hasn't reacted at all that he's kind of
reeled back and he's sort of still stuff
in the situation that that's where I see
them at but but as soon as Elizabeth
Warren starts campaigning in her tell
they haven't even waited they're already
getting ready Andy capper yeah hey and
if Bernie announces which I I don't
think that he's going to I don't I can't
believe you guys didn't bring that up
but that was that was the biggest
message I got from Elizabeth morning I
was at Bernie's probably not gonna run
don't you know ever undermine my chai
Georgia I think means I I felt that
after her announcement about the drug
prices but we'll see I mean I mean
friggin on Pocahontas somewhere right
everybody not my preferred I'm
absolutely I got new problems I foresee
that being here upon for me not only
well I'll work hard you know for teeth
but yeah that's kind of no story I want
me to hug you from all right Jeff I want
you guys have a happy new year happy now
we'll call you so yeah thinking about it
I'm coming for you Georgia poor boy
Pocahontas everybody alright I get time
for one more phone call he called from a
708 area code who's this where you call
them from folks I will get two more
calls tomorrow I promise I promise we're
going to dedicate a big portion of the
show to talking to you come from a 708
area code who's this where you come from
I hate them this is Jagan Slater 19
calling from the Chicagoland area it's
how is everyone doing very well
dragonfly Forte's
let's Dragon Slayer 14 seconds Slayer
Slayer sorry mm-hmm what's it sad to two
very quick points
first off being from Chicago I know that
you guys know that uh Rahm Emmanuel's
going out so a recommendation might be
to do like a post-mortem on him maybe
examining his education and the Chicago
teacher strikes or his handling of
laQuan McDonald shootings i think either
those topics would be really great for a
show would we just simply saying I would
simply saying F him and good riddance be
enough because that's as much about the
Rahm Emmanuel's I care to even
contemplate these days but go ahead
possibly I'm considering but I might
elicit on him because he actually true
it's not just the atrocity of Chicago
but going back to start at I mean you
know this back to the Clintons the rule
but yeah Steve I mean he's like a
microcosm of everything wrong with the
modern Democratic Party he's bad folks
all right what's number two
so number two Sam the more time more
serious point I wanted to address is um
do you know who John McAfee or McAfee is
this going to involve whales possibly so
for those John we don't know John McAfee
good McAfee good John McAfee McAfee is a
libertarian presidential candidate whose
most well known for having a campaign
manager with an eyepatch who looks like
Big Boss from Metal Gear Solid and
recently a controversy on wale
consensual sex laws and so Sam I know
that you're gearing up for those
libertarian debates and I I know the
conventional wisdom would be to attack
him head-on on this but I think that
instead you should take a little bit of
a Bernie Sanders approach and channel
your inner energy and just say damn
that issue who cares what really
matters and this is you sticking to your
talking points is who's paying for the
road to the oceans okay and
I know 2016
everyone would be talking about the
jetpack okay and that's how you'd be
able to get to them well but it's 2020
and you need something new something
innovative something creative and I
think you should talk about personal
submarine
now there's three reasons why you want
to talk about personal submarines one it
appeals to all the libertarian um us
fanboy to think that you on must was the
first person come up with a personal
submarine so you get that under your
under your coat number two an appeal to
the left libertarians you really need to
be able to get to their dolls and
comrades under the sea to feel the
access their nuclear weapons and fear
meter trial so you'll have them with you
word finally you'll be a taking John
McAfee the safe I just
undercutting him by being nice but also
providing them a way to be able to get
to their whale so that they can
them but you'll be on playback you will
be able to appreciate how you going in a
whale date without the Fed I didn't see
that he had actually tweeted about this
earlier in the year too so on the right
is the earlier one so does somebody want
to read it further yes no clipping the
machines ready the first one yeah I was
gonna say John McAfee writes way
laughing no joke each year on February
1st the Mullica in the Molokai channel a
few men compete in the world's only way
laughing contest humpback whales are
easy to F for a second or less world
record 31 seconds I competed once almost
got my ribs crush stick with ostriches
and then he goes on to say six months
later enough of the way laughing is
non-consensual BS a humpback whale
weighs 70 thousand pounds is 50 feet
long can dive more than a quarter mile
and can crush ships with a single swipe
of its tail for human manages to f1 you
damn wet a damn well better believe it's
consensual I don't know what to make of
any of
but I do know exactly I don't know but I
will say this we are Batarian version of
a joke we're out of time
we'll be here real quick look up McAfee
and Belize it's not all funny with this
guy oh yeah no not good stuff alright
folks see you tomorrow
[Music]
I was just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option you don't get pain
[Music]
the teacher takes
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
