[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat the
majority report with sam cedar it is
Friday October 4th 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA it's casual Friday folks
I'm wearing my soft collared shirt
Zumba's and loafers penny loafers this
week
on the program today from chapel Trap
House Virgil Texas will be with us soon
[Applause]
meanwhile in the wake of yesterday's
Intel hearing text messages show
Ukrainian extortion conspiracy Supreme
Court now looking at a Louisiana trap
law I could leave only one abortion
doctor in the entire state
Biden's third quarter fundraising raises
more questions than funds warren
releases her labor plan Bernie to
participate in the October debate
meanwhile Rick Perry announces his
resignation coincidentally under
subpoena regarding Ukraine and more IRS
whistleblower report reportedly focuses
on a political appointee in Treasury
interfering in Trump's tax audit and is
Trump's trade war over dirt on Biden
unemployment drops again but wages is
still stagnant and Nydia Velazquez
intros a thirty two billion dollar bill
to save NYCHA won't go anywhere but it's
good to have people talking about this
Elizabeth Warren turns out to be a
cougar and we will get to the baby all
this and more on today's program yes
folks it's just getting there yesterday
and we will get to this yesterday we had
mentioned that Kurt Volker the unpaid
special envoy to Ukraine was headed in
to the a closed-door session with the
Intel committee
and a pal apparently he was in there for
like eight or nine hours and over the
course of the day some stuff sort of
came out of that committee room but by
the end of the day there were extensive
text messaging threads that we will go
through later in the program maybe
actually soon that show a basically a
criminal conspiracy a criminal
conspiracy involving not just a and
there was a tweet by the chairman of the
Federal Elections Commission she tweeted
this out she's like I can't believe I
have to say this but let me make
something a hundred percent clear to the
American public and anyone running for
public office it's illegal for any
person to solicit that means to ask for
accept or receive anything of value from
a foreign national in connection with
the u.s. election this is not a novel
concept she writes the electoral
invention intervention from foreign
governments has been considered
unacceptable since the beginning of our
nation
founding fathers sounded the alarm about
foreign interference intrigue and
influence they knew when a foreign
government seek to influence American
politics it's always to advance their
own interests not America's anyone who
solicits or accept foreign assistance
risks being on the wrong end of a
federal investigation any political
campaign that receives an offer of a
prohibited donation from a foreign
source should report that to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation
she wrote that in June retweeted it
again but the issue here is not just
that Donald Trump solicited from the
Ukraine dirt on Joe Biden it's not that
he may have done the same thing with
China and God knows whom else he did it
about or for
what but it's also that he held back
funds that were appropriated by Congress
for Ukraine he extorted the Ukrainian
president is what you would call it I
think maybe extortion blackmail maybe
but I think it's extortion its cocktails
and its edge deals its deals but it's
also illegal deals you can sell weapons
on the black market it's a deal
it's illegal and let's go through this
now actually this is good a time as any
to go through these because easier these
are really stunning these are text
messages between and I will go through a
quick because this is sort of a little
bit weedy and a little bit complicated
but I think I can make this somewhat
straightforward there are about four or
five players involved in this one is one
is kurt volker he is the special envoy
to Ukraine the other is former
ambassador bill Taylor former ambassador
to Ukraine you know what's there
involved in a country they still have
their relationships and they're called
upon to help out in certain situations
there's another guy Gordon Sunderland
who is the US ambassador to the EU also
owns some hotels and apparently is just
a buddy of Donald Trump's then of course
we have Rudy Giuliani those are the main
players and so this starts on July 19th
oh there's one other guy I should say
Audrey your Mac who is a top adviser to
president zalenski remember zalenski is
the former sort of comedic actor who
managed to win the presidency seems to
be actually a pretty intelligent guy but
and you know in the midst of a a war
where russian-backed I guess separatists
I don't know how else to characterize it
that's probably somewhat inaccurate but
some would argue a civil war kills
thousands of people in his country and
he is looking for these this money that
is for weapons to protect them it is
part of a basically a relationship that
we agreed to with Ukraine after they
gave up their nuclear weapons and we're
worried about a deterrent from Russia
and we should say it's not clear that
the Ukrainians realized that the money
was being held up that is not a defense
if I fire a gun at Matt and he's got
headphones on and doesn't realize I've
tried to shoot him I'm still guilty of
attempted murder right it's not legal
for me to do this even if I am wrong
about the awareness that the other party
has and it's still unclear whether they
knew or didn't know they just assumed it
was coming but it's quite clear from
these exchanges that on the US side
support meetings anything was a function
of them basically saying we're gonna dig
into Joe Biden so aunt Audrey your Mac
is the other so it starts here is back
as on July 21st we're gonna start with
I'm going to skip around just a little
bit Bill Taylor texting with Gordon
Sunderland remembered Bill Taylor former
ambassador to Ukraine Gordon Sutherland
just this guy who apparently is like a
trump Trumpster trying to get in on this
representing the White House total do
you maker so bill tower says Gordon one
thing Kurt this is kurt volker the
special you know envoy now in Ukraine
and I talked about yesterday was Sasha
Daniel explained that President zalenski
is sensitive about Ukraine being taken
seriously not merely as an instrument in
Washington domestic reelection politics
okay so for some reason zalenski is now
feeling like he might be
an instrument in the 2020 election
eruption there's so much more than that
Gordon Sundlun says absolutely but we
need to get the conversation started and
the relationship built irrespective of
the pretext what that's not the word so
in other words in other words get it
doesn't whatever we need this stuff yeah
the one-liners is mean it matters
Gordon Sunland says I'm worried about
the alternative the alternative is that
Trump cuts off Ukraine okay so we go
through some other stuff Rudy is
involved now Rudy for some reason Rudy
is involved the president's lawyer is
involved the president's lawyer is only
interested in either creating some false
narrative about 2016 or about helping
the reelection in 2020 period so let's
jump to July 25th 2019 this is ahead of
a planned phone call between Trump and
zalenski Vogler is advising Audrey Ermac
zelinsky's zelinsky's advisor good lunch
Thanks they had lunch heard from White
House assuming present Z zalenski
convinces Trump that he will investigate
slash quote get to the bottom of what
happened in 2016 end quote
we will nail down a visit to Washington
good luck see you tomorrow in other
words he's got to tell Trump that he's
going to do this stuff and then we'll be
able to set down the dates in which they
will meet it's a classic if-then
statement exactly exactly so let's jump
to August 9th now State Department
officials discuss a White House visit
and a Ukraine statement they want the
statement because the statement is going
to leverage and just be enough on some
level for the domestic purposes that
Donald Trump has
ambassador Volker had the following
exchange with ambassadors Sundlun about
arranging a White House meeting after
the Ukrainian president makes a public
statement Morrison this is Scott
Morrison I believe from the National
National Security Council who deals with
Europe Morrison ready to get dates as
soon as your Mac confirms and Volker
says oh great
so Sunland is dealing with the White
House right and Morrison said like I'm
ready
Morris we're gonna set the date for the
meeting as soon as your Mac confirms and
Volkers like Oh excellent how did you
sway him smiley emoji right yeah that's
great how did you convince him to do
this well Gordon says I'm not sure I did
I think POTUS president United States
really wants the deliverable the
deliverable you know I'm talking about
yes the anti-corruption deliverable
anti-corruption deliverable and Volker
says okay does does he know that meaning
that your Mac knows that Gordon Sunland
yep
and Gordon sunlit says clearly lots of
conversations going on and Volker says
okay that's good that it's coming from
two separate sources so there are you
know they're getting multiple directions
coming at the at szalinski saying you
got to do this and then Gordon says okay
to avoid misunderstandings might be
helpful to ask Oh Drake for a draft
statement embargoed of course so that we
can see exactly what they propose to
cover in other words we want to see the
statement that they're gonna put out
because it would be a bad situation if
they is Olinsky gave a statement said
we're gonna we're gonna get to the
bottom of this
you know Joe Biden is innocent or not
bring up the words Joe Biden that might
be a problem even though Z does a live
presser they can still summarize in a
brief statement thoughts Volker agree so
let's get a draft to make sure that
they're on the same page as us that the
deliverable is gonna be what we want it
to be just to make sure the secret
messages we receive
skipping ahead to August 10th now
zalenski Zaid audrey Ermac pressed
volker for a date for the White House
visit before committing to a statement
announcing an investigation they don't
even trust Trump so they don't want to
go out and give the statement and then
have Trump say oh I'm not gonna visit
now and you're not getting your money so
your Mac says hi Curt please let me know
when you can talk I think it's possible
to make this declaration and mention all
these things which we discussed
yesterday which we now know
Volkers do delivering this sundaland is
delivering this message this is like but
it will be seen but it will be logic
logical I think to do after we receive a
confirmation of a date we inform about
data visit and about our expectations
and guarantees for future visit let's
discuss it and then Volker says it's
late little discuss it later ok and then
later in the conversation he says your
max is once we have a date we'll call
for a press briefing announcing upcoming
visit and outlining vision for the
reboot of us Ukraine relationship
including among other things maurice MA
which is the name of the oil company
that hunter Biden sat on the board of
and election meddling in investigations
once we have this thing we'll do this
right so Ukraine is also saying this
they just don't trust it says like one
of those like things like show up on the
dock you show me the money we give you
the diamonds nip but it's going back and
forth here because the diamond guy
doesn't trust the money guy they're like
the world's least subtle mafia guys well
I mean they realize at one point and
you'll find out when they start to freak
out a little bit
August 13th now kurt volker this is
after his outreach to Rudy Giuliani and
Giuliani Volcker in a min Sundlun
on August 13th had the following
exchange regarding the proposed you
thing this is Volker and sunland this is
after they've talked to Rudi special
attention should be paid to the problem
of interference in the political process
of the United States especially with the
alleged involvement of some Ukrainian
politicians in other words you have to
pretend that this whole thing with
Giuliani who has this whole narrative
about Ukraine being the actual meddler
in the elections with the help of
Democrats in 2016
trying to frame Russia this has to be in
this we intend to initiate and complete
a transparent unbiased investigation of
all available facts and episodes
including those involving Maurice mah
and the 2016 elections which in turn
will prevent the reoccurrence of this
problem in the future that what Volcker
is proposing is what the Ukrainians
should stay in fact take this paragraph
I'm giving to you Gordon and we're gonna
send this to Audrey what do you think
about it and Gordon says perfect
let's send to Audrey after our call so
they have just said this is what this is
the deliverable we want them to actually
put out and release I'm pretty sure it's
Andre but I like it that you keep
calling him Audrey
oh it's and right Andre writes Audrey
wants the dogs and Roy do you call them
that I'm very sexist pronunciation right
now and so confirming desire to
reference 2016 election in Berea on
August 17th a couple days later they
have the following exchange in which
they discussed their message to Ukraine
more do we still want Z that's alinsky
to give us an unequivocal draft with
2016 in barrese ma that's what Sundlun
says in Volcker says that's the clear
message so far and that message is
coming from the White House and Volcker
saying I'm hoping we can put something
out there that causes him to respond to
that and sunless is okay unless you
think otherwise I'll return and raise
call tomorrow and suggest they send us a
clean draft so in other words send us
another one let's take a look at it
let's make sure that we're talking about
barrese MA and we're talking about 2016
these are the two things we want
we want Biden for 2020 and we want an
undercut of the mauler investigation
then on August 28th Ukrainian official
shares press report of the u.s.
withholding military assistance odd and
Ray your Mac too says to its Android
sorry says to a vulgar need to talk with
you and then he drops in a link to this
Politico piece which says Trump holds up
Ukraine military aid meant to confront
Russia and this is from August 28th in
Politico it's clear that Trump just did
it unilaterally no one else understood
why you had Republican senators writing
letters saying you can't hold up that
military aid why are you doing it and
then Vercoe says a high and ray
absolutely when is good for you so later
on August 30th Taylor this is the former
ambassador to Ukraine informs Volcker
that Trump has canceled his visit to
Warsaw where he was supposed to meet
zalenski and so Volcker and Sunland try
and figure out an alternate plan for
pence to meet zalenski on September 1st
Bill Taylor writes trip canceled volker
hope vice president keeps the ballot and
tees up the White House visit keeps up
the bilateral communications and tees up
the White House visit and then Volcker
says and hope Gordon and Perry still
going this is a Perry of the now
resigning Secretary of Education and son
that says I am going
Pompeyo speaking to the president today
see if he can go no not you Mike you're
not allowed and then bill teller says
are we now saying that security
assistance and White House meetings are
conditioned on investigations bill
Taylor's getting a little bit
set on September 1st like hey wait a
second and Gordon Sundlun says of course
not no he doesn't say that he says call
me like when your friend takes you for
drugs and you're like call me exactly
now remember on August 8th on August 8th
you had Sunland and Volcker talking
about particularly Volcker I mean
Sunland talking about they need the
deliverables right they need the
deliverables just I want you to keep
that in mind because now between August
when he says we need the deliverables
there it is not sure I did I think POTUS
really wants the deliverable that's
August 9th between nagas 9th and
September 9th
what changes well there are press
reports of them holding up the thing and
you senators are starting to look into
this and what's going on here bill
Taylor says on September 8th the
nightmare is they give the interview and
they don't get the security assistance
the Russians love it and I quit in other
words you got to show up with the cash
if they're gonna bring you the diamonds
and if they give the diamonds and they
don't get the cash then it's then it's a
crap show but meanwhile on August 9th
remember Gordon Sundlun said POTUS wants
to deliverables bill Taylor the guy
who's bummed out about all of this now
says the message to the Ukrainians and
Russians we send with the decision on
security assistance is key with the hold
that's the hold on the money we've
already shaken their faith in us thus my
nightmare scenario and and bill teller
says counting on you to be right about
this interview Gordon and Gordon says
bill I never said I was right I said we
are where we are and I believe we have
identified the best pathway forward I
hope let's hope it works and bill teller
says as I said on the phone and this is
where Bill Taylor this is where Bill
Taylor realizes this is going to be
absolutely nasty because we're gonna get
caught and I want to make it clear where
I was in this as I said on the phone cuz
you do not put this in print unless you
want it in print like this is a very
conscious thing as I said on the phone
and I can tell you that from someone who
has attempted to threaten litigation
against people this is what you do you
recount it as I said on the phone do you
ice as I said on the phone I think it's
crazy to withhold security assistance
for help with a political campaign and
Gordon Sundlun who a month earlier
before this whole thing starts to blow
up and everybody's face realize is that
Bill Taylor setting him up and he writes
back bill I believe you are incorrect
about president Trump's intentions the
president has been crystal clear no quid
pro quos of any kind tethers the
president is trying to evaluate whether
Ukraine is truly going to adopt the
transports its Perrin see and reforms
that zalenski promised during his
campaign
I suggest we stop back-and-forth by text
if you still have concerns I recommend
you give Lisa Kenna or s a call to
discuss with them to directly in other
words holy crap bill Taylor's willing
wearing a wire that's what he that's
what he realizes and that's what's going
on there and that's where we're at and
that all came out yesterday with Volcker
and yeah I think you're gonna see them
fall in a moment now let me just take a
break here to do some sponsors and then
we're gonna Brown I don't know if like
you've just broken my brain Sam or what
I find this chapter very compelling this
is well this is like this is this is not
even the smoking gun this is the
watching the gun fire I like the
Scramble I liked like whoa but before we
we do any more one of today's sponsors
is news voice which is the first-ever
entirely open crowd source and
democratized platform for news you can
download the app at news voice dot-com
slash majority as you know when I before
I sit down and do any of
this stuff I look at three different
versions of every story because you're
always gonna get a different take and
because you've got you know most of the
news at least the mass media owned by
five massive corporations it's it's
crucial that you understand what the
premise what the the assumptions are
before you get the news from your source
and the way that you do that it's
through an app like news voice which
allows you to not only pull in your own
aggregate of news sources but you can do
international ones you can do corporate
ones you can do local you can do
independent media you've got access to
every side of the story it's fueled by a
community of users who go onto news
voice platform they go they fact check
they submit stories sources that are
missing they up vote stories and they
write story summaries you can also
comment on stories and debate politics
if you want with members of the
community and through staying active in
the community you can level up and earn
perks on the platform the news voice a
Play feature lets you listen to your
personal news feed every day
customizable audio news playlists it's
your own personally tailored radio
station for news news voice is a
next-generation news aggregator social
media platform that values transparency
good journalism and productive political
discussions totally free access by going
to news voice dot-com / majority we have
a link underneath this video if you're
watching on youtube we'll put it in the
podcast description as well
and lastly Jamie when you go back to
Mexico babble it's the language learning
app that's gonna get you speaking a new
language in your case if you go to
Mexico you wants to be Spanish quickly
and with confidence oh you don't say
they have 14 different languages so you
can do Spanish you can French Italian
German I gotta check out what are those
other what are the other languages they
have I bet you they have some version of
Chinese maybe it's designed to quickly
get you speaking your new language
within weeks the lessons are also these
are not like you know some type of
algorithm translation machine a hundred
language experts real people they set up
these less
for you they're engaging they're
convenient they last only 10 to 15
minutes you'll learn through interactive
dialogues so you can perfect your
pronunciation and accent I could
probably use this for English I have
some of the languages here to buy though
what else I got some French Italian
Portuguese Swedish Turkish Dutch polish
Indonesian Russian Danish and Norwegian
damn I don't know Chinese Wow
all right Mandarin Babel is available as
an app or online your progress will be
synced across all your devices which is
great be bold learn a new language with
Babel and here are the easy steps that
you can take to learn this new kind of
new language go to babble comm ba BB
al.com
download the app select the language of
your choice try it for free that is
babble ba BB e elle.com babble speak a
new language with confidence I'll
actually try that should it's free free
to try I'm real hung up on the
subjunctive tense right now it's the
bane of my existence I don't even know
is that like the I have had heard that
what it is don't like about something
that may or may not happen it's weird
it's like hypothetical tense it might
have happened Bernie would have won we
have it's not the subjunctive no
additional joining us now Virgil Texas
Virgil welcome to the program it was a
pleasure to be back I also got screwed
up on the subjunctive and I gave up you
know people can understand me
it's fine the subjunctive is like one of
those psychoanalytic concepts that just
means whatever you want it to mean right
like the rhizoma like the what the R is
ohm what is the R is ohm so it's a model
of culture I don't know it means
whatever you want it to mean that's it I
just explained it a model of God or the
door or the spectacle oh oh this Mexico
alright now I know whatever something
bad happens it's all the spectacle did
it I understand I understand that's now
you know you're somebody transcends and
it's sort of like an overlay that exists
over the culture on some level yeah that
is that is that is not necessarily that
is uh it's the structure it's the
superstructure structure now you get it
you're you are a psychoanalyst now okay
Beautif
my sense is from your demeanor that
you're here with a book is that right I
am here with a book and as you know I
wrote a book as a New York Times
bestseller you did great
thank you know what I said the thing
about you as an author hugely generous
because you allowed other people to take
a little bit of credit as well I did I
did I shared a byline on that one
well paperback edition came out you can
get it now here you go Wow you know what
I think I have the hardcover but I think
I'm gonna go for the paperback because
it looks it looks like in it did you
guys now purposely make it look like one
of those little red manifests that was
the didn't see well you know you don't
if you're an author you don't design
your own book cover you basically get
whatever they give you is that right
yeah yeah we didn't get like options or
something but we gave like design
concepts like a mood board my my
experience was literally that was the
only thing I would meet with my editors
and the only thing they would talk about
was the cover like we went through many
many covers if the the book business has
changed I guess so yeah well I like the
cover I mean it's good well thank you
Chad oh yeah it's a revolution I mean I
like both the covers to be honest with
you the guys like the other color this
cover more yeah I like this one I gotta
say I like it but we'll see if the
American consumer likes it well that's
the port you'll see and that's available
now at that will be available in two
weeks you can pre-order it now and we
will be having a paperback release event
in two weeks in New York City
oh really yeah that's exciting yeah I
don't remember the rest of the details
but it's happening no I understand of
course now if you missed the if you miss
the official the hardcover release event
at the Strand you know if you're a fake
friend you know maybe you can come
crawling in hands and knees to our
paperback release events I personally I
only go to paperback releases really why
because I want there to be I want there
to be proof of concept before I get
engaged in something like
I want to make sure that it's all ready
if it gets the paper back then we know
that it was a success I know that based
upon my own book which did not get taken
back I really I don't think so I thought
they just they I thought they just take
the hard covers that weren't sold and
just rip off the binding and put hey
no I'm serious that's isn't that really
yeah I didn't know that because we
didn't um they didn't do any new
printing for this one they didn't ask us
to write like a an introduction to the
paperback edition or something because
of some production reason really that's
weird it's weird industry it is a weird
industry but let's not talk about that
anymore because we'll bring it up at the
end again but oh you'll hear you'll be
here I know we'll be hearing more about
it but let's I do want to talk about and
we'll get to the we'll get to the eating
the babies we'll get to all that stuff a
lot of it later great LaRouche heights
but now that we have you here let's
let's pit well let me get your take on
impeachment before we go any further you
don't know you know that the Sandlin guy
the other guy on the transcript you know
who that is
he owns like some home yeah he's are
like a hotel millionaire from Oregon and
he got appointed ambassador he you of
course and he's just he's just you know
he's just like a millionaire donor you
know he's just a guy who bought an
ambassadorship and gave millions to
Trump's inaugural so was like okay
that's just a prestige position that's
just so that you're a rich and
you get to be called the Honorable for
the rest of your life right why is he
being trusted to do the crimes well I
think it's because he's just a I think
it's because he's not a professional
because I think that if he was a
professional ambassador like the EU
there are some all presidents appoint
people like this right but they usually
do it to like Monaco yeah or like you
know you'll do some country that we you
know we may never have to call you in
the four years we may not you know you
just keep doing what you're doing and we
may never even have to contact you to
get the EU is I think it's probably a
little bit more irrelevant a position
but I think it's because because of the
very reason that he's probably not
qualified
is that like oh he's just a guy he's
gonna be doing he's a bagman he's a
hotel guy yeah I guess I mean normally
if you take hotel guys seriously in this
administration if you have one of the
important ones like a ambassador the
court of st. James normally you have a
career civil servant to that someone who
knows what the hell they're doing
right uh but Trump obviously doesn't
trust the State Department and he's
probably right to theirs they'll hate
his guts and they maniac because he is
so all of them all the important roles
that you're supposed to give to smart
people have just gone to donors like a
Woody Johnson is now the ambassador of
the court of st. James right why would
you trust this guy I don't know who else
you gonna trust that's the thing Trump
doesn't have he doesn't have Haldeman
you know he doesn't have a chuck colson
he doesn't have any competent bagman
that's right at all and you know I was
thinking about this the other night
because like my overall take so far is
I'm really bored with this because it
just sounds like it's the same it's a
reboot it's the same damn story from
2017 it's every single thing from that
time like right down to the the
inscrutable Russian names that I don't
understand I was saying Audrey instead
of Andrea for a long time everything
everything's the same and it's just it's
it's I mean I I know there's something
real to it I'm not trying to downplay
that and I'm just living in the
spectacled zone where I see you know the
same kind of self congratulating back
patting how dare you sir journalism
happening or Chuck Todd you know giving
an indignant monologues right like that
do you think I saw this before I saw
this two years ago you could be taking
clips showing me clips from MSNBC from
2017 about the need to impeach the
president how it's gone too far and all
Republicans are gonna wake up and come
to our side and I would not know the
difference so like on one level as an
entertainment as a new plot you know
it's like get better writers the fact
that it's a country that ibattz Russia
is okay it just it just it just doesn't
sound new enough if we're like Burma or
something like
Trump would did a quid pro quo with the
Prime Minister of Burma that could be
fun that's like tigers and a jungle
adventure or something like that but now
it's just back to Russia
right the meson Sen is very similar you
know it's funny you should say that
Virgil because I feel like it's much
funnier than it was the last time around
was I just not paying attention before
was it funny before it was not funny
before boring the amazing thing about
this is this is exactly I mean you're
right it is like but it's like hey we
did one that looked back on collusion
let's do a sequel that is actually
they're colluding in the future and
that's what this is yeah I mean but the
we didn't have what we have now because
you've got people like Volker who who
are get wrapped up into this who at one
point go like hey wait a second I'm not
going down with the ship here and I'm
going and I'm gonna give this stuff up
you've got guys like Bill Taylor who is
like clearly like so just want to be
clear you want me to do a crime right
would like me to do treason
exactly and but but I I you know I I ask
because I think there are broad swaths
of politically engaged people who don't
care about this yeah and you know as
opposed to like broad swaths of people
who are not politically engaged don't
care which is you know that's par for
the course on some level yeah right
right but I mean a lot of it is I think
the hangover from the entire Muller saga
where for years you heard about you know
this is the Trump is uniquely dangerous
and and you know he's cropped and he
colluded with a foreign power in order
and it's treason and all that stuff
and just wait for the Muller report to
come out and sit drip drip drip and
they're gonna take him down and he's
gonna and vote you know really you have
to make sure we elect Democrats to
Congress in 2018 and they're gonna hold
him accountable they're gonna pitch him
and then Pelosi takes the gavel and they
don't impeach him and she says I'm not
gonna impeach him then the Moller report
comes out which you know reach really
lays it out that the firing James Comey
was
action of justice absolutely was I don't
think anyone disagrees on that point
anyone like actually serious and honest
about it because if the said so
himself and after that it was like okay
whatever that story's done let's move on
to a new thing so it's there's a little
bit of boy who cried wolf there yes I
think so but now we do actually have
impeachment hearings no no the those
transcripts that and that just broke
last night like that's that's pretty
damning right there that's that's about
what is interesting is you know what a
Watergate is the obvious comparison
right and with Watergate
it was the cover-up it wasn't the crime
that really did Nixon in because the
actual root crime of Watergate like the
facts that they established probably on
their own if they had come out as it was
happening would not have been
impeachment would have looked bad I've
been bad but Nixon probably could have
gotten away with another checkers speech
if he said you know some people under me
they did this slamming checkers speech
the people Virgil uh yeah so in the
1950s Nixon was the vice president in
1956 Eisenhower was running for
reelection and there was this pressure
to dump Nixon from the ticket because
Nixon had accepted basically bribes from
a lobbyist say what slush fund feels
like a slush fund of California like
oiligarchs basically right and that
included famously a dog given to Nixon's
daughter named chatters and Nixon went
on television he gave the speech saying
no wasn't a slush fund
blah blah blah that was that was just a
gift and you know what if you want me to
send the money back I'll send the money
back but I'm not sending back the dog
because my little girl loves the dog and
that was the end of that right and and I
mean I think you know getting people to
break into an office could be a bit of a
problem but you could you could distance
yourself if you can really quickly you
fired the right people you said take
this hit the face but the cover-up of
the competence in the fact that it is
directly being directed by that was
being directed by Nixon and that all of
this all came out at some point which
showed the depths of his his his
Machiavellianism and his paranoia
that's what did him in ultimately with
Trump it's weird because everything
happens immediately because these aren't
complex schemes of his these are things
that he just says because he has an
unregulated it I mean I think there's a
very important point because it's almost
the opposite like Trump almost learned
that it was the cover-up that does you
in and so he goes on yesterday he goes
on national television and announces
that we did this and what I think Trump
understands is that in America now it is
the cover-up not the crime and so if I
come out in announce I did the crime I'm
okay yeah it puts everyone in a weird
position like wait he just admitted to
drugging the crime what did he do now
let's defense
let's do we go got me that I have myself
I don't know what do you do do we do we
go put the handcuffs on him he just said
he did the crime everyone is confused
now right exactly you're supposed to
cover this stuff up but that the reason
why he can't though is is because he has
absolutely no competent people around
him who could possibly even not not even
cover up the crime but even like do the
crime and confident he won't allow them
to cover it up because he's just
convinced that like I can go out there
and I can say I mean on some level this
is sort of like you know you mentioned
the spectacle some way this is a little
bit of like you know the sex Bella sills
where you you build in the critique into
the the product on some level it's hyper
real and it and here's what persuaded
you on those let's help the building
critique well here here's Lee Zeldin
right he comes out this is a
representative Lee Zeldin from Long
Island or wherever and in New York and
he comes out in the middle of the the
inquiry I guess is about three or four
o'clock he comes out of the the volcker
hearing I think it is and says like the
whole story got completely destroyed -
now of course he's lying but easily the
whole story got completely destroyed
today the idea that Trump was looking
for something from the Ukrainians about
investigation and watch what happens to
him here he
is he's in the mode that you were
talking about like oh we gotta cover
this up yeah and he doesn't realize that
the guy he's covering up for is not in
that mode yeah
these Committees of jurisdiction is are
blowing massive holes inside of the
theory the narrative that chairman chief
has been providing to the public for
example when he says that President ROM
was asking president Solinsky to
manufacture dirt on the Biden's today
blows a hole in that argument when
you're making the claim that the the
president was asking for a quid pro quo
with President Solinsky today is blowing
a massive hole in the middle of that
allegation today I'm sorry so well again
so with regards to I don't want to get
all the answers to the quid pro quo
allegations that have been leveled there
is a lot of evidence of the fact that
people knew on both sides very clearly
on both the United States side and the
Ukraine side that the that there was no
connection there was no linkage between
and soon as a matter of fact Ukraine
didn't even know that the money was even
being held up at the time it was crystal
clear the guidance that was being
provided on both sides US and Ukraine
the readouts from the the July 25th call
on both sides but again I hesitate to
get to all the substance the ins and
outs answering every detail of that
before the the interview finishes this
evening Trump and Giuliani have is they
absolutely have no discomfort in lying I
mean this is like what happens when a
relatively normal scumbag is just like
well he just like he just like realize
like wait a second oh my god the earth
had just moved underneath my feet I've
got to get out of here
a cover-up where Trump contradicts their
general talk like everyday they are like
all right we're on the same page there's
no quid pro quo the president didn't say
this 30 minutes later exactly and I'd
ask other people to do this deal
well Volcker Volcker was in there for
nine hours
so the Zelan he comes out and he's going
back in to finish the interview and
that's where the I think they did the
text show up and so he was lucky he
dodged the bullet offense has to be that
there wasn't a quid pro quo that yes he
asked them to investigate Joe Biden but
that's a normal you know within the
that's a normal thing for the president
to do to investigate corruption ensure
that that our trade partners investigate
corruption obviously politically
motivated even what would you say that
let's let's put aside the notion that
Trump held hostage like a door an arms
sale in exchange for an investigation of
Joe Biden all he said was China and
Ukraine should investigate Joe Biden
would that itself be impeachable I think
so I mean I think that the the idea that
the president is doing that as a in
particularly as a candidate against the
political rival I think that's highly
problematic there are wait like it is
not the president's job there's no
indication that the Justice Department
has been working on this investigation
on their own and we're getting
stonewalled and we need help that's not
the way this flowed was it should flow
the opposite way and that's what I think
his problem and in the early 90s did
George HW Bush's campaign ask the major
government to release stuff about Bill
Clinton dodging the draft or they do
that on their own
to curry favor with a sister party I
don't know in its kind of analogous it
could be in itself does that constitute
collusion collusions a word that's the
meaning of it has been obliterated well
yeah I mean there's no I mean there's no
I mean collusion as defined in the
Muller report was specifically not I do
something that you know I like that I
know that you like and you do something
that you that that you know I like like
and we keep doing this back-and-forth
and even though we're getting cues from
each other
if we don't articulate it it's not
collusion in this instance I'm sorry
this is like we have we have one of the
players saying as I said on the phone
last night I don't think we should be
holding up aid for political domestic
reasons yeah
and for some reason the guy at the heart
of it thought that's what they were
doing and and so it's I mean I think I
look really what it seems I bet that
can't be the case because like for
Trump's defense that that has to not be
the case because I think he can get I
think your line on that being collusion
is ambiguous enough to most people to
let Republicans off the hook at least to
not move the needle is what I'm saying
overall in what people believe in how
they view the president but if it I
think that's the line to be crossed
right there into an explicit you do this
for me
I see I don't think that the political
salience of impeachment is what you're
talking about I think the value of
impeachment I mean aside from like for
all the people who think that what Trump
is doing is corrupt I think it's
important to say our system is work you
know working at least enough to hold
this guy accountable right like like you
know as as skeptical as we all are of
the of the media as an institution and
of of a whole range of things you're
gonna be concerned about this
whistleblower but you don't care about
Edward Snowden yeah you know like all of
this definitely problematic and room for
cynicism but at the very least to ignore
this would be that much more deeply
problematic but in terms of its
political its political efficacy I think
the only the real value is you don't
even have to necessarily sell people on
the idea that he should be impeached
because I think he's going to be
impeached yeah that's alright I think
that's basically a fait accompli the the
value is in that race in Iowa in that
race that congressional race in Arizona
in that congressional race in Colorado
in that senatorial race in in Maine
you're gonna be able to you if you're a
Democrat running against the Republican
you're gonna be able to say you voted to
protect Donald Trump end its story
you're on Trump's team okay now and
somebody votes for you they're voting
for Trump I agree with that I'm
wondering but does how far does that go
cuz doesn't that at some point reach
doesn't that meet a hard core of Trump
support if that's not gonna be moved
also I've said you could you we can say
you know this will move the needle in
Maine but will it move the needle in or
make a state like Kansas combated no
will make a state like Kentucky
competitive no it could it could in
Texas because I mean that's I I really
think like after that transcript was
released last night it's it's it hinges
on two questions I I think I think the
importance of this you know just get
beyond the whole thing of you know of
defending the Constitution our
institutions or whatever the two
critical questions one could there be an
actual breaking point where enough
Republicans in the Senate would remove
no no III do know there is a but to and
and that's height to the first question
Trump has you know his approval ratings
have been in a very narrow band his
entire presidency could this actually
break his approval race could he
actually did not beneath where you know
he has had a hard floor of like 35
percent I I think that it's conceivable
you could drop a point or two and is but
I think these this is look this was the
same thing during the Bush years there's
35 percent of the population that that's
it they're not moving they're not there
they will they're intractable in the
only line where you'll have any
Republican senators vote for impeachment
is the day that Trump is caught on video
naked running around the front of the
White House chasing that little boy who
was you know in the meme mowing a lawn
that's it I think that's a little wrong
and it's exactly I was exposing
corruption I was exposing corruption but
I I think that all the data from 2018
shows that it's not just a quits not a
question of persuading Trump voters it
is a question of getting people who are
on
sidelines out to vote against Trump and
this makes it that much easier to get
people who who aren't necessarily
compelled to vote against a
congressperson to vote against Trump by
voting against that Congress person or
to a vote against Trump about voting
against that Republican senator because
they there is no greater way to tie
yourself to a president than voting to
not impeach them mm-hmm
I think I mean look this is what is this
but but the story has to matter for that
to matter or else it gets dismissed as
partisan politics but was that the case
in 2018 are you saying that this is
substantively worse than what had come
out by Election Day 2018 where the
Democrats did take back the house but
they lost ground in the Senate they lost
swing state they lost the Florida Senate
race for instance well I I do think I I
do think that it is I think it makes a
difference but I think it's basically
just the way the Democrats are reacting
I mean I you know buy into this concept
of basically the reaction shot I do you
know as a director I'm shooting an
action that someone does and the
audience I tell the audience how to
react to it with laugh track by laugh
track or by showing a reaction shot from
someone that they that the audience
relates do like a horn honking noise is
that you throw you know that's basic
comedy I understand you don't alert but
but you know but that's it's the
reaction that that tells the audience
how they should interpret this and when
the Democrats come up and in actually
impeach I think it basically says to
people who don't pay that much of
attention like this is worthy of
impeachment mm-hm and and it's not you
know the underlying thing is he he
leveraged aid to a foreign country to
get dirt on a political rival
and you know it's not like these cast of
characters either you know or like
distinct it's not like they're gonna
bring Giuliani up there and people
that's like Ollie north well there's
also you know Matt pointed this out the
other day you know it's it's the thing
itself the the underlying thing
is actually something that would really
piss Republicans off who are content to
see Trump you know he can do whatever he
wants he can he can he can put children
in camps he can you know be a buffoon on
the world stage that doesn't matter
unless he doesn't screw with interest
rates he doesn't mess with the Fed and
he doesn't mess with arms sales to
Ukraine or Saudi Arabia or Israel once
he starts screwing with stuff like that
it's okay no but the adults have to step
in the real question is if this is what
he did with Ukraine what what else has
he done with what there's there's other
readouts from other phone calls in this
most protected secure server in the
figured out that everything he says on
the phone is like that going to to be
released because that's that he probably
that's why he still goes on his private
number like everybody recorded it
reported it's like him being an idiot
which he is but that's probably also his
like I just give up my rec line call me
and my paranoid calm my burner I but I
also think that like I'll tell you what
would really do him in is if with those
people is if he finds out that this war
with China this trade with China was
because they wouldn't give information
on hunter Biden that's the other thing
and I'm not a hundred percent sure
because it was reported today that he
had a conversation was she about Biden
yeah I will say III think we largely
agree on this and I'm not trying to be
relativistic but the fact that at the
core of this is Joe Biden scummy son
with a job that he obviously didn't earn
that's you know that that holds the
story back a little bit and I worry that
your average person who's not really you
know man-on-the-street is not really
paying attention that closely could be
persuaded by an argument that well you
know wait he was making how much working
for a gas firm you know while his dad
was vice president that does seem like
something to be investigated I mean I
think there's some truth to that and I
think if if I'm not sure and I'm not
saying they're comparable at all no
they're not comparable i they aren't in
Opera but all but it is it is ridiculous
when when I I hear
you know Democrats pushing the
impeachment hard or people in the media
say and by the way at the root of the
stories 100 percent falls there's
nothing there about Joe Bob there's a
conspirator same thing that happened
with Hillary Clinton that's precisely
there is a conspiracy which is false
yeah who's this prosecutor getting fired
that is false and actually contradicts
all of the evidence and that's a whole
other conversation about how we use
corruption and so on which i think is
important in a car wash world to talk
about but regardless the one thing that
is true and probably even legal is that
this kid got an astronomical payday to
sit on an Energy Board everybody thinks
that's disgusting and this is exactly
what Trump can do he mashes up truth and
fiction in a way that's effective well I
think without a doubt if Joe Biden cared
about beating Donald Trump he would step
out of the race right son he won't
realize arts he would see you would
realize that like you know that this is
too much of a liability to enter into
the the the general election but I don't
know that there's a lot more with Hunter
I mean look there's there's Biden's
whole career but then even if you want
to just do the threat of his son I
believe he started lobbying for MBNA
right around the time that Biden was
pushing through the bankruptcy bill I
think he even was on the Amtrak board
yep but Biden would never think that
because four guys at that level that's
just business as usual that's normal
that's the same reason that Hillary
Clinton didn't decide not to run after
giving those Wall Street speeches or
after using the fund as a global slush
fund well Trump has actually been quite
adept at taking what we consider to be
run-of-the-mill
corruption that is almost like just the
way things are done yeah and making it
as if he is indignant about it the
minutes where you say like I know these
these politicians are corrupt because I
was the one corrupting them yeah no he
runs on liberal hypocrisy right and it
doesn't matter to the people who like
him that Trump is a total hypocrite to
for whatever reason because he doesn't
have the effect like he's all high and
mighty while they do mm-hm alright so
we've talked about liberal hypocrisy
let's talk about the election of this
election happened there's an election
happening well Justin Trudeau his
approval ratings that have not been
heard that
terribly right blackface from the
constant blackface the fact that he was
in full-body black paint from 1989 to
2007 right now it's it's the liberals
and conservatives are neck-and-neck
there but yeah probably the most likely
outcome is a minority government for
either but I've heard this together a
coalition not that I've seen
okay so Singh still NDP so the mid-teens
which is far away from where the two
main parties are the interesting factor
is the Green Party which is a it's it's
it's a it's a Green Party is what the
Green Party it's it's it's not like our
Green Party which is a different kind of
cranks which is that about 10% were much
higher than they usually are everyone
expects that number to go down when
people in the final in week when people
you know realize oh I've got a vote for
one of the three Green Party will not
commit to not coalition in with the
Conservatives alright remember that
Keynesian we're opening up the phone
lines to Canadians only right now that's
it there we had we had two Canadians on
our show this week it was an honor
really yes Luke Savage and Donald get
fiscal hues don't know that it's very
funny all right well let's uh let's
let's turn to let's go a little bit
south not all the way down to Mexico but
into the United States and and talk
about what we have going on in the
primary all the numbers have been
released yeah I was wondering for a
while white Warren didn't release her
number and I thought it's either bad not
like terrible bad but middling or it's
really good and she wants the day to
herself yeah and it turned out uh it was
it was interesting it it was right a
hair beneath Bernie good numbers like
for anyone but still worse numbers than
Bernie and Bernie came right out the
gate with his numbers which was a gamble
on his team smart because presumably
they did not know for sure what Warren's
numbers were and if Warren said uh oh
that's cute 25 million I got 40 million
they would have looked like yep
but instead this is probably just a good
outcome what's ironic here is Warren's
average donation well 26 $27 $27 was
famously the burning donation this time
around
Bernie's average is 18 and he has I
think about 1.3 million donors 1 he has
1 million donors 1.3 million was the
number of donations oh ok ok because
usually people will chip in 10 20 bucks
every time they see something that
pisses them off on the Internet so 1
million donors and about 99% of them
have not maxed out so that means that
there's a lot of growth there I don't I
haven't seen the the comparable set of
numbers for Warren I think she had
something like now has close to 700,000
donors and coming in with 24 points
something million in Bernie a formidable
5 point yes I'm curious what the overlap
is as well that would be interesting I'm
sure if there's any way to collate that
actually there might be because all of
that it would be not I'm sure they well
it is all public data in fact I think
they they track those I know I've talked
the problem is some of the data is
corrupted you know because people just
think they enter in their information in
weird ways right and as well I don't
think for instance if I donate to Bernie
if I'm assigned an FEC tracking number
so all of my donations have that
tracking number I guess is what I'm
saying so you would have to look up my
name so if like John's there's gonna be
you know thousands of John Smith's
donating I would like to know who these
people are who maxed out on their Bernie
donations I feel like it's literally
just the members of Vampire Weekend and
maybe some of you guys one of my
colleagues did yeah I won't tell you who
but what am i colleagues do not also
then want to maintain dear I would not
be it was not me I'll tell you that
you'll have to do some shoe leather
reporting if you want to get to the
bottom of who I know to people who I
think maxed out early early early yeah
all right well that's change and and we
should say Biden danc'd Biden did 15
million and which is fine if you're not
Joe Biden right I mean if you're Peabody
Judge it will really make
before we what every Lincoln Buddha
judge is 19 that's that's pretty good
well that was the lower than his last
quarter yeah he's in it I mean I think
he has he has resilient donors and I
don't know I mean I think it's he's a
guy who's going to I don't know what he
does is it an investment in the future
you run incredible race you go to you
get a talk show on MSNBC or something
then you run national credit you could
run his vice president if he doesn't get
picked his vice president my guess would
be he has to run national in a different
state because that's like why we've been
doing this whole exercise national and a
different so I'm saying he can't run for
Senate or even Congress in Indiana
presumably probably not maybe a
different guy I mean there's a reason
why this the mayor of like what is it
the third or fourth largest city in the
state is running for president
it's kind of the whole excise kind of
ridiculous but he couldn't I don't think
he would have had a viable Senate run
and if he did he would have lost then he
would be done yeah I have no idea what
his future plans are but so all right
let me ask you this cuz yesterday I had
on Eric Levitz to talk about his piece I
don't know if you've read that in the I
did not and the argument that he makes
is that at least in the context of
domestic politics because I think he he
concedes that Bernie has a better
foreign policy and in the context of of
where American politics will probably be
for the next president assuming it's
either Bernie a warrant that that makes
a difference and that that is I think he
says you know that is a valid sort of
place to differentiate between the two
candidates but his argument is and I
summed it up there I gave him this
analogy and and and he accepted it as a
as a basically broad statement on his
piece was that Bernie may be going 70
miles may be a vehicle that can go 70
miles an hour and Warren is one that can
go let's say 60 miles an hour and Biden
is one that can go 30 miles an hour but
it's a 50 mile an hour speed limit
the constraints of American politics are
going to be such on any president that
their ability despite the fact that
Bernie's plans may be more ambitious and
and more universal that their ability to
implement these you know are going to be
constrained on either one of them well
what do you make of that argument and
that the the distinctions that people
are trying to make between Warren and
Bernie are therefore at least in
domestic politics a little bit overblown
if the constraints are the problem then
remove the constraints the fact that we
have a a reaction these reactionary
institutions that would presumably
prevent even the most modest
redistribution of wealth or modest
threats to private profit or private
property in this country that's just a
reason to give up and that's that that
shows how much we suffer from a lack of
imagination that there can be and any
economic system that is at all different
from the one that we have well and I
know in practical terms that can mean
things like statehood for DC that can
mean things like packing the Supreme
Court which thinks you could do with a
bare majority that also means realigning
things that means going to places like
West Virginia or Kansas that used to be
a little in West Virginia's case used to
be reliable Democratic votes and that
means realigning the Democratic Party
itself so that it is not the party that
just represents postal and college town
intellectuals well also think about
their ability to deal with these
constraints they are not the same they
don't have the same strategy they don't
have the same approach I think Elizabeth
Warren's approach is more one of
technical technocracy and plants and
Bernie's approach is one of building a
movement that lasts past the election
which is something I think he
understands better than anyone else
running by far it's something Obama
didn't really understand like it's read
some of Megan day's pieces in Jacobin I
think on
exactly the kind of labor movement and
the kind of grassroots power that would
be necessary for Bernie to pass anything
that he's trying to do that just doesn't
exist with anyone else right and and and
and levites addressed this by saying
that that that that theory the the idea
that understand ders you will realign
the Democratic Party in such a way that
will be that will cross the sort of the
partisan lines that we have now on some
level it has been not borne out by
results in 2018 that the the issue sets
and whatnot have not gone there his
argument is that he starts it with is
that the left at this point is not as
strong as it would appear all that for
sure no base yes all superstructure no
big 28 EU still Nancy Pelosi and Chuck
Schumer's party sold the party of big DC
donors think the party hadn't changed
just because lefties one of handful of
primaries right and I think his argument
is that that the party won't be
materially different in 2020 either
I think if Bernie Sanders were the
nominee it would be the beginning of
that process and I'm not sure how rapid
that process could take but something
that hardens me is seeing these videos
of billionaires like the billionaire
founder of home depot I forget his name
yeah ken Langone TV and saying you know
I I Bernie Sanders against me I think we
should get rid of Bernie Sanders right
so that's it yeah Blackstone guy that's
the Blackstone guy okay look they both
said that actually Oakland gold said get
rid of it - yeah they keep they keep
coming out against the guy and it's very
obvious that his message which is
specifically labor oriented is a threat
to them I had the opportunity last week
to interview Bernie Sanders and I don't
know if you had a chance to watch that
interview no I heard it just got
released yeah I just got dropped this
morning and you know we had a far
reaching discussion he had
seeing the Joker already all the
Senators get a screener for it and yeah
he's Pro he wants all the supporters to
watch it and take their inspiration from
that film he will he will reverse the
Joule ban hell yeah and yeah he's and
you know he's gonna make no I'm sorry I
had a third thing for you well alright
but but I guess I know I mean I anyway
I'm sorry so essentially what I asked it
was along these lines and but with the
context of you say you know you want to
be the organizer in chief you know what
does what does this actually mean like
what does bottom-up political change
look like what what does labor militancy
look like how does that actually affect
change how does that relate to the
institutions that a president or a
member of Congress must navigate and how
does your you and York how do you in
your campaign intersect with that and
then the in the days leading up to that
interview he had been in Chicago where
the Chicago Teachers Union voted they
had a rally John Cusack there was there
for some reason and they voted by like
ninety nine percent to approve a strike
right uh and he gave this you know this
this firebrand speech there where he
called out Lori Lightfoot the Democrat
mayor of Chicago by name and he told
them that you are fighting a class war
then he flew to Michigan and he spoke at
a UAW picket they're entering now the
third week of their strike against GM
and he said told him much the same thing
the labor movement what remains of the
labor movement loves Bernie because they
share his conception of power and change
right and when when when he talks about
labor militancy that means a labor
movement that is not just trying to
defend what they have that's not on the
backfoot gorgeous young ism it
yes I do exactly and yeah and they're
trying to you know they're expanding I
think and it goes beyond just what
they're getting right but social justice
yeah right that that the teachers the
Chicago Teachers strike was was sort of
the modern paradigm shifter for that the
the first one yeah eight years ago right
followed by the ether strikes at the
rest of the country the but the the
point remains I mean I think all that's
true and I think that I think that
Levites would would concede that but I
think the question is is where are we on
that point like will will we know if the
left has that strength if this strategy
is working I mean we it seems to me that
we'll know if he wins Iowa despite the
fact that the polling shows that he
won't now we'll know that I mean if he
can't win those early states is that
indicative of the fact that the left is
still not where it needs to be for that
for that attempt to be a factor in
creating legislation and policies in
these changes in the year 2021 we in
2020 to answer your question we know the
left isn't where it needs to be because
by and large the anti-capitalist left is
still mostly intellectuals college
students and like and the idea is that
like that that very small strata
downwardly mobile millennials from the
middle class right will do who many of
whom do actually have mid serious
material concerns they're not
yeah we're not not the working class
we're just a small slice of the working
class and we need to be the entire
working class in order to win more of
the leisure class but I see what you're
saying the idea is that this small
strata links up and radicalizes the much
bigger working class space and that
hasn't happened yet but it's not it's
not a process that you know lightning
strikes and like everything blows up but
I think there are times when nothing
happens that I think there's times what
a lot of things happen and as well what
the Bernie Sanders campaign is that is
the
vehicle to do that to bring that project
into fruition is to radicalize people
because he is a weird man he is a weird
old man who talks in a thick Brooklyn
accent Wraith dynamic a seer virgin from
Vermont but people listen to him people
perceive him as being on their side
because his entire life he has spoken
about people's material concerns he
doesn't get wrapped up in you know the
flavor of the day yeah can I agree with
everything you're saying I think there's
just a there's a couple of different
things that I've gleaned from looking
over the Levitt piece so one is I think
that some of the some of it is that the
left is is weak and that's true I don't
think any even including the people he's
critiquing and Jack Abbott deny that
everybody accepts that the left needs to
be then is the theory of change
compelling then how big an actual
material difference is there in terms of
what kind of policy second get
implemented right like these are kind of
the different lanes he's dealing with
right I think that I mean and I won't
replicate what Virgil said I I'm still
compelled by the movement argument and
distinct value proposition of what
Sanders is doing just even in the sense
that I think that what he's doing is
generating you know you will talk to
people who say oh in 2016 I volunteered
for his campaign now I'm a labor
organizer you know you still get that
unparallel kind of outgrowth of that I
think yeah exactly
I think though that there's another kind
of interesting tension in the piece and
honestly maybe I should reread it but
I'm a little confused on because on one
hand he's look I I think that it's fine
to note that Warren is kind of playing a
dual strategy where she's running a
center-left reform campaign and then
also reaching out to Hillary Clinton and
I don't I think that that's just true
right like it doesn't need to be like
C's she's a secret sellout we hate her
but I think it's also yeah there's a
different approach here and that's fine
he addresses that he addresses it but I
think it's intern he's doing the same
and I think in G your argument on that
is a mistake because of course they're
doing the same thing in terms of
reaching out the super-delegates and so
on although I think the maybe the
soliciting of Clinton's opinion is a bit
different than having a super delegate
strategy but he goes on to say that and
this is actually where I I'm not sure I
would read this the same way because he
says that maybe maybe that in in light
of these facts it's not conceivable that
our president more closely aligned with
the Democratic Party and less openly
hostile to its key power centers would
actually be able to get senators like
John tester and Kristen cinéma to
swallow marginally more progressive
legislation in 2021 than a president
with an independent public ID political
identity who projected contempt for
their wing of the party and you know I
see what he's saying but I actually
think that they're there that actually
loops back to the advantage that Bernie
has in a general election with his
independent brands because when you look
at people like tester and cinema they're
infinitely to the right of Bernie but
they also get a lot of mileage
themselves out of projecting contempt on
democratic power centers and I think
that that might actually end up working
like you say all the time Sam in terms
of people's less policy more
dispositional focus I mean I that's a
looping advantage in my opinion I think
I think I I mean I love is he's not
really making an argument about
electability in the general election and
I think that well he was thinking about
getting legislation he was talking about
legend I actually think that that could
work I think a guy that could go to a
place like Montana more plausibly and
say hey John you and I both kind of you
know roll our eyes a Chuck Schumer or
however the hell you put it work with me
to push this anti DC agenda is a much
more compelling way of pressuring
somebody like John tester then John
tester going like hey you know Montana
folks I'm not voting for this big act
break up bill because he's
insufficiently
deferential to national Democrats that
you hate well I don't think it's I don't
think that was what was I mean I think
Levites would concede that it could go
either way
I think that's the thing is he's he's
arguing is that it is you can make a
rational argument on
their way that someone who plays an
inside game has the ability and doesn't
come with the baggage of being
anti-capitalist
in a you know in a redder state that may
you know or with corporate Democrats
even may may have an easier time but I
think he would also concede it's also
possible that Bernie may speak to people
there and create more pressure for like
a Joe Manchin let's say I mean I mean I
think that's the that I mean I think
it's like when he says centrist
Democrats is what some part of our job
that's just legitimately hard right
because like you know Chris Coons yes
probably more likely that he can sit
down and have a drink with Elizabeth
Warren and be persuaded on some
derivative regulation if it doesn't
contradict his donor base too much but I
think a central a centrist Democrat that
represents a place like West Virginia or
Montana it's almost entirely predicated
on somebody being able to go to that
state like that with credibility and say
work I'm against the establishment doubt
time to you know put your money where
your mouth yeah here's the thing about
red states and they talk about this a
lot on trill Billie Workers Party which
is one of my favorite podcast right now
they're in Kentucky red states like
Kentucky the conventional wisdom is oh
you need to run a moderate because it's
a mixture of Democrats and Republicans
but like no red states have some of the
highest rates of poverty and the lowest
rates of voting and those two things are
connected so if you have somebody who's
speaking to people's material interests
who's standing up against the democratic
party establishment which has screwed
them over and over again when they've
been in power that's gonna make more of
a case to people who've dropped out and
who are disenfranchised I don't know if
it's gonna work or not there are a lot
of factors working against it i I I am
somewhat moved by the idea that you're
gonna do better if you offer material
benefit to people but I mean Elizabeth
Warren is you know there's a difference
between her policy set and and Bernie
Sanders but it is to the left and and
naming Eminem
I mean she she I think talks about Wall
Street yeah there's been any fan um I
mean I think about Wall Street from
different dialects you know I think
that's true I think that's why I just
don't think there are people in Kentucky
who are saying we vote for Republicans
because when Democrats are in power they
are screwing us over no no people don't
vote because Democrats they screen them
over and they don't think either party's
gonna do anything for them and they're
usually right do you think though and
this is about turnout not persuasion
yeah I just I think Kentucky it's not
gonna how do you think though this is a
decade's long argument do you think
though if if Democrats have been
delivering over the past three decades
that you would that it was the very
least would present a real conflict for
somebody if as an example there's social
inclinations contradicted their economic
ones if they could say there is one
National Party that I disagree with
because on immigration or whatever but
they actually really are delivering for
me in terms of killing something like
NAFTA I think we would have a very
different national politics if that was
the case over the last I think I I think
even more to the point if the Democrats
had done more to support unions they'd
have an apparatus there you go people
out and I don't know that the individual
voter would be making some type of
calculation like that yeah of course
that's the thing that's what we need to
regenerate yeah I mean I mean I guess
the the point is is Minh of like when I
look at Warren's you know and I I think
that if there's a 20 percent chance or a
10% chance that Bernie's going to be
able to actually do that realignment
then it's worth it in my mind but the
the distinction between Warren's labor
plan which calls for not all but many of
the same things that Bernie does the I
don't think that I think both of them
are going to receive a similar reception
in the context of being able to
legislate for it now I think that I if I
could jump in here yes I
I don't need to know the details I don't
care about the plans and non-voters
don't need to know the details and they
don't care either they you vote for a
representing because you want someone to
figure out the details someone else has
to figure that out
you know it's your luck you're not
getting screwed because someone in the
bureaucracy didn't carry the - that's
not the problem here
they they and I want to know are you on
my site do you represent my interests
and if you erase class distinctions as
we've done in the past 40 years pretend
that they don't exist then everyone's
gonna have a really muddled idea of what
that means being on my side and chances
are you're just going to resort to
cultural signifiers I think that the
birdee campaign is the only one that has
a chance of breaking through that it's
it's not it's it's a process that I
think would be slow but I think that
it's already from his first campaign
through today already bearing fruit I
think it's it's already generating that
kind of change it's it's certainly
realigned the way Democrats talk about
things with that guys IP boo to judge
pander to voters for instance and
ultimately I think that if the Elizabeth
Warren campaign radicalizes you it's
they radicalize you to vote for
Elizabeth Warren if the Bernie Sanders
campaign radicalizes you it's to join al
a changeup Union or make your labor
union more militant absolutely yeah or
get involved in your local DSA chapter
like I know people in DSA who are I
would say on the left pole of DSA right
now they've gone to political ed they're
like oh yeah Bernie's not even a
socialist I know now that he's a Social
Democrat and I'm a communist they came
in because of Bernie Sanders in 2016 and
that's an amazing fact to me I think
like right now there's obviously I mean
there's one tendency which is ridiculous
on the on some of the sort of warrant
adjacent to really try to erase the
vital differences and then I think
there's a countervailing tendency in
some of the sort of not certainly not in
his campaign but in the Sanders world
sort of exaggerated you know Warren's
negatives and these things are kind of
obvious they're expected during a
campaign but I don't neither of those
moves are necessary to really clearly
delineate some very large differences
here and I and I think the approach does
matter a lot because there's long term
implications to it as well I actually
think Obama I mean Obama is even more
problematic because I don't wanna did
build a movement we say it all the time
he built a movement that was literally
personality centric and then dissembled
it and you know that's that is I mean
that's neither warren nor what Sanders
is doing right I mean that is just
building up this beautiful car and then
saying like oh I'm on the inside now I
don't want it to compete with me I mean
literally yes we just we just built the
world's fastest it's a electric
Lamborghini all right well that's good I
advertised yesterday that we would have
the a mirror convert a mirror image
conversation of the one we had yesterday
without any limits I mean I think pretty
much I mean I think like the the you
know the the the the I think the
argument is is that really in my mind
that you can lose better one way than
another way and that that losing these
legislative fights with Bernie Sanders
as opposed to losing them with Elizabeth
Warren is actually beneficial long term
politics in this country because how you
lose I mean it's on some level it's
similar to my impeachment argument
they're not going to get him out of
office yeah they are what the Democrats
are doing is they're signifying we're
gonna hold them into account and to the
extent that we can hold it to account it
stopped by Republicans here and it has
implications for politics not because
you're not going to be facing Donald
Trump but you're going to be facing
you're going to be able to do a lot more
structural difference in terms of
Republicans across the board and I think
there's a similar dynamic with Bernie
Sanders going out there having the same
exact fight that Elizabeth Warren is
having that the way that they fight and
lose
we'll be different and we'll have more
value
broadly speaking to progressive politics
in the future why only you know I had
the chance to talk to Bernie for about
20 minutes they let me go a little long
and I wish I usually give me about 20 1
ie that's not big deal well they did
give me they did let me go long so
ultimately I got about 30 well that's
fine I mean I do my pre-interview -
right you had the B of the exclusive you
know for high donor lounge the high
donor lounge exam he was like no you're
gonna have love it's odd the concern
troll screw you serve 7 minutes but I
wish I had more time because I would
love to hear Bernie articulate this
point further and my producer Chris we
were talking about the interview
afterwards and he said you know the one
thing that I want to answer it is okay
let's say it's it's February 20 21 and
you know you have the the the Medicare
for all bill you know band private
health insurance internationalize health
insurance on the floor and you know it's
it's it's it's not getting out of
committee you know you have a movement
you have an email list of tens of
millions at this point what what what's
your first email right as what does that
say senator tell me where to throw a
brick right interesting what did you ask
him about about the case we talked about
structural reform in terms of like those
did you ask him about the filibuster no
no no I didn't know no detail stuff no
then in court packing I mean he is at
least projecting sort of a an
institutionalist perspective on these
things I mean you know there's some
argument as to whether reconciliate
legislative strategy right I mean are
they interesting dialectic though I mean
like if you I'm thinking back to the
conversation which shot had Butare who
by the way we should I should have
pulled it up he had an amazing
fundraising cycle raising fund raising
quarter and his challenge for Pelosi oh
good and his sort of articulate
being a fusion of a Democratic Socialist
with like very strong constitutional
commitment to constitutional protections
I at the very least thing it's
interesting that Bernie's projecting
that like on one hand I'm going to be to
organize her in chief I'm gonna have a
completely unparalleled relationship to
trying to essentially mobilize millions
of people to be engaged in forcing
Congress's hand we'll see we don't know
whether that will succeed or not I think
that's the only remote path in terms of
anything that could possibly work and
then on the other hand I'm actually
gonna sort of mash that up with some
institutional respect which I think
presumably he must have just
he must be speaking from the perspective
of somebody who sees that he was able to
thwart some damage at the margins using
this type of thing that could be Mike my
sort of my only guess but I think it's
an interesting argument I will say this
you remember the ACA fight in 2017 in
2017 yes
yeah the repeal fight yeah yes and these
scenes of disability activists holding
Dian's at the at the US Capitol and
being arrested you know holed out of
committee meetings and things like that
I think that for Sanders to push his
agenda I think it would look a lot like
that where that activists fight is not
it's not on the backfoot
it's not in the way that that union
movements have been the fortune what do
you call fortress unionism I think it
would not be fortress activism where
this only comes out when what little we
have is now under fire and we should say
I mean not coincidentally bernie was
immediately Criss crossing the country
holding rallies to protect the ACA at
that deal uh 2017 yeah he actually did
it that was a great example of him doing
that work all right well let's uh
let's now go and take a look at some
clips if you don't mind would you like
to do that with us we watch some funny
funny moments in our news
crazy oh you know what we're gonna do
we're gonna do a freebie Friday today
folks yeah because we don't have time to
do the we don't have time to take a
break so we're going to do a freebie
Friday just want to remind you of a
couple of things one the a.m. quickie
today is the last day you could get it
on the majority report feed so you need
to go to a em quickie dot-com and sign
up to get it on on stitcher or iTunes or
whatever we're gonna try and see if we
can get it on Spotify we're gonna have
it on Alexa soon and all these other
places but go right now either in your I
to in your podcast app or wherever AM
quickie it's just less than five minutes
every day just gives you the headlines
but it's not you know it's not NPR it's
not 1010 wins it's giving you the
headlines that we think if you you like
the stories that we cover on this
program I think you're gonna like at
least you know gives you a little
footing as you walk out the door so
check that out also remember this show
relies on your support you can become a
member at join the majority of port calm
and just coffee co-op fair trade coffee
tea or trapeze the coupon code majority
quickly do plugs and then we will get to
this stuff Michael
November 23rd Philadelphia live show
with crystal ball Emma biglan and
artesia ball drop special guests were
very excited World Cafe snag your
tickets we'll see you there
on this weekend and elicit history of
counter hegemonic foreign policy the
non-aligned movement from Barbados to
Norway with Daniel best nur patreon.com
slash T mb/s Michael Brooks show on
YouTube Jamie this week on the Intifada
we speak with Nigeria an organizer from
no new jails NYC about no new jails
campaign to defeat de Blasio's dystopian
plan to close Rikers Island and replace
it with all of these of combined
shopping center prison justice hubs
around the boroughs which is pretty
gross also out today for our patrons
there is a new episode of vampire Castle
featuring Leslie Lee the third my
collaborator on that project in this one
we talked about the iconic 1994 film the
crow starring brandon lee as well as
some of the this lightly less iconic
yeah r.i.p Brendan Lee and the slightly
less iconic sequel the crow City of
Angels and you might say oh Jamie but
that's not a vampire movie are you sure
hey sure watch it again listen to the
episode it's not not a vampire movie
also our live show is coming up in oh my
god it's a week from tomorrow at the
 little field it's gonna be so
good I see and oh we're gonna have some
great guests for example this guy right
here boy
yeah our large adult son Virgil it's
gonna be it's gonna be a big show and
Matt Chrisman as well there's probably
gonna be some yelling happening mostly
from Matt to Virgil but maybe in Reverse
as well yeah links in the Pawnee debates
links in the podcast description and on
the front page Matt oh yeah literary
hangover I did Lydia Maria child's first
novel hobo mock coming up later this
month I'll just say witches and I just
checked out the fubar America's
right-wing nightmare page and apparently
there is no paperback oh you gotta get
the heating up you can get you can get
the book now for a dollar 49 but that's
use that's coming soon and look at that
date right that yeah it's coming
eventually
they're gonna wait until I'm dead what
is it say they want to pay me kind of
metrics publishing but look scroll down
go put it back on hardcover put it back
on hardcover and scroll down and look at
what customers who bought this item also
bought wait notes go back up look at
that it's been burgesses book but then
also
the chapo guide to revolution and then
state and revolution good company there
and then manufacturing consent Wow
everybody should grab that and of course
give them an are you it is gonna help
that was my way of saying chapo guide to
revolution is now out in paperback there
it is
so check that out folks you can find
that at if you probably probably get
both books for whatever the Chapo book
costs plus like a dollar forty nine so
if you want to go down that road some
good use copies on there yeah that's use
very good barely open there's less light
rubbing gently used those are all mine
incidentally then I'm trying to sell
alright let's go to this this is
exciting
oh let's just get this out of the way
shall we folks as you know steven
crowder we did the we drop the Crowder
files the other day and we again
encourage you to take a picture of your
socks and help steven crowder who who
got cold feet
and and just send it to him as an
inspiration for him to get some maybe to
warm his feet up and come and talk to us
i I just want to say I want to thank all
of you who have participated in this and
I don't want to single out anybody who
has been you know getting on on steven
crowder to debate me but this guy
obviously I'm you know I've been a huge
fan of his work in the film world and so
I was really appreciated him weighing in
folks I give you Kevin Sorbo well
Stephen you got cold feet I understand
cold feet and you won't debate Sam why
were you not debate Sam but just to let
you know
Sam is still up for it all right
so just call Sam and you'll set
something up
but if Stevens dad won't let him the
baby for some reason Sam understands he
says he gets it
aren't you should provide that I hope
I've done my job
and I'd be remiss if I didn't come out
with my latest movie is streaming an
Amazon way Kiwi room or wide to the part
where he's where this part about the dad
that's incredible yeah that was that's
some very fiery writing right in the
middle now we we got it's a hat tip to a
listener Ryan who I think paid for this
I don't know how much you paid for it it
could have been like ninety bucks was at
Ryan rec RAC six six yeah Kevin Sorbo
was a fan of our not that sorry it turns
out that Kevin Sorbo you know doing
something wrong with thee are you not
plugged in there are you gonna plug that
into the cord there you go sorry Wow
great deal we lay cold feet finders in
the middle or what a deceit and you
won't debate
Sam's why would you not to be Sam but
just to let you know Sam is still up for
it all right just call Sam and you'll
set something up but if Stevens dead
won't let him to begging for some reason
Sam understands my folks have not
weighed in on this but it's possible
they would also be like don't don't
debate Steven you know don't you'll be
it'll be you know there's no reason to
make him feel bad and so we'll see but
Stephen I just want you to know that you
don't have to do this just because Kevin
Sorbo says to do it do it so that people
who watch your show don't think that
you're just looking for college students
to debate with do it for yourself Steven
forget Kevin Sorbo forget dad just do it
for you that's all I'm saying dad easier
said than done
Virgil you mentioned the Canadian
elections yeah that eminent here is a
and you know what like this it's like a
third clip I've seen of Canadians having
some type of like racist run-in with
seek candidates lawmakers in Canada over
the past like three or four months now
to be fair I don't know how many seek
candidates we have in this country and I
don't know that they would be like
polite enough you know racists to come
up and actually get it just on camera
like this but this is I mean it's well
this exchange speaks for itself this is
NDP leader Jimmy Singh who's in Ag I
guess in Montreal Quebec let me see how
are you good to see you so you're okay
yes pleasure to meet you know what you
should cut your turban off and you put a
loo you look like a Canadian I think he
needs look like all sorts of people
that's the beauty of Canada
I don't agree in the role you do as the
Romans hey but this is Canada you can do
like whatever you like all right thanks
I mean listen Quebec do you think that
he was I mean what like I don't know I I
mean I think he was like I've got a tip
for you this is like a candidates tip
blend in more I mean in terms of the
stereotypes that we have of Canadians I
would say that the what's-his-name the
seek NDP leader was much more Canadian
than the man coming up to him in the
street
yeah like okay that's that's just your
opinion have a nice day you know uh you
know how pollsters will ask would your
neighbor vote for a black candidate
instead of asking you directly when they
ask would you vote for black animals
people say yes when they say will you
what your neighbor vote for one they're
less likely to say yes right seems a
little like that the way that's couch
right if it's for the other Canadians to
accept you you should cut off your
turban I also get the sense that that
guy was watching sing from like across
the way for about like a half hour just
really building himself up to go do that
and so he knows he needs to approach him
calmly otherwise Security's gonna move
in but then he the way he leans in there
just for you that leads me to believe
that I don't know that you have a
microphone on that's what that was
I've got to be careful when there's a
camera crew or out because they're
generally going to mic the person
they're following so this happened at
this was in a town hall in Corona New
York AOC had a town hall in the Queens
Public Library and meeting with folks in
the 14th I think it is right
district and talking about well I guess
taking questions from the audience
well you sort of like just for a moment
like just look at the the the audience
in this picture versus like half of
the other like almost all the other town
halls we see like there's a just an
incredible cross-section of folks and
here is a woman stands up and has a
point to make about about the climate
change really climate crisis
we only have a few months left I love
that you support the Green Deal but it's
not get it you know get it with a fossil
fuel it's not gonna solve the problem
fast enough
a Swedish professor saying that we can
eat their dead people but that's not
fast enough so I think your next
campaign slogan has to be this we got to
start eating babies we don't have enough
time it's too much co2 all of you you
are you you know your pollutant too much
co2 we have to start now please you are
so great I'm so happy that you really
support a nuclear deal but it's not
enough you know even if we would Bob
Russia we still have too many people too
much pollution so we have to get rid of
the babies that's a big problem just
stopping a baby the silent life we need
to eat the babies under this very
pleased items No thank you thank you
we'll go ahead okay
no we'll go ahead no thank you so I
think um yeah no so one of the things
that's very important to us is that we
need to treat the climate crisis with
the urgency that it does present luckily
we have more than a few months we do
need to hit Net Zero in several years
but I think we all need to to to
understand that there are a lot of
solutions that we have and that we can
pursue and that if we act in a positive
way there's space for hope I mean she
clearly thinks that the the questioner
has you know some type of you know issue
going on and but it turns out that in
fact it was a someone from the Lyndon
LaRouche PAC as they tweeted out Lyndon
LaRouche PAC trolls AOC AOC doesn't rule
out eating babies is the way that they
present it and Ryan's Avada the that
right winger got got taken in by the
whole thing one of Ocasio Cortez's
constituents loses her mind over climate
change claims we have only a few months
left et cetera et cetera my guys the
theory that the the woman was interim
personating or trying to do an
impression of a Greta Thune bird I
thought it was it's possible have a
weird fake Scandinavian accent or she's
just a weird cultist herself well I mean
she's I'm gonna go with that's her
actual voices ones oh that's her actual
voice what's interesting is like this is
gonna be but they've done a lot of time
een these are these a Hitler mustache
people right LaRouche people do this all
the time though and but I think this
type of stuff is gonna become more and
more prominent over the course of the
campaign I mean I think like this type
of the performance art yeah I really do
I mean I think like Jacob wool well
let's move on and it's like well I think
we have that right oh we didn't have it
oh well Jacob wall the guy who you
always think like how is this guy not in
prison yet no but sir yeah is he like an
intelligence asset i well i don't know
it on here i don't know i mean i think
like there's sort of like you know the
yes men he could be like i don't know
the no men I have no idea I have no idea
what this guy's scam is I don't know
like there could be somebody out there
who says like hey I've got a lot of cash
to burn I'm just gonna see like what
happens with this oh I think he's an
artist I think he does it for you know
just for self-expression yeah I mean
honestly not not a true artist you know
one who's not doing it to be remunerated
III think that's actually possible
because I can't believe that anybody
thinks like investing in him at this
point
is worthwhile here is a Jacob wall who
had a press conference introduced the
world to a twenty six seven year old
former Marine who apparently is or
claims to be a male prostitute who was
enlisted and compensated it sounds like
by Elizabeth Warren and apparently
according to this male prostitute
Elizabeth Warren is a little bit rough
let's play we should just say this is
super cut put together by that and who's
also behind creationists cab okay this
is a creationist cats super cut or it
was so violent that he actually bare
with us please folks that I need to know
the data here and Senator Warren was so
violent that he actually obtained scars
on his back so why show us the scars
there you can see two scars here that
was from the cat-o'-nine-tails
and Senator Warren engaged some lesbian
sex with my friend from high school
using a lime-green strap-on dildo
so I can remember sorry I'm sorry
lime-green strap-on dildo bet she bought
it open that box never used and the
distinct rubbery smell this device was
quite overwhelming I usually see a
bigger tip can you give us a dollar
amount thousand for just the initial and
then she paid 1250 Trump is a peak alpha
male and so when you look at President
Trump him engaging in an extramarital
affair would be understandable would be
normal would be average we know that
women are more calm or no hormonal than
men well listen I will tell you this may
come as a surprise to you but we're
actually at a political operation get
that guy a degree he's crazy
what but when you look at Elizabeth
Warren you're talking about a very frail
very old woman who's going to be
hormonal challenged as always to the
remove him Louis hit that guy out of
there he's freaking me out hit that guy
out of there she's very he's more of a
dominatrix if you understand is it is it
just I mean it's just performance you
honestly I followed Jacob wool from the
beginning and when he teamed up with
Jack Burkman like that's just you that's
just when he started creating just
master works like this
but in the calabria work men used to be
like a sort of like a standard
conservative talking head something like
that yeah I don't I don't really
remember what Jack Bergman's I think I
got into a fight with him on on an MSNBC
show years ago with with what's-her-face
good Crowley
Monica Crowley was it was over over deep
throat oh really
yes like I did I I don't understand any
of that
anything this makes me more likely to
vote for Elizabeth Warren because now I
think she's maybe not such a nerd
honestly I wanted to DOM people in the
bedroom III mean I did a TV thing with
Jack Burkman once and I had no idea he
was and he started saying that I needed
to be marshal law declared specific
cities to ethnically cleanse Emma but
how do they make a living at this like I
mean like I like underwriting oh yeah
that's the one that I find really
campaign right I mean I can understand
it like they may get hired like one of
those things like on Craigslist were you
like oh yeah I'll do it it's an
interesting question because I'm not
sure if it will even solicits donations
i've not that is never patreon okay so
Woolsey like to some rich kid wools dad
is a run-of-the-mill
conservative guy from Southern
California and probably has like a
decent amount of money but not limitless
resources I'll be my guess yeah and you
know the originally what I thought was
you know his dole his dad was a
conservative like talk radio blowhard
something like that and that the dad
just basically brainwashed the son and
just the son is just like totally nuts
because Jacob wool when he first started
out was pretending to be a millionaire
VC guy there's a lot of guys who pretend
to be venture capitalists because it
sounds like that's what what powerful
smart people do and then that's actually
I believe him Tommy who's a venture
capitalist we first met that's how we
over the course of it and over the
course of it I guess he committed some
crime and now he's under indictment and
I still like laying low during the
indictment so then uh that ended and I
guess this happened while Trump came up
so he pivoted to being a Trump guy has
so many guys did like right I like Mike
sort of itch for instance when from
being this MRA guy to being a trump on
Molyneux yeah it hurt his business yeah
and it like it expanded their audience
you know and then you know what I think
wall somewhere along the line you know
the
liberal sign him and then we find out
his lies and everyone just makes fun of
him and then I don't know he just
continually double down on it and then
got really into these stunts once he was
with Berkman I want to say wall went
with Laura Loomer and that alley weirdo
to Minneapolis to find that the truth Oh
Marla no more incest yeah and that in my
mind was funded by you know what Laura
Loomer gets to go around the country
doing these stunts but she's actively
soliciting donations she actually has a
cash flow from her audience whoa I'm not
so sure I mean maybe he has a handful of
just very wealthy patrons the Bitcoin
millionaires or something like that who
enjoy his antics kind of uh you ever
read the magic Christian yes yeah kind
of a magic Christian type situation that
would be I mean that's my guess but I do
think he's in it for the love of the
game and if you've never been a few have
the opportunity to see a wall the wall
in Berkman show like you should not pass
up that opportunity it's mostly in the
DC area but sometimes you know like when
they go out to Minneapolis or New York
City you should go you saw how much fun
that audience was I'm somewhat
sympathetic to it and I certainly like I
was you know at least tangential to that
world like there's no experience like
being in a Jacob wall press Robin we got
the chance to do that when we were at
CPAC oh nice and then right after we got
to see a full or Loomer show that's
pretty good I knew SOI bomb really do
you know so a bomb Eric Michael Portnoy
he was the one who on that live Dylan
song came out and the Grammys right yeah
it was a great that's right came out and
ahead so a bomb on there and like I
always understood that because he was a
performance artist but I mean there's a
sort of rich complexity to what wall
does that I that I appreciate and as
well this is probably as big as success
so far because a few days ago the he did
this he said he was gonna unmask the
whistleblower and then he didn't do it
right this time I mean he has he has a
marine he has scars
is a script it's lurid and all the
warring people cannot resist riffing on
it Tom's for Warren t-shirts right now
do you think he went out and I'm just
curious from a creative process do you
think he went out looking for a Marine
with scars or do you think he found a
Marine who happened to have scars and
built it around that or do you think
that he had the idea of a Marine with
scars found a marine and actually with I
think he found the marine and used the
scar it's like you know he found he
found his his his his creature his model
and saw the scars and said yes beautiful
wonderful I'm gonna work with this his
creature and I don't think it's an open
casting call I kind of think it's a
word-of-mouth like the role he hangs out
with a bunch of alright weirdos on a
discord right and that that that
constitutes his base that would be my
guess how much do you think you would
have to be paid to be that guy that
marine guy to come out and say that I'm
a male or maybe he's a male maybe he's
actually a dancer you know it could be
like Benjamin is almost John Benjamin
would do stuff like that would what
you'd get this looked for a gig and just
shined a male stripper that's something
that's really fun that's one of the
funny sensitive cost a lot of money
what is the iPod that makes even funnier
what what it what was the actual I don't
understand even though like what I guess
that she cheated on her husband like
what's the problem here well she had she
and she had a really good job was gonna
say it sounds like nothing but a
compliment I don't know I think she's
where the circle bite between saying
she's an old frail woman and as she
leave Murray I will say that Bordeaux
she's hormonal so it overrides for LT I
will say that you know III said at the
beginning of the year that that Biden
would collapse and I think I said it on
your show too I don't know if you could
officially say that Warren is the
front-runner now but I mean I would
perceive her as such and she really
hasn't she really hasn't taken any hits
in a while you know like everything
isn't him now everything's going in very
very swimmingly for her including
getting the Walter
mints which has been frankly a boon that
is the best honestly like I like it
would be a very very bold move to
actually hire Jacob Wall to do something
you can add more noise to mind any
signal but but yeah this type of stuff
helps big-time I would hire I would hire
Jacob wool but that's like hiring Banksy
to paint your apartment right how are
you saying it's just overkill yeah
that's very happy to do that you got to
see if he'll do it spontaneously oh well
he spontaneously makeup that Bernie was
involved in some type of orgy where
people are dressed in Isis costumes as a
yeah the money really ruins the whole
artistic process I think it looks like
Jack Burkman actually does Lobby still
which is mind-blowing yes is right first
God knows for what getting like actual
maybe maybe he's actually like promoting
maybe he's like supporting something
like goes strap on green that's the real
deal with green the green new deal huh
you know Jack Berman who really is the
perfect collaborator for this with this
like this is the hairy Jim Jarmusch
meets better call Saul look all right
let's let's dig into this there's a
couple of things that we should do here
is let's start with Trump calling on
China oh we had that that was
yesterday's right so yesterday Donald
Trump calls on China to investigate Joe
Biden and again this is that that
comment we mentioned this yesterday on
the show when Trump came out and said
called on zalenski to investigate Biden
calls on Qi to investigate Biden I think
is his way of saying I cannot cover this
up I've already called on him because it
was reported today that in fact there
was a call where Biden came up was G and
this is the way that I inoculate myself
from these charges it's not illegal I'm
saying it publicly really in many
respects like hey Russia if you're
listening get me those thirty thousand
but this is retro actively covering his
steps here is we got couple clips on
this Marco Rubio today responding to it
needling the press knowing that I don't
know that's a real request for him just
needling the press knowing that you guys
were going to get outraged by it he's
gotten he's pretty good at getting
everybody fired up and he's been doing
that for a while and the media responded
right on right on right on task I don't
think it's a real request the key on iti
think he did it to give you guys I think
he did it to provoke you to ask me and
others and get outraged by it guy said I
mean he plays it like a violin and every
falls right into that's not a real
request we know it was reported that
Trump brought this up in a call to G and
in June it's according to CNN Trump
raised Biden with G in June in a call
housed in the highly secure server now I
don't know why they're hiding that maybe
there was a lot of other things but it's
like gets by this yes to that question
as to whether you know like what it
would take for a certain sector of
Republicans to leave Trump I think to a
certain extent the idea that this trade
war is a function of get me Joe Biden
stuff well I'm just making I'll just pay
off my my farmers but here is Peter
Navarro he is Trump's trade policy
adviser on with Jim sciutto on CNN
NEWSROOM
and Jim sciutto and maybe I'm not
pronouncing his name right is hinting at
like what's the deal here like what's
the connection between this trade war
and Joe Biden and Donald Trump's
determination to get some goods on Joe
Biden he said it was an internal issue
and he encouraged he encouraged both
sides
so rain free so what's the point here
Jim I'm asking you are you disappointed
the president has never disappointed in
my disappointed in my president when you
heard the president yesterday call on
China to investigate an American you and
I have spoken multiple times about how
China breaks international law timeout
here interrogation here it's like I I
feel like I'm at like Adam Schiff is
sitting in front me and by the way I'm a
journalist I ask questions of Democrat
understand but but this is like an
interrogation right so it's an issue
here's the thing here's the thing we
this is witch-hunt part two okay
residents should investigate in America
finish you have told me many times that
China breaks international law is it
acceptable US president do I get a
chance to talk I've asked the question
so my point here is I've been in this
town now for three years we went through
which on part one for two and a half
years Adam Schiff sociopath
what do you refutable evidence of Russia
now she had your hectoring now we have
Adam Schiff saying that he doesn't know
the whistleblower and everything
president said I know that Adam Schiff
has become a talking point for
Republicans the President on the White
House American you talk to the president
about this well I'm telling you is that
this is a witch-hunt
that's hurting the American people we
have three point five percent
unemployment rate and peach that Peter
you and I have talked about how China is
a bad actor repeatedly and you and I we
agree on that would you would you grant
me the fact that this president is the
greatest president in history standing
at the China all right so there you have
it that guy wrote a book called death by
China in 2011 Navarro did yes they keep
trying to add a lot of credibility on
the China hating issue but I you know
this is the type of stuff where Trump is
like undercutting their own talking
points on this stuff and it becomes a
little bit
problem for him here is here's Trump now
trying to distance himself from and I
would imagine there's got to be some
somewhere there's got to be some
evidence of Donald Trump maybe they
maybe a bill bar as smarter than that
you only tell me what to do when I'm
sitting right in front of you and we've
already checked through a recording
devices but you recall the question that
comma Harris asked bill bar over the
summer in those hearings have you been
asked to investigate anybody and Bill
Barr was like asked well yes has it been
suggested suggested somebody I'm just
trying to figure out your question here
is uh Donald Trump denying that he ever
asked bar to investigate anybody I don't
know you that you'd have to ask
it is the Justice Department
investigating Joe Biden well that you'd
have to ask Attorney General bar but I
can tell you just as an observer what I
saw Biden do with his son he is
pillaging these countries and he's
hurting us how would they like to have
as an example Joe Biden negotiating the
China deal if he took it over from me
after the election he would give them
plate he would give them everything he
would give them everything how would you
like to have that Joe Biden would just
roll out the red carpet he'd give him
everything so again this doesn't pertain
to anything but corruption as that has
to do with me I don't care about
politics I don't care about anything but
I do care about corruption and to have
somebody take out a billion and a half
dollars out of China who's totally unfit
he's unfit to have him get a billion and
a half dollars to have him and now I'm
hearing the number of 50,000 a month now
I'm hearing the number of $50,000 a
month is very low it's a much higher
number that by the son was getting per
month in fact it's much higher
is a totally unqualified person if you
get hundreds of thousands a month is
very very yet so so again is the Justice
Department investigating that I just
don't know he's such a good communicator
it really is I don't mean that it's
unbelievable
yesterday he started out with like it
$50,000 and two other things and today
it's more than fifty thousand by the
time he was done it was hundreds of
thousands of dollars a month
um just pillaging at its path for us
it's bad sometimes you pillage it's good
for us other times you pillage it's I
like the idea how he's just an observer
nobody's like I have no I'm just
watching this a news junkie if I'm the
center for is he doesn't know if there's
an investigation he's just observing the
investigation I look I've been giving
money to transparency international deck
I mean I hired the best people and I'm
just an observer but I think there
should be me I mean on some level when I
see this type of stuff I start to think
they should impeach him that they should
just impeach him rat rather quickly or
have some type of rolling things or
something because the more they let it
hang out there the more time they're
giving them to sort of speed up their
plan to sort of build this this fake
narrative yeah do you think that's the
case no I mean that's necessarily what
they're gonna do they have to do that do
you think the Democrats should be quick
on impeachment or what do mean how quick
just introduce it tomorrow well I mean
as opposed to like let's get it wrapped
up before Christmas or let's bring this
thing into the spring yeah it is nearing
the end of the year I mean it's I don't
know how to do an impeachment Sam I've
never done one before I never never
never put one ticket well this the first
book you wrote and you yeah you did okay
with that I did but writing a book is
not the same as organizing an
impeachment well of course I mean as a
caterer I don't even I don't even know
who to call for something like that
Dubois your book party wasn't it just go
with what you've done you know that's
all I'm saying
I'm gonna run a Belle bar in Bushwick
basement
yeah what do you think yeah there should
be an open bar actually named cocktail
well I mean okay so what's what's the
alternate position that there should be
a methodical case building and with with
televised here how many different
articles of impeachment do you bring in
from different things emoluments and
these other issues well I mean
originally I thought that it should be
it should be wide-ranging you should
have multiple committees doing the
enquiries and but directed towards one
goal that's going to be a battery of
articles of impeachment that the whole
entire house votes on right now I mean I
don't know how Nancy Pelosi intends to
organize this process I know she said a
few days ago where this is just gonna be
about Ukraine which then I didn't really
agree with but after the latest round of
revelations I think that makes sense
just to have a kind of central Clare
concern is though you do that and you
know that passes the house and there's a
trial in the Senate and they don't
remove him and Trump says there you go
you see I was I was right nothing was
wrong you know I didn't do anything
wrong because you know I was acquitted
that would make it harder to get him on
either 300 other things probably right
like you can't you probably don't get
another shot right especially if he's
re-elected or something we're gonna have
a new impeachment hearings every month
on the 1st of the month we're gonna vote
by but that's also dangerous I guess
that just means oh he has carte blanche
to do whatever crimes that he wants and
he gets 46% of the popular vote and gets
reelected
and he's acquitted by the Senate so he
can literally do whatever he wants which
honestly that is the - that the de-facto
position right now that is really the
state of things it's really how you
resolve that dissonance between what
your conception of the rule of law is
your belief that you live in a country
where no one's above the law and the
obvious fact that yes there is someone
above the law
yeah yeah and if that I mean ideally you
resolve that dissonance by you know
going to political radicalism and
articulating a theory of change but I
fear that it will on governor bull if
you will yes but I fear that it's it's
form for many people especially like the
and people watch MSNBC it's just gonna
go in the other direction it's just
going to become anesthetize again and
neuroticism III just want some good
hearings where some people squirm I want
to see Rudy Kamiya we all want the
hearings and that's I think that it
would be helpful and cathartic and and
politically helpful but otherwise you
know okay if this is if this is it this
is all you need then you know wrap it up
in November yeah I go back and forth I'd
like to see what's going on with this
IRS whistleblower frankly that to me
seems pretty Sally is well I mean you
know you can't impeach him in October of
next year that's not gonna make any
sense no I think you gotta wrap this up
by basically going into into the summer
like you got to get this done by the
spring and people take a vacation for
the summer and come back in the fall and
you're talking about this guy you know
the Republicans kept this guy from being
held to account and I think maybe you
provide you you do various articles of
impeachment because to the extent that
these congressional races and senatorial
races are localized you can also have
your cake and eat it too in so far as
this nationalizes the election did you
vote to protect President Trump or not
and did you vote to protect him on this
particular article of impeachment as
opposed to that one in Minnesota you
know the idea that like you know maybe
you would enrich yourself by doing the
hotels sounds a lot worse than maybe
some other thing that might have more
salience in in an inn in Maine I don't
know why I think the you know you go
with the moments go with things like
that but as long as the the the evidence
is clear and the narrative is simple
because you're I I think people who even
tuned out of this whole process they're
still gonna intuitively understand what
bribery is what what a quid pro quo is
sacred
everything that's more ambiguous or just
talking about colluding with foreign
powers the everyone's tuned out for that
right yeah I agree
well listen we are I think just about
out of
time I'm not gonna I'm not gonna call
you go to calls and have people hang on
there and whatnot and Michael's got to
go he's got gonna fix his pipes
[Music]
yes Virgil thank you so much for your
time today thanks for having me it's
always a pleasure folks we will be back
on Monday wherein we will do another
show so have a good weekend bye bye bye
[Music]
no son
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
