[Music]
this is encouraging let's do one on a
good note here is a shot of Bernie
Sanders going out taking a walk in
Vermont one of his palacios palatial
abodes it's crushed the moat look at
that garage it almost looks like it's
electric look at that fancy other Ford
Fiesta is that is that a jacket for when
it's cold out that's fancy too
oh I see your uh Democratic Socialist
but you got no problem wearing a coat
uh-huh
and I say you got a lawn - whoa it's
sort of shocking to see like a you know
potential the president walking out of a
house like that that's one of the things
that I appreciated about Mike Dukakis
I think Dukakis his house was very
similar but no Bernie Moe you know
shovels the snow like Dukakis they can't
stop him
he's a cyborg now here we go it's
posthuman we will see Bernie in within a
week a week from today we will be doing
a live coverage of the democratic debate
all right here
