[Music]
we haven't spent too too much time on
the 2020 primaries I mean still heating
up obviously we're paying some attention
to it we have not said the words Beto
O'Rourke
in any meaningful way for weeks and it
has been strange I've never said that
word in a meaningful way though I just
want to be clear fair enough
and but Beto Rourke came out with a huge
splash he since lost some of his key
organisers Becky bond who a lot of
people I mean Becky bond has been on
this program both in regards to her
organizing during the Bernie campaign
and the book that she wrote with her
co-author as well as she was on this
program many times when she was working
at credo and both when they were
sponsoring us but just in terms of their
actions she's a big actress she left the
campaign not clear why really but you
know it's not hard to figure these
things out in some respects as to they
moving in different directions and
apparently the direction they were
moving in was down Bette O'Rourke is
dropping like a lead balloon which is
impressive to the extent that he wasn't
that high up anyways so there was no
ability for the lead to gain velocity as
it dropped right was like standing on a
table but you know metaphorical sense
now it was born to pole at seven percent
and do a lot of ridiculous that's the
point he was at go away and now he's
closer like three or two percent
expected plants fall you know part of it
is in this again like this is why I will
reiterate my prediction and it's it's
just uh it's just I mean part of it may
be aspirational that I think Joe Biden
in particular is not long for his his
high poll numbers her
this hi because Joe Biden has the
advantage that at Bay Toa Rourke does
not have in that he is a that people
think they know him or at the very least
they know his name and they know him as
the vice president and just like with
Beto O'Rourke as it became clear that
there was a certain lack of that his
rhetoric did not match up when it
started to talk about actual policies
and it's much more difficult in this
round it seems to me in this primary
then in past primaries to get by without
having fully developed in concrete and
and frankly appealing policies than it
has been in the past largely because
Elizabeth Warren has been coming out
with so many proposals largely because
Bernie Sanders is so specific with his
proposals it makes it much harder for
the other candidates to sort of ride
sort of broad themes and here is Bette
O'Rourke he had a CNN Town Hall last
night in Iowa he's asked the question by
a woman who has I think a ALS or ms/ms
MS and basically she's talking about how
expensive her drugs are and so beto you
know gives a fairly you know unspecific
you know fairly sort of like a a
sufficient answer from in the past which
is you've just told me about a problem
I'm going to reiterate the problem but
with different sets of facts which you
know all candidates do this all
candidates do this and that communicates
to you in the audience that I understand
the problem and for the most part every
campaign in the past has been to do that
part about it is like 75 to 80 to 90
percent of what is expected acknowledge
the problem
I as a citizen who you know has some
passing awareness of politics I mean I'm
not talking about me I'm talking your
average person I just want you to
acknowledge the problem and I will leave
it up to you to solve it and figure out
what the solution is but if you
acknowledge the problem to me
you've won 90% of my vote that's the way
it's worked in the past to a large
extent I think people are just getting
more savvy particularly in the context
of the primary where that's not enough
I mean I've mentioned in the past that
Barack Obama during in the run-up to
Iowa came out and said Social Security's
in crisis and he didn't offer any
specific policy later on before he
became president he was talking about
entitlement reform but the fact is
Social Security was not in crisis
however it was an acknowledgment to
older voters in Iowa that he understood
what was most important to them which
was protecting their Social Security and
the fact that he would notice that there
was a crisis even though there wasn't a
crisis made them feel like I don't know
if there's a crisis or not I believe
there's a crisis because I'm so worried
about getting my Social Security but the
fact that he's acknowledging it he's my
guy he's now in my trust circle as it
was a call it because he acknowledges my
experience which is anxiety about you
know getting that check every every
month and so Beto does that and then he
sits down and he thinks okay it's over
and because there has been so much
emphasis on policy Dana Bash asked a
question that in any other cycle I don't
think she would ask which is like why
your proposal which is Medicare for
America which it to be honest with you
like it's so narrowly tailored that it's
hard for me to see how it's really
fundamentally different from like just a
public option in the ACA which I think
it is maybe but it's it's a public
option that is really not even you can't
even compete with it you actually have
to be means-tested into it and you have
to it sounds like you have to be brought
it sounds like sort of like a Medicaid
option is it like what they did in New
York here I I mean it's I'm not sure how
it measures up to that but if you're
destitute enough we'll kick in Medicaid
I mean that's what it sounds like now
but you know I don't know the specifics
about the assets that you can have with
Medicaid you can have virtually no
assets I mean it did vary slightly this
make it more generous in terms of who
can access it maybe maybe that was the
expansion of Medicaid Obama care yeah
but it's not you know he calls it
Medicare for America because of course
that sounds like Medicare for all like
well I'm just in America so that works
for me don't you support I'm for a
Medicare for Singapore - exactly
all right but but so that's that's my
position in any other year that would be
sufficient but Dana Bash has to ask the
question because it it is the most
obvious question in the context of with
so many candidates coming out making an
issue of this and here this goes and it
doesn't I don't think it goes very well
for bat out because I his answer is just
not sufficient
here it is your plan or the plan that
you signed on to Medicare for America
why not Medicare for all
I think about Diane I think about Joey a
young man 27 years old that I met in
Laredo Texas he's been to a doctor once
in his life because he does not have
insurance and that doctor told him that
he had diabetes that he had glaucoma and
that he would be dead before the age of
40 because he's not getting any care
right now in this country Joey
Diane others they don't have time for us
to get to the perfect solution if we
were to start from scratch maybe we
would start with a single-payer but
we've got to work with the system that
we have here today the surest quickest
way to get there is Medicare for America
it guarantees every single person in
this country gets the care that they
need to live to their full potential and
do those things that they were placed on
this planet to perform in the first
place so that's why I support that plan
okay so if I understand his answer it's
Texas still hasn't expanded Medicaid so
Joey's Sol this kid this guy Joey aged
27 so it goes by Joey that's fine and
but it says zero in on the thinking that
maybe Beto's taking some liberties I
don't know I don't know let's just
assume let's just call you Joey
okay and when Jose maybe it's better if
we just call you Joey okay but anyways
Miguelito but you're Joey his answer is
we if if we if we attempt to get
Medicare for all I guess it's either it
will take too long because which
presumably only could mean like we won't
get it we won't get it at all because
the legislative process there's no
reason to believe that his Medicare for
America when we have already seen the
Republicans fight against Obamacare is
going to be any quicker it's not like
what he's talking about can be
instituted with any other
alacrity and if it's just about
expansion I mean if he's just if his
whole plan just relies on executive
action
why not just say I'm for Medicare for
all and in the meantime these are the
executive action steps I'm gonna take I
mean there is the answer falls apart
with the next question which is what do
you mean what do you mean I don't get it
you're are you saying that Medicare for
all can't pass and yours can with a
Republican Congress like what is it that
you're arguing and Dana Bash doesn't ask
that question but it's it doesn't matter
at this point for Beto because that is
clearly not sufficient all right this
stuff like Beto is not going to go from
3% in the polls to 40% the polls by
saying I know what the best thing is but
man I don't think we can do it so I've
got something that is subs subpar that
maybe we can get through I mean that is
his answer and that's not going to work
but the point is that's Joe Biden's
campaign except for Joe Biden has a
little bit more attitude like I'm sorry
forgive me Father and I'm not cool
enough to want to subscribe to the thing
that works I let me tell you what we're
gonna go for is something that maybe we
can get the Republicans to sign on to
even though they have signed on to
nothing even though the the guy who sits
atop the Senate right now has made it
his thirty year long project as a
lawmaker to wreak the havoc he is
wreaking now not only on the Senate but
on our country I mean it is a completely
in many respects when Joe Biden gets
asked that question his answer is going
to actually be worse than Beto
O'Rourke's I far prefer Joe Biden's
style though and I have to say like
there is something at least Joe Biden is
giving you like it's not gonna happen
versus like here's a whole bunch of
words and filler and idealism and
complete nonsense
and it's not gonna happen and we can
just let people continue why is possible
that there are a lot of people out there
who are gonna vote for Joe Biden because
they liked his style better and he
doesn't seem as namby-pamby I think it
is most uh comes down to style but I
have a feeling that in the context of a
primary and debates that that's just not
going to be sufficient now part of it is
also a function of like who he's on the
debate stage with because there's gonna
be two debates each time and it's quite
possible that Joe Biden may be in the
you know the the bateau Budaj
you know heat and isn't a you know
paired up with someone like Warren or
Sanders where the contrast will be that
start so this isn't they're not how are
they breaking this up for they breaking
those up by poll numbers there were none
no I think it's by lottery oh so he
could look if he's not up there with
Sanders are Warren he could luck the
hell out because if he's in there Budda
judging and reworking first of all he'll
look good relatively speaking as I think
compared to yeah the fake charisma bado
and Buddha judges ridiculous kind of
faux Wong Curry Biden will come off
better and no one will hold him
accountable
well corporatist to mm sad bader though
still into it sadder he gets well I want
to have him over to listen to Fugazi
records but you know I mean I know that
and I don't know quite what the when the
when you have to declare for Senate in
Texas little Marco was able to get out
of the Florida with it was able to run
in Florida even after his failed
presidential bid so maybe there's time
for Beto to get in and maybe he can
transfer that over but I mean honest is
do it do it come on you're wasting
everybody's time I mean run what
beginning what better
soaring rhetoric than to hold a press
conference and say when I look about how
I can serve this country the best it's
clear to me that even though I know I
was meant to run for president I'm going
to sacrifice
my myself destiny in run first it would
be like the Ted Cruz challenge era all
over again everyone would be like ya
betta we loves that man yeah all all
coverage will be positive here on out if
he runs for Senate there you go there's
our promise to you bat out
