[Music]
meanwhile Dan Crenshaw is being super
super emotional and whiny about the fact
that he attacked Ilan Omar and then
people push back on his attacks and
unprompted a member of the New York Fire
Department who was on the the pile as it
were in 911 had come to his office to
look for him to support the extension of
a first-responders fund because there's
still a lot of people who went down to
that pile to rescue people in the days
afterwards or to find remains who are
suffering from what they inhaled while
they were on that pile because we were
told by the EPA that it was safe turns
out it was it
so here's Dan Crenshaw saying that liked
the idea that people would attack me
it's so offensive but if you listen
carefully what he's saying to those fire
department is like you may be first
responders but I was the biggest
responder it's terrorists who killed him
was 3,000 Americans and we should talk
about it that way we should talk about
it with deference and and it was not
taken out of context by the way there's
a lot of claims that it was of course it
wasn't and I think everyone should just
look at the clip and decide for
themselves and I don't think it's not a
line to simply call that out and
criticize it posit fuzzy here is Ilan
Omar here's that actual clip she is
speaking to I think a care it is and she
is arguing that all Muslims in the
United States did not deserve to be
surveilled in the way that they were
particularly in the wake of 9/11 I mean
New York City had its own basically CIA
a guy from the CIA on leave came in to
build a version
the CIA that could do domestic spying in
New York City and they were traveling
all through New England and into New
Jersey setting up all sorts of
surveillance posts and whatnot
infiltrating things like Muslim youth
groups in colleges I mean it's it's
ridiculous to say but this is what was
going on at that time and so she is
arguing that we should all not be
painted with the same brush because some
people in our some subset of our group
did something on that day but this is
what she's being attacked for you're
gonna if you haven't heard the original
tape I think you're gonna be a little
bit surprised at how easily they've
created a narrative around this here was
founded after 9/11 because they
recognized that some people did
something and that all of us were
starting to lose access to our civil
liberties Oh
representative Omar had to do was really
I don't know explain herself to say
whatever she wants say she didn't mean
it I don't know defuse the situation
that don't double down alright don't
play the victim card don't start making
accusations of me I mean I posit posit
don't play the victim card
let's hear Dan Crenshaw ignore his own
advice within 30 seconds of giving it
that was uncalled for and this is this
is this is the height of partisanship
when we can't just come together and and
properly assume that we should not
diminish the acts of 9/11 by by seeing
things like some people did something
okay that's not what happened and we
should come together and take note of
that you know one of the most
disappointing things of this entire
controversy that I've seen is again
these members from New York Alexandra
Casa Cortez max Rose trying to deflect
the attention from Omar by attacking me
claiming that I'm not for 9/11 first
responders this is a really dishonest
attack I'm gonna tell you how I am for
9/11 victims and my eleven first
responders I'm the guy who went overseas
to make sure this never happen
again to take the fight to the enemy
that committed these attacks I would go
back and do it every day if I could so
to say that kind of attack again it's
that is the height of partisanship I'm
really disappointed in them for saying
that especially coming from you yeah I
bet you he's super super when when when
and this is what Dan Crenshaw he doesn't
want anybody to play the victim and he's
really disappointed that he's being
attacked first member of Congress ever
to describe terrorists who killed
thousands of Americans on 9/11 as some
people who did something unbelievable
he's retweeting a quack imam imam
muhammad to IDI who you might recognize
from the rubin report who calls care a
terrorist organization or established on
american soil and that's what you know
I'm really disappointed in that because
it really diminishes the actual
terrorist attack that happened on that
day and to say that I'm just
disappointed this is also a fun story
Texas Rep Dan crenshaw fighting for
fellow Navy SEAL being held on war
crimes charges basically wants to get
his pretrial detention a weekend that
the guy says Gallagher 29 or 39 is
facing premeditated murder and
aggravated assault charges stemming from
the alleged killing of the ISIS prisoner
and alleged instances of him
intentionally firing sniper rounds at
civilians well gotta practice
