so Donald Trump just had a press
conference
look I know people are don't want to see
this guy but he's the president United
States and there's gonna be a lot of I
think there's gonna be a lot of
craziness over the next couple months
there was a report in New York magazine
today that Donald Trump jr. has been
telling people that he thinks he's going
to be indicted I can tell you that I
have heard for a while from you know
third hand sources not enough to really
talk about on its own but I have heard
that that that is well that and so in
and certainly there's a lot of people
who speculated that you know because the
Donald Trump jr. is worth a few people
who have not been brought in who you
know by a Muller is my understanding
and yet he's all over the place so in
terms of possible relationships with
foreign entities if you will
this is Donald Trump at the press
conference following the loss of the
house mr. president if I may have a
question are you worried that's enough
that's enough that's enough
pardon me ma'am miss me that's enough
this president I had one of these I may
ask on on the Russia investigation are
you concerned that that you may have not
concerned about anything with you may
not write an investigation because it's
a hoax are you that's enough put down
the mic mr. president are you worried
about indictments coming down in this
investigation yes I am because I'm
having an anxiety attack oppressor I
tell what CNN should be ashamed of
itself having you working for them you
are a rude terrible person you shouldn't
be working for CNN go ahead
oh I think that's not you're a very rude
person the way you treat Sarah Huckabee
is horrible and the way you treat other
people are horrible you shouldn't treat
people that way go ahead in go ahead
Peter go
in Jim's defense I've traveled with him
and watched him he's a diligent reporter
I'm not a big fan of yours either so I
ask you a question if I can you
repeatedly part you are the best
mr. president you repeatedly over the
course you just sit down please
well when you when you report fake news
no when you report fake news which CNN
does a lot you are the enemy of the
people go ahead mr. president over the
course over the course of the last
several days of the campaign sir sir at
the end of the campaign you repeatedly
said that Americans need to fear
Democrats you said Democrats would
unleash await his anxiety attacks are
hilarious
raise aiya tea I love it started pacing
yeah no he's he's super anxious the prot
well problem is he doesn't have an
answer for it he doesn't have an answer
for this question and it's because he's
super nervous about it that he cannot
come up with I mean right like in the
White House they should be sitting down
and saying when you get a question about
Russian indictments you say look it's a
hoax you know allow it from it's a hoax
you can keep asking me these questions
about the hoax but all you're doing is
you're wasting the American people's
time I mean I can answer this question
sufficiently and but what Trump can't
handle it well frankly I'm not a big fan
of yours either Samantha there you go I
mean what I do appreciate about this is
to see some measure I don't want to
overstate this but some measure of
solidarity amongst the press corps where
they will all basically say like you
can't pit us against each other now
frankly I'm not found a whole lot of
them anyways but at the very least if
they're basically saying we're not going
to allow you to use to play us off each
other so that you can avoid a question
that would be a very good practice to
begin all right now
now a lot of cuck energy in that room
now Trump has to deal with the the
Muller investigation it's unclear they
must have some strategy at this point
and it's unclear what it's gonna be I
think we're gonna get a better notion in
the next couple of days maybe they think
he doesn't have anything maybe maybe he
thinks that it's a trump jr. is going to
pay the price and he's gonna be able to
pardon him or something like that but
here is Donald Trump asking being asked
what what are you gonna do about Muller
because folks it's Muller time mr.
president going back to the Russia
investigation and potential
investigations from the now
democratically democratic majority and
Congress some say that you could stop
all this by Dukakis I could fire
everybody right now but I don't want to
stop it because politically I don't like
stopping it it's a disgrace it should
have never been started because there
was no crime it is everybody has
conflicts they all have conflicts over
there that are beyond anything that
anybody's ever seen in terms of
conflicts from the fact that people ask
for jobs from the fact that they have
very good friends on the other side like
really good friends like Comey by the
way lied and leaked and also leaked
classified information nothing happened
there it might perhaps maybe something's
happening that I don't know about I stay
away from it but you know what I do I
let it just go on there wasting a lot of
money but I let it go on because I don't
want to do that but you're right I could
end it right now I could say that
investigation is over but it's it's
really it's a disgrace frankly and it's
an embarrassment to our country it's an
embarrassment to the people of our
country and it's too bad going what
about the declassification of the
documents some say that that would clear
that no we're looking at that very
seriously mm-hmm
very serious very serious time is that
still about the Comey memo call me is a
terrible guy I can't tell what they're
looking to declassify in that instance I
think it could be documents they came
could be olivella gence committees we
could declassify could be update look
there's gonna be there's a big
difference now because you're not going
to have Devin Nunez running interference
and you're going to have the Democrats
in the house have control over these
documents and access to these documents
and the ability to perhaps and of course
stop harassing the FBI and have the
ability to perhaps coordinate with
Muller's investigation where do you not
want us to go where do you need what do
you need to be pristine I could file all
of them they could be fired everybody in
Congress can be fired you're a terrible
person did you never tell Sarah Huckabee
she looks bad so rude people have no
civility this Sarah how come I could
fire the perfect tell right like you're
not being mean to me I don't I don't
care I can defend myself enmity yeah
when you go have to Sarah Huckabee who
is you know that's before I remember yes
Wow anybody could pick on a three you
haven't grown out of that Oh pathetic
