[Music]
all right speaking of real Ivanka
Trump does she have a Hillary Clinton
problem I thought having insecured
emails I thought in email informal was
the was well I mean equivalent to I
don't know doing something like having a
journalist going an embassy and cut him
apart alive I thought this was a big
 deal
I guess when Ivanka does it is not such
a big deal unless you're her and it's
all part of a broader process personal
growth I had ever been criticized
publicly until politics entered my life
and a lot of the things I used to be
praised for were somehow weaponized
against me that's actually have
experienced on a personal level this
tremendous growth in my own sense of
self and seeing more brightly my own
compass and signal and I'm so much less
motivated by ameliorating the critics
and I think I ever would have been Wow
let me just say first off group meets
fascism yes second of all there was a
lot of idiots who used to say like she's
friends with Chelsea Clinton tried a big
trumpeter and third maybe her and her
dad would make a good couple I see it
there's a lot of similarities there
I am I I'm a person who's very
stridently likes to you know be a white
knight for women who have vocal fry' cuz
I think vocal fry is just something we
need to get used to and and it's
something that people don't point out
when men have it so I think if you know
is I'd like to slay her a little fry I
think you need to look at like and and
really entertain the idea that you have
some sort of underlying misogyny that
you're not addressing however okay yes
what is going on with the voice of
Ivanka it's not I think she has a is a
plastic surgery
that have affected her no I was no I I
just okay if that's not I mean she has a
thing going on in the sense of being a
dissociative sociopath well nothing
we're talking about so she sounds a bit
extra horse so maybe she's under the
weather or something like that but she's
she's putting a lot of energy into
personal growth and not ameliorating her
critics I will also say this and this is
probably also gonna get me in a little
bit of trouble she has the same cadence
as Chelsea Clinton when she says these
sort of complete broads like bow like
banal like narcissus yes exactly like
the like like very a privileged person
loving the way that they talk and it and
like I think the other the Trump boys
get in this self too but it's especially
it she's know that she's less odious I
think they're all as odious but she's
not as dumb as they are I don't know
wanted to go say she's smart I would say
more tests yes there you go the low bar
I was gonna stay I mean they're talking
B - and F - here you don't have to be
that smart to do what these people are
doing which is part of what we don't
maddening about it but like her brand
has been basically destroyed by her
dad's political career so you know it's
all pretty bad but silver linings folks
