so Ken you are you were one of the few
reporters frankly and certainly one of
the few national reporters who was on
top of this story from the get-go and
you to some extent watched it go from a
beginning middle to end it is a it is a
bizarre story about a 20 year old US
Marine who abandoned his base at one
point with heavy weapons what I start at
the beginning like what when did we
first hear a report of this guy gone
missing well unfortunately the character
of the reporting was almost uniformly
you know this very different kind of oh
this you know poor soldier who wants to
keep us safe has lost please try to help
him so he can be reunited with his
family we don't know exactly what
happened and there wasn't didn't seem to
be much skepticism about you know what
what may have happened why the military
wasn't telling anyone about it and so
that was sort of the backdrop that that
I started looking into this and where no
wait tell me like where where is this
located whom who we talking about here
okay so this guy's name is Joe Wallace
he's a Marine Corps Lance Corporal he
was um he was stationed at Camp
Pendleton in California he had gone on
leave for a few days and he was supposed
to return on the 18th of September I
believe and he didn't appear on that day
of course in the military that's a you
know a serious infraction and not show
up after a certain amount of time
elapses that becomes um desertion which
is a very serious and so ok so we're
talking about he goes on leave for how
many days is it supposedly so he's
supposed to come back the 18th of
September when did he leave for leave so
he went to Arizona and stayed with I
believe his family for I think it was it
was just a few days maybe four days or
so and then when he was supposed to
return not only did he not return he
disappeared and then they ended up
actually getting a picture from a CBP
must have been the
some kind of border border patrol unit
spotted his vehicle with the license
plate of at the border and so that was
in that if you look at a map it to me
they saw it they found that when the
opposite direction of what Pendleton
which is in California ended up going I
believe it was I believe they saw at the
border of Texas the Texas Mexico border
okay so so he's he's spending some time
with some family he's supposed to go
back to California September eighteenth
rolls around he's not there people are
concerned that maybe he's had some type
of what some type of episode or that
he's bumped his head and this is one of
those amnesia cases but his truck is it
or his car is located or at least seen
by Customs and Border Patrol down
towards Texas which is the opposite
direction from Pendleton so when was
that um that this all happened in a
pretty short span of time I believe they
saw him there I'm looking at the
document now they saw him there on the
let's see year 17th of September okay
and so so then what happens so I you
this story is there's a missing 20 year
old marine he's probably confused or
disoriented or something like this right
right and so um unfortunately you know
federal law enforcement and the Defense
Department are very vague on details
they just say you know that they're
looking into it the family starts a you
know Facebook page and kind of social
media of course that the media helps to
a great extent which I don't blame the
family I can understand you know them
them just wanting it back into their
priorities but you know the media
interpreting this and then no sort of
attempt to kind of suss out from either
the military or law enforcement with you
know what may have happened and so you
know public is just largely in the
darkest as to why this person's missing
until until I got the document okay so
they don't so so none of the officials
say anything that will
cause any alarm other than this guy
could be out there and could be you know
the implication is he could be a danger
to himself I mean we hear about this you
know from time to time I would imagine
everybody does in their community
someone's gone missing a young person's
gone missing we don't know where they
are hopefully nothing has happened to
him and so at this point is this one you
notice this story yes I was um a little
upset at the nature of the coverage um
because it was mostly just quoting you
know the mother saying you know how
innocuous this person was and how you
know we should we should help to get him
back which of course you know I do want
it back I don't want to get hurt but it
struck me as a little tone deaf and to
just go off of what the parents are
saying because if I don't hold it
against the parents that they're gonna
want to see the person air channel but
that doesn't maybe seem the most
objective source of information for so
so what may happen you know and
generally in stories like this you can
you know a lot of people of sources in
the Marines that he would have served
with or in law enforcement they could
have I think pretty quickly found out
what the context was but that never came
out so all right so Ken so let me
understand this
and and just be careful when you're
talking into whatever device you're
talking into just people so so you're
you're you just you just happen to see
this article it strikes you as like hey
wait a second this is weird
they've done this report on this marine
did the article say that he was missing
with weapons yes so according to a
situation report produced by the FBI and
disseminated to federal law enforcement
partners it said that he had disappeared
with a CR automatic rifle a
semi-automatic shotgun and 14 rifle on a
59 and in addition to that that prior to
his disappearance he had claimed that
these invoices appointing from the
report here indicated that he wanted to
get rid of child traffickers at the
border and then there was also report
that he had at least one gun a new
perfect that yet
one governance vehicle i'ma coordinate
importantly so Kent so to be clear you
see this report and in this original
story you see it says this guy's gone
missing he's got some heavy weaponry
Oh also he was hearing voices and he was
talking about child trafficking yeah and
there's no there's no alarm bells that
are being rung by anybody it's just like
you know typical guy missing with heavy
weaponry from the Marines and is talking
about child trafficking yeah I mean for
me I would say that's a big problem we
should be there should be some real this
should not be just like you know let's
put his picture on the back of a milk
thing let's let's find this guy
yeah I agree and I should stress that
the mill that the FBI also thought that
too because in the report they described
they say that he quote may pose a threat
of violence towards law enforcement or
civilians in the actual headline of the
report itself is quote possible threat
to law enforcement or civilians from you
US per the tense for us person joke
Wallace as of September 2019 so
unfortunately the possible threat they
say both to law enforcement accidents
only the law enforcement decided that
ended up hearing hearing that
unfortunate civilians didn't hear that
so wait a second so this is a report
this report that you're referring to
this is not what was written up in the
newspaper this is a this is a report
that you got ahold of that's right it
was leaked to me from I have to be fake
to protect sources but it was from a
federal official that you know had
direct knowledge of what was going on
and were you looking for this report I
mean how did this official end up
leaking it to you did you say it on
Twitter that you're looking for into
this or does anybody know about this or
were you noodling around I'm fairly
well-connected in the sort of law
enforcement world and so I don't know
you know everyone by any means but once
you start to know a certain critical
mass of people then they will I probably
know enough people that they know people
all over the place
and have a lot of insight if I ask
somebody they can they can find someone
that that that notes about whatever the
issue is there was a news report about a
20 year old marine who had not returned
back to Camp Pendleton after an R&R time
with his family the family was worried
about him the mother was basically the
only source for this article you saw
that it seemed weird to you he did some
sniffing around he got ahold of this
report who issued this report that that
and just be specific as to what it said
so this came from the FBI's Phoenix
division and as I mentioned a moment ago
this was it's called a situation
information report it's supposed to
notify people of in the FBI of you know
just it's supposed to alert them to
situations that they that they should
respond to you know promptly and it's
really a warning to law enforcement
about the threat that this guy poses and
as I mentioned before they also know
that it poses a threat to civilians as
well but unfortunately civilians didn't
hear about it and the report is
extremely detailed and it's based
according to it on two separate sources
so this wasn't just one person calling
in who may be headed for events it says
source a described them as a Collin to
this agency and that source be a contact
who is reporting for the first time they
sort of convey the you know details of
the disappearance and then there's also
a bit of a narrative at the end of it
where they say what Wallace has given
away or abandoned several available
personal items recently he has also
cleared all personal belongings from his
room at Camp Pendleton prior to
departing for surprise that's where
that's the town in Arizona that his
family lives and then saying Wallace
indicated he has been dissatisfied with
his life in the Marine Corps and had
mentioned on multiple occasions his
desire to travel to Mexico to quote take
out cartel members and traffickers any
quote so there's this basically secret
report at least the public can't see it
that there may be a marine who is
heavily armed who is going out to do to
engage
some type of vigilante justice that
involves the border and this is all
happening within you know in the wake of
what took place in El Paso and so is
there a protocol to warn the public like
hey you know that little that that
cuddly piece you saw in the newspaper
well the story's a little bit darker
than that and they may be very dangerous
like did the public have any sense that
this guy could be dangerous
was there any sense that the law
enforcement was seeking the public's
help in trying to find this guy or was
it just like we're just gonna let it lie
and see where the chips fall well the
family was certainly seeking the
public's help and again I don't
necessarily hold him against that I'm
sure it's a difficult situation if
something like this happens to a child
but the you know federal agencies at no
point disputed that or warned the public
you know be careful don't necessarily go
up to this guy they you know they never
they never said anything disputing
what's being said now as to protocol
obviously for ongoing investigations or
certain operational things that tend to
have to be withheld but what was
surprising to me about this is that I do
think that that notifying the public
could have you know helps people to you
know maybe not go up to this guy all the
shoulder and say hey we've got a we've
got to get you in touch with there was
someone at the debaser
or whatever so and actually the source
that provided me this my quote I put
them in my article so that their motives
for providing this was that they were
shocked in outrage that the FBI refused
to notify the public about the potential
threat Oh soon so what is I mean is this
indicative of a bigger problem I mean in
other words are like there multiple of
these things happening all the time that
we just don't have hear about because
you didn't just happen to come along by
it and get a little suspicious I I'm
afraid so because um you know I have to
speculate a little bit but I imagine
that
I mean I know for a fact that federal
agencies tend to try to help each other
and this would be a very embarrassing
case for the Marines I wouldn't be at
all surprised if they had just hoped
that they could resolve this case and
and kind of hope that no one poked
around and find out exactly what the
context was because actually one on this
individuals social media because I
didn't know if it was just a sort of
straightforward case of you know mental
illness or if there was a political
component to it there's when he
according to the report says take out
cartel members and traffickers that
could be you know lethal isms for I mean
how do you know who a cartel member just
right you know person at the border and
you know be paranoid and think that
they're someone else so I started
looking at this person social media and
I quickly found this picture of opposing
in front of Trump Tower there's a bunch
of picture of him posing with different
automatic weapons and then I want Ana's
Twitter account and he follows president
Trump Trump's son some all right account
that seems to be talking about birth
rates in the West declining and how
that's problem and I'm not tricking
either if you look at the account he
only followed something like 14
different accounts and it was not there
was no you know sort of diversity in
terms of what he was following it all
seemed to be right-wing kind of kind of
trumpian politics if you will so all of
that seemed to suggest to me that there
was a political component to it and if
that's the case and you know if the
source is referenced in the FBI report
were Marines we served with then I could
see why the military wouldn't want this
to come out because they may have had
some sort of for knowledge about this
personal state of mind and that that of
course creates problems for that Wow
okay so we got two minutes left what
what happens next I mean what how did
this resolve and ordinate good I'm sorry
unfortunately hands up being apprehended
in that Texas without incident and he
sent back to Brig which if you know you
know the military that I've spoken to
you know several people that I know in
the defense world active and former and
they'll say that you know this means
that it
pretty likely that he's going to be
discharged from the in you know you
don't get sent to the gray get less it's
a very serious kind of saying but
unfortunately the Naval Criminal
Investigative Service who took point on
this that's sort of the DoD's
investigative arm they still have that
said what you know the sort of
circumstances surrounding why he's been
sent to the brig why he was arrested
instead of just escorted back to base or
whatever so they have yet to go on
record about any of this fortunately
other Reporter has been you know
speaking of the reporters who are
shortly going to verify my report from
their own sources so I hope that that
gets us out and then sort of triggers a
discussion about you know these agencies
should probably notify the public in
certain cases well that's the big story
here is that we don't know how many
these incidents happen on any given day
week month right we don't know if this
is a a larger problem both in terms of
what it could have represented in terms
of like political violence or if it's a
larger problem in terms of what it
represents in terms of the sort of
controls that the military has or the
federal agencies exhibit when warning us
about a potential threat here folks can
can follow you on Twitter and check out
TYT for a follow up on this story which
I imagine you'll be doing in terms of
the overall policy can clip assigned the
fascinating work congratulations to you
because I think important story that
hopefully will command more attention
