so first off Heather let me say Happy
New Year
we were not around last week and so
we're still catching up a little bit but
this week we are right back at it of
course the government is shut down
basically where we left it at the end of
2018 by now let's see we are just a day
or two away from when government workers
would otherwise be getting their checks
and they will not be getting those
checks as of this time and this is
because Donald Trump wants 5.6 billion
dollars to build a wall or a some type
of edifice that is made out of steel as
opposed to concrete because apparently
Democrats don't like concrete
even though concrete's cheaper but steel
is better and it's going to be slatted
and it's going to be beautiful and but
nobody wants this for a myriad of
reasons and this week we saw Donald
Trump address the country and really say
nothing and then watch Nancy Pelosi and
Chuck Schumer follow him not saying to
too much more frankly but but give me
your sense of of this fight
well happy New Year to you too first and
you know welcome to our new reality here
with the Democrats in charge of the
house and Trump you know having a
shutdown which I just want to mention
going in he has said from the time he
took office that he thinks shutdowns
work for him that he thinks is a
politically excellent sort of strategy
for him I think he thinks he's such a
dominant you know alpha male that he's
just going to eventually wear down a
role over the opposition and he will get
what he wants
oh yeah I you know I think that's a
fallacy I also think it's just simply
something that he believes because he
really has no clue and no understanding
of deal right I mean you know whatever
he thought was a was deal-making never
was and certainly
isn't in the context of you know top you
know very high you know stakes
government negotiations anyway I don't
think Trump right not to be fair about
the negotiations we just add that his
father is no longer with us and so he
can't come in and be the guarantor for
any type of deal which was the way the
Donald Trump got his start but go ahead
exactly and then later he had some
Russian helpers they are around but they
can't really help him on this right
gentlemen gotta lay low right now we'll
talk about that more later in the
program but guys I'm not a good time for
them to really you know kind of stick
their heads up but in any case you know
just he doesn't understand this and and
I think ultimately I but Trump was in a
mistake to think he wants the wall what
he wants is to make sure that Ann
Coulter and Rush Limbaugh aren't mad at
him because before the before this you
know whole shutdown happened
Trump was giving every indication that
he was willing to go along with Mitch
McConnell's plan which was to reopen the
government and you know for a year and
to simply do a continuing resolution in
the February on the DHS budget which is
the source of this particular argument
he was willing to do that and you know
he wanted to fight this out and whatever
and you know but he wasn't really going
to go to the mat it was pretty clear
that this was going to be something else
it would probably be kicked down the
road Rush Limbaugh and Ann Coulter had a
fit and I'm using them as sort of
symbols but they were specifically did
have a fit but there were plenty of
others in their corner and he got scared
and he even called up Rush Limbaugh and
say hey you know don't worry yeah I mean
I'm gonna do it and he backed off and
this is the same thing that happened the
last time they tried to do this deal
when he and and Pelosi and Schumer got
together they ant with Lindsey Graham
and a whole bunch of Republicans and
they put together a deal at that time
for 25 billion for the wall in exchange
for the legalization of the daka kids
and he backed off a get on that one as
well when the right-wing I think in this
case led by Stephen Miller and some of
the freedom caucus guys in the house
came up to the White House and said what
are you doing he backed off on that so
you know it's not area indication to me
that the wall itself is you know
something that's become assembled to him
or his Lindsay Graham put it is a
metaphor for him you know do we but you
know doing something followers what they
what they demand you know that he's
there to deliver on this big campaign
promise which by the way we should
mention well has revealed to have been
sort of a what do they call it I mean
modern device it was it was a mnemonic
device put together by Sam Nunn Berg
that crazy guy and the other crazy guy
Roger stone when Trump first started
running in order that he wouldn't forget
to talk about immigration which was a
subject he really had very little you
know association with up to that point I
mean he always cared about foreigners
but it was a trade thing it didn't have
to do with this specific thing but they
Sam Nunn Berg and Roger stone knew that
this was sort of you know this was a
hard right obsession and they gave it to
Trump to use and of course he did to
great effect but the wall then became a
big crowd-pleaser and he could say you
know hey you know what what about the
wall yeah you know Mitch Greene who's
going to pay for Mexico and that became
a thing for him not because of any real
you know genuine commitment well look
we're talking about Trump he he doesn't
understand anything but it it was never
something that he specifically you know
it sort of studied up on or been
convinced was a great way to deal with
the immigration issue or anything and we
just the kind of a campaign slogan that
they use so here we are now with the
government shutdown in what is about to
become the longest government shutdown
in American history and things are
really starting to fall apart
and Trump is now you know I think that
the speech he gave this week was left to
try and convince his people he told the
reporters he had some reporters up to
the White House I guess they were
network anchors or whatever to talk
about it off the record and apparently
what he told them was that he didn't
think this was really going to work
either and he thought the border
visiting the border wall was kind of a
stupid thing but that his communications
people had convinced him to do it and
I think they actually he was actually
convinced to do it because they've got
wavering Republicans for the first time
in his in his administration Republicans
are starting to go whoa and that's
because this thing is dragging on so
long with no real well and we should be
way out we should be explicit about what
where that weakness is coming from in
terms of the Republicans right like
farmers are not getting loans they're
not going to be getting their payments
from slush funds for the makeup of the
TAF so you've got like Kansas and Iowa
people like Joni Ernst and in Colorado
you got Cory Gardner you got Susan
Collins of course it doesn't want to be
in this situation
Shelly capito in West Virginia because
people are starting to look it's
starting to look at their their food
stamps is gonna be a problem alright
well let's take a break because I want
to add one more player into the mix
whose name has not come up really yeah
but only in passing and who to me seems
to be the linchpin of this and has been
virtually out of the news for the entire
week and that's Mitch McConnell and
Mitch McConnell is a player in this
although he seems to basically his place
seems to be duck-and-cover we've got to
take a quick break we'll be right back
with Digby we're talking about the
shutdown and of course we will
necessarily have to talk about the
question of immigration as well
I'm Sam cedar there to ring a fire radio
we'll be right back
