[Music]
[Music]
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the
and in the conference rooms of any ELISA
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Thursday April 11 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live not steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America but instead
from some Ballroom in the Wynn Hotel in
Las Vegas Nevada for the 2019 mass torts
conference spring version on the program
today Julian Assange arrested us to seek
extradition and Bill Bar goes full
Breitbart meanwhile Sudanese dictator
Omar al-bashir al stood after peaceful
protests is his next stop The Hague
there's a new brexit deadline regs end
line kn'l exit deluxe it is October 31st
scary starting to get the feeling that
nobody wants to do that meanwhile
Treasury blows off democratic deadline
for Trump's taxes speaking of taxes
Republican tax bill works twice as many
major corporations will pay no taxes
this year lastly a New York nurse's New
York City nurses threatened a strike and
win big concessions all this and more
on today's program
ladies and gentlemen so I am in Las
Vegas for the the biannual mass torts
conference we're going to be talking to
attorneys who are working on consumer
cases we're going to be talking to
attorneys who are working broadly
speaking in this space and about what
the Trump administration is doing
largely through the executive order but
also through executive agencies to close
the doors of the courthouses to citizens
narrow their opportunity to get any type
of redress from corporations and also
head off the attempts of of trial
lawyers to function as a second-order
regulatory scheme I guess for the the
private market so we're gonna be talking
to all those folks we're also going to
be talking to some advocates for for
children and for for people who have
been trafficked and sexually abused and
they're going to be part of what we're
going to be talking about is why they
would be here as they're working a
two-track type of situation with
legislation that's going on in states
the states we're going to talk to a
couple of folks about that in a bit I'm
breaking the format that we normally
have here for the most part because of
the just extraordinary amount of news
that's just broken in the past like
literally three hours and we're going to
talk more about this later in the
program but Julian Assange was kicked
out of the Ecuadorian Embassy in in the
UK he was then taken into custody he was
then very quickly tried and found guilty
of
skipping bail in Great Britain and I
think that carries a 12-month sentence
if I'm not mistaken in the meantime it
was announced that the US will be
extraditing or at least having a hearing
to extradite Assange in about a month
maybe it's May 15th and to be clear the
only thing that we know that they are
the grounds in which they are seeking to
extradite him is based on a I'm not sure
when the indictment actually happened
but it was the 2010 actions and his
involvement in the leaks that chelsea
manning essentially provided to
wikileaks if you will recall those leaks
included footage of us helicopters I
believe firing on Iraqi civilians right
in addition it was a massive trove of
Defense and Secretary of the Department
of State cables from around the world
and I distinctly remember this because
this we've got a lot of debate at the
time and I was was doing a lot of MSNBC
at the time frankly and the mainstream
conventional wisdom was there was
nothing that Chelsea Manning provided
via WikiLeaks that had any import to the
American public or to any country's
public and then literally every single
day for the next two years there was at
least one story based upon written by
the press based upon those leaks so it
was worth newsworthy enough that and
this is not an exaggeration
almost every
golde a there was a story that came out
of it some of it was in the United
States some of it was around the world
and there was no indication that any US
interests were in any way inhibited or
infringed upon by these leaks there was
some I guess diplomatic embarrassments
that took place yet as you know Chelsea
Manning went to prison her sentence was
commuted to some extent after frankly
she was treated horribly in prison
she was try yeah bye-bye President Obama
she is now my understanding in jail now
for refusing to testify in the grand
jury to the grand jury that I presume I
presume is the grand jury that had at
least this indictment now I've heard you
know I when I'm in Vegas obviously three
hours behind on East Coast I got to get
up early get here have my complete
meltdown about the technical issues that
I anticipate setting up and then I so
I've only had limited time to read into
this the reports I'm hearing on
television anyways say that the
indictment involves Julian Assange
helping Chelsea Manning then Bradley
Manning crack some type of DoD
encryption so that Chelsea Manning could
get this material so far however from
what I've seen of the indictment and and
I will concede I have not seen much but
there is a couple of elements of the
indictment that are highly problematic
my and putting aside what people think
about Julian Assange as an individual or
the functioning of WikiLeaks in the
election people really need to to
compartmentalize these things because
this is when really bad precedence gets
set if you are not careful and can't
separate the person and other activities
they may have been involved with with
the specific activities that they're
being prosecuted for right I mean Donald
Trump I would love to uh to see him in
shackles but not for something that
would you know not for the expansion of
Social Security let's say and so one of
the things or at least two of the things
in the indictment number 19 and 20 of
the indictment it was part of the
conspiracy
and and to be clear here the signs of
manners and means of the conspiracy this
is page five of the indictment just so
people know where Your Honor it was part
of the conspiracy that Assange and
Manning took measures to conceal Manning
as the source of the disclosure of
classified records to WikiLeaks
including by removing user names from
the disclosed information into leading
chat logs between Assange and Manning
there is not a single reporter in the
country at any outlet anywhere that who
gets leaks from government officials who
would not have done that and has not
done that that's their obligation to do
that you'll recall that the intercept
failed to fully protect reality winner
when she leaked the information that
Russia had attempted to interfere in the
elections the 2016 elections and she's
not in prison for it and the intercept
attempted to do as much as they could
and didn't go
far enough 20 it was part of the
conspiracy that Assange encouraged manic
to provide information and records from
the departments and agencies of the
United States undoubtedly Chelsea
Manning approaches WikiLeaks
has some information and Assange says
yeah get me more which is also what
every single reporter who has a source
for for leaks
does so these are very dangerous
lastly 21 it was part of the conspiracy
that Assange and Manning used a special
folder on a cloud Dropbox of WikiLeaks
to transmit classified records
containing information to the National
Defense of the United States these
elements of the indictment are highly
problematic and it is crucial for people
that doesn't mean that there aren't
elements of the indictments that may be
legit but it is crucial for people to to
speak out against this because there are
20 whistleblowers or we don't know maybe
40 who have gone to the democratic
committees right now there may be some
who are going to reporters who are
blowing the whistle on things that the
Trump administration is doing and every
single one of those reporters have an
obligation to protect their source and
are doing exactly those three things
that we just can I just read from can I
add just really quickly I mean that
that's to me that's you know that's at
least 90% of the story and why we need
to object to this a hundred percent
regardless of what you think of Assange
and I do want to say the twenty fifth on
acts of furtherance of the conspiracy
where this is more about the specific
you know password claim and I'll just
read 25th on about on or about March
10th 2010 Assange requested more
information from manning related to the
password okay that sounds at least more
in line with what they're claiming and
then he indicated that he'd been trying
no an indicated means but has has had no
luck so far so like the most explosive
thing that they're putting forth while
obscuring the really dangerous substance
doesn't appear to have any real weight
to it at least from the indictment and I
just want to add briefly to like I'm
very comfortable with like WikiLeaks of
2010 and 2011 are very different in 2006
right and even if you go like I was just
doing stories on Haiti recently and I
had forgotten that like WikiLeaks was
enormous ly helpful in exposing State
Department you know a sweatshop lobbying
in Haiti I mean this was a resource
against US civilian casualties and all
sorts of corruption across the globe and
we really need to remember the value
that they did provide and also what this
reflects and I'll say it later about
what's happening in Ecuador as well so I
this is a big problem regardless of what
you think that Assange all right and we
will talk more about this as the show
progresses I just want to remind you
this episode of the majority report
being supported in part by simple habit
it's a mobile app that provides massive
in a diverse a library of five-minute
guided meditations majority report
audience can try simple habits totally
for free for an entire week when you go
to simple habit comm slash majority
simple habit has over 2000 guided
meditations specifically designed for
different parts of your day just about
anything you might be dealing with in
life they have guided meditations for
mindfulness meditation for anxiety
depression or when you're having trouble
falling asleep and raise meditations
when you're wanting to overcome
procrastination or when you have
something important going on at work
meditations designed for parents
fortunately none for blackjack or at
least none that I have found so far they
have meditations made specifically for
when you're waking up or your lunch
break or when you've just gotten home
from work when you're going to bed
different people are trying to attempt
to do different things with meditation
and simple habit is able to cater to
just about anyone regardless of their
goals with meditation or how much past
experience they have with meditation the
variety of guided meditations on simple
habit is what sets it apart
they won the
20:18 Google Play award for best
well-being app it's available on iOS and
Android and as a as a web-based service
maggiore report audience could try for
free free for a week by going to simple
habit coms last majority if you're
watching on youtube or you're listening
the podcast we will put it in the show
descriptions simple habit dot-com /
majority also just a reminder maybe
you've had a long day at work a tough
day at school you're still stuck in the
office you can treat yourself to the
meal you deserve it's on demand from
your favorite restaurant restaurants
come to you with door - door - connects
you to all of your favorite restaurants
in the city just use the door - app to
choose what you want to eat and your
Dasher will bring it right to you
wherever you are the over three hundred
and ten thousand other amazing
restaurants and over 3,300 cities across
the u.s. and Canada door - lets you
order from your local go twos as well as
your favorite chains like Chipotle or
Wendy's or chick-fil-a and the
Cheesecake Factory let dinner come to
you with door - right now our listeners
can get five bucks off their first order
when you download the door - app and
enter promo code majority report that's
five bucks off your first order when you
download the door - app from the App
Store and enter promo code majority
report again that's promo code majority
report for five bucks off your first
order from door - all right we're gonna
get back to the news later in the
program but now I want to welcome to the
show
Bridey Ferrell she is from our neck of
the woods up in New York State and she
is the the founder of New York loves
kids
Friday welcome to the program thanks so
much
so pride tell us what what New York
loves kids is what we're all about what
you're all about yeah of course so New
York loves kids we started it about two
years ago in response to the need to
change the statute of limitations law
for child sex abuse in New York State
and we've been we meaning a community in
New York for 13 years have been trying
to pass legislation through the law and
we meet with lawmakers and it wasn't
moving it and so what I said was we need
to do something grassroots and local to
get people aware of child sex abuse at
large and then hopefully that will push
the law to eventually change so we
started the organization with a lofty
goal of ending child sexual abuse and we
are well in business and have a lot of
work left to do you're a survivor
yourself yes and I mean and I imagine
you know the the recovery process for
that is is rather long and difficult and
may be ongoing in many respects sure
what I mean how much of your experience
do you think that is involved in in
moving this forward I mean because we
also and we've also sort of in the wake
of a lot of horrific stories
particularly in terms of the u.s.
gymnastic team and your experience was
also a function of sports sports as well
just give us a sense of of how that
plays into moving the legislation for
sure I mean I think that at the end of
the day when we're looking at
legislation when we're looking at
politics whatever it is when we're
looking at any sort of relationship it
comes down to the human stories and so
getting people like myself to come
forward and tell the darkest days of our
lives and their worst nightmares is
really important but I also recognize
that it's a choice for me to come
forward so a lot of people ask well you
know why don't other people come as well
and I don't I didn't choose to to be
sexually view so no one is being forced
to speak as well but I think obviously
being
through it I have a unique perspective I
can talk about how the man that sexually
abused me was trusted in our community
he was a four-time Olympian Olympic
medal he went on to be the president of
USA speed skating the Chairman and
International Skating Union helper on
the Salt Lake Olympic Committee with
Mitt Romney like it wasn't a sleazy man
in a windowless fan like it was a very
very respected person and to blow that
myth off of what we're talking about of
stranger-danger ideas that unfortunately
it's the people that you know come to
Thanksgiving dinner or come to Little
League or that kind of thing and I mean
I I assume did he have other victims
yeah so I am the fifth in the lineup
there was actually sluices pretty wild
and I was abused by Andy gable in
1997-1998 he I was 15 and he was 33
there was a I say police investigation
although it was a botched investigation
done into him in 1990 when he was having
sexual relations with a 14 year old girl
that girl her parents were never
contacted there was the the interestig
ation of the Marquette Police Department
in Michigan never interviewed her or mr.
gable right so there's documentation
that the United States Olympic Committee
that us beat skating Northern Michigan
University had on this person and let it
keep going so so yeah I'm not the first
I mean how does an investigation like
that start without the awareness of the
parents well so in sports a lot of times
you you leave your home and go living in
a dorm and so speed skating has been
residents at northern Michigan
University's US Olympic Education Center
for a long time no longer but for a
while and I was fortunate enough to grow
up at a speed skating mecca in Saratoga
Springs so I was able to go to my own
high school and graduate but most kids
leave home at you know if you're good 12
14 16 so you had a really really
talented skater living in
with the national team at 14 and there's
other sports that are in the dorms and a
boxer someone from USA boxing would see
this girl come out of mr. Gables room
and be crying in the middle of the night
and they put a note on his door that
says do 14 sir 15 like it was known so
all right tell us what the nature of
even you you've had a really I mean I
got to imagine like this is sort of the
goal of the of the organization that you
started over a decade ago and Governor
Cuomo just signed this legislation two
months ago right tell tell us about the
legislation and sort of the want to hear
the backstory a little bit of how you
get there right tell us about the
legislation that he's on so we passed
what's called the child victims act in
New York State and going forward what it
does is the statute of limitations for
child sexual abuse so if you're abused
under age 18 is age 28 for criminal so
you have to go to the police report by
age 28 and for civil going forward it's
age 55 which is amazing all right what
were they up in 23 23 for both both so
the average age that a survivor speaks
is 42 G's so it's I mean I don't you got
to leave the emotions out of it and look
at it from like a economic perspective
so yeah it's insulting but that's
irrelevant it's ineffective 23 is
ineffective right well it also I think I
mean not only is it ineffective in terms
of redress for the the the the the
survivor of abuse but it also I would
imagine has a cultural impact to say
like why can't you like it it completely
underestimates the level of trauma and
misunderstands how it is processed right
by a child in particular never mind I
mean I think there's a similar dynamic
obviously for an adult but but by a
child I mean it's sort of extraordinary
well yes that's exactly it and I mean I
started so I came public with my story
six years ago when I made a comeback to
speed skating and then I've been talking
about this and kind of yelling into the
wind and you know nothing really
happened and then me too happened right
and there are two pivotal points in me -
from you first was Kevin Spacey so Kevin
Spacey picked up a 14 year old boy at a
party carried him into a room and laid
the boy on a bed and laid on top of them
the boy was able to like squirm kick
would ever get out of there and no
additional contact was made but within a
day like house of cards was rewritten
like the guy was out right he felt
because he laid on top of a boy so it
was societies like yeah a grown man
I think mr. Spacey was like in his 30s
can't lay on top of a juvenile 14 year
old right and I remember being like what
the hell like Andy gable admitted in the
Chicago Tribune this inappropriate
relationship and there's no recourse and
not that I really want him to go down
but he can walk in and coach any kids
soccer team he can walk in and be a
teacher so there was that and then the
second part was Matt Lauer and how mr.
Lauer you know inappropriately treated
women or a specific woman in his
workplace and there was this man that
came forward and said that he was
intimidated this co-worker was
intimidated and scared and nervous to
speak up against what mr. Lauer was
doing and that was like whoa guys stop
like we're gonna recognize this man
that's not like impacted in a situation
at all is to intimidate to speak up yet
we want a kid to speak up right it's
like come on
and did that resonate with people I mean
when I say it why point out people are
like well yeah it's a good point or like
I testified in front of Congress and you
know with survivors of Larry Nasser and
they're like you're so brave you're this
or that and I was like well if you think
I'm brave at 37 for talking about
something 20 years ago how do you expect
a kid to do it like recognize your own
hypocrisy hypocrisy not stopped riding
it like flattered me and like fix the
problem you know so
do you think there is a do you think
there's even like a deeper understanding
of the the processing that goes around
and because there's something obviously
super gendered about what you're talking
about right where the idea of well this
is a fourteen year old boy that's
getting assaulted or they're you know
like you say he intimidated another man
at the work place as opposed to the
actual victims and do you think that
they're that coming out of me too that
there is just a that it's like
blunt-force on some level or do you
think that there is a greater
understanding or is there a little bit
of mix above definitely both definitely
both and I think the the blunt force is
for the I mean quite honestly like
people like my dad right he's holiday is
70 75 year old white man right and I
remember a couple years ago and we were
home for Christmas and he's like I don't
think all this like sexual abuse sexual
harassment stuff is real so I was
upstate in New York and I was like all
right my New Year's resolutions to keep
a journal and write down all these
things that happen in New York City
right well my birthday's January 7th and
now my birthday I was like screw that
like this is too much because you just
walk down the street in like you know a
Michelin jacket puffy coat in New York
City in January and you get cat calls
you get whistled and you're you know
you're get slapped or whatever like so
someone like my dad who has the best of
intentions just doesn't see it you know
someone like Biden puts his hand around
an eight-year-old boy last week and says
he said it's okay it's like no he's an
eight-year-old boy like you that's not
okay right so that blunt-force part with
good intention you know that are trying
to understand it so I think that the
inundation of women coming forward and
being like not okay not okay not okay
not okay is when a lot of people are
like whoa okay maybe this is like really
a thing all right
so in New York State
No so we missed one major part of the
law please biggest part of the law most
controversial part is that so for one
year or 18 months basically survivors
like myself can come forward and file
civil suit retro actively and so anyone
who was previously abused in New York
State can file civil suit against their
abusers and the institutions that
covered it up and that's why the bill
didn't pass so so to be clear we're
going forward so any abuse that takes
place now has a new statute orientations
but abuse that has happened in the past
is still constrained by the 23 year old
so criminal for criminal and for civil
for civil you have until anyone who is
sexually abusing New York State has
until August 2020 to file a civil claim
I see okay so for civil there's a
there's a year there's like a sort of a
grandfather year type of okay right and
that's where we ran into the issues
because the Catholic Church was the
number one opposition the ultra-orthodox
Jewish community was third and Boy
Scouts of America was the third okay and
because there's a lot of people who and
they're gonna come back in and so when
we talk about like why you're here right
is because you're talking to civil
you're talking to civil litigators trial
lawyers who are in a position to bring
those cases not just going forward
but in the next 12 months in New York
State right right right and it's also to
let them know because this is a
state-by-state Stacy effort right so and
what are the implications of it I mean
it's basically just like here's an
opportunity for you to provide redress
for these people and I would imagine
it's not just a question of getting
money although
I mean I I imagine like there's a lot of
therapy bills but I imagine it's about
like getting some official recognition
acknowledgement yeah acknowledgement
like hey this happened and my goal now
is to be a resource for any survivor
that's looking for representation to
call me and for me to try and help them
connect him with someone that's in
alignment with their goals and what they
want to achieve and then the second is
for folks that were abused like a good
friend and advocate Mary Ellen was
abused by her stepfather who wreaked
havoc on her family and he lives in a
you know he's poor and lives in a
trailer park in upstate New York he has
no money but she wants a ten dollar
check from this guy but no attorney is
gonna take that case right so what I'm
trying to do is find the attorneys that
will have like a pro bono aspect to just
be able to take this woman into the
court of law and stand across from this
guy that you know threw such a wrench in
her life I don't wanna say ruined it
because you know I recovered had good
lives and but - so there's two aspects
one for the people like me that might
have a case to not be taken advantage of
and then to those that don't have a
financial case that that recognize were
not after some financial amount it's the
the recognition or the disclosure of
information or saying someone that comes
forward and says this guy Joe did this
to me 40 years ago well that makes
someone else say 30 years ago 20 years
ago that makes some kid be like still
happening and that's when you can turn
it over into the criminal where I don't
think like our legal systems of criminal
and civil are silos but they need to
work together and so the civil
investigations will help but that
criminal cause interesting well Bridey
Farrell the organization is new york
loves kids
and i imagine now you're you're starting
to think about how you expand this and
take this to other states that's exactly
it
I mean I was really focused on just New
York because sure that's where my abuse
happened I grew up in New York all that
stuff but more because New York
the political system in New York is an
interesting one and if you can do there
you can do it anywhere kind of thing
right and so to have a good solid law
pass in New York which we did when
Andrea stewart-cousins came in to lead
the Senate and then looking across the
country and be like where are they
protecting pedophiles over kids and
we'll go in there and and help survivors
regain that voice did this law pass
basically because the IDC was destroyed
and okay so thirteen years we tried to I
mean I've been involved for five or six
but people have been trying to pass this
law it was never voted on it was never
brought to a vote
Senator John Flanagan would not bring it
to a vote I've met with nearly every
member of the legislature he want to
meet with anyone he want to meet with a
survivor from his own district yeah well
congratulations and folks can go to
what's the website and why I loves kids
dork and wise loves kids org thanks so
much thank you really appreciate it of
course thank you all right folks and
joining me now is going to be dr. Brooke
Bell Oh
molto Bello and she is the founder of
more to life more to life hello and tell
us about this organization more to life
is an international award-winning
anti-human trafficking sexual violence
prevention agency with headquarters in
Sarasota we do work around the world and
we have four offices throughout Florida
we're also known for restorative justice
reduced demand education which is
court-appointed courses for those who
violate purchase individuals have to go
through our course and so on and we work
with victims from age five years old and
up and finally we're a part of something
that the Attorney General Pam Bondi
approved a couple years ago the open
doors outreach network so we work in 32
counties with a network and so I said
the organization does a lot of stuff
absolutely and I do a lot of stuff as a
Google next-gen leader there's a lot of
stuff that we do related to tech related
to litigation and law related to
legislation so what are the what are the
sort of it mean you're here at a
conference full of trial lawyers what
what is your the the story that you're
going to tell them I have three sessions
in a book signing the first session is
with GF Rogers and Kevin Malone Kevin
Malone is former general manager of the
Dodgers he's a man of honor
and I think when you think of mass torts
you think of negligence you think of
strict liability and you think of
intentional negligence and so in the air
of human trafficking and all of the root
causes all of those things play a part
so we're going to talk about the
falseness esta bill which has a lot of
ramifications related to lawsuits now
based on strict liability or negligence
we're going to talk about reducing
demand since men are over 90% of the
purchasers and the United States is the
world's largest producer of child porn
I'm how to mitigate those issues on the
internet because
two percent of kids are violated through
the internet and I love technology but
the iterations of tech have made it
easier for children to be kidnapped or
to be taken more fraud and now more
litigation and so the work today through
this conference is to share that and
then finally for the women it's going to
be a motivational talk I'm going to
share my story as a survivor human
trafficking as a child and that's going
to be a great four days I want to I want
to I want to touch on on yours or your
personal story but I want to ask you
about fast assessment because it's a
pretty controversial law it seems right
from the perspective of people who who
are advocates for for human trafficking
Prevention of it yes because I mean just
lay out what the controversy is and then
and then weigh in on that for us right
your name Sam right yes so Sam thank you
for having me this morning in Las Vegas
III as a part of world we signed on to
the legislative bill but I think there
needs to be amendments because it was
the only way to see it through but I
don't believe we can legislate our way
out of human trafficking and I also
don't believe that it's really good to
necessarily sue a companies like
Salesforce or Google or Facebook it
really depends because the iterations of
tech were so fast
proving negligence I think is difficult
I think that has to happen it's goes to
prevention but when we think of the
Communications Decency Act right we
think that you know online sort of
companies were immune but now they're
not based on Fossett Cessna which is a
positive but with net neutrality rolling
back in the future of work it's going to
inhibit our ability to be online
affordably in the future and so I think
we have to sit down with big tech like
Google like Facebook and talk about
prevention and disclaimers and safe use
rather than make it able
for them to sue because to prove that
they understood our new is hard and it
wastes money on the on the side of
nonprofits that have to go into court it
also wastes money on the side of big
tech and so I think that that bill which
I'm for also needs some amendments what
of the argument that in preventing in
the the prevention of advertising right
for sex workers that he prevents it
prevents advocates for trafficking
victims for actually like tracking down
those victims like this will sort of
make it that the it does Sam I see what
you're saying
it really has a way of sometimes
inhibiting our propensity or ability to
locate victims in addition to their
traffickers and purchasers because now
they're going underground and rings can
become stronger this is true I think
that you know our new app coming home
kind of mitigates that globally because
victims always have a place to be able
to reach out and get resources in help
that's why I think the bill needs to be
amended and we actually have to sit down
with a big pack I was with big tech I
was in Venice Beach last week at Google
and we had some really great speakers
we're there Google to learn how to solve
the world's problems through tech and in
in that century but a you know ask
questions and say how we feel I think
that if they're able to sit down because
they're already 20 years ahead you know
we're talking about AI and VR and how it
affects human trafficking how it affects
you know social problems how it affects
poverty and most people don't even have
a VR set in their house and Silicon
Valley and tech is past where that is
there are 30 years in the future and so
we're not going to legislate and Sue our
way out of the
and the violence of human trafficking
and like you said Sam it's gonna make it
so hard because traffickers you're
talking about a global 970 billion
dollar business when you think of labor
trafficking domestic servitude when you
think of sex trafficking and traffickers
are wise smart because it's all about
money right and so yeah we have to sit
down with big tech and we have to work
together that's what I believe and and
and so you don't have the worry that
some in in your community have expressed
in terms of how difficult it will make
to help those folks I mean because in
and maybe we can dub tell this and with
your experience but my my sense is from
what I've read and talking to sex
workers or talking to the people to
advocates of people who have been
trafficked or are being trafficked is
that the the victims of trafficking in
many instances don't aren't aware of
where they can reach out for help and or
they're in a position that inhibits them
from reaching out for help and in some
other ways is that I mean talk about
your experience and why you think that
the the problem of providing like almost
some like public face that provides
leads for sex trafficking advocates I
should say
advocates of victims of sex trafficking
to help locate where that's going on is
not as much of a problem that make sense
it was a really long question that sure
it really makes sense well okay all
right so simplify it well I mean the the
biggest complaint that I have heard
about cesta pasta is that it's going to
really basically pull the shades down
and make it impossible for people
outside of these networks of sex
trafficking to see into that world and
help victims of sex trafficking right so
it and in your responses like you know
you your organization has created an app
so that people can that that victims can
reach can come towards you I won right
if there isn't a problem with the
ability of people outside of that world
to go to them I've been doing this work
coming from being a champion which is a
survivor and then an actor and then
crashing and burning and Hollywood
realizing there was something really
wrong because I was a child when it
happened and so technically I've been
doing this work Marga's a shoulda
started 15 years ago I've been doing
this work for 18 years
and those of us who are strong advocates
have the propensity the ability to teach
and train others how to identify victims
in plain sight and the idea that victims
don't know that they're victims one of
the key things if we galvanize the issue
of the United States foster care system
in terms of the United States right 70
percent of kids in foster care have been
trafficked that is a State Department or
DOJ stat the high propensity of homeless
homeless youth at 75 percent are exposed
to human trafficking and so I think you
know 65 percent of black girls in our
country are rape or trafficked 30
percent of all girls in our country rape
or traffic and so if we do with root
causes first in prevention it's going to
be a lot easier to in and reduce human
trafficking in terms of legislative
processes that inhibit someone's ability
to identify that is the crux and the
quandary
the internet and landline process is
moving so fast that no one really
understood how global it was going to be
Warren Buffett talked about it you know
in the early 90s the Internet's not
going to be a big deal that's going to
pass away but we're past that and so if
we deal with the root causes we're going
to be able to prevent victims and while
preventing them we're going to find them
and we have to state that 92% of adult
prostituted persons male and female were
sex trafficking victims under federal or
state law and so we deal with that issue
one of the other ways is never ever ever
should be legalized prostitution in the
United States like they did in Germany
they thought it was going to end sex
trafficking of kids it did not the Prime
Minister came out and said oh my god I
thought it would lessen the sex
trafficking of children but the numbers
are higher and so like I said it the the
false assess the bill needs to be
amended we need to work with big tech we
need to find safe use of the internet
kids see two hundred thousand violent
images by the time they're 18 they see
gonzo pornographic images of women being
choked and and and punched and and and
graphic sexual acts and so in human
development we're sort of grooming kids
through through online processes to to
be to be hardened to the violence of
human trafficking and so if we do that
we won't have as much of a problem later
it's not perfect it really is a big
world kind of tsunami and finally you
know Sam according to the center of
Disease Control it's the worst violence
that can happen to a child and I know
that like I'm here with you now as an
absolute miracle I should not be here
talking to you I was near death a lot of
times and then I'm in my right mind
which also took years of therapy and so
much that victims need to transform and
so we have to you know find a way to
work together can you tell us a little
bit about your
before I became an actor actor Jon
Voight was my first mentor and I met him
post human trafficking after I was
rescued I was brutally raped at eleven
like a lot of girls in our nation and a
lot of boys there are a lot of
trafficked boys in our nation there were
boys in the brothel that that that I was
there were girls younger than me
eventually I was traded around and
eventually was rescued and I was a
straight-a student I was a baseball
player I was one of the first girls in
California to pitch and play baseball
had my picture in the paper I was like
really athletic and I was a young
science buff we're not a poor family how
did you how did that I ran away from
home and a nice couple my best
girlfriend I rented from home and Sam
this nice couple said oh you know you
guys look lost we help kids like you and
we were not street savvy we were kind of
bookworms
athletic geeky little really pretty
little girls and we're like okay and we
were actually on a track somewhere in
the United States that we didn't really
realize and there were some adult
prostituted persons like bought us a
hotdog or something and we're really
scared and we really wanted to go home
but our parents didn't they thought we
ran away so when I called mom you know
she just started screaming and yelling
and you're gonna get in trouble and the
cops are gonna come after you you run
away and I didn't know how to tell her
what happened to me so um this nice
couple
okay turned out to be like the devil's
advocate like really evil so they took
us out to eat and they said okay last
stop we go back to our place get you
some clothes and get you settled and
figure out a shelter and maybe talk to
your parents and get you back home when
we got into their place they separated
me from my friends I don't know what
happened to her but they beat me within
an inch of my life put drugs in me and
later that night they were selling me
and my whole life changed after that so
I was addicted to drugs and it was
really the only buffer that I and I was
a virgin as well and Men purchased me
and not one man
asked for my ID no these men look like
you know my best friends like dads and
they just thought that I was wanted to
be there and so I was in a room there
were 15 men in the room being passed
around the room being repeatedly raped
and that is you know just a small part
of my story in the story of so many
other survivors and victims we work with
and I think one of the most profound
things when I think of the Cavanaugh
case or I think of you know gymnasts
when people say why don't girls tell why
don't victim so why don't boys tell
because when you're young and human
development you think that the bad
things that happened to you around you
are your fault you think it's your fault
when your parents divorce let alone when
you're raped and that's what they drill
into and we become what we see over time
and so I too thought it was my fault and
then I met Jon Voight he ended up taking
me to Whoopi Goldberg's house I was
really shocked and I tried to sort of
fake my way into nothing ever bad
happened to me and then in Hollywood on
sets I would sort of have triggers and
crash and burn and actually that's not a
place at first to make a ton of money as
an actor as I did because the exposure
to drugs and sex and the inability to
say no and not knowing who I was really
affected Who I am and so I kind of
galvanized some faith in God I think and
I know for sure and moved away bought a
house and started more to life and then
the journey of healing began which too
long of a story to tell you now
I'm I'm sorry for what you went through
and thank you soon incredible and I'm
part Jewish you know black and check out
the Viking Jew and and I think that the
issues of bigotry in our nation racial
issues criminal justice from all of
these things when I was sold from Vegas
to Newark to LA and I'm in Vegas now
they called me little more yon and so I
was so because of the color of my skin
and there were other little girls that
were sold because they had blonde hair
and blue eyes and it was racially and
you they always got more money for girls
that were blonde hair blue eye and then
me next and so depending on that there
was racism even within human trafficking
and so it's just you know as a
registered independent we really have to
come together I had the conversation
when Joshua Dubois with some of the
individuals from the Ways and Means
Committee recently we have to come
together across party lines to combat
and prevent this issue what what do you
what is what is your ask or your
what are you hoping to get from these
trial lawyers here I think one thing is
a lot of pro bono support for our
survivors the other thing is there are a
ton or actually more men here at this
conference the women are outnumbered and
I love that because it's rare that I can
walk into a room as a champion for human
trafficking and see a roomful of men and
all of my work deals with mentoring male
youth and working with men and
prevention I'm not a feminist I'm
actually an equalist and I think in
order to drive this issue home we have
to talk about the legacy of fatherhood
we have to talk and get men outside of
the the man box but Tony Porter talks
about our air Thomas speaks about our
Anthony Robbins you know speaks about
men have to hold one another accountable
to the harms of violent pornography they
have to hold one accountable the
prostitution is illegal to purchase
individuals for sex is wrong and
bachelor parties who allow stripping and
things like that that sort of have a
gender disrespect we have to discuss
that because in today's world most young
boys don't want to get married they want
to hook up and have sex in the bathroom
with the girl that barely knows who she
is so there's more you know STDs there's
more unwanted pregnancies and if you
look at our world Sam in 50 years with
marriage not being respected no family
structure people not really respecting
one another and loving one another not
believing that love is possible imagine
our world so that I want to get out of
them support and understanding that they
are the answer to the problem
well dr. Brook Bello the organization is
more to live tío
life where can people get more
information on it absolutely our twitter
handle is at re al real more to live t
oo and our website is mor eto life.org
and you can always find me at Brook
bellow BR okay be like boy e ll o calm
thank you so much for continuity thank
you Sam all right folks we're going to
move on and and we're going to be
talking to an attorney in a moment we're
taking a photo thank you so much I
really appreciate
well thanks yeah we're still live Elsa
that's okay
all right we're going to continue on
that was it's quite an amazing journey
she has been on but now we're gonna
change the pace a little bit talk about
some consumer litigation I guess this
would fall into troy bulk troy bow with
love and Papantonio is joining me and
Troy you're working on a case and this
is a little bit of I should just you
know tell our audience there's a lot of
things we're dancing around here a
little bit in terms of going from topic
to topic this one not quite as dramatic
in some respects but it is more aligned
I think more typical of what we see in
cases that we're talking about at this
conference dealing with really what I
think probably constitutes corporate
malfeasance on some degree to some
degree yeah that's right Sam tell me
this is a case about 3m earplugs correct
yeah 3m basically the case originated
when a company called mold EXO to
California brought a key tam action and
a key TM action is like a whistleblower
suit against 3m and in the gym just to
be clear is specifically deals with
fraud that has been committed against
the US government is that right that's
correct okay yeah so there is and just
explain to us because there's actually
sort of I guess private whistleblowers
who are incentivized to blow the whistle
on
private entities that are defrauding the
US government and they get a portion of
the recovery that's that's correct that
is correct Sam and in in this case the
the company that actually was a
competitor to 3m discovered some
evidence that 3m headed allegedly and
their predecessor Aero technologies had
falsified some of the original testing
of the combat arms version two ear plugs
that they were selling to the US
military and so they took that
information filed a key tam suit and how
does it competitor find out that their
competitor basically committed fraud in
terms of testing these things well well
that's a really interesting story Sam
because in this case 3m is quite
litigious and they want to protect their
market share for ear plugs and so what
they what they did was they brought a
suit against mold X out of California
because mold X had a competing brand of
ear plugs that was competing with their
with 3m and Aero technologies combat
arms version two ear plugs and when I
say 3m Aero technologies the reason why
I'm saying those two companies together
is because in 2007 3m Botto
Aero technologies and so so Aero
technologies was the company that
originally invented that combat arms
version two ear plugs so you have mold X
was out there they were going to start
marketing to the military and a head
start marketing to the military so 3m
filed a lawsuit against mold ax saying
hey you guys are infringing on our
patent and so I don't know what they
were thinking at the time but it later
turned out that in fact molex wasn't
infringing on their patent at all
it it it almost appeared to be malicious
prosecution and that's in fact what mold
X had brought a charge or
claim against 3m saying hey you know we
don't believe we're infringing in fact
you guys are trying to maliciously
prosecute us to keep us from selling our
earplugs and so when that was pending
they started doing some depositions and
during those depositions to that initial
lawsuit they started discovering and
wait a minute here something's not right
you know when we look at 3m you know
Aero technologies combat arms ear plug
it doesn't look like it was ever tested
properly they only and when and what
they were alleging is is that ANSI
standards requires that you meet certain
specifications for testing
well 3m only tested it on eight people
even though they were gonna sell it
later to millions of well millions of
them to the soldiers they only tested on
eight people and it turns out that those
eight people were soldiers I mean that
soldier I'm sorry there were employees
of 3m so it even looked stranger like
why not farm it out to an independent
lab to test their earplugs and have
people that aren't employees of 3m or
Aero technologies just you know so it's
sort of an independent test but they
didn't test it independently they
instead ran it through their own lab
when they didn't get the results that
they wanted they stopped the testing but
the allegation was is that they
certified it as being as meeting the
specs that the military wanted and so in
the military ended up by him and so they
purchased millions of them from 2003 all
the way through to 2015
Wow and those millions got assigned to
basically every service member going
through basic training in the US also if
you're in Iraq or Afghanistan you were
also being issued these combat arms
earplugs so these earplugs are
theoretically I mean III presume are so
that when they're firing their arms
obviously it's really loud we all see
images of people at a range wearing
major
head sets and obviously you can't do
that in in combat in the same fashion so
that's that's pretty stunning I mean I
there were a lot of stories of if I
remember correctly particularly during
the Iraq war of suppliers of military
gear that were cutting corners some
instances I think there were stories
about Kevlar vests and so is so so for
12 years 3m is selling these earplugs
based to literally hundreds of thousands
if not millions of I mean I guess
hundreds of thousands of combat of
people who are either in combat or in
training which presumably is just as
problematic correct having tested it on
eight people eight employees so like and
in what circumstances were these tests
just like in out in the backyard of the
3m plant you know and that's what we
don't know yet Sam we don't know if it
was done in sort of a room in one of the
offices at 3m or arrow technologies we
we simply don't know and the reason why
we don't know is that all the documents
in that initial litigation have been
sealed and so we've just got bits and
pieces and so but what we do know
however and there's no mistake about it
is that 3m ended up paying nine point 1
million dollars to settle that key TM
action ok and so who is the plaintiffs
in this situation like who are your
clients the plaintiffs our service
members who served in the military in
various branches between 2003 and 2015
and actually used the combat arms
version to earplug and and and you might
think well how would they on honestly
know what ear plug they were using well
the ear plug itself is such a unique
looking ear plug that it's really
unmistakable it's the only ear plug that
double-ended dual-ended one half of the
earplug is yellow the other half is
olive green some people describe it as
black but it's actually an olive green
color and it's very short and and it's
made for you stick the yellow end in if
you were gonna basically be out on
patrol and you want to hear someone's
sneaking up behind you that's the end
with the little hole that runs down the
center or you stick the green end in if
you're let's say being transported in a
helicopter to a different part of the
desert and so because that end is what
they call steady-state so it's gonna
protect against that constant noise or
it's supposed to protect against that
constant noise but what we we see
statistically is that during that same
period of time the number of service
members that have got hearing loss or
tinnitus has just escalated
astronomically right contentedness is
when you have like a ringing in your ear
right yeah if you think about it in the
old days where you would listen to a
record and after the song stopped
playing you'd make that sort of scratchy
noise and that's that sort of ringing or
scratchy noise that just doesn't stop is
it tinnitus or tinnitus you know and
that's a good question because I think
that the actual pronunciation is
tentative but almost universally people
pronounce it as tinnitus right so we use
it interchangeably and how did if this
is all sealed how did like tell me the
process of what happens here so you get
wind that there's a key tam case you
don't know the details but you see the
broad outlines yeah and that's a good
question Sam because in July 2018 the
Department of Justice they issue a press
release and the press release was you
know about a page and a half and it
really outlined sort of the overall gist
of hey you know what we are you know we
intervened in this case we're gonna
protect our milik our military service
members this shouldn't be happening and
and they basically listed all the
allegations that we're now pursuing and
and as a result of that the government
you know had three MP 9 point 1 million
dollars so that doesn't seem like very
much to be honest with you I mean how
much money did they make off of me it is
not very much and we see that over and
do you know how much I honestly don't
because we haven't been able to get the
documents yet we have to go through the
whole legal process get into discovery
we're gonna ask to see all of those
things and then we'll have a better idea
later on and I got to imagine a contract
to provide that those amount of earplugs
for 15 years has got a dwarf nine
million dollars I mean yeah it sounds to
me like this is just this is just like
the cost of doing business for them and
it just sounds like it's part of their
overhead yeah and in fact it probably
did you know it'll be really interesting
when we see how much they did make
selling these defective or allegedly
defective ear plugs to the military and
but it's also equally interesting to me
to see how many of our service members
actually still have these combat arms
version two ear plugs just stuffed away
in their in their possessions at home
and and so they've been bringing them in
to us to say yeah these are the ones I
wore and because at the time the
military they issued a little plastic
box and the little plastic box attached
to your sort of lapel on your shirt and
it was meant to put your ear plugs in
when you weren't using them right so
they're always available to you and and
that basically kept them together and
it's working out do you know how many
military potential like clients there
are me do you have a sense of what the
numbers are of what military personnel
who are using these devices ostensibly
to protect their ears and well we think
the potential pool could be up to 1.5
million servicemembers it's a lot of
people because when you think about it
the there were a lot of troops placed in
Iraq and Afghanistan during
period of time and there was a big surge
and so all those service members over
there
and back in our own country we're all
issued these earplugs Wow so what are
the next steps you're trying to you're
going through the documents are trying
to establish some of these facts yeah
how do you access those documents that
have been sealed in a case like this
other like this kee tam case um well
what we this past week the latest news
was that the jpml though the sort of
panel of federal judges that decide
where the litigation this mass tort
litigation is going to be situated they
chose Pensacola Florida the home of
Levin Papantonio our firm and so that's
got to make you pretty happy not yeah it
makes us very happy you know we've got a
great judge judge Rodgers and and so but
the MDL just got formed so we are gonna
have you know DL as the multi district
litigation that's correct yeah and so
and basically it's not just gonna be our
firm it's gonna be many firms working
together to pursue this case on behalf
of the American servicemembers we just
explain the dynamics of the multi
district litigation it just basically
means that the case that you're bringing
in and this is a federal case at a
federal court correct in Pensacola is
the there may be cases in Pennsylvania
there may be cases in Ohio in probably
every state country and they're just
going to be rolled up into this one case
yeah and they do that for judicial
efficiency because as you can imagine if
there were a hundred thousand cases all
over the United States and each judge in
those cases have had to decide the same
issues you know you might as well have
one judge deciding the issues for
everybody's case regardless of where in
the u.s. they're situated so they group
them together in what's called an MDL
and basically a leadership group will be
formed from all the different plaintiffs
attorneys and and the judge will pick
who's in that leadership group
and and it obviously be very seasoned
attorneys that have done this many many
times and as a litigation progresses we
will go through the discovery stage that
we were talking about earlier where
we'll get to take depositions and we
will at some point ask to see those
documents that are currently sealed in
that other litigation well Troy but
thank you so much for your time today
really appreciate it and is there a a
site I mean if there are that's
listening or I guess active service I
mean we're talking to 2015
yeah if anyone's interested in the in
the case you know they can always look
at our site for 11 Papantonio which is
you know levin law comm and we have a
one of the web pages on there deals with
this litigation Troy thanks so much your
time today we appreciate it you're
welcome Sam thank you
all right folks I think we're probably
going to take a break and head into the
fun half obviously quite a mix of of
what we had today tomorrow on the
program don't know I'm basically what I
do is I go out and talk to different
attorneys and see what cases might have
you know some broader policy
implications or give a better
understanding of the corporate mindset I
mean the idea that
we could have a private rating agency
that would rate the quality of earplugs
that 3m is presenting you know and/or
that hey look the US government should
learn their lesson 15 years later not to
buy the the earplugs from 3m I mean one
of the things I mean the things that the
you know the reason why I keep coming
back to this conference is not merely to
lose money at the blackjack table or at
the craps table but it is because a you
can see the depths of of corporate
malfeasance here these are the people
who professionally expose it dig through
it
every time I talk to an attorney here
the idea that we need severe regulation
on corporations in a myriad of ways is
reinforced also the function that these
lawyers play in our society is when you
are in and frankly you know it's during
the Obama administration obviously was
much better on this than the Trump
administration but still highly
problematic when you're in an era where
there is a sense that we need to
deregulate corporations these trial
lawyers end up being a second sort of
order bulwark against the against the
deregulation and they also in in many
respects they that they function as a
sort of like a
you know deputies deputized Posse and
you you see this administration you know
has packed the courts with right-wingers
they're going to do so more the
implications of that directly impact
individuals ability to to just came over
in the middle of the broadcast to take
the coffee's away the ability of of
people to go to courts and get redress
against corporations so I think we're
gonna have an opportunity to talk to
more people about that tomorrow and some
other specific cases we'll be looking
around for but obviously a big news day
too so we're gonna take a quick break
heading to the fun half talk about the
news and maybe you know update on how
I'm doing at the the update the my lack
of luck at the tables all right let's
start the oh just a reminder folks you
can support this program by becoming a
member at join the majority report calm
and your your membership will be
parlayed at the tables and into maybe I
don't know TriCaster or something like
that you know work on getting a upgrade
the video equipment but alright quick
break ahead into the finance Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cuz you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube frees up
their buggy whipping like he's boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the
I'm sorry I didn't mean to upset you you
nervous a little bit upset you riled up
yeah maybe you should rethink your
defense of that you idiots we're
just going to get rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint
yes exactly I'm happy now we win
it's win-win-win
hell yeah now listen to me two three
four five times eight four seven nine oh
six five oh one four five seven two
56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 third don't you see
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
Paul I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no you
alright gonna take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber laughing I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
go with such
[Music]
thank you for calling into the majority
report them we'll be with you shortly
all right we are back the fun half of
the majority report
maybe I should issue can you isolate my
my image can I change the can you uh
what do you want to isolate well do we
have like a lot of empty space on the
video oh I think Brendan can maybe
figure something out all right
let's let's just run the footage of
Julian Assange being walked out of the
Ecuadorian Embassy this is from earlier
this morning
I guess my times are all screwed up but
this is this morning and as of now he is
facing 12 months in prison for skipping
bail in the UK he is facing an
extradition proceedings that are
supposed to happen in about a month to
the US for an indictment that came out
of the I believe the Virginian US
Attorney's Office not a hundred percent
sure about that but and the indictment
includes or ostensibly is involving
Julian Assange helping Chelsea Manning
break into the DoD encryption that
allowed Chelsea Manning to get those
documents that he then
at the or I should say she then passed
to to WikiLeaks look uh you know and I
haven't had a chance to read the
indictment carefully but a lot of that
aspect of it seems a little bit thin the
the the parts about journalism are
highly problematic to to the to Myers
and so here is that footage
[Applause]
so okay sorry about that
so there you have it been in the
Ecuadorian embassy for what now like six
years I I don't have it in front of me
but Italy I may be even longer
I think 2012 or two no no no not to go
there in 2011 when I was there so it's
been I guess seven eight years and Matt
will you turn down the the sound on that
computer and so you know it remains to
be seen
there's no there's no indication at this
point that Assange and look the US
government has been trying to get him
for years and it's really important as
we said in the first half of the program
that people separate their feelings for
him as an individual their feelings for
him
in terms of WikiLeaks role in the 2016
election really people need to focus on
the the specifics of this indictment
because it is highly problematic for
journalism and to be clear to say that
WikiLeaks is not a journalistic
enterprise it's just is silly to the
extent that we want to err on that we
should have a wide margin a very I
mainly wanted margin yes I mean look
there are people who consider what we do
on this program to be journalism and I
don't know if I and I don't really spend
a lot of time thinking about it am a
journalist per se I do
know that certainly at times on this
program I practice journalism I
interview people what I do with people
sitting down here is what reporters do
when they read they write a story they
talk to experts we aggregate the news we
report basically on reporting that has
already take place and we do opinion
journalism but certainly one of the
functions of journalistic outlets one of
the functions of journalism is to
disseminate information from
whistleblowers and so if we start going
down the road where people decide
because of other issues they have with
individuals or institutions that that is
not journalism we are setting ourselves
up as a society for bad things and you
know people need to really keep that in
mind as they assess where they are on
this and what they allow and what they
give the American government a pass for
now there may be other issues that once
they extradite him into the United
States or maybe between now and that
extradition hearing that we hear about
that may or may not have more legitimacy
than the indictment that that was
released I guess today in the
announcement of the extradition hearings
but to the extent that at least part of
that of that indictment is about Julian
Assange and WikiLeaks telling Chelsea
Manning get us more stuff or hiding the
fact that he was the source protecting
the source of this information I mean
folks really got to be up in arms about
this yeah this is a threat to journalism
and if every kind I agree completely and
that is the real story here I mean
everything else besides that in my view
is secondary but I also if we have a
minute I just want to also highlight the
dimension of this of how this reflects
on Ecuador so you know Rafael Correa who
was the pink tide left-leaning president
who gave sanction gave refuge to Julian
Assange has said that this is a crime
against humanity and an embarrassment
and you know maybe maybe that's a
hyperbolic I don't know but I do know
that the current president of Ecuador
ran as the successor to Correa on the
same political party with the same
political agenda and is completely
reversed has actually implemented a very
hard right us friendly agenda of every
kind from oil companies to military
agreements and you know he's also tried
to do something similar I think it was
rejected Korea's in Belgium but there
was a sort of similar dynamic to Brazil
of kind of trying to arrest Correa on
what looked to be very weak charges once
that so far the Europeans certainly
haven't cooperated with sending him back
to Ecuador so I think this also needs to
be looked in terms of the kind of
broader reversal and reassertion of u.s.
domination across Latin America and I'm
seeing even in some Caribbean in Latin
American countries a demand that in
exchange for aid packages that there
needs to be formal support of US policy
towards Venezuela and of the extradition
of Assange so that dimension of a2 is
also very disturbing to me so obviously
you know we'll we'll continue to follow
this and you know it's not inconceivable
that there's gonna be stuff that's
implicated from the 2016 election about
this we just don't know but in the
meantime super important that people
just keep a perspective on this and
understand the implications for
journalism here particularly in the
the age of Trump I mean I think you know
one of the things that we heard during
when the Obama administration was
pursuing legal action against or the
government you know the DOJ under the
Obama administration was pursuing legal
action against Assange was like you know
it's quite possible you might get a
president who you don't like and they
will really abuse this type of thing and
the the ability to criminalize the
hiding of of the identity of government
whistleblowers you don't want Donald
Trump to have that to make it you know
sort of blunt and stark for people so at
least those aren't hypothetical
conversations anymore well yeah exactly
and that's that's the I guess that's the
the the small upside to the whole thing
is that it is that we don't have to make
it a hypothetical that it's it's pretty
real and so all right speaking of which
let's move on to the other big story was
we still don't know exactly when we're
going to see Bill Barr send the Muller
report to Congress we don't know what
kind of shape the Muller report will be
in when he sends it to Congress but this
I found super disturbing and if it's
indicative of the way that he's
functioning
I think there's reason to question bill
bar on everything that was always been
my assumption I mean this is a guy
people should remember was involved in
the iran-contra sort of cleanup duties
and he's a
of a fixer we don't know what he's done
in the con and the context of the Mahler
investigation but here is Bill Barr
explaining to Jaheim G Jeanine Shaheen
in the Senate Judiciary Committee that
the DOJ is looking into the FBI actions
that led to the investigation and what
will stop at the really stunning part
but role this news just broke today that
you have a special team looking into why
the FBI open an investigation into
Russian interference in the 2016
elections I wonder if you couldn't share
with this committee who's on that team
why you felt a need to form that kind of
a team and what you intend to be the
scope of their investigation yeah I as I
said in my confirmation hearing I am
gonna be reviewing both the genesis and
the conduct of intelligence activities
directed again at the Trump campaign
during 2016 and a lot has already been
invented a lot of this has already been
investigated in a substantial portion of
it has been investigated and is being
investigated by
the Office of Inspector General like the
department but one of the things I want
to do is pull together all the
information from the various
investigations that have gone on
including on the hill and in the
department and see if there are any
remaining questions to be addressed and
can you share with all right posit one
second and and drop this on there too
I'm sorry Matt and I know it's difficult
but all right so it's interesting
because what he's talking about is
looking at the genesis and remember we
know the genesis of why this is was a
criminal investigation against the
president because as it progressed from
an intelligence investigation there
became indications that perhaps there
was a conspiracy involved that other
people may be implicated as far as we
know the intelligence investigation
began when there were reports from
foreign diplomats who basically tipped
off the US government as to what had
been told to them by people working on
the Trump campaign we also I think know
that foreign intelligence agencies in
the course of them monitoring Russia and
Russian government officials Russian
sort of near government officials kept
seeing contacts with people who were
associated with the Trump campaign and I
think it's you know the Inspector
General of these agencies should always
be monitoring how investigations start
and how they're conducted I think that's
perfectly legitimate but we're bar goes
next is nuts and really it is it's a
little bit scary that this guy's willing
to sort of lie like this in public
you know this came up during the
Kavanagh stuff where Brett Kavanaugh
it seems to me was the first guy well
let's play the the tape and I'll explain
what I'm talking about no one need to do
that well you know for the same well for
the same reason we're worried about
foreign influence and elections we want
to make sure that during election I
think spying on a political campaign is
a big deal a big deal generation I grew
up in which is the Vietnam War a period
you know people were all concerned about
spying on anti-war people and so forth
by the government and there were a lot
of rules put in place to make sure that
there's an adequate basis before before
our law enforcement agencies get
involved in politics or valence I'm not
suggesting that those rules were
violated but I think it's important to
look at that and I'm not just I'm not
talking about the FBI
but intelligence agencies more broadly
so you're not you're not suggesting
though
that spine occurred I don't know the
world ah I guess you think I think there
was a spying did occur yes I think
spying did occur let me but question is
whether we predicated adequately
predicated and I'm not suggesting it
wasn't really predicated but I need to
explore that I think it's my obligation
Congress is usually very concerned about
intelligence agencies and law
enforcement agencies staying in their
proper lane and I want to make sure that
happened we have a lot of rules about
that and I want to say that that I said
I'm reviewing this I am going I haven't
set up a team yet but I do have I have
in mind having some colleagues help me
pull all this information together and
let me know whether there's some areas
that should be looked at and I also want
to make clear this is not launching an
investigation of the FBI I frankly I'm
the extent there were there were any
issues at the FBI I do not view it as a
a problem that's endemic to the FBI I
think there was probably a failure among
the group of leaders there at the upper
echelon and so I don't like to hear
attacks about the FBI because I think he
FBI is an outstanding organization and I
think you know Chris Rea is a great
partner for me I'm very pleased that
he's there is the director and if it
becomes necessary to look over some
former officials sort of activities I
expect that I'll be relying heavily on
Chris and work closely with him and
looking at that information but that's
what I'm doing I feel I have an
obligation to make sure that government
power is not abused and I think that's
one of the principal roles of the
Attorney General I certainly agree let's
pause it there and everything he was
talking about in the 70s the abuse the
procedure that whatever agencies spied
and I am NOT as up in arms I think is a
lot of you know sort of the the
mainstream media is about the the idea
of spied although it's clearly he's
trying to inflame the the Breitbart
ian's and the Trump East is here but
everything he's talking about what
happened in the 70s all of the spying
that went through all of the
surveillance on people who ultimately
were associated with the Trump
Organization because the spying did the
surveillance or spying or whatever you
want to call it did not start on the
campaign it started with individuals who
were then associated with the campaign
and it started on those individuals not
because they were part of the campaign
but because of their contacts or their
alleged contacts with people that our
intelligence agencies
spine or servile but all of the
procedures that and there's been no
indication that those procedures were
not followed we're set up in the wake of
things like pointelle Pro and I mean
there's no investigation he says there's
not even a team set up but he knows they
were spying on the campaign I mean it is
it's clear that they are very concerned
about the report coming out and they're
trying to create the counter narrative
that has been floating around on
Breitbart for years it's pretty stunning
and it makes me a little bit just a
little bit of concerned about bill bar I
don't think he's really the the fair
broker the honest broker that that maybe
he was made out to be I'm just getting
that that sense
you want to play the oh my god did we
did you just send me a tweet from from
Jimmy regents husband for the back
channel oh I think all right what should
we do should we do the the dave rubin
question i feel like you need to weigh
in on that
yeah i think you're gonna need to weigh
in on this this is I think a very very
disturbing day in the history of ideas
what what uh-oh you fill me in on this
what it what's going on you don't know
about this it's just a video that we got
from a from a listener about the the
question the final confirmation that as
far as the exchange of ideas between you
and Dave room it goes that Dave not only
supports regulation he's literally
shutting down the market so we got
George Soros to fly one of our foot
soldiers out to one of his events I
think in Connecticut University of
Connecticut yeah and the Huskies yep and
do we know who the do we know who the
individual is or maybe we shouldn't even
say their name yeah I don't think I
don't know the college student I don't
yeah I mean just okay he's a useful
asset a useful asset a patsy part of the
paralax corporation we call them
regressive to one oh we created its this
regressive part in in the laboratory
write down exactly you will ask this
dumb man a question if you are ever in
majority report headquarters as you pass
the commissary you will see that on the
left there's a series of doors that say
top secret no entry this is where we
program our assets with a series of
slideshows that then we send them out
into the world and activate them by you
know sometimes it's basically along the
lines of telephone yeah where we either
send them a text message or actually
call them and activate them by reading
them a Robert Frost poem yeah they're
the first robots programmed to react
only emotionally they are so completely
incapable of reason or rational analysis
yeah it's just all we have to do is just
read them a very sentimental Robert
Frost poem and then they go into effect
and so let's sure let's see
and apparently last last night was it or
two nights ago my stores is it stores
Connecticut I think we unleashed one of
our one of our sleeper cells and this is
what happened my first one is to Dave
Rubin when are you going to debate Sam
cedar on the majority report oh I'm not
gonna debate that theater the majority
report yeah I appreciate your honesty
questions you do you notice how the
robots are trained not only be extremely
emotional but they also have like juice
snark right they're super they're super
polite you know I appreciate your
honesty
I like how Reubens voice sort of dips
when he when he has to say well I'm not
gonna debate feels he did another but
you already report I think he was trying
to do it sort of yawn that's what that
was yeah I don't even care about those
guys does it really just honestly
doesn't matter
there you go I'm gonna have an avatar
but yeah so it's an improvement at least
he is able now we've established he can
say the name the majority report and my
without melting and and soon maybe we'll
be in a position to have an exchange of
ideas but I will tell those sleeper
cells who of course under our power and
any sleeper cells that are not under our
power we encourage that type of behavior
and appreciate it it was done in such a
polite manner and I think the the next
obvious question is why do you keep
claiming that leftists will not come on
your show to discuss ideas when you have
been offered one and refused to have him
on specifically Sam cedar at the
majority report say the words I don't
know I wonder what Charlie Kirk was
thinking like what if Charlie Kirk said
like well I was able to debate it we
talked about this yesterday and it was
funny because Candice Owens did like a
good disdainful laugh and Charlie Kirk
kind of leaned back and just kind of
smirked and you know the bottom line is
like I think pretty objectively you know
he took an L from debating you but like
dave rubin could not do what charlie
Kirk did like it's impossible it's not
gonna be able to like sorry Kirk is I
mean I think he's completely wrong on
things he's read he has read stuff and
he has synthesized all the talking
points he manages to not find self
negate like if he was to say hey you
know it really sucks building regulation
he wouldn't immediately go to like it's
like when they tell you like we're to
put the wires next to each other who
needs that when I just contemplate like
you know III I think Charlie Kirk is a
smart guy and I think he's I think
they're they're both grifters but Dave
Rubin is I feel like is really
running away from himself all the time
Charlie Kirk I think is sort of drifting
towards something and finding himself
Ruben has found himself and he's worried
about what he sees where that self is is
a void worried so I'm kind of a bit
confused but well I think to be more
generous I just think that Dave exists
like you're Leon the ID on the
ideational plane so let's let's let's
move on we've dedicated enough Dave
Rubin time today have we probably not
but we can always come back to him and
it takes some IMS here I've got the I M
machine here if I can here we go
bronze plan what's an example of a
comedian you find funny who has bad
politics Norm Macdonald I can't quite
establish what his politics are they've
I don't even know tonight whatever I
know Howard Stern Howard Stern has some
bad politics I like him
it's a median count Howard I think it is
Norman Norman Norman us some tweets
where it's sort of paleo concerned are
we really just sticking to stand-up
comments oh I don't know he's just the
easy answer because I think he's
hilarious but you'll tweet some things
everyone swell it's like what website
there's tons of people of the whole of
politics I disagree with that I think
are super funny so but norm is very
funny north I don't think comedians are
funny so it's hard for me to Sam can't
enjoy comedy yes
give me a comedies his historic it's
just age it's true comedy does not age
well except for I now and he's my
favorite but I can't say anymore
Woody Allen I don't think age is that
well either that's almost like the
relation of my assessment of that so I
don't know I don't
I don't know that I could find a
comedian funny who has bad politics I
mean I I guess I've listened to like
some Bill burr stuff and and and found
it you know somewhat funny but I don't
know I think they wear bells Birds
politics are all over the place and
they're really yeah I mean the thing is
like I wouldn't say that like I mean
don't look to comedians for your
politics well that's the other thing was
like I don't know like I would say
almost all great comedians have some
like politics they might not necessarily
agree with but if you're talking like
self-consciously conservative comedy
know those lights are flicking a little
bit here UFO above the hotel no this is
the wave of this land like they say
there's you know some type of reception
or there's like there's a talk going on
in the main lobby
but I think we get it folks the lights
flickering all right dr. chaos MD who is
a more annoying caller
passive-aggressive progressive or old
man racist let's do a thought experiment
Jesus please - annoying callers were the
same person can you guarantee that if I
read the bell curve and voted in the
2020 Democratic primary that I would
become a passive-aggressive racist old
man who calls into talk shows to waste
their time because I'm what is this
passive-aggressive progressive did that
happen the new guy he's the new i I've
I've had some run-ins well so I think he
actually called three days in a row and
I think he called in when we were right
up against the clock on Monday and I
don't even remember like he did
something annoying and then he called on
Tuesday asking to guarantee
hypotheticals which is a really bad way
to start a call with me guarantee
hypothetical University said can you
guarantee Bernie will win the primary
ice obviously look well yeah Brendan
gave him a guarantee so that was fair
week no wait a second you're gonna have
to give him money back or something like
that I just wanted a guarantee guarantee
no easy enough and then he said Inc and
then if Bernie loses which is a funny
sequence of questioning can we guarantee
that Bernie supporters will vote for the
Democratic nominee and I said you either
should identify your anxiety
where these stupid questions are coming
from but like I don't want to deal with
this is months before we're even
debating so thank you call back but
isn't the easy way to answer that is no
and no because you're not in a position
to guarantee any of those shores because
well I'm not in charge of the of the of
everybody who votes right both on the
primary and in the general well I did
convey that but I was sort of like gonna
give him an opportunity to stop framing
his anxieties in such a dumb way but
anyways yesterday I we took his call
again and first he started out of the
gate actually really strong by calling
me an effing prick which I thought was
funny so I so he bought himself some
time but then I apologized for calling
me that and then started to restate why
he was gonna ask the question he was
about to ask upon which I got genuinely
angry and I pulled to you with the Tulsi
collar and was like you we had filled
and hung up on him so that was the
sequence well hopefully he's trolling
the reason why I said to that caller
that they had failed was not had
anything to do with with Tulsi it had to
do now I understand it was they said I'm
got something but short and on point and
then they didn't have anything short or
on point so this was so what this
passive-aggressive call aggressive
caller is doing is he's basically doing
what the Tulsi caller did except not
even being like nice about it mmm I
don't know why you got to bring me into
this problem that you have with this guy
who at least you know well I just think
you know what it's worth you set the
tempo it's Amanda's rudeness to that
nice man it's we're off on everybody its
death by preparatory comment basically
right that actually that really is what
it is just spit it out West Coast
comrades CNN news alert this morning
claimed that the u.s. wanted Julian
Assange for his DNC email dump no word
of Manning that I do not believe is the
case but I don't know my concern bull
prod my concern with a weakened leak
stuff is where do we draw
line of what constitutes journalistic
behavior in criminal espionage if the
sources themselves are doing the
breaking in cracking codes etc without
the assistance of the publisher I think
that's fine but would we find a CIA
offshoot masquerading as journalist
publishing stolen classified info from
other countries of legit no I agree with
you I think the line is quite clear
journalists can receive this information
they can transmit this information they
can protect their source but they should
not aid in the action of getting that
information from the source IIIi think
the lines quite clear and the way the
indictment is being characterized is
that Assange helped helped Chelsea
Manning get the information as opposed
to protected his identity as a source
and I think that's where the line has to
be drawn and touched the band bill bar
looks like a bloated Stuart Smalley
dough link that's the other stoner do
you actually know what Bill Barr I just
have to say built someone did a side by
side shot of Bannon and Barr they said
bar looks like Bannon after being on
queer I and it was very well observed
dough link the other stoner during the
hearing was the reference to bars client
as Donald J Trump neither here nor any
questioners refuted that to say the u.s.
citizens are his client he acted like
the presidential attorney not ours the
investigation Shaheen mentions isn't
that the Nunez driven effort yes I
missed the part I I didn't I haven't
seen all of the hearing and so I missed
that part about him saying that Trump is
his client but the Department of Justice
did the the in no way is Trump his
client
Trump has White House attorneys and
personal attorneys and the Department of
Justice is supposed to be independent
and that's highly problematic
I think for him to perceive his role in
that way
meanwhile Donald Trump was in Texas and
was continuing his and there you know
it's starting to get a little bit scary
in terms of wealth it's continuing to be
a little bit scary there seems to have
been a major consolidation by Donald
Trump in terms of executing their
revanchist am I saying that right
anti-immigrant no Matt revanchist
revanchist anti-immigration policies and
demonizing those immigrants here's
Donald Trump at in Texas I guess it was
a roundtable presumably and near the
border where trumpets now lamenting that
we have Posse Comitatus in this country
essentially here it is
I'm gonna have to call up more military
but our military don't forget kids act
like a military would act because if
they got a little rough
everybody would go crazy so our military
can't act like they would normally act
or like let's say another military from
another country with it uh he is upset
that our military can't rough up
immigrants what other militaries are
doing that on the border on their
borders I mean any ones that we want to
emulate particularly I can't imagine I
also wonder how that would happen like
are we going to send our military now
into Mexico to rough up immigrants it's
just an incursion folks are we gonna
have the military despite the Posse
Comitatus Act of what was that like 17
18 I don't know I guess it was post
post-civil war 1880 1870 are we going to
rescind the Posse Comitatus Act and
allow our military to rough up
immigrants who come in and look for
refugee status that'll teach him just a
stupid law Posse Comitatus Hakuna Matata
Hakuna Matata folks and it's a big
threat to security you can't have a
country can't have a country got pasta
and pasta tamas kassey kupatana Stinson
it really does feel like Stephen Miller
is now his chief advisor is not a
country he's teaching those janitors and
from high school it's pretty stunning
meanwhile Donald reminds me of Barry
anyway of who well not the politest
the the KGB head under Stalin Baria who
like in addition to all of the crimes he
committed politically
was found to basically personally be a
serial killer anyways right just that's
my side job I try and the personal I try
and make the personal political crazy
sick I embodied the Chen's I seek in the
world
here's Donald Trump also in Texas
claiming that the Paris Accords which
are woefully oneself not up to the task
of dealing with the climate crisis that
we are facing but a decent first step
that the Trump administration has pulled
out of here is claiming that the Paris
climate Accord meant no more drilling
for oil and gas we were just going to
stop it it's weird because the climate
the Paris Accord still exists there's a
lot of countries signed on to it we had
signed on to it we were drilling more
than we ever had been when when Obama
signed that Accord and he wants to open
up Anwar which is a you know has been a
longtime issue in this country which is
a part of Alaska that is basically a
major reserve it's unclear to me whether
oil companies actually even are terribly
desperate to get in there or whether
there's any oil but the wants to open it
up because it's just one of those so
signifiers for the right here is at that
same or I guess it's still in Texas in
40 years we finally opened
Anwar in Alaska I don't know if you like
that yeah you like
like little competition we got to give
them George we have to give him a little
competition here right but that was
something you had heard of you know that
they've been trying to get that approved
since Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan tried
it they all tried to get any work done
and I had it at a plan I was close to
getting it done then I didn't like
somebody or something that somebody did
I said let's take it out of the plan why
should we do it then a friend of mine
who's in the oil business called
unrelated didn't have anything to do
with he says is it true that you're
going to get an award I said yeah I can
get it I don't know I think I'm not
going to though they don't appreciate it
they don't appreciate it at all he said
oh that's too bad because you know
everybody from Ronald Reagan all the way
up to you couldn't get it done
I said really oh I called up put that
back in the plan that was just a
competitive thing right
put it back wait you don't think these
shoes look good on me
okay let's lock up every immigrant in
the country like how insane has things
gotten what that is actually you know
whatever obviously most of it was
ridiculous with Omarosa but I remember I
don't remember where this clip was but
it might have even been on that reality
show she was on this how ludicrous
things are but she was saying like she
was expressing a lot of anxiety and you
know sure she's a sociopath but whatever
it's her intentions are secondary but
she was saying like this terrorism of
immigrants it's like he's about breaking
records like that's it
that's all he cares about so if that
means a record number of families
destroyed that's a record obviously the
same mentality I'm not I'm kind of
curious like who the people who almost
saved Anwar for us by not being stroking
enough of trumps right oh hey Dave this
major piece of ecology because they
didn't say that like Ivanka was hot or
something right they didn't stay at the
Trump Tower they didn't stay at the
Trump Hotel in DC I heard they went to
I heard they went to the Hilton so I was
like forget it they went to the Hilton
then all of a sudden I'm feeling like
John Murr sorry
I heard it before records all over the
place
and that will continue and then some
because of what we did right what else
should we play here do undo a the Bernie
Casey hunt well he oh yeah yeah let's
let's talk about this so ya play this
this is a Bernie now Bernie wasn't there
right
I was asked while he chid was on MSNBC
with Casey hunt and Bernie apparently
has commented I mean what I didn't hear
the original comment but he's going to
be releasing his tax forms I guess on
Monday is it he's releasing it on tax
day on tax day Monday and there's
indications that his taxes are going to
reveal that he has I don't know if he
has like a million dollars cash in the
bank but that he has assets it appears
to be about a million dollars or maybe
more that he may be a millionaire I
don't know but here is Casey hunt asking
well lead shaheed if that undermines the
premise of his running which is well
let's listen to this change hey Bernie
Sanders jokes about the fact that he's
now a millionaire from his book does
that not undermine kind of his his
premise for running and his attacks
quite I mean he's attacked millionaires
I can't even tell you how many times I
heard him attack millionaires and
billionaires on the campaign trail yeah
I mean the most of the book is about
attacking millionaires and billionaires
and I'd like to remind people that FDR
was very well
imposed some of the you know most social
democratic populist policies to take on
millionaires and billionaires in this
country
I mean he's sort of personally attacked
a group of people that now includes
himself right but he thinks that he
himself should pay a fair share that's
most of what the book is about at the
end of the day he did not you know he
didn't he wasn't born with a silver
spoon in his mouth he didn't marry into
wealth he's the son of a Polish
immigrant who whose family survived the
hall whose families were survivors of
the Holocaust and it's a very different
story than someone like Donald Trump who
disinherited his wealth from his father
a fair point Jeff Bennett walid you know
the weird part is is that that to me is
the least compelling point the fact that
he came from you know humble beginnings
and became a millionaire in this case it
was because of his book I guess but the
point that his policy prescriptions are
not a function of his being a
millionaire as opposed to the way most
millionaires and billionaires function
in the political realm which is to make
sure that they maintain their their
enormous wealth and the outsize
political power that it brings
there is no Bernie Sanders does not have
a any type of prescription that says you
can't be a millionaire ayoh sees a 70%
marginal tax plan I don't think I don't
know where that kicks in is it like was
it ten million dollars I think it was
over five five million but I mean five
Terry whatever the point is is that yeah
you can be a millionaire it's just that
you can't have such an excess of money
that it begins to destabilize our
society I mean I yeah
I had a conversation last night I was at
dinner with a guy who is a financial
adviser to two different financial
advisors who turned out to be
Republicans and as sometimes is the case
I will get a little bit heated in a
political discussion with them they did
not understand marginal tax rates they
did not like when I said like like the
70% proposal they're like are you really
going to take or 90 percent proposal are
you really gonna take 90 cents of every
dollar if someone makes three million
dollars and I was like no it's 90 cents
of the first dollar after three million
they're like oh you're a financial
adviser that doesn't surprise me at all
but I just think I also think that like
the other that is why I mean look I
think as like he should keep saying
billionaires and millionaires and he can
even turn it into a joke on the trail
and if there's a million it exactly
could do something funny like that and I
think you know and obviously I mean I
did like you know a long segment on this
yesterday including like you know we
discovered a lost tape of Bernie's guide
to intergenerational wealth which you
know it starts by moving to Vermont and
then you basically work your way up to a
dark horse presidential campaign so that
by the time you're you know and the by
the time you late 70s that's when you
write the best-selling book and that's
where the big bucks come in so I mean
anybody's talking about this in any type
of serious way is like self negating
because it's just so embarrassing and
stupid and you know I will say I mean
even us like as people I think
particularly me but you to all of us are
very fierce critics of Hillary Clinton
there was a point after 2016 especially
where it was like guys like you need to
like stop this personal fixation on her
and there's a contingent that has
exactly the same disorder when applied
to Bernie Sanders and they're the ones
who are obsessing about this but I get
more substantively to like I think that
is why at least you know
keep saying millionaires and
billionaires but I would say you know
millionaires can exist in our society as
it is constituted I think fundamentally
like billionaires can't exist as a
category in a democracy right like you
just can't do that and it is a
difference between like a thousand
millionaires I mean literally it's like
it is that it is if you can't understand
the basic analytic difference between
like you know you do well so therefore
you're gonna pay a lot more taxes so we
have a good society versus like the
reality of your wealth is a structural
barrier to us having a democracy that's
a difference right and and I think like
you know the the fact is is that Bernie
and is not calling for a society with no
wealth inequality no he's not he is
calling for a society without gaping
wealth inequality he has named Alvers
society without billionaires in fact you
want to use that its rightful right but
I think but I think there is a very good
argument that you should not be allowed
to accumulate that kind of money I
totally don't think you should be there
there should not be and I'm not sure
what that I'm not sure what that number
is
but I think that we could probably
social scientists political scientists
could work out a number where the
wealthiest person should not own X
number of times more than the least
wealthy person in a society I know or
you know the some averages but this is
going to be a big talking point during
the primary and if Bernie enters into
the general election it's going to be a
big talking point that he's somehow
hypocritical this is basically like you
want you want
medicare-for-all but yet you walk around
with an iPhone I heard the journey with
he buys groceries he has he has a winter
coat
I mean it's Bernie has an Amazon Prime
account
well that's the thing knows like that
that's the more serious inverse of it
right like these attacks on him are
stupid and petty and ridiculous and dumb
and embarrassing and we can debunk them
but the better way to read it is that
basically the subtext of what these
people are saying is like uh well Bernie
wrote a best-seller you can't have
health care now Bernie has a house no
college for you should have thought
about that guy Bernie wish Bernie
thought about that because now we can't
have a federal jobs guarantee or do
anything about climate change right and
we should also I mean the other the
other part of this too on some level is
the idea of like I think taxes should be
raised well why don't you just rate you
know give more to the government because
that's not taxes because taxes
definitionally apply everyone should be
subject to the tax structure we don't
just have voluntary giving to the
government because that's not taxes
taxes are money that you have to pay to
the government and Bernie lives in a
capitalist society and he is subject to
the same physics and whatnot as a
capitalist society and him giving all
the proceeds of that book to charity
still would not be the prescription that
he would want he wants that money to be
taxed at a higher rate than it is today
so maybe we actually have less of a
societal crisis that we need charity for
I mean that's it what sort of kind of so
breathtakingly cynical about it I've
also even seen the take and granted this
is less prevalent I don't I don't want
to drag Hillary in this but I have
actually seen the take that well how is
it different than the Goldman Sachs
speech yeah he's beholden to people
buying his book
which goes back to the the onion
headline which is like Bernie Sanders
totally in the pocket of the high school
teacher that gave him a 300 bucks oh
this is we got a lot of sound today well
let's do this
you know we talked about this a couple
of weeks ago almost to the day two weeks
ago in February of 2017
there was a myriad of media profiles of
Glenn Beck saying I'm sorry it was in
the New Yorker magazine it was in the
New York Times it was on Samantha bee it
was in the Atlantic on it on and on
Glenn Beck is sorry we need to come
together to fight against Donald Trump
and then a couple weeks ago
he's on Sean Hannity's program saying we
need to come together to real act Donald
Trump two years it took 24 months it
took for this guy to do his another 180
and here he is back in the saddle again
Glenn Beck George Soros lives and again
is up to no good very nefarious stuff
let's hear what is happening you know
that I feel bad for the president
because he is trying to fight something
at the border but that's not where the
problem is the problem in as I lay this
out in a chalkboard we've done about a
year's worth of research on this the
problem is actually coming from Chicago
there is a group as family that has a
United Methodist Church they're
preachers they're the ones that started
the sanctuary city they are directly
getting money from George Soros and
others and they are the ones that are if
I make quo
they are the ones that help charter the
routes arrange bus transportations and
negotiate with Mexican officials to
provide protection that's from the AAP
but when you find out who these people
are
let me let me quote another this I think
is from UC San Diego they said these
latest members of zealous group of
college students community
organizational z' strove to lead and
build national immigrant rights movement
visa vie casa informed by far left
politics Marxist Leninist thought a
communist ideology based on the theories
of karl marx
and vladimir lenin with an international
worldview they're calling for collective
mobilisation i lay this all out on a
chalkboard so where you can really
follow it and see what's going on let me
please you're not going to solve the
problem at the border i know that seems
rational but when you look at the
evidence we can't fight the enemy if we
won't call them by name and these are
communists american communists in
chicago that are taking loads of money
from george soros and others they are
orchestrating this and what they're
doing now is a human wave it was a
tactic used in china or by china against
us in the korean war where they just
throw a wave after wave after wave until
you just could fight it anymore
well the Vosges was happily and chuck
schumer and all of the others they know
about it and they are covering and
encouraging this this is an assault on
the republic Wow he wants to get back on
fox man Wow
Matt we turned down that that that is
first off the my first reaction to that
is that does not sound like a year's
worth of research
sounds like decade's worth of research
right I mean
it took you a year to find two articles
about a ragtag group of like of
basically you know North Brooklyn types
gaming in Chicago yeah it's like we
found it there be frenemies with
something called the anti fought they
use a company called patreon there's a
communist front I think they're just
like so funny because there was that New
York Times piece that came out the other
day kind of be like hey you know like
not all of your like woke Twitter
opinions have like anything to do with
the electorate and I think Len Beck is
just like that is the communist
conspiracy that runs the country at
least the difference now is at least
there is like a sub like a cultural
subgroup that actually exists like
versus pretending that Obama's a
communist the idea of Chuck Schumer
protecting these like far-left
operatives in America trying to get it
more no Chuck Schumer's like you have to
do the wave strategy it's what mouth why
does nobody remember the red book vihan
see Nancy hold off on the impeachment
until we mobilize the Chicago if Chicago
isn't activated impeachment will
actually be a counter revolutionary move
we're gonna watch the Guatemala's at the
border the way that that Chuck Schumer
activates the sleeper cell
I hope the Yankees beat the White Sox
this weekend the White Sox the Chicago
White Sox the Cubs are looking pretty
impressive in spring training I think
it's time for the White Sox to go to the
bullpen I have to wall up the Cuban
prospects I hope
[Laughter]
I hope the Cuban office already it's
time the White Sox looked to their
double a-team to activate the Cubans and
the Dominicans that are on that team now
bring your best that's when the the
Dothraki hordes that are hiding in
Mexico stormed the border if only where
are the retractions
where are the retractions like where are
the pieces written by these same people
like just like even just like it's a
short opinion piece sorry I don't know
why we thought that Glenn Beck was
actually a apologizing a good-faith
there is nothing to look in his past
that would indicate that we should have
trusted a single word he said I don't
know Samantha bee is probably working on
some dynamite Bernie drives material but
I always want to say that honorable
mention to Bob Garfield from on the
media right the great show now it's
great show and Glenn Beck was on that
during his tour and doing his shtick and
Garfield basically got him to throw a
tantrum in five minutes just by
reminding him like hey you're actually
an incredible demagogue and and Glenn
Beck had a tantrum and ran off and I
told Garfield that when I went in for
when I get fired from MSNBC before we
started the India I was uh I gave him a
personal kudos yeah it doesn't look like
at least Samantha bees had anything the
most recent thing was from May 31st 2018
where Glenn Beck warned Samantha bee
your regret insulting Ivanka so there
you go no all right we got time for one
more clip as I have got to vacate the
premises in a moment here is the house
financial committee Services Committee
unless anybody thinks that we should
play a different one but
alc discusses with jamie dimon why there
has been so little accountability for
the bankers and I should remind you JP
Morgan or I should say chase rather my
understanding is the chaser JP Morgan
got 3.6 billion dollars more in tax
relief this year 3.6 billion with a B
here is that question district I
represent Rikers Island
I represent kids that go to jail or
jumping a turnstile because they can't
afford a MetroCard do you think that
more folks should have gone to jail for
the for their role in a financial crisis
that led to 7.8 million foreclosures in
the
years between 2007 and 2016 mr. diamond
subway
and I think if people go to law they
should go together
and do you think that the failure to
hold more people accountable for the
2008 crisis is a feeling over failure of
our legal system look you have to talk
to a lot of legal experts about why more
people didn't whether they deserve to
grope the law
what's intent what's not intent but you
have to target VR
there you go
I mean these are the type of questions
that we should be asking you know and
that still remain a problem the just
that the incredible lack of
accountability that we saw of the people
who tanked the economy is stunning and
you know I mentioned that earlier that I
was at at dinner and two guys who I
didn't know but they came along with the
group who were financial advisors it's
fascinating to me because it can be tech
people than I'm talking to it can be
finance people that I'm talking to to a
person their response about government
regulation is always like well probably
the government doesn't know how to
regulate this and they just they can't
get it right and so that's why we
shouldn't have any government regulation
and basically all there you know there
should have been two types of
accountability one there should have
been much more robust statutory response
to what happened in the financial crisis
instead what we get is small-bore
technical regulations that ultimately if
they could be executed may be effective
but are set up to be knocked down by the
industry lawyers we see this time and
time again we've seen a dodd-frank
unraveled and and never fully executed
in many respects because of industry
lawyers and the other I mean we should
also have had criminal liability for
these people who defrauded tons of
people but this is why you need
regulation that is basically a meat
cleaver because it is gonna get some
things wrong but the net is going to be
positive when you try and go in
surgically and respond to industry and
make their their insistence that this be
surgically done in such a way that it
doesn't hurt industry a it fails
B it is unnecessary because the fact is
is that you know corporations can deal
on our far more nimble and Industry is
far more nimble in responding to overly
aggressive regulations then society is
to responding to under regulation they
were really worried about the light
bulbs and now we have a lot of great
cheap low energy light bulbs I mean just
for instance so whether it's cafe
standards or whatever regulation and in
statutory broad-based regulation Spurs
innovation in industry and there's you
know but this may be I'll talk more
about that that dinner later but all
right is there anything that we should
we do one more uh piece of sound or we
could save the Katey Porter one for
tomorrow that's the best one from the
hearing I thought okay yeah I'd like
that one as well all right I think we're
in pretty good shape let me read a
couple IMS and then I'll get out of here
and tomorrow on the show I'm not exactly
sure who will have frankly because
that's the way it works here you roll
the dice you Touche you roll the dice
all right I'll read five more ions
producer Lauren getting Greenwald but
not Malcom Nance of County well I don't
I don't but not by a Malcolm Nance of
Dutchess County I'm not sure
I get a look at that I'm not sure what
that is brother from Brooklyn Democrats
should be thankful Candace Owens it
shows that Republicans still don't take
black outreach seriously Democrats might
be in trouble if minority Republicans
look like Michael Steele or Glenn Lowry
Candace Owens isn't for black people
it's to make white white Republicans
absolute publicans are arriving to black
people that all of their racist beliefs
are shared by one black person standing
for Fleetwood Mac Matt would you be
interested in doing days of Rage by
Bryan Burrough on literary hangover
don't think about it Hank
William bar is horrible three Dems that
voted to confirm him a mansion cinema
and Doug Jones disco Stu all due respect
to the sex trafficking woman but her
moralism about society was god-awful
kids today are having less sex than
previous generations there plenty of
data on that you're right about that
you know I her politics were a little
bit uh you know strange to me and her
moralism I had problems with and and
frankly like that's funny you say that
because I that can count the amount of
times you said I'm not a feminist I'm an
equalist I bought morals Venus here
that's your Valley way yeah yeah I I
just be honest with you like I did not
feel like up to getting into an argument
with her about that after having her
explain her experience which I think I
was absolutely the wise and correct move
hundred cents not at all the right time
to argue with somebody about that David
Pakman the David Pakman I have formally
offered to mediate a debate between Sam
and Dave Rubin silence so far I hope to
see you at the conference Noah from
Tommy I don't know wow I don't I didn't
know Mr created the original song type
Arnold Sam are you dr. song I can't
follow you that all right and the final
I am of the day
Sam's tinder profile hey girl swipe
right and help me staff the tort for it
alright that was really good actually
that was good it's a return to form see
you tomorrow
[Music]
no sir
I'm gonna get
I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah
