[Music]
michael cohen is going to jail for three
years is that it yeah just got sentenced
to three years and and he will be
serving concurrent terms i think right
are those two separate terms because the
Southern District of New York felt that
he was not cooperative in their
investigations of him of criminal
activity that had nothing to do with
that had to do they have nothing to do
with the Mahler investigation they felt
he was uncooperative probably because
Michael Cohen has probably been doing a
lot of criminal things so so over the
years Muller however felt that Cohen was
cooperative in his investigation and
therefore said we would endorse a
concurrence of his criminal sentences
now Michael Cohen worked for Donald
Trump for what 12 years as his personal
attorney as his consigliere
and Donald Trump is named in that
Southern District of New York indictment
of of Michael Cohen it's why Michael
Cohen's going to prison for three years
Donald Trump was the one who directed
him to find a to imply or to assume that
Michael that Donald Trump did not know
what he was telling Michael Cohen to do
seems absurd you'd have to be a child to
believe that so there are criminal
allegations strong criminal allegations
coming from the Southern District of New
York against Donald Trump how will those
stalwarts of the Senate those people who
are to provide checks and balances in
the Republican Party because you know
the Republican Party is distinct from
Donald Trump they're not corrupt
they're just beholden they can't there's
nothing they can do let's here here's a
comp
of the Republican senators seem to have
no problem we have to get all the facts
and I'm gonna wait take a step back and
wait till we have a more complete
picture if you phrase it and my concern
that the president might be involved in
a crime of course his question is then
whether or not this so-called hush money
is a crime
Republican Utah senator Orrin Hatch took
it one step further
III don't care all I can say is he's
doing a good job as president I don't
think he was involved in crimes but even
then you know you can make anything a
crime under the current laws if you want
to you can blog way out of proportion
you can do a lot of things yeah that's a
former prosecutor isn't he orrin Hatch
yeah there you go
I mean I just did all I can hear is his
accent in the words rule of law as they
impeached Bill Clinton unbelievable
unbelievable I have a soft spot for the
raw power where's the consistency from
these Republican hypocrites I just can't
deal with it
hypocrites call him from a 5-1
