[Music]
and so in the in the context this
emerges Ilan Omar
basically saying and I think look I'll
just stipulate I I've I've kind of
removed the the nuance in my analysis
because I think there are times and
places for things and I think that there
was a time when maybe you could have a
carefully calibrated conversation we're
calling her anti-semitic or calling her
into question for criticizing Israel's
wrong flat-out wrong it's a smear it's
dishonest disgusting and then you could
say um some of her language
I particularly actually language that
she used the only one that I've been
identified to me was the hypnotized the
world tweet from 2012 and I think yes
that's legitimately ill-considered and
just strategically don't do that
but we're at a point now where a sitting
congresswoman has had a target put on
her back in a act of political terrorism
to keep her from speaking honestly and
freely on the conduct of a sovereign
nation state in the same way frankly she
has on many others and it's exposed
fault lines in the Democratic Party that
it seems to me people like Nancy Pelosi
are just not adroit enough to read
because you know there are those of us
who are you know in that coalition who
are younger who not only don't want her
to be in any way condemned their silence
we find the whole exercise to be bigoted
and disgusting anyway you can tell I
have a lot of feelings about this but
that's my preamble professor and feel
free to correct me or elaborate either
way no I'm with you I think you know
admittedly I think some of the brouhaha
is because ohana omar is coming from a
subculture right that doesn't practice
the the rhetorical nuances of American
politics and so you know people who grow
up in the United States are in politics
are aware you know that the Israel
lobbies are powerful and they may have
mixed you
things about this in some instances but
they don't think it's illegitimate
because they're also aware that there's
lots of ethnic lobbies in the United
States I mean Nancy Pelosi led a charge
to try to get the Turkish government to
admit it the Armenian Genocide why
because lots of Armenians in her
district in San Francisco and and they
wanted her to do that so I think that
the the line you cross is when you say
that the Israel lobbies are
manifestation of Jewish power that is
somehow illegitimate or as you say you
know the hypnotizes or is is somehow out
of the mainstream because it's not well
it's just how politics are done in the
United States if you have an interest
and you don't have a lobby then you're
stupid
and so I think she she doesn't she
didn't come up through that system right
and and in her subculture which focuses
on the in justices of the occupation
which is something that Americans don't
generally talk about I mean you and I
have talked about it here but let's face
it there is almost never a report on CNN
ah our MSNBC on what's going on in the
West Bank right almost never and and so
this is just not up for conversation and
so when what she's thinking about is why
is this massive injustice being allowed
to go on and why are people attacking
her for speaking out on it and and and
more particularly people who don't seem
to have a dog in the fight in ordinary
terms and then she's saying well you
know it's because AIPAC is directing
organizations to give money to their to
their campaigns it's all about the
Benjamins and and I had no problem with
that one
right sorry yeah the other side of the
coin that there's nothing illegitimate
about it either but but and that's what
that's what's objectionable to the
attacks on her is that she's now not
being attacked for
somehow suggesting that Jewish political
interest in the United States are being
expressed in a illegitimate way she
didn't say that she's being attacked for
simply pointing out the truth which is
that there isn't there are Israel
lobbies and they are influential and if
you're going to attack somebody as a
racist for saying that
then the word racist just has no longer
any any meaning well that's the other
amazing thing is that they're deploying
and you know again I always say that
some of my critiques of certain misuses
of identity politics go back in fact to
early conversations I had on Israel
where I was like no because I share an
identity with somebody I'm not going to
support them utterly subjugating another
group of people sorry and that's not an
argument let alone a justification for
the obscenity of these policies and so
we're in a situation where of course
then of course this whole conversation
is loaded with a huge amount of racism
and xenophobia and Islamophobia targeted
at her and then you know you're and then
you you have these grotesque spectacles
of Steve Scalise who literally called
himself David Duke without the baggage
employing the actually do actually
indirectly implying that she has dual
loyalty in terms of getting intelligence
briefings something that she never did
in terms of you know what people are
lying about what she said and it just
you know and I'm wondering though if the
dam is kind of breaking here I mean
Bernie Sanders had her back in a very
clear way and what's interesting is it's
it seems like everybody's showing the
ball because some people like me are
coming forward and saying hey look my
politics are such that I want everybody
to have full equal democracy cultural
rights security and protection in that
area and in my view that's probably some
type of secular by national state in my
ideology and then people like Brett
Weinstein who've been smearing and lying
about and in a very bizarre and sick way
Ilan Omar for a while are coming out and
basically saying essentially yes that
criticism of Israel is a form of anti
ISM which obviously in my view is in
fact anti-semitic because you're
reducing a incredibly persecuted and
global population to one nation state
which is inaccurate
oh absolutely well I think it's very
dangerous for the for the Jewish
communities in the world that this
principle of criticizing Israel as
anti-semitic get established because
first of all we've already discussed
about how politics in Israel is horrible
right if if you're not able to discuss
it or criticize it with without
implicating the entire Jewish community
then that is a you know a backdoor form
of extreme anti-semitism I although Jews
don't want to be tagged with with
Netanyahu and more especially with
Gahanna right so I mean this is enormous
irony that because of the backlash from
the Democratic Left Pelosi is now going
to only have a condemnation resolution
condemning hate speech but who is a
bigger purveyor of hate speech than
Benjamin Netanyahu the Prime Minister of
Israel so it's it's it's a little bit
Alice in Wonderland ish but I think that
you know representative Omar if she
manages to keep her seat and go forward
will eventually find ways of navigating
the the rhetoric that that's necessary
to deploy to be effective on this issue
and this is the one place I'm a big
supporter of hers I don't want on your
mind her but I do think if you're
talking about political effectiveness
that that there are ways of expressing
oneself that that maybe are a lot more
likely to result in an actual
achievement well I agree with you and I
think every indication is that she's
obviously incredibly talented and
diligent and she'll you know absorb it
and I think also not only strategically
but legitimately I think she's actually
clearly a very empathetic person whose
interest
and engaged and I will you know I'll say
you know I didn't think I would
contribute money to anybody besides
Bernie Sanders and it wasn't much but it
felt very satisfying to uh to contribute
money there her congressional committee
and I hope everybody else will do the
same because she needs I think I mean
this is a flaring but I mean ongoingly
she's gonna need to she's gonna need an
enormous amount of solidarity and
support to fight back against all of
just the lies and base bigotry that will
be targeted at her yeah
well the other thing to say though is
that what she's done is I think enormous
ly useful yes in the sense that the
Nancy Pelosi's think they're progressive
and have never done anything at all for
the the oppressed Palestinians who are
stateless and in some instances under
siege and in other instances are
actively having their property and the
right stolen from them by armed Israeli
squatters on their land and Pelosi won't
admit this has never admitted it goes to
AIPAC and talks about how the alliance
with Israel is essential to being
American which is exactly the kind of
thing that Ilhan Omar was complaining
about and and the Democratic
establishment has to come to terms with
the reality of the occupation which is
not going away which is going to produce
more and more crises in my nightmare is
that some some ways somehow the Israeli
far-right will find a way to destroy the
Dome of the rock and the mosque the Aqsa
Mosque and uh and and I have I think
they have no idea what that's going to
produce in the greater Muslim world
because you know in Iraq the Peter
Galbraith said that the most successful
act of terrorism in Iraq killed no one
which was the the blowing up of the
Samara golden dome which was sacred to
Shiites
and they kicked off in 2006 a massive
civil war in Iraq
and people care about these religious
symbols in ways that I think secular
pundits don't understand so there are
lots of things about the occupation that
could produce further conflict and and
very dire conflict but that's the one
that's foremost in my mind and so the
the you know the idea we could you know
Mitt Romney in 2012 was asked about the
air was really kind of like didn't he
simply just have to kick the can down
the road there's nothing that can be
done and that is extremely dangerous
professor Juan Cole he's the author of
Muhammad prophet of peace you got a read
informed comment if you want to
understand what's happening in the
broader meno region but also other
things like sustainable energy it's an
indispensable resource I learned so much
from you professor Cole thank you so
much for your time it's been great
talking to you
