[Music]
so do we have a defense Secretary of
Defense nominee already yes mark Esper I
don't know much about him this is for
Secretary of Defense confirmation
hearings it'll be interesting to see if
we end up actually getting a someone
who's been confirmed by the Senate for
one of the cabinet seats that's a rare
phenomena now you know why you go into
government business where you guys why
you go into government these days right
that is so that when you get out you'll
either land in a cynic your or your work
will just simply being handing over a
rolodex and you will monetize your time
in the government and you will monetize
that by selling stuff back to them you
want to talk about shrinking government
and saving money one of the first things
you would do would be to break the
relationship between the military and
people making money off of the military
right because that is the largest line
item in our budget that goes to products
essentially the other two line items in
our budget that are really worth talking
about make sure that people don't eat
dog food when they're retired and that
they don't go bankrupt because they
can't afford the basic health care those
things you might want to cordon off and
say we're not going to touch that but if
you really were concerned about
shrinking the size of government you
would break the relationship between I
mean you might get rid of the military
but if you know if you were one of those
people who feel like we need a military
you would break the relationship between
the massive amounts of money that are
made and our military and one of the
ways you would do that is by saying you
can't go into pride
service after this and monetize all this
stuff here is Elizabeth Warren asking
the Defense Secretary nominee if they if
he will commit to not work for defense
contractors even for a small period of
time after he leaves if confirmed will
you commit not to work for or get paid
by any defense contractor for at least
four years after your government service
no senator I will not all right so let
me get this straight you're still do to
get at least a million-dollar payout
from when you lobbied for Raytheon you
won't come out to recuse yourself from
Raytheon's decision you insist on being
free to seek a waiver that would let you
make decisions affecting Raytheon's
bottom line and your remaining financial
interests and you won't rule out taking
a trip right back through the revolving
door on your way out of government
service or even just delaying that trip
for four years after you leave
government secretary Esper the American
people deserve to know that you're
making decisions in our country's best
security interests not in your own
financial interests you can't make those
commitments to this committee that means
you should not be confirmed at Secretary
of Defense Center I think the
presumption is for some reason anybody
comes from the business of the corporate
world is corrupt so I'm asking
you've gone two minutes no I haven't
gone over has gone over and he's not
willing to make a commitment that he
will not engage in conflicts of interest
for which he was a lobbyist this is
outrage yeah there you go
I mean a thing it's really important to
you know that arms are one of our
biggest exports across the planet we
sell sophisticated arm systems including
to places that you know could don't even
fund basic humanitarian services and you
know even things like the Yemen vote I
mean yeah I think probably the there
there's other significant influences but
companies like Raytheon and
General Dynamics they lobbied
aggressively after that they're making a
killing off of fueling that I mean
that's that is how purely crude it is
they you will support a genocide just
for contracts it's I mean the guys still
getting paid out a million dollars been
secretary the Army for a couple years at
least I think it is I think under under
Trump and this is great who wants to go
into who the eff wants to go into public
service anymore
even if a decent guy like mark espera
gets accused of corruption and
malfeasance no one is safe from baseless
accusation and hearsay may as well stay
in industry indeed yes
yeah you should it's a Tom cotton
staffer yeah but what's the purpose of
staying in an industry if you can't
juice your rolodex I mean and even if
you look at you know these arms and just
people are all over the think tanks
there I mean it's a it's the same
problem as any of the other concentrated
industries we have it's just amazing
when you think the upshot is literally
making designs to kill people yep
I'm sure the arms industry will carry on
without them too
