I agree but here's the thing here's the
thing I agree that about the coward back
Crispin absolutely but here's the thing
as we said they're limiting that debate
stage to 20 people right so someone like
yang who claims to have passed this you
utterly arbitrary you know DNC tests who
get in the debates could still by the
rules that they've said already be
limited from the debate stage be kicked
off he could be kicked off well if
there's 20 other people in front of him
yes by the rules that they set out okay
but as well keep this in mind a DNC
press release isn't a binding contract
well that's right
I mean the only the only hold they have
over over the candidates are if you
participate in a in a rival debate like
if you if five of you set up an others
the only thing that we can do is lock
you out of the official but they can
lock me out of the circumcision for a
month well right I mean another way to
lock you out of it debate just by saying
we lock you out at the base that's no no
I understand that but that's but it but
I'm but usually what happens is I mean
certainly what happened in in 2016 was
if you go to any other forum to debate
if you agree to debate in any other
forum you will be barred from from
participating in our sanctioned debates
all right well let me ask you this that
how much will the debates matter if
there are ten people on a stage because
you're talking I mean let's say it's a
hundred and twenty minutes and then you
know maybe 20 of those minutes are tied
up in questions right as a minimum and
plot I mean you're talking about eight
minutes per candidate or something like
that over the course of two hours do
these debates ever really matter that
much and not unless somebody totally
screws up I feel it's what it matter
it's like the vice presidency they
matter in the negative matters for Trump
last time around yeah I'm just no I'm
trying to kid seriously consider the
premise that wasn't a leading question
or anything and I think yes right yeah I
would say so but it mattered not from
you know what was the entire you know
one hundred twenty minutes of it it's
just I
and full of specific clashes and
encounters that you know express
something that's unset right yeah I
think that get to the subtext of all the
falsity of this and that's what Bernie
didn't in 60s what Trump did in six I
think in in in primaries in particular I
think they make a big difference and
because you have much more engaged
electorate and there they're looking for
I mean theoretically right they're
looking for they may not be looking for
the the ideological granularity but
they're looking for they're looking for
more granularity than I think people are
looking at debates on in the general
election which is like good or bad this
one has I think at least some measure
nuanced but here's my point is that
Bernie was able to do what he was able
to do in those debates despite the fact
that they were on it you know 3:00 in
the morning on a Saturday night or
something because there was three people
on stage or maybe you know at worst the
most it was five right when Webb and
changing Chafee and Martin O'Malley and
and the it was so clear that Clinton and
Sanders were gonna be the two at the end
of this race even early on that the
questions were focused there now you can
have a situation where Bernie and Warren
let's say are not are gonna have a
tougher time it seems to me making these
stark comparisons when they keep this
abide Bernie had ample time when the
debates were one on one or one on two to
lay out his case lay out his vision of
America and lay out what distinguishes
him from Hillary Clinton he still lost
it's like just having the you know just
having more time and the time to
yourself isn't some you know guarantee
that you're gonna win in a race oh no no
of course not of course not but I'm
saying to the extent that that beto is
you know has is inauthentic and does not
have policies can you find that out when
he could get away with talking for four
minutes we'll all that be the chain of
the debate like I think I think an
advantage on the other hand that Sanders
and Warren might have is that all of the
center candidates will go at each other
beta will try to like fly above and then
if they coordinated correctly
Anders and Warren can both be like dude
what about you knows the trade votes
what about the banking votes what about
this this and that
you think keep in mind these are going
to centrist might do that's AB 802
frankly they they're trying to pivot
left but keep in mind these debate
stages will be decided by lot lot right
so we don't know who's gonna be on the
stage it could be you could have a stage
that's Beto and nine also-rans who are
all polling at 1% that's crazy
I'll be good well I mean I mean that
would be tough to imagine
like this could this could make just
just remarkable ridiculous exchanges
like you know we can get that that that
great side-by-side image of bernie
sanders and marianne williamson having
it out over you know we do what
visualize your way to social justice
do you think she's reading everyone's
chakras what do you think Bernie's
chakra is at this point awkward
