[Music]
Louie Gohmert was talking with Stuart
Varney and well this won't surprise any
of you but this happened Orwell's
mentioned George Orwell's big brother
I've been saying for a long time now the
only thing Orwell got wrong was the year
otherwise it was right on track but but
look Google has repeatedly sold their
souls and that's your your editorial is
dead-on right they want the 1.2 billion
or so folks in China part of their
system and their they've been willing to
to literally sell their so in you
mentioned oh well it also reminds me of
another George George Soros you know
because Google is born and it's in a
free country and then they go over and
oppress others help oppress in another
country george'll George Soros was
supposed to be Jewish but you wouldn't
know it from the damage he's inflicted
on Israel and the fact that he turned on
fellow Jews and helped take the property
that they own this same kind of thing
Google coming from a free country and
helping a press but China's been
oppressing for a while I mean I look at
email with people over there well what
can you do I mean you're on the
Judiciary Committee you're interviewing
us on the pitch ah I mean what can you
do well for one thing okay so fascism is
American that is I mean the George Soros
jokes are funny but the reality is is
that this guy's work is getting shut
down and hungry which is run by a
absolutely neo-fascist government part
of this far-right right-wing block and
deeply connected with steve bannon's
attempt to internationalize these
efforts of repression we had that guy
it's already off of the news who was
sending pipe bombs to the Obamas to the
Clintons it started with George Soros
and you have an elected member of
Congress who everybody gets if you're
watching the show that he's a joke and a
a jackass and an idiot and he's funny
and easy to make fun of and all the rest
of it but that's a member of the United
States Congress on the largest cable
news channel spreading not only lies
about George Soros like things like
George Soros was a essentially a child
or a very least a teenager escaping
Nazism going back to an old chalkboard
anti-semitic conspiracy theory from the
Glenn Beck days to smear this guy as a
Nazi collaborator it's actually really
dangerous and disgusting
it's in the genre of the protocols of
Elders of Zion first a hundred percent
on the heels of Facebook paying a
Republican firm to do anti-semitic
strategy because George Soros actually
sometimes and their billionaire
shouldn't exist as a category no one
should have that amount of assets it's
fundamentally antithetical to democracy
period if there's one billionaire maybe
Tom Steyer and I know I have different
politics than these people but they
occasionally put their money to some
actual civic minded things not just
Democratic candidates George Soros good
for him
has helped fund groups that are
concerned about the fact that
essentially Facebook is a engine of
fascism and a global stalker economy
Facebook under the obscene immoral
grotesque and disgusting leadership of
Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg
hired a Republican sleaze bag agency
who's one of the principals you could
formally could find on pot save America
to do a sort of you know jus baiting
material for far-right sites about
George Soros and it gets recycled and
washed with again this guy sure he's
like Elmer Fudd Wiley coyotes a jackass
a an idiot well he's a jackass
 an idiot who's in Congress and on
Fox News Fox Business to Fox Fox
Business I mean I know this from you
know relatives I go yeah I don't watch
Fox News but I do watch
business not a single bit better like
March aroma I would say it's worse yeah
honestly that's where they like farm
them right and it's and it's because
it's under this veneer of this is the
business news right like people are
complete marks for that thing yet the
idea of the business channel getting
news to the business channel is an
interesting sort of like 21st century
idea do you have any on what you want to
expand on that just that it's like
you're too busy with your business to
get all the news so we're just giving
you the most important stuff which is
going to allow you to continue to run
your business well and it it also like
makes markets seem like something
everybody can be a part of that's right
look at oh I I know what the Dow Jones I
per second by second update of that and
it's like who gives a what the Dow
is I was thinking yeah it's funny like
when you get your phone how that's like
a pre-programmed
app in it yeah ridicul I don't have any
money there yeah this is nothing to do
with like I hope it goes down right such
I know that's I know there's people I
probably like that's that's very I mean
come on let's not say that but I don't
care like I know well it's just it just
shouldn't like even if you did have a
modest investment in like a safe stock
right like it just isn't like you're not
part of it like that app cues you to
think you're part of something that you
are not a part of unless you're an
incredibly small fraction of people and
that's a huge thing for our generation
like I don't because I don't have I'm
not even remotely even close to
investing in the markets the idea that
you can invest in the markets and just
get money out of it is ridiculous to me
insane like I don't care about it I
don't care about preserving it I don't
care about the good it does like I I
think we need to deal with other things
and I if it gets and you care about the
bad it does well yeah exactly that's the
thing it's all downside to me
