[Music]
this is uh Susan Wojcicki is that our he
pronounce her name she is the YouTube
CEO and she is answering a question at
the recode code con i don't know what
about the having to respond broadly i
don't know if it's directly a question
about crowder but the idea that like
look you you supposedly support the
LGBTQ community but in your operations
of your business it's a little bit
harder to tell that your marketing
department seems pretty good at it but
and here is the here's the question and
the answer do you started off with an
apology to the LGBTQ community but then
you also said that you were involved in
that you think YouTube made the right
call a lot of people don't really feel
like that's an apology and are concerned
that YouTube flags lgbtq+ content just
for being LGBT as sometimes you know
sensitive and yet slurs are allowed and
I'm curious are you really sorry for
anything to the LGBTQ community or are
you just sorry that they were offended
[Applause]
so result I'm really personally very
sorry and I it was not our intent
our goal was YouTube has always been a
home of so many LGBTQ creators and
that's why it was it was so emotional
and that's why I think this really
that's why even though it was a hard
decision it was made harder than it came
from us because we've been such an
important home and and even though like
we made this hurt this decision which
I'm going to get into a little bit more
with your question but saying we've
really liked YouTube we have so many
people from YouTube from that from the
LGBTQ community and we've always wanted
to support the community openly in spite
of this hard issue that we've had right
now so I'm just saying people have
gotten a lot of criticism like why are
you still you know why did you change
your logo to rainbows even though you
made this hard decision and it's because
it's a company we really want to support
this community it's just that from a
policy standpoint we need to be
consistent because if we look if we took
down that content there would be so many
other so much other content that we
would need to take down and we are not
we don't want it just being a jerk we
need to think about it in a very
thoughtful way be able to speak with
with everyone will speak to people from
the LGBTQ community make sure that we're
incorporating that going forward in
terms of how we think about harassment
and then make sure that we are
implementing that in a fair and
consistent way going forward and you
know I think that it was it was a hard
week and across the board and I am truly
truly sorry for the hurt that we caused
that community it was it was not our
intention at all and I do want to like
not that I want to take away in any way
from the hurt or the challenge of what
happened this week but I do want to let
you know that many changes that we made
in the hate policy which again is a
different set of policies we think will
be really beneficial for the LGBTQ
community and there are a lot of videos
there and a lot of ways that that
community is attacked where we will be
taking down those video
is going forward and we will be very
consistent if we see that we will take
it down so again thank you for your
question and I really I really do
apologize for the for the hurt that we
caused now I know that YouTube is a
division of Google
I guess it's ABC is actually the company
alphabet is there a way to short Google
I mean YouTube in particular like is
there a way that I can invest money on
YouTube having some type of other
massive problem because wow did she not
think she was gonna get that question
was she trying to say we do support
LGBTQ folks and everything that we can
as a company that is not associated with
this policy we are working on it but the
policy thing is extremely complicated
because we need to thread a needle where
we're not censoring people where we're
not allowing this I mean the bottom line
is they're hiding the ball and the ball
is this they want to do everything based
on algorithm they want to have as little
people and evolved in this as possible
this is a business model and they cannot
say that because it's indefensible in
many respects they make a ton of money
like literally a ton like it would weigh
a ton
yes even if you had it in like a
thousand dollar bills it would probably
weigh a ton and they could go out and
hire people to do this job but they want
to make it algorithmic and so they're
constantly tweaking the algorithm to
figure it out I mean I can see it with
our videos the things that get
demonetised and I don't I don't get on
Twitter and complain about it it's not a
very high percentage but it's strange
there are certain words in a title that
will trigger it but then there are in
the ones that you cannot figure out why
why why was the ben shapiro when he got
on BBC that one got to monetized but we
have video saying ben shapiro is a
or something like that
not the monetized and i think a lot of
it again has to do well the reason why
is because the algorithm can't see it
and then they come and they say we've
manually inspected it but i suspect what
they actually are manually inspecting is
some they're checking that the data in
the data around the algorithm is correct
i think i just want to add to excellent
and i think you know of course the
bigger thing is break these up and and
they're monopolies and that's
fundamentally dangerous to the economy
and democracy but that's a great
opportunity to start asking them when
are you gonna hire teams of actual human
beings journalists fact checkers ask a
question regular gonna start oh no i'm
no no I'm talking to the clip though oh
next wave of being able to ask oh right
right
effective questions in a public fora as
some would say not me and then the other
thing I just to add to that and this is
you know this is really disturbing but
like they do hire human beings to do one
of the most disturbing jobs imaginable a
very good friend of Mines wife works at
Google
watching basically some of the most
disturbing videos in human existence
because they need actual human beings to
make sure that you know I won't even
describe it I think we all know really
hideous videos are not uploaded because
they can't outsource that to algorithms
because there's criminal liabilities and
things like that they hire human beings
to do that they hire therapists to treat
those human beings Buzzle so in other
words they can do this they can it's
that they're trying to expend as little
money as possible and they could come up
with policies that a human
being could follow that could interpret
like hey what is the context in which
these words are said or why is this
audience that maybe just watch something
that was hateful coming to watch this -
because I'm quite convinced when they do
a manual review what they're doing is
they're coming in and they're looking at
the inputs and I don't know what the
inputs are but I suspect that you know
part of it is the content but it's
really more the tags and the the the
titling and it is maybe a certain amount
of the comments but I'm convinced it's
also what videos have been watched by
this audience the last ten videos that
they've watched and I think when they
come in and they do a manual review my
guess is that they're saying like if the
inputs there's a threshold right that
triggers the algorithm if the inputs are
within let's say 10 to 12 percent or
within some margin of error that they
have established then they say the
algorithm could have made a mistake here
it's too close we're gonna let if we're
gonna let it be monetized whatever I
mean I I tell you this not because I we
don't get demonetised that often I tell
you about it just because I think from
the perspective of what I've seen this
must be what's going on because
certainly there are words that we can
put in a title I can assure you that
will get demonetised but then there are
times where there's no outward reason
why this thing should be demonetised if
the other thing is monetized absolutely
and just to add really briefly and those
words that we know include words that
you could understand that BIOS likely
even descriptively would indicate being
like an anti bigotry position so a way
in which they're drawing false
equivalency by the by the algorithm
right like I did a video I don't even
remember on which show it was but it was
something like the global rise of
Islamophobia gone immediately right
because even and my point being is like
that's a good example of how you know it
isn't a question of what is this video
actually saying about Muslims whether or
not it's a
action airy tract or a left-wing you
know sort of defense or even somewhere
in the middle of having a discussion
around issues related to this it's just
that is a problem word zone so
regardless of what it's doing it's gone
