from a four seven eight area code 478
who are you where you calling from
Michael Michaels Jeff Georgia how are
you today good how are you hey man I'm
doing okay hurricane passed by rigs okay
here good
I wonder what to talk to you about
Stacey Abrams and Brad care for
Republican opponent I want to make sure
the audience as a few things you did a
fine job with the the details that you
gave up top but Brad can't actually the
the current Secretary of State yep there
is a like as you mentioned about fifty
five fifty four thousand metaphorical
voter registration on his desk they're
not being fixed they implemented a thing
called they call it exact match for
several years here in this state where
is basically when you register to vote
if your name was not exactly the same as
whether your driver's license or social
security card one or the other you had a
problem and you'd be immediately be
registered this this was so bad that the
state actually was sued mmm-hmm and they
stopped doing it they settled in Bryant
camp himself settled and said I would
stop doing this the state legislature
turn around and put all that into
statute after the fact after it was all
found to have been racially
discriminatory which is an incredibly
should be an incredibly sobering thing
for any leftist to hear these people are
not playing around
you know they will it doesn't matter
they don't give a crap but but in any
case since since 2012 about 1.5 million
voter registrations at the cancel nope
in Georgia just for some perspective
only about ten point four million souls
that's men women and children live in
the whole state right and over six
hundred thousand of them in 2017 alone
so the the voter suppression problem
here is not just a little bit on the
edges as you might imagine they may be
kind of it it may be a fair amount and
more egregious thing and I think some of
your list
might be aware of that no I'm not to say
we can't win this I want to make that
clear I wanna make everybody I feel like
there's no hope you know pointing vote
now
Stacy everyone is not uh she's no one to
have to settle for to vote for I'd say
she's well to the left to Andrew Cuomo
Oh Sam sir sorry about that because I'm
and I'm sorry about that candidate
she got a solid platform so if you live
in Georgia check your registration I
believe that they like to get registered
was actually on Tuesday which was
touched on on the show but but it's not
but it you know I don't mean don't raise
a fuss if you can if you need to right
everyone get registered to vote and
everyone who's not in Georgia keep an
eye on this this is exactly the copy
these are exactly the kind of movement
that needs national attention if it's
not support in terms of phone banking or
financial contributions this is how we
move Democrat Party to the left and try
to make it a real force for change in
this country in the near term of course
I'm open to all means outside electoral
ISM but in the near term we need strong
leadership that's going to help us solve
a bunch of problems that are that are
making it credibly difficult to even win
elections that's the first order I think
all right Michael I appreciate your time
and thank you for taking my call buddy
yeah let me have a piece man thanks man
the point about we sit in peasant the
point about we can win is the
Republicans wouldn't be taking these
sorts of blatant reactionary actions if
that weren't the case that's exactly
right
if you recall the 2012 debrief after
Mitt Romney lost to Barack Obama it was
basically like we need to reach out to
different different ethnic communities
in this country actually you do and
instead they just doubled down and now
have to employ tactics like this so they
know I want to have that sort of I
wonder if that's sort of what's going to
happen with our reaction to the climate
reports yeah just started having just
double down Howard I mean that's what
Trump's like seven degree yeah he's been
doing it and like nobody mentioned this
the other day but here's where avenged
Oh Christianity comes in right you don't
really care about climate catastrophe if
you think you're going to be raptured
soon right I think there's a significant
degree of that in this country and some
of like a lot of these people in power
also believe this
maybe not all of them but the surprising
amount I'd like to see someone go out to
every Republican oo Senate office this
week and ask if they've read the report
or their aides have read the report I
feel like somebody already did that for
public in snores acknow yeah yeah they
know what's in it
they don't care an agenda right I
actually like I was seeing on right-wing
Twitter some folks were accusing this
report of being made up by leftists as a
conspiracy to try to end capitalism
right which is funny to me because they
agree with my assessment of this report
that the only logical solution is to
transition to some sort of global
socialist society and they also agree
with me which is that science leads
people to be leftist which is how I got
here
any sort of sort of I'm extremely
skeptical of that most of the whole new
atheist Sciences awesome community has
actually trans - that's ok if you want
to define science on your terms then
you're absolutely right but imagine
playing a definition game then in the
hands of the left science has a valuable
role to play let's just say that science
is useless I hate science
no of course not
