[Music]
this is interesting we talk about Joe
Biden's desire to add a public option to
the the Affordable Care Act even one
that people could buy into as opposed to
just being limited as the ACA is now to
people who don't have an option of
getting health insurance through their
employer or any other way and subsidies
only being available up to a certain
percentage of of wealth in this country
certain percentage of poverty and the
idea that you know costs are crazy the
real question is like how do you cut
costs well here is the form of Medicare
Administrator dr. Don Berwick he was
under this is under Obama he explains
why the public option at a House hearing
will not be sufficient for for
containing medical costs I'm a little
worried about the public option for a
kind of technical reason insurance
companies want to provide insurance to
people that don't need it that's how
they make money and so anything that can
be done to game risk so the public
option will be used by all the people
who really need the insurance insurance
companies would then try to find ways to
have people who really need care go to
the public option which would enrich it
would make it would be a good business
case for them and that's not good for
the country so look I mean this is an
extension of the argument as to why you
can have private insurance if you have
Medicare for all it just needs to be
supplemental to what is offered in the
context of Medicare for all and because
if you have it compete with Medicare for
all the insurance companies are going to
try and I don't know if they'd be able
to do it if Medicare for all existed and
you still had competing insurance I mean
I guess in my mind it's an open question
for some it's not as to whether
you would have enough people who enter
into the medicare-for-all program so
that the risk pool that is all the
people who are involved in the program
is the risk is dispersed amongst more
people the whole nature of of insurance
in terms of health anyways and probably
other I mean this is just the way
insurance works it's a small number of
people who are going to be responsible
for the highest number of costs but the
point is we don't know who those people
will be over the course of a lifetime
now once you've identified them if
you're the insurance company and you
want to insure people you want to make
sure those people are not part of your
risk pool and you want to offload them
and if you offload them into a system
where only a certain number of people
are paying into the system because
they're buying in as opposed to it being
taxation on everyone you'll have a
higher percentage of people who will
need the service and that's when
insurance breaks down so I think the
question of private insurance is
overblown everybody needs to pay into
the system they want to get a different
insurance program that's fine but I also
think you need to make like the vast
majority of doctors and service
providers also be part of the system and
that's easy to do I think you can't be
you can't get accreditation unless you
take a certain percentage of Medicare
patients and at that point if
everybody's paying in and everybody has
access to the same doctors really
doesn't matter in my mind what happens
with private insurance or not but
Natalie sure actually though made some
really important points about this that
basically if you still have a system
where doctors and she's much heavier in
the details I think probably than any of
us certainly me I am still the
systematic brilliant and if you have a
system where basically you need to have
the doctors only built to Medicare
essentially because that cuts the
there's additional like the real
clarifying distinction of
medicare-for-all is free at the point of
entrance right like you just need to
have a system that eliminates the
possibility of people having to play it
paid adduct opposed and co-pays when
they actually seek treatment we all
understand that you know it goes through
the tax dollars of course but it needs
to eliminate the capacity of the system
to charge people at the point of
purchase or create any additional layers
of bureaucracy so I mean her argument
basically is like sure if there wants to
be like a private insurance plan that
deals with things that are not primary
essential medical care like that maybe
deals right you know let's sure that's
when we can all sure that's okay but you
cannot have her view is that it
jeopardizes the whole well because you
don't why the doctors to opt out or this
is I sleep well but what I'm saying is
have it filter through the systems there
are other mechanisms that you can use to
ensure that they're that they have to be
part of the system I mean right now we
have it's arguable as to whether trap
laws are legal to inhibit your ability
to get the Constitution to have access
to the constitutional right of abortion
right like if Texas this one was struck
down although I questioned as to whether
the next one will be can say that you
need to have 16-foot ceilings to perform
abortions and otherwise you're not
allowed to perform abortions in these in
these offices seems to me that you can
say like if you're going to be licensed
as a doctor part of that licensing
requirement is you must accept 85%
Medicare pay patients 90% Medicare
patients maybe you know as I mean that's
and then boom you want whole private
insurance god bless you but it you know
maybe it's for when you go into the
hospital that you get like a gold
gold-plated bedpan or something like
that
but I think broadly speaking there are
other ways to do that I think is my
point now maybe that's maybe maybe it
would be harder to do it that way I'm
not convinced
that it would be I think at that point
you would see private insurance go it
stinked more or less on its own I mean
it's not a terribly viable business as
it stands unless unless they can be
guaranteed to offload the sickest people
and in this instance it wouldn't be an
opportunity to do it it wouldn't hurt
the funding because everybody would have
to pay the taxes regardless of whether
you park pay you know are involved in
the system or not if there is a if
there's a problem with requiring doctors
to take a certain number of Medicare
patients as a function of their
licensing I'm not aware of it but yeah
it seems like that's a good argument for
Medicare for all being a non reformist
reform which is to say a reform that
picks up its own speed and causes a
chain reaction of things going in the
direction we want to go so like for
example like you just said private
insurers go out of business people
aren't using them anymore it's not
because we made a law against them it's
because this is what the reforms
triggered we have basically taken their
space to perform profitably away from
them and I mean the only reason why I
mean I think just from a political
standpoint on some level it makes it
easier but I don't know maybe there is a
reason why you can't compel doctors to
take Medicare but it seems to me I mean
you can do I do worry what's gonna
happen with specialists right now that
don't take insurance at all but I
imagine it would have a hopefully a
positive effect because the bureaucracy
right now of dealing with insurance
companies it's just so much that the
best doctors don't have to do it so they
just won't right like I see all
specialist that doesn't take insurance
and it sucks been there
