[Music]
so let's talk a little bit about to the
more robust immigration plans that we
have out there now look somebody on
Twitter was complaining that we haven't
done enough coverage of who lien Castro
and like you know there are 20 there are
20 candidates he's not pulling at even
2%
I think his immigration plan is as good
it seems to be the most aggressive of
all of them on some level Elizabeth
Warren has adopted a bunch of it quickly
in terms of Castro's plan in addition to
him having a calling for what he calls a
Marshall Plan for Central and parts of
Latin America which I wouldn't trust his
version of that well that is well that's
my other reservation you the question
marks but the idea of it floating around
is good it can always be problematic
when it's in but the idea is to try and
rebuild the institutions of of these
countries since we have interfered in
their development and have made these
countries in many instances extremely
dangerous for people which is why and
untenable for people it's why they they
they migrate here he calls for the
government to get out of the business of
routine immigration enforcement
immigration and customs enforcement
would retain its investigations unit but
enforcement in removal would see its
function split over different agencies
and would prioritize individuals with
serious criminal convictions and threats
to national security
multiple reentry's with a criminal
history Customs and Border Protection
would be steered away from routine
immigration enforcement within the
United States DHS would stop signing
agreements with local law enforcement
agencies immigration to
could only be used in the most serious
cases it would end the use of private
prisons immigration courts would be
removed from the Attorney General's
authority so you can't get stuff like
Jeff Sessions saying you no longer gonna
consider domestic abuse or threats from
gang violence to be legitimate causes
for asylum those are the big points on
Julian Castro's immigration plan ah
Warren adopts a lot of that particularly
the 1325 thing that that Castro brought
up in one of the debates that is the the
1325 title eight is the law that's been
on the books that says it is a crime to
cross into the country without documents
before the Trump administration every
administration prior to that to my
knowledge at least for the last twenty
thirty years had been interpreting that
and basically doing prosecutorial
discretion and saying that it instead of
it being a criminal violation it was a
civil violation sort of like a like
speeding ticket and if you got a
speeding ticket you can't separate the
children can't kidnap them uh you don't
you don't put these people in prison say
you got a you got a court hearing go and
come back and that system is what worked
well one of the things that Castro and
Warren would do would be to reverse that
executive order and get rid of that
statute so that it cannot be interpreted
in the way that the Trump administration
is doing warrants pledging to emit six
to eight times as many refugees as Trump
has although that that number is to win
I don't know what the base number is on
that that number is dwindling
significantly
she would implement proposals that would
make it easier for asylum seekers to get
their day in court they would of course
expand dreamers and temporary protected
status for folks she would reverse the
1325 she would also get rid of
government contracts from private
detention facilities as well cut down on
the use of detention for migraines
awaiting their day in court
altogether proposes making immigration
courts independent like Castro no Roarke
calls reinstating daca pledges to admit
a hundred and twenty five thousand
refugees in her first year as president
175 per year at the end of her first
term reverses Trump's restrictions on
those seeking asylum to again to include
victims of gang violence and domestic
abuse and the remain in Mexico policy
which the administration's are used to
require asylum seekers to wait on the
other side of the border more support
for legal ingram immigration including
redistributing unused visas to address
the millions of currently in the backlog
waiting for a way to enter the u.s.
lower the barriers to naturalization and
so forth I mean I think Castro's
probably a little bit more aggressive in
terms of not just decriminalizing but
allowing more folks in but there needs
to be I think still a a set of policies
that are more clearly can be espoused be
in you know frankly in a bumper sticker
on some level I think open border scares
people frankly the vast majority of
Americans I think would recoil at that
but there can be sort of broader
principles like we're gonna give
everyone who wants citizenship a path to
citizenship we're going to
give everyone who is seeking asylum
based on certain criteria rights to
asylum that I think you know broadly
speaking you could say everyone who
comes in with you know non criminal
record or at least some mitigation of
that or maybe you've served time or
there's no open warrants for people or
something to that effect there's got to
be a way of doing it where you can say
we're gonna have control over our
borders we're still gonna let people in
we're just going to we're gonna do so in
a controlled and orderly fashion but
we're gonna let people in because
immigrants add to our society and that's
that yeah I actually kind of agree with
you about the term open borders I mean
within the left it means something very
different I think than what most people
understand it to mean it means mostly
it's an umbrella term for what you just
said decriminalization of migration a
path to citizenship all the things that
most of us agree are good I I would ask
people to focus more on the idea of a
free movement of people rather than open
borders because it's too easy to
conflate open borders or free movement
of people with the unfettered free
movement of capital which is not the
left's project that is a neoliberal
project yeah and I think I mean these
proposals go a decent way towards some
of this anyways but and so I had you
know said that there was really not no
proposals out there that were
significant I guess last week and so
wanted to address that and that's it no
more Julian Castro sorry sir that's
probably it's not happening that's
probably his record at HUD is terrible
that's probably really not good very bad
and very bad for you but I appreciate I
mean that you know this is this is the
the the this is the point of this stuff
and let me just while I'm at it I'll
talk about Bernie's Labor proposal
because you know if
Julian Castro's contribution to the to
this race is that Elizabeth Warren
adopts a bunch of his proposals and gets
it more into the mix forces other
candidates to adopt similar proposals
that's great
like the Bernie roll from eggs exactly
where I was going like not to bring up
the horse the dumbass horse whisperer
again but whoever that anonymous guy who
turns out to be a corporate PR guy now
maybe he's not cuz I don't know who he
is but he didn't deny it guy who's paid
to represent the interests of
corporations I'm not I'm saying that
literally that's literally what he gets
paid to do was critiquing Bernie Sanders
claiming that Bernie Sanders stayed in
the race to sell books in 2016 now I
think people can have complaints about
anything that is real if people want to
complain that Bernie Sanders stayed in
the race longer than they wanted him to
fine that's your opinion but when you
look at every policy proposal that is
out there and if you support Joe Biden
well I have you then this is not for you
but for the rest of you every single
proposal that the candidates are
promoting in some way and I would argue
in a very large way is a function of
Bernie Sanders pushing these proposals
in the first place all the stuff on
health care this conversation would be
radically different at Bernie Sanders
dropped out of the race in January of
2016 the it would be radically different
on health care it would be radically
different on labor
Elizabeth Warren would not be pushing
the labor stuff that she's pushing on
other I mean to a certain extent maybe
climate although I would imagine they
would all be pushing it fairly
significantly but without Bernie Sanders
the primary argument that is existed in
the Democratic Party at this point would
would not be he would not be happening I
mean it would be basically like how can
we shore up parts of the ACA that's it
that's it button would be defining it so
having people like Julian Castro in
there putting one proposal forward that
gets picked up by the others that's
great I'm down with that which is also
why I love this that Sanders is
unveiling this because it's hopefully
will put pressure on the other
candidates to adopt the similar I mean
the idea is that we want to push the
Democratic Party to the left like to be
in a position to execute these proposal
but the point is if the Democrats are
running for the next 10 15 years on
these proposals they adopt them when
they get into office they're going to
have to push them
