so Zoe this week the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change this is the UN's
I guess a panel arm which is tasked with
assessing the risk of climate change
came out with a new report and it it
didn't set off probably the alarm bells
that it should but it certainly set off
some yeah and for good reason the report
was really striking in terms of its
conclusion that the goalposts you know
to use a metaphor has moved slightly in
a more difficult direction and what I
mean by that is that we've been talking
about two degrees Celsius as the
threshold that the world needs to stay
under in order to prevent the most
catastrophic effects of global warming
but what this new report really found
into the top line finding is that really
it's 1.5 degrees Celsius and and that
the thresholds that the world has to
shoot for if you want to prevent some of
the most significant effects such as
severe coastal flooding the complete
die-offs of coral reefs things of that
nature alright and so it just to be
clear you know when we say two degrees
Celsius we're talking about three point
eight is it degrees Fahrenheit somewhere
around there right the one point seven
maybe ten the three point four degrees
in Fahrenheit but we're either way we're
talking about it's 25% less than we
thought it was what why is it why is it
the case that why is it the case that
that that things have progressed I mean
have they progress faster than we
thought or do we have more information
now about the the threshold like what
happens at certain thresholds it's a
combination of both
we're definitely scientists are getting
a much better understanding of likely
effect
via more modeling via studies of what
happened when we had temperature
fluctuations in the past in arts history
but also what we're seeing now is
greater awareness and a greater
understanding of feedback loops so the
ways in which climate change cascades on
itself and so an example of that would
be something like the melting of the
permafrost you know which it which
contains vast amounts of methane which
is a very potent greenhouse gas so
climate change speeds up the melting of
the permafrost which therefore releases
more of the same gases that are driving
climate change thus making the problem
worse and so those types of feedback
loops are beginning to happen although
we haven't hit critical tipping points
on the permafrost just to clarify I'm
just using that as an example so
awareness of how those kinds of
processes could speed up and worse and
climate change but has made the
threshold of them lower I see so the
idea being that the there's the the the
the process I guess of warming
accelerates itself at a rate in which
we're only starting to to understand I
guess as we see this trajectory I mean
so it's quite possible in two more years
we could find that that rate has even
increased even more so than we
anticipated
right and actually this report doesn't
actually go into those feedback feedback
loops which was one criticism of it it
seems somewhat conservative in its
evaluation or its lack of evaluation in
those feedback loops part of the
challenge in the risk is we don't really
know where these critical tipping points
are so we don't know exactly what degree
of warming will cause a dramatic
collapse of the ice sheets that were
we'd to run away sea level rise so those
are the unknowns in climate science that
are incredibly important and something
to keep an eye on for the next couple of
years as the researchers answer what
what is the process I mean what
we say the intergovernmental panel on
climate change like what is that body is
it half a dozen people but what it what
is the body explain it to us so I say
it's a UN body and so it's this report
wasn't doing new science on its own this
report was essentially compiling I
believe it was hundreds in the in the
realm of 700 different studies related
to climate science and looking for the
most rigorous analyses and by rigorous I
mean peer-reviewed you know to high
scientific standards done by accredited
scientists and recent research trying to
answer some of these questions about
what the effects of warming will be and
what are the pathways to solving this so
this is an essentially this is
essentially an ionization and a
synthesis of all of the best and most
current scientific literature around
climate change my understanding is that
in the past the criticism that has been
leveled at the IPCC I mean there's
really I guess there's there's two types
of criticism one is that this is all a
hoax and that the somehow the IPCC is
getting rich off of this or they're
getting they enjoy the attention or
whatever that is that is a position that
is held by only one major political
party in the world if I can if I'm if
I'm not mistaken that's the Republican
Party the other criticism has been that
the process there is I mean like any
human endeavor there's a certain amount
of small P politics involved and there
is a sense that like they wanted to hold
back and not be as dire in many respects
so that they could have broader you know
broader support is is is your sense that
that's still going on like at some level
are they being too conservative because
they want to make sure that they still
maintain a sort of 95 98 percent
assuredness there have been criticisms
of the IPCC as you're saying for being
conservative I think
part of that reflects a general tendency
in the sciences to be conservative with
projections to not to not go overboard
or risk going overboard in projections I
think part of it also is that yes there
are politics behind it a bit and there
was some concern that this report would
be watered down because of complaints
from countries that rely on fossil fuels
for a large part of their economic
growth including the United States and
Saudi Arabia for example the what we've
seen or what we've heard in the last
couple of days since this report came
out is that nothing significant was
changed after review however the two
main criticisms are the two things that
have been pointed out as potential
omissions from the report is discussion
of feedback loops and runaway wanting as
we previously talked about and then also
that there's no mention of the potential
for major refugee crises due to climate
shift particularly for the tropics
regions and the fact that many people's
homes may become uninhabitable if we
don't stay beneath that 1.5 degrees
Celsius threshold all right well so
we're gonna take a break when we come
back I want to talk about why we can't
seem to do anything about this and to
the extent that and I guess that's a and
by we I mean the United States and then
I guess a I don't know if it's a
subsidiary question or maybe perhaps
it's a first-order question does it even
matter what the United States does I
mean you know it seems that my
understanding and you can correct me if
I'm wrong when we return is that China
is is also if not a and equally as big
contributor a bigger contributor to
global warming and what role should the
United States play what role can it play
in terms of influencing China and then
lastly like are we just basically
whistling in the dark when we have a
political party that's running our
government that doesn't even believe any
of this stuff is true we're gonna take a
quick break when we come back we'll talk
to Zoey carpenter about these questions
surrounding the IPCC report
my name is Sam cedar is running a fire
radio back in a minute
