[Music]
so this happened on the Joe Rogan show I
guess the other day folks look
apparently Dave Reubens going through a
tough time right now but and whenever
there's you know like look I don't care
about Dave Rubin the person I don't he
could be a very nice guy he could be a
very complicated guy he could be a very
simple guy he could be a deep thinker he
could be a shallow thinker that is
wholly irrelevant to me what is relevant
is he's out there with a massive
platform he's writing a book apparently
it's been it's been in the works for
quite a while he purposely or on
purposely consciously or unconsciously
disseminates misinformation and makes
what I think is a very disingenuous
argument about the left about the right
about what constitutes the center
he works for turning-points USA
he works for has worked for various
libertarian outfits he is a right-wing
spokesperson he may personally you know
be against the death penalty and be
reluctantly pro-choice be reluctantly
pro-choice although apparently that's
changing tough these days I wondered
would at one point he was simultaneously
for a single-payer health insurance and
shrinking the size of government
now that is impossible and I don't know
why he held those two positions until he
was called out on it but
apparently this is very disturbing to
some people out there that we are trying
to hold Dave Rubin to account here is a
Joe Rogan and Eric Weinstein who is a
member of I mean I know the member like
considered one of the charter member
intellectual dark web I believe that
there are sophisticated players who are
engaged in trying to either boost our
signal or start to alter the signal
somebody will be up somebody will be
down and then there's like really weird
dynamics I think that there's a very
strange thing going on not with Dave
Rubin but with the crowd of people that
is just trying to eat Dave Rubin and had
been blind him and confuse him mmm
and as you know there's this guy Sam
cedar who do you think he's a Russian I
hope he is well I don't know I don't
think he's Russian but I do think that
his his I think he has a grassroots
following I don't think this is
inauthentic that just loves to dark
harass well a dunk drag I hate this
language I just get honking I like the
word dunk oh really yeah that's fun no
I'm not I'm not a fan no no no because
it's just it cheapens all converse oh
you got dunked on you got dragged just
like oh this is that thing in third
grade that I never figured out well they
found out that he won't engage them and
so they think it's cute to just
constantly on them and they also
think it's cute to take anything that he
says and interpret it in the worst
possible way possible pause it for one
second now understand I mean it's not
cute it's not we don't do this for
cuteness
it'll be very explicit as to why I think
it's important that we do this and that
is because when the New York Times and
goes and gives Dave Rubin and frankly
all of the members of the IDW some type
of legitimacy when reporters go in
and uncritically report or do features
on dave rubin i think when we started
this project there was a lot of that it
further promotes the dissemination of
this type of misinformation right-wing
propaganda and also this the whole
premise of the IDW it seems to me which
is in some way linking just cry clouded
by the notion that this is an
intellectual that it's intellectual and
that it's dark web both those things are
not true the dark web planted thing is
obviously ridiculous they these are
people who are on the literally the
biggest platforms that exist online
these are people who have been featured
in magazines in the biggest newspapers
in the country these are people who have
more access to the web and to everything
else to the light than anything and then
the fact that this is intellectual and
intellectual pursuit is also ridiculous
there is no soundness I mean this Eric
Weiss team is a obviously a very smart
guy but Joe Rogan is about to explain to
us right now that the guy who has been
the conduit for so much of it apparently
according to him it's not I don't care
if Dave Rubin is dumb or smart it
doesn't matter to me it's irrelevant but
when whatever comes out of his mouth
hits our body politic it's bad and I
want to stop that and I want to stop
that insofar as man I want to stop him
actually talking about it I want to make
sure that the way that it's received by
people in the way that it's mediated to
people in the same way Dave Rubin has
what's his face stefan molyneux and says
we're both centrists he is mediating in
midwifing stefan molyneux
in mainstreaming him and in the same way
that he does that unencumbered I don't
want that to happen with Dave Reubens BS
and so we're trying to intervene to the
extent that we can
but here's Joe Rogan making I guess what
what is some type of an excuse for Dave
Rubin and not think of it as him just
being a guy who's trying to talk about
things on the fly and maybe isn't even
prepared about the subject at hand like
one of the things that comes up on this
show like you know we were talking
before we were gonna go on there we were
and talk about Mike come on let's just
talk yeah and so when you do that come
on let's just talk thing yeah you never
know what the is gonna come up and
you might have a piss poorly formed idea
of what a subject is if you just I
ramble yeah that's what I've done in my
two previous well no here's not but it
seems you know so we do about three
hours every day on this show maybe two
and a half really is more accurate and
yes I will cop to reading and preparing
for what just what the day's news is and
with I'm interviewing somebody I will
read their work and I will read about
their work and I will read interviews
that they've done and when we come in I
look at look at I have very extensive
notes about what we're gonna do today
don't be a ballistic but to say I can
get on a platform that has a half a
million or a million or two million
subscribers to do things that I know
that ten thousand or fifty thousand or a
hundred thousand or 200,000 or 300,000
or half a million or a million people
are gonna watch and say I I wasn't
prepared and I just was like
bullshitting that's not a defense he
said he wanted to talk about calipers in
people's brain says uzuki I didn't read
that I was doing demographic comedy
that's not a defense
that's not a defense if you invite a
guest on to your program if it happens
once maybe that you don't have a clue as
to what they're gonna talk about but you
know you having them on because they're
there's a lot of attention around them
you should find out what that attention
is about yeah it's not like dave rubin
talks to these people about like their
iOS cat rips or like yeah that is one of
the Raynaud's shows is different but
here's the thing I would say what Joe is
doing for Dave and what they're all
doing collectively right now was
encapsulated in a phrase from a
different time the time that means a lot
to Sam which is the soft bigotry of low
expectations well indeed I I have higher
expectations for people with these
platforms well you can do a little guest
prep of my authors you do a little
desperate it's irresponsible taste it is
it's incredibly irresponsible now I
don't know if it's fair to take Rogen's
word for it that that Dave Rubin just
doesn't know what's going on half the
time but if that that's certainly not a
defense but let's let's hear there's
there's more speculation as to what
we're doing
idea of what a subject is if you just
are ramble yeah that's what I've done in
my two previous well no you're not but
it seems you know it's easy to think
that you did that
but with Dave you know there's enough
moments where he's misstepped
where they just feel like okay we got a
wounded antelope yeah they're trying to
pick him off and you know I think there
was probably a move to do Shapiro and
there was a period where you were
seemingly in the crosshairs but you're
hard to kill and you know I have no
doubt that I was in the crosshairs I was
noticing see that's the that's the
benefit of not paying attention and this
is something that I've been pretty
rigorous about over the last like six
months all the years you Sam Harris and
Dave Rubin have all given me versions of
this advice and I worry about it because
I'm not large enough yet that I've been
the target of a steady campaign but what
happens is
you see people's feedback loops
interrupted I mean it's not a feedback
loop that's being interrupted
it's the feedback loop it's that's what
the feedback is see I mean this is the
thing is that for the IDW the idea of
people coming back with criticism
that has already been acknowledged as
grassroots that is an interruption of a
feedback loop but no that is a feedback
loop there are people out there a lot of
people who don't like what you're saying
and they're not preventing you from
saying it exactly just going to try and
somehow maybe a make it not so lucrative
or be make the criticism as prominent as
the message just be clear is exactly in
which is frankly exactly I mean it goes
without saying but it needs to be said
this is exactly how you've built your
whole brand which is making a giant
melodrama about people who are often
facing infinitely more serious
circumstances than getting dunked on on
Twitter I'm sorry Brett I know you don't
like that word I mean it's so it's the
melodramas word even just the notion of
using the word kill in this context as
part of like the idea of literally just
having robust criticism campaigns on
social media I would never in a million
years say that Dave Rubin should be
removed from any platform I would never
even say that a college campus should
cancel him if he wants to get paid by
tipi USA to travel across the country
and not be able to answer college
students questions and get money for it
and he wants to do you know a million
right wing you know classical liberal
pockets that's cool but we're gonna say
exactly who he is and what exactly what
he's doing and if you have a problem
with that you have a problem with
infinity in toward an end of the
Enlightenment and open intellectual
culture that's literally what it is yes
there are people who just don't like to
be criticized and they do not have the
look we're not talking about some dude
was like a barista at a Starbucks right
we're not talking about some guy who's
an insurance agent somewhere this is
someone who has who is trying to make
themselves a public figure or is a
public figure and it's not even just
someone who's like I'm just the host of
a of a you know price is right why are
you coming after me about you know this
is someone who's literally got a show
that is to promote political ideas and
the idea that that somehow this should
be above reproach or that people
shouldn't use you know humorous critique
as a methodology in which to garner
attention because the idea that this
message is gonna go uncontested
sorry not gonna do it that's not gonna
happen
that's not gonna happen and neither is
our message I mean what it's just
incredibly neurofeedback talking about
the whole point of the origin of the
brand of this freak out was in fact
saying that people are snowflakes people
can't have their ideas interrogated cool
let's interrogate ideas I'm down oh yeah
yeah that's what we're doing that's the
almost feedback loops interrupted yeah I
know what it is they're lying people
oops interrupt the reason why Dave Rubin
will not engage is supposedly is I can't
read his mind supposedly because of a
video that Michael did that we entitled
Dave Rubin is stupid when I was aware of
that video and that Dave was upset about
it we pulled the video down and I
publicly apologized to him and still
that's a problem but I will also remind
you that on two separate occasions one
with Josh Harkin I think from in these
times maybe it was her mother Jones and
one would the New York Times reporter
who wrote the recent thing about the
radicalization of ruse right Reuben
claim that these people libeled him
libeled him legal term and then the
invited them on so he will not invite me
on because we called him stupid and then
apologize for it and took the video down
but he will invite people on who have
supposedly in his dn't mind libeled him
that doesn't seem to make any sense so
that's that
well let's not just that next time Brett
mentioned my own show and book
 I have to say that my brain
is still in recovery mode from taking in
so many high-level important ideas a
[Laughter]
drop has never died also Ben Shapiro
still a Antelope yeah oh yeah yeah yeah
oh yeah Ben Shapiro is not he was
actually an antelope the other antelopes
would try to set him up to get picked
off they were looking to get this guy
out of here so lastly
