[Music]
are we good I mean Michael Brooks we are
broadcasting live from a Brooklyn USA
this is the Michael Brooks show in
Brooklyn we're left as best as it is
everywhere else with super producer Matt
luck whoo chief economist David frisk um
how's it going sue producer David
Slavitt roaming the TMB s digitus fear
in the ever-expanding ever-growing left
his best universe on this week's program
big waz my fellow woke bro co-host
accountant dings he's calling us from LA
or actually we're calling him what we're
talking about is Kanye finally escaping
the sunken place plus beta were Rourke
panders hard
Pusha T goes hard all that and more with
returning crew and co-host of whoa pros
big waz Harvey K the great professor of
FDR Thomas Paine and American social
democracy he's here he's back he's in
Brooklyn we're talking about how the
left can really gain power and tapping
into the American radical tradition in
the face of American fascism Griscom is
breaking down some economics lek is
regulating we have a shout-out to our
friends in Brazil we have a post game
which includes my debate with a woman
who used quote unquote true
psychological theory to explain why
Trump is the most mentally healthy
president of all time plus we're gonna
make fun of Sebastian quirk a whole lot
more and in a mere minutes from now a
very important very special announcement
on tonight's tmb s so much to get to
let's get to it
so we've been following Brazil from
quite some time we knew it was important
we knew it mattered and it did not go
the way that it should have gone the
results of this past weekend's elections
were nothing short of horrific jr.
bolson arrow is the real thing I've seen
a lot of pedantic debates about this or
that definition of fascism but the
reality is he is a hard far-right
authoritarian who is promising political
ethnic and social cleansing and whose
entire macroeconomic plan is nothing but
the wholesale privatization and sell-off
of Brazil this massive austerity getting
rid of the Amazon which will have
massive global climate implications and
of course the capital class from The
Wall Street Journal to Brazilian
oligarchs to very excited tweets from
The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
focused on just that this is a terrible
election result and we see that
democracies under threat in Brazil we
also see that most of the voting
patterns fit a class divide the poor
voted for Haddad the wealthy voted for
bowls an arrow and it's very important
to recognize a distinction here and
several people have pointed this out
there is a far-right a global insurgent
far-right Donald Trump and across Europe
that harkens back either to pre-world
War two fascist traditions in Europe and
emerges out of the depths and swamps of
the all right online culture and various
traditions of American apartheid and
reactionary politics but in Brazil and
right now in Latin America this is very
specific because we have people that are
still alive that were involved in
elimination elimination estas murder
campaigns to destroy communists and all
members of the left with the active
support of the United States this is the
context that jr. bolson arrow comes from
and this is what he's promising to bring
and empower in Brazil and of course this
started several years ago with the
wholesale attempt to criminalize and D
legitimize the Workers Party
which is in fact the world's youngest
social democracy RT a moderate party
governed by lula da silva who remains
the world's most prominent political
prisoner we will not stop talking about
him and Dilma Rouseff this also in Deitz
the Obama administration which going
back to 2009 supported their coup and
Honduras where right-wing forces took
out Manuel Zelaya a moderate figure
leaders especially leaders like Lula
were eager to work with the Obama
administration in a moderate direction
that would have protected some national
industries and engaged in social
progress they thought they saw a friend
in Obama but instead they got an Obama
administration and a Clinton State
Department and a Justice Department that
backed a far-right reversal of the gains
of the pink tide and this is where we
are today and we see this globally of
course we see a political situation in
the Middle East to find my monarchies
and oil and arm sails we see a u.s.
hegemony which is even more violent and
unpredictable under Trump we see a
rising attempt at Chinese hegemony that
unfortunately does not promise anything
to do with names like People's
Liberation Army it's rather a different
version of authoritarian capitalism and
that's why a meeting that's taking place
on November 30th in Vermont with Bernie
Sanders in Yanis varoufakis is
incredibly important the goal of which
is to create a global progressive
International a global left movement
they've asked Tom Lowe the incoming
Mexican president one of the only bright
spots now in the global electoral scene
to join this movement this is aligned
with Jeremy Corbyn and the leadership
he's bringing into the UK and it's also
aligned with all of the remnants even
those that were crushed of the African
Awakening movements the uprisings in the
Middle East in 2011 Occupy movement here
the Occupy movement in Spain the Occupy
movement in Israel those involved in the
BDS movement I would argue more broadly
there is a global social force to
democratize economies to anchor human
rights to
really deliver power in a broad-based
way it's there but it's disconnected
from failed social democratic parties
and it is under siege by a resurgent
far-right which as I always say capital
will break fascist so we need to be
international in every way shape and
form and that could mean a whole number
of things partially it means reassessing
the legacy of a imperfect and
problematic but in some ways very
important and very successful ogo
shabbos and the lessons of Brazil are
gonna give us uncomfortable lessons
about places like Cuba and Venezuela and
debates about repression or not
repression now I'm in no way defending
repression or cracking down or anybody's
speech in any way shape or form but we
need to be real about power and we need
to be real about the forces that are
aligned against even those of us that
try to do things in the most moderate
fashion possible even those of us who
are massively successful and
conciliatory national leaders like Lula
da Silva in his enormous ly successful
terms as president of Brazil it's also
gonna mean that when we go into 2020
it's not good enough to just have it
left domestic policy Bernie Sanders has
been sketching a global outline that's
necessary Elizabeth Warren better follow
suit if she wants to be part of that
progressive conversation and even those
on the moderate and centrist ends need
to be told and needs to be made to
understood that we get that this is
globally connected we understand that
even the most modest reform package here
is undermined by projecting violence
abroad butter at home
guns abroad LBJ is not going to work it
needs to be globally synchronized it
needs to be globally anchored and we
need to see the parallels in every way
shape and form between our struggle and
struggles everywhere internationally the
left exists it's here the movements are
here their energies here the people's
desires are here and the power and the
coherence and the strategy
needs to form to back it up the Bernie
and Yanis meaning is essential we will
continual in solid continue in
solidarity with Brazil and everywhere
else every single day in our own small
way on this show that has always been
the mission in fact of this show to have
that type of global resonance to have
that type of global connection to build
out those connections and we will
certainly don't expect to hear less
about Lula from me because not only is
that the most prominent political
prisoner of our time Lula that also is a
symbol of a certain attempt that was
crushed and it was crushed
not only by Brazilian elites and
fascistic tendencies it was crushed and
celebrated by the fascistic tendencies
and far right of the United States today
Trump and dannan and this whole
disgusting gang but also in the utter
failure of modern democratic politics to
build out a global coalition one that
even JFK who is a conservative cold
warrior actually understood in the early
60s supporting decolonization of Africa
that's what we need now RIS come I want
you to talk a little bit about some
examples here from the second
international because this coalesce is
really well with what we're talking
about here yeah I mean you know the
second international is one of the more
proud traditions of the socialist
movement in the twentieth century and
this was a you know grouping of many
different labor and socialist parties
across Europe but also included folks
from Latin South America the United
States
Turkey and India and the idea was is to
create a unified body where the working
class could come together and organize
and debate ideas so that they could have
internal little coherence working
through the difficult questions that you
know you need to figure out for
socialism but also being able to present
a united front to create movements that
did not just end at borders to actually
find movements that exceed them and this
is where a lot of these great you know
socials traditions come from so
this is the beginning of May day right
that was a second international position
the creation of International Working
Women's Day that was an international
social position and you know it became
very important especially in the
anti-war movements against the you know
the great imperious world of World War
one and you look at the debates that you
read about you know between folks like
Lenin and Rosa Luxemburg and Karl
Kotowski right this was the setting that
these this international movement was
being fought and it's very important and
you know developing working-class
consciousness that was not nationalist
what we're seeing more and more now as a
you know very nationalist consciousness
which is somebody is dangerous and just
you know just a little bit of extra
history is after the second
international after the Soviet
revolution it became the Third
International which only lasted for a
little while until Stalin actually ended
the international movement I'm in favor
of the idea of socialism in one country
right so since then there have been some
attempts to create a new international
but it has had you know many different
issues and there's been you know there's
an old vestige of the International
which the DSA rightfully just a joint to
leave because it basically had been
always like social democratic yeah was
enter central us like a Democratic Party
in the United States remember of that
international right so you know creating
this kind of international at you know
it's exactly what we definitely need to
be doing right now when we're seeing the
rise of global fascism and we need to
see it as look globally synchronised
does not mean a global hegemonic project
that comes from the center's and filters
to the peripheries it's gonna look
differently in every different context
it's gonna be a collaborative
cross-border process and it needs to be
practical and workmen like but it does
need to be synchronised both for values
because we always if we shared these
sort of socialist values they're
fundamentally international they're
fundamentally internationalist and
secondly it's not gonna work
capital is fluid capitals liquid capital
moves
if you cannot counteract that without
some level of global coordination and
there also needs to be a positive and
affirmative sense back in the left that
like this is actually I mean there's
doing things like fighting
because racism is wrong and disgusting
and stupid and retrograde and undermines
our projects and is just generally
pathetic but there's also the version
that this isn't just a sort of
cataloguing of ills it's a better way to
be in the world it is better we need to
I will defend that world Cosmopolitan
not in a sort of jet-setting top-down I
like good food and I only hot you know
skip between New York London cents but
in a truly experiential global engaged
and acting on and receptive to the world
sense we are global we learn and move
off of everything and contribute back to
that and that is affirmative that is
positive and it's a better way to be and
and that's something I think they're so
important about the idea of bringing
back the International is we have a lot
of folks who have come out and reached
out to us on this show after our
reporting on Brazil and they're you know
they're very rightfully worried about
you know what's going on and they're
asking us you know what can I do you
know how can i how can I participate
well it's you know it's definitely
something that's difficult to answer
without a kind of structure that allows
for a kind of across the international
borders working-class mobilization and
working-class solidarity and people you
know working together and being able to
create this forum where we're able to
join forces is exactly the kind of thing
that people should be doing you know if
you're worried about what's going on in
Brazil it's like these are the kind of
connections with people on the ground in
Brazil with people who are you know in
solidarity with him in the United States
and in Europe and in Asia you know this
is the kind of movement that we need to
be seeing because if we don't if we
continue to wait Steve Bannon
understands that politics is
international he's jet-setting around
the world and he is sure certainly not
you know sending a nice cosmopolitan
message
I know it's any one of like horrific
fascism that's right and also the
verdict has been in on how these social
media platforms mainly affect politics
and that is catastrophic Lee but there's
still the reality of how we're
communicating and living so use that to
harness this global momentum we need
guys are we like things okay okay I I do
want to get to the announcement in a
get Matt so is there a way you could put
that up on screen before you get back to
it Thanks
all right guys and it's my board up this
is actually a pretty big piece of
breaking news
[Music]
if you could just make it a little
bigger for me cuz I'm at a funny angle
thanks if you will see on screen the
first Michael Brooks live show is
happening guys we have booked out the
bail house in Gowanus in downtown
Brooklyn USA February 1st 2019 the crew
is gonna be there obviously myself Matt
David grisco potentially David Slovak
and we have very special guests crew
Bosh Carson Cara and Ilona makovski they
just put it as I just noticed now it's
just Ilona I kind of actually liked the
idea of Ilona being iconic enough to
just go by one name but maybe we'll fix
that it's possible that woz will be
there although that is up in the air so
there is a possible addition of my
comrade and brother for life woz but
Bosh Caron Ilona minkovski of course
that's already an amazing show and we
have basically there's a couple and also
I'll just say this we're working on it
for people who get these what they call
at the venue they call them VIP tickets
that basically just means you get to you
show up at the door early you hang out
with us have drinks talk take pictures
we're also gonna have our we're working
on it we should have t-shirts ready by
then so there will also be a piece of
merch that you can take with you as well
and then go and see the show and so
basically right now you can get a $25
tickets if you're a patron and I sent
that out earlier to all patrons they're
getting a pass code which you will not
hear right now because you're not a
patron and so patrons get in for 25
bucks I believe and then there's okay
here's what it is now it's 25 bucks for
general tickets 75 bucks for V
and it's only available to patrons
through November 2nd and then we'll open
it up to the general public and yeah I
just basically explained to you we're
gonna we're gonna play games it's gonna
be very interactive we're gonna have an
incredibly fun show I just did a live
show a couple weeks ago with the count
that dings people and it was really fun
and we've already heard like somebody
like people are coming from across the
country already it's uh there's a lot of
momentum and many people are excited
about it and we're just really excited
to meet all of you guys are you ready
well are you ready for this live show
this would be my second time doing this
time with the dollhouse we did this will
be my third time with bill hospitals
yeah the me feels like a long time ago
only a little over only a year and a
half ago about that we did the majority
report yeah it seems longer seems so
much longer yeah wow yeah this is how we
passed the time so come out and join us
come out and join us and and I as I say
I think we're gonna cook up a bunch of
ways like we might even have like you
know listener contests have people come
up with a all a we're gonna this is
gonna be a very fun show Griscom yeah
I've been on a pretty strict diet of
beef brisket and barbells set since we
had it down so I'm very excited so that
in case wolf shows up oh yeah definitely
if we're gonna announce where it's gonna
be
wolf is are gonna be in studio here at
the end of the month just a heads up for
everybody I actually saw professor wolf
today and uh he said if you use the word
al to ser again he's gonna break your
jaw I had you know he's been following
me around I think I think he was he said
that little prick should clean his room
so okay so that's that's happening we're
incredibly excited about it now we do
want to do the shout out and then we're
gonna call talk briefly about becoming a
patron then we're gonna call waz
it's an unusual we don't do double
headers much anymore but this was the
time so
let's uh want to give him the shout out
song for a second if not if it's not up
if it's not easy to sometimes nice to
just give a little tease of it
I think that's creepy so people also of
course at Brazil and everywhere else
they're gonna be fighting Jarrett bolson
arrows wasting no time he's talking
about people should snitch on their
teachers the military has been present
in the streets there's various reports
of violence against members of the left
in the Workers Party and there's been
assaults on teaching fascist curriculum
in universities this group of bowls and
arrow supporters attempted to invade
Brasilia University they were kicked out
by students and we've got some raw
footage of it from Brazil check it out
shout out to them
uh so that's amazing how do you say
turning points to USA in Portuguese the
spy on your teachers thing like that
that is just what Charlie Kirk has been
you know spending foster freezes money
to do that's exactly great create a
snitch organization for a left-wing
professors it would and you know it also
makes the point very clear though there
is a reason that why white ringers are
so obsessed with the universities that's
right
you know it's the first place that they
come when they take power to is they
trying to come after student movements
and they shut down student power so
something that it's been it's very
inspiring to see that immediate reaction
of solidarity from students there and
also yeah I mean also the Koch brothers
Atlas Network has been very active
across Latin America in feeding I mean
this is why we have far-right regimes in
peanin era and Chile Macri in Argentina
again these people think globally and
their mission is whether it's a branded
in a more soft way or whether it's a
more overtly fascistic and brutal one is
to eliminate democracy so that there
could be uninterrupted capital
concentration and capital flows amongst
a small group of essentially
multinationals across the planet and
that's why they need to synchronize and
get rid of labor laws and get rid of
environmental protections and exploit
every Avenue possible to concentrate
capital and exploit opportunity that's
it it's simple they think in those terms
we must as well and in solid all
solidarity with Brasilia
so I'm actually texting let me let me
I'm gonna call Waze on my phone see if
he picks up because we're coordinating
you guys can vamp for a second we got I
just I just can't coordinate everything
over over texting sometimes I'm texting
so I'm actually organizing the show I
think it'll be good if we can hear him
pick up on yeah oh my god what why are
you doing this oh boo man we've been
cursed I think we have been cursed
what's going on yeah is it your it's
Jameson's fault for visiting
actually I like the gunshots we've been
having a good show since Texas went on
their winning streak and they lost last
Saturday so I think that what's going on
in that abortion of the curse propaganda
yeah give you know it let get throw up a
screen for a second and do some do some
drops I gotta feel it though
ask the moms I don't know that kind of
that's amazing there's all coated we
were a superpower we are now a hyper
palette
[Music]
welcome back to the Michael Brooks show
joining us now is my fellow woke bro
he's a member of the TM BS crew he's
co-host of whoa pros with me which now
you guys can find on the balm feed on
iTunes he's also co-host of counter
dings podcast and also everything is
trashed which is a great podcast he's
like me just podcasts all the time
big waz whoa whoa watch neil hombre mas
thanks how you guys doing I'm doing
great it's a it's a full house in here
we've got got a patron visiting us from
from California of good friend of ours
we have the great professor Harvey Kay
and his family is here so we're packed
AB mat is scurrying around filling all
the boards and uh David Griscom is uh
giving himself a bong hit what about Tom
Matt earned his check about time Matt
earned his check I like that exact let
me give you a little pairing Mesa oh he
he has my board turned down so I can't
give you sound effect tell you want to
tell people real quick about the live
show we did and also how people can find
because a lot of people now are fans of
woke Bros and they've only been patrons
of either count the things or tpms but
now they can find woke Bros on a public
feed to you want to tell them about
those things man oh so I guess man so
but the show that we did in New York
recently has now been our fifth or sixth
live show uh my first one ended up being
some just impromptu thing because
everybody was in Oakland California for
the NBA Finals two years ago
no no not even four years ago one year
ago yes how do you happened to be in
Oakland for the finals and pisamai we
were approached by somebody to be like
hey
what do you guys think about doing a lot
of Tai Chan stand it it was not
something that had ever occurred to us
before but it ended up being a really
big success and we've been doing it
since and our last show in New York um
we did about like 350 400 people and
that was our biggest show yet our
biggest success and Michael was on a
panel with us and you know he did what
Michael does he was funny and smart he
was engaging and you know everybody
enjoyed themselves
you know the live show experience is
just you know you get to see normally
were just coming into your headphones if
you get to actually meet people interact
and have a lot of fun and as far as mom
is concerned yet vocals will not be on
the bombs feed which is just a count the
big show which was just on the counting
games feed and then now we've just spun
it off on its own but it becomes so
successful and so he didn't look up Bo
mm in your iTunes stitcher Google Play
whichever one you prefer and Bo and
Empire you can find then bomb it used to
stands for black opinions Adam one day
which has its own like stupid convoluted
story how he came up with a name but now
I think if you means black opinions bad
at most well I'm very proud of the fact
that that uh I like Jade and I are the
only Caucasians allowed on that flight
and we're about that we're about the
trash beta O'Rourke but I'm not mad at
being them you you're our token right no
I mean so probably hear that badge
proudly I'm your I'm your uh I'm
literally your native informant actually
I mean you know what let's just since I
did the joke I was gonna go another
place but let's just do this quickly we
have this photo up this is beta O'Rourke
at the barbershop and you sent me this
picture you texted me in our group chat
and you were like dude we need to hit
this you know I mean
obviously it goes out saying that we
want everybody to go out in Texas and
vote for you know suburban dad Obama
I guess Obama is suburban dad Obama but
at any rate why did this picture both
you you will first you had a reaction
that was first of all about me when you
saw this picture which you can tell
again cuz it was kind of funny but then
what was well why did this cry I hear
the idea that they don't award is in a
black barbershop one which is just like
an institution in the black community
right we're like I don't know if like
TVs bother shots like quite like ours
it's like guys literally show up to the
barbershop just to hang out right just
to play cards just to you know watch
soccer matches or whatever the case may
be like this is an institution in our
communities in the fact that he the
image of this guy you know in a black
barbershop holding a black baby kiss me
baby no receipt he's getting easy air
cut and the I don't even known to call
the thing that the barber puts overused
to no hair go gets on your clothes
though this isn't that just like like a
robe no yeah I get to I don't know I've
done we got expecially but I don't know
what it's called opposed the robe or
whatever that they put over you to make
sure he doesn't get all over you while
they're cuttin cuttin you was a a custom
Gucci printed one seriously yeah I like
that
look at that teacher it's Gucci bring it
and you know a lot of this has shades of
Hillary Clinton hot sauce into the bag
right like well that's my question is it
really as bad as Hillary Clinton hot
sauces no no I think that's cuz it got
better at selling it right and that's
what I was really in Tom texting you
about it's like man he is laying it on
thick with the candle in here but but I
respect him cuz he's genuinely selling
this stuff he's selling it as like y'all
really down I really get it I'm really
like in tune with everybody
whereas Hillary Clinton just came off as
very robotic
and so obviously thoroughly entertained
by the guy and I want to see him do well
obviously right no so okay so this is
actually an example then of we can all
roll her eyes and sit a little silly but
you know fair enough and um again and we
talked about this at length about the
way she ran her campaign someone stuff
means for me as a black person I always
felt like came off very heavy-handed
right like when she had the mother of
the kids who got shot by police on the
stage how they I I mean I I didn't I
didn't like me or police called
aggressiveness as far as useless force
is an issue that everybody cares about
in like you know we need people warrant
is gonna pay lip service to the but
like men that says that image is
something I think people are gonna like
that
you know welcomed option aqua your son
was shot that was wrong and well I mean
but that wasn't that her problem though
it was like the opposite because it was
like very few people believed that she
would really do anything about it but
she would go like like my sense is like
the winning formula is you really are
intelligent and you calibrate how you
present that issue and then you have a
really aggressive package that actually
deals with it I think the reason the
Hillary Clinton rubbed everybody the
wrong way was it would be like this is
Shaniqua and her father was shot and
this is a bummer and then like three
months later she's like yeah that
[Laughter]
and it's like and it's like Beyonce
concert it's Italy I'm here again you
know something like especially with the
cops right where those toss-up voters in
those areas of the country that I've
never been to and really don't care to
those disrespect no no you want to come
to harm
say that
I said I don't know you went to college
in Pennsylvania did you not yes yes I
did for a brief while I spent two years
over there and central Pennsylvania is
definitely like there's straight-up
world roll people getting like straight
up get them watch how black people say
virile people they say it like it's
almost like free anthropological it's
just like it's not on one they really
liberate that I don't want to I don't
want to call them uneducated whites is
that better that's what they say on TV
no I think actually that's I think the
first one sounded better you know
anything like this educated white people
in the suburbs and there's very royal
people and like you get a taste of all
of that mess no disrespect but I'm like
these people love the cops a lot and so
the optics of that is just like man you
could have did that a lot more smoothly
than she did and that's how it was with
a lot of it so that's why bado circle
back to him that's why he strikes me he
like strikes a chord with him because
I'm like not he he is a lot slicker at
selling the stuff well because as I
always say like I mean you know I make
the case every day for my godless commie
politics as you call it but what people
forget in a lot of these things is just
some of this stuff really is just
charisma or not like bado is so he's a
charismatic dude I mean you know some of
the stuff just simple right yep um now
back to the live show for a second you
made fun of my Footwear and I shouldn't
be outing myself like this I had a pair
of these on and I got an incredible deal
on those Easy's they were just say no to
the deal I got would have been frankly
insulting and so and I also enjoyed the
contradiction like because I knew that
you and Jade and ever
buddy we're gonna be like oh here comes
the diggable planets portion of the show
like here's conscious michael to like
remind us about you know how the planet
is dying and I was like yeah but I'm
gonna walk out in the least conscious
Footwear choice the most Magga
delusional egomaniac footwear possible
and I'm just gonna contradict and I
enjoy it and I had a lot of people come
to me after the show be like dude that
was great but how can you be a socialist
to where Yeezys and I was like I'm doing
it already if you already bought a pair
Yeezys before he dropped the blanket
lurch like what are you supposed to do
like he paid 207 retail both people for
for their Yeezys and like what just
because these guys at some solution with
or did anyone know Mauricio that but I
think you know I think consciously as
hard you like wake up in the morning and
put those and put those sneakers on
after the guy said slavery was a choice
so that's so what happened was I was
hoping cuz cuz I got this deal it's like
alright whatever
sure and then and then there had been
like a couple weeks where he was kind of
shut up and then all of a sudden it was
like he went on that whole Saturday
alive like they're bullying me for my
hat take literally the day the box
arrives yeah thanks yeah yes of course
he's hugging the president at a freaking
press junket basically kissing the ring
yeah is this it's unnerving right and
especially because Kanye is so
associated with footwork like if I don't
know if the item was like a Kanye West
toothbrush I like I don't well again you
know that's personal I'm gonna rehab
them brushing but I think I think it was
like an umbrella saying it was like an
umbrella it'd be like okay but like
those
makers are Kanye's case the umbrellas
like ice cuz it's fly but it keeps you
dry like in the tidal Inlet that's why I
like I want to go to for sake like I
want to know those people like that it's
like it's creativity actually still work
shopping you're trying you gotta have
like content not the voice but actually
you know what I usually do is I just do
MLK Kanye because I like the mashup
that's there that's there that's the
airplane one runs on hydrogen because
now we want that larry elder Kanye right
right man I don't know
and over the last documented case of
racism was in 1958 so you should stop
complaining but did you but was like
Kanye is done apparently it would seem
it was only other stories that were
today I've always heard people say that
a lot of the times when he goes in to
clean up clean up mold and she's like
actually try to redeem this public image
it's because this week is are moving as
well as they usually do and there's an
indication from what I've heard that
this weekend he had he dropping this
meter and they didn't do well what they
didn't do well who is it
I mean sneakers are not a Republican
thing I'm sorry
like I get like I like a one-level
sneakers or everybody thing but like
hypebeast culture is not Republican i
remember i interviewed a hypebeast guy
once right very nice dude and I'm not
trying to drag them but we brought up
like I get that it's no politics but we
are in the Trump era and everything that
you guys have feed your sight on is
international travel wrap and sneakers
do you have anything to say about
anything and he's like no we just keep
it clean with the culture okay good luck
with that you know what
like you guys are running an online
magazine essentially and that's they're
gonna cover like yo what they know what
they got to do to get clicks like you
know Kanye West showed off his autograph
Magga hat like they're gonna put that
right right now are they gonna have
commentary around the actual issue
itself no this is going to report that
news their role in all of this isn't you
know as far as the sneaker blogs and all
of that it's not even that but I think
no like literally Kanye's sneakers
haven't didn't perform well and I'm
pretty sure people got Enosh here it was
like dude this that you're doing is
pissing people off play you know in a
particular sway so like that way he
might have found an opportunity to get
his way out of this because I didn't
know about this this apparently was
called blogs it and it's of course black
exit from the Democratic Party naturally
was you've run this idea by me many
times and what it is and apparently
these shirts are being sold at was it
Trump's Trump's young leadership event
with black they were handed out at
Trump's a young black leaders summit the
turning points USA thing right and so
and Candice Owens and so this I don't
know who Nicki Schwab is but she's in
New York Post journalist okay she's a
New York Post so she tweets Candace
Owens design these quote blogs it
t-shirts for at Candace Owens noob legs
at movement and they were handed out at
the young black leaders 2018 which is
the turning points USA with
Trump okay so that's one tweet second
tweet as the narrative moves on this is
this is very funny then it's Kanye
designs blogs it
Kanye designs blogs it shirts to
encourage black people to leave the
Democratic Party and it's uh now that
this is from complex and the story is
and the story is basically that Kanye
has continued
his love affair with Trump is it was
reported the rapper has lent his talents
as a fashion designer to a campaign that
is encouraging black people to exit the
Democratic Party on Saturday October
27th Turning Point USA's young black
Leadership Summit Kanye revealed his
shirt design and logo for blex at a
movement that urges black people to exit
the political party that they are most
aligned with these shirts which bear the
design blex it and we free are another
act of solidarity with conservative
ideologues and his self-proclaimed
quote-unquote brother president Donald
Trump all right yeah this this album is
not this article is not helping move
sneakers then we go to Candace Owens
blogs it is about story so many black
people who have awakened whoever who
have awakened to themselves to the
possibilities of our futures of
Americans the press is trying to use
Kanye's name to create drama and further
divisive 'no switch is wrong here is a
statement of clarity from me so what's
going on here
why what's confusing I thought that they
had a conference kanye designed a shirt
what's the problem Matt can you read the
statement that Candace Owens just put
out yeah so the Candace Owens I believe
this was yesterday she writes today the
press is trying to conflate Kanye West
with blogs it to get website clicks so
allow me to clarify my earlier statement
I said on stage that my friend and
fellow superhero it doesn't say it
doesn't mention who this superhero is
helped me design the X for blogs that
this may shock the world but yeah is the
world renowned but yeah is a
world-renowned designer everyone who
knows him asks him for advice on design
yay supports various people in different
regards because of at the end of the day
his message is about unity and love he
supports Colin Kaepernick he's about
Temari and yeah he said he loves Hillary
Clinton he said he loves Donald Trump
blogs it is a project that is mine
entirely that yay and I am blessed that
yay introduced me to a designer who
despite having totally different
political beliefs in the help me craft
some beautiful letters that I used on
the blog's at caps and then she finishes
it the insinuation that Kanye is now the
author of my
political movement is pointedly wrong
and dishonest let's not politicize love
okay
so all right now
now woz are you ready for it because you
might be able to be an unapologetic yay
Stan again because all of that nonsense
and all of that led to this
tweet and of course I think probably
more to the point
lack of say lack of yuning of moving
units and sneakers
yay tweeted this out just a just a short
while ago like really just only a couple
hours ago this is from yay I introduced
Kanye to Candace I introduced Candace to
the person who made the logo and they
didn't want their name on it so she used
mine I never wanted any association with
brexit I blex it I have nothing probably
brings it either I never wanted any
association with legs that I have
nothing to do with it and then my eyes
are now open and I now realize I've been
used to spread messages I don't believe
it exists this is my I'm distancing
myself from politics and completely
focusing on being creative three
explanation points I just gotta say not
only did this meet with
Donald Trump and kiss the ring within 48
hours he was meeting with Jonas Museveni
who's the dictator of Uganda and talking
about building a Wakanda theme park
there I just gotta add that to the mix
but was are you backing your Kanye bag
is this enough no catch the cats out the
bag manda the husband the hugging him
like Samuel Jackson's character in
Django right like doing that in front of
all of those people like literally in
front of the world in like literally
kissing the man's ring but that was for
me that was that's irredeemable right
and I think Kylie would he exposes
because when it first went on his oh I
don't chairman girl I could be a
political blah blah blah don't know wife
wife like people think they should be
Democratic blah blah blah he just shows
you that he doesn't actually engage with
this stuff right because you
a lot of people sit around and they're
credible whatever it's smoking weed and
they come up with these little
cockamamie ideas like man all these
black people they're voting Democratic
several seed pools actually like
investigating wise and so just like this
like no people think they these people
keep voting Democrat day man what I
think is were Republican I better would
just work out so great for them it's
like no dude like there's a reason for
this stuff there's a reason um people
who like Candis Owens are the only
things that a black youth level probably
can openly love and embrace like you say
black people this is all your fault like
you say that you're a black person who
was willing to say that in public
Republicans will love you forever it's
not very complicated
so when China comes out that slavery was
a choice Republicans are like yes yes
like that Jack Nicholson Jack McKean
means everybody
I was you misled about supporting things
that I don't actually believe in it's
like duh dude cuz you were just talking
we were just sounding stupid we stole
whatever our TV show was we still do it
man it was what's up with black on black
crime father your sons you know I just
know you got out of you you got a
mentality our podcast numbers are double
if we really wanted to turn heel and
turn our backs on the the lid the lid
charge that's the best one all right all
right so Kanye is irredeemable we all
have a few minutes left but I do want to
play this clip because there was some
other related news to another whack-ass
rapper that you stand for actually I've
been easing up on Drake to be honest
with you because I have
finally succumbed to the fact that like
even that that Travis Scott song where
he takes like the wind it got water with
the three beats yeah right and he takes
the Xan and goes to sleep I'm I find
myself listening to it so I at a certain
point I've got to admit partial defeat
but okay welcome to America I will be
the Malcolm X of American pop music like
I don't want part of your America but
Pusha T did absolutely body Drake and
this clip which comes from the Joe
Budden show we're gonna do this in the
last couple of minutes Joe Budden I
would recommend to everybody I'm
incredibly impressed by his skills as a
talk show host and Rory and Maul and
that whole show it's very I mean it's
obviously pop and rap focus but it's got
innate qualities as a show if you're
just interested in talent in
broadcasting and there's been a lot of
questions cuz if you'll recall part of
what made this dis dis so devastating
was that he revealed that Drake had an
illegitimate child and he also made a
pretty nasty line about Drake's
a writing partner who had MS and in this
clip has MS we're gonna connect the dots
this is Joe Budden and push it t and
back to the show back to the show and
then just addressing those things leave
the information came from 40 dots other
guy was there mess at all 40 40 40 40 is
sleeping with a woman who begins to you
know you know he talks to her every he
talks to her daily five six hours a day
or she must have a great person yeah
brah listen listen talks to a woman five
six hours a day provides opportunity for
provider provides opportunity for he's a
great guy and and you know ultimately
speaks about how he's disgruntled about
certain things
no to notoriety and things involving
involving Dracon in his
we're so on and so forth to this young
lady yes with that with that also came
the fact that Drake has a child with
that also came the the the the trip that
everybody took to go see the child and
bring them gifts and all all of this
information it's so the reason this
gossip is is relevant is because Kanye
did not give push of this information
and came from Drake's own camp lies
right right really really why I love
twisted teen so much because one is
searching for moto judge he's lying
right right the reason why it's such a
it's so genius because it's like nobody
Kanye
it was literally your closest friend
right in the world
John you out and and and set you up to
get choked by and it's just like
it's it's the equivalent of saying the
butler did it
that's just that she's doing and the
great child the great challenge that he
said that 40 is pissed off about a lack
of notoriety and um you know loves more
respect or whatever and like anybody
knows anything about forty knows and how
rat producing works like for instance
the non-stop song or look alive like
he's too big records that trade put out
last last year
the heavy mom not just Tennessee
influences that that kid shake he's he's
out of here his phone won't stop ringing
right like the idea that forty has been
crafting songs with Drake since the
beginning the biggest acting the game
that he's not getting notoriety he doing
it on purpose he's like a really private
person he hasn't birth with anybody if
that's your goal once you have a couple
AIDS you have your take of whoever I'm
talking about Beyonce which forties
workable before Rihanna through much
whoever you want you make wreckage that
go this far throughout the world like
you're going to be able to work with who
you want so that's I did a story
mad and she's not giving love and
respect and the right leg that's the how
it works were producer who's made hits
like you have to go out of your way to
not get that type of recognition love
you know oversaturation of you so but
it's still it's like how do you respond
right it's just like right gonna say the
most nastiest it's just box of belly in
oh he's so slick like Joe Budden maybe
same interview said that Pusha T had
serial killer tendencies even he even
talked about average and he despairs the
way the questions would heat up you like
you like look at all these leading
questions that was disgusting moderation
right there he he came in memory card is
the ability to moderator Thomas no dude
he's so hilarious like when I when I
said I didn't watch it of course I read
the press clippings first and I was like
really push yeah it was 40 he came up
with road which is great it was so it
was like it was that was like Sebastian
Gorka if he wants art of war on his
Mustang she learn from Pusha T wise
hopefully next week I'll get push a T on
to respond to your slander i but but um
wise we got a wrap man but always you
know it's a mate it's a pleasure I'm
also hoping I don't know I said to
people it's only a possibility but maybe
there's a chance you're coming to the
TMB s live show on February 1st at the
Bell house in Brooklyn and everybody
listened to all the wiser shows listen
of course the walk grows and I'm looking
forward to my first guest appearance on
everything is trash I love that show
listen if it's for when you're in LA we
will absolutely make that athlete unload
us so I love what you guys are doing
with that all right man yeah thank you
vazh
appreciate it no problem
everybody quiet love you man bye alright
guys so what we're gonna do is Griscom
and math segments are gonna be weaved in
and to the broader conversation with our
esteemed guest who's gonna join us in
just a moment we're gonna take a brief
break and we're gonna come back with the
great the one the only
Harvey King beyond back in about 30
seconds
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
welcome back to the Michael Brooks show
the whole crew is here and joining us is
our friend or mentor and colleague
professor Harvey JK Harvey thanks for
being here blast
it's so fun to have you back as I said
to you before I was thinking woz was
gonna be with us here in studio woz is
gonna be here some time and I will I
will make that meeting happen as he
flies east on the chartered jet to pick
me up in Green Bay I will take that take
that little bran Shack and get Harvey in
the private jet be bastard I hope you
hear that was and and what we'll do when
we have you both in studios I'm gonna
have woz break down how FDR responded to
youi long and you're gonna break down to
push it to interview with Joe Budden
we're gonna do a little cross do you
know who one of them is tell us about
the Hat man
we were you in Brooklyn when the Dodgers
are playing in Brooklyn okay so what
close enough to the microphone I close
I'm sorry I'm okay talk about the
Dodgers in Brooklyn we want to hear this
okay my my family's a Brooklyn family
both sets of grandparents both parents
my father went to Thomas Jefferson High
School my mother went to Tilden and I we
spend a lot of time in Brooklyn but I
actually grew up on the other side of
the Hudson River except for a while in
Queens but it's interesting now I mean
so so let me say my mother's father was
very close to the Brooklyn Dodger
organization not not the owners but
Charlie there were names you may not
know of but Charlie Dressen who was the
manager well everybody knows Jackie
Robinson Gil Hodges Duke Snider Pee Wee
Reese
how was she close to them it was my my
grandfather my grandfather was really
good friends with Charlie Dressen
another fellow who came and went from
the Dodger organization Leo Durocher
yeah there that name doesn't mean a
doughnut okay very big name in baseball
back in the 40s for please I'm a big
name and but he also coached I think for
the Giants I mean is that manager
kind of thing so these were the kind of
folks who could have stopped by the
house it might not what I was there but
when my mother was that's great you know
it smells great in the forties so I I
remember as a boy my grandfather
whenever I was with him in Brooklyn for
days at a time weeks whatever we would
go to Ebbets Field so usually on the
third base line and I sat in the Ebbets
Field and I met I met Hodges and Robbins
I met them all as a little boy I really
liked what was Jackie Robinson like
bigger than I was I was like seven okay
yeah and but like but I actually
actually you want to hear baseball story
yes I do okay yes please so who are you
rooting for and now though
who's your team now well I this is part
of the story okay good okay yeah so the
Dodgers left Brooklyn after the 57
season and my grandfather was devastated
in fact everyone in the family was
devastated and pretty not not long after
that I rode off baseball I just and I
and I wrote an article for a baseball
magazine which ended up creating a was
called the Elysian Fields quarterly and
and and it's very George Willis at what
well in fact but the editor on the
contrary the editors so like my article
which you'll see in a moment was titled
all that is solid melts into air right
so I talked about how as a kid I mean
basically I started to wonder Marx is
never for I started to wonder if in fact
my socialist instincts were cultivated
by the Dodgers leaving Brooklyn because
how could you do that
right I mean how do you do that raw
capital calculation exactly so right so
I became a football fan early up pretty
early on and oddly enough which is a
much more ethical sport oh it's a sort
of my main capital baseball yeah and in
fact living in the New York area I was I
first professional football game was at
Yankee Stadium and I hated any team that
played in Yankee Stadium
and the Giants New York Giants played in
Yankees so your Jets guy and the the
first team that I saw play the Giants
was the Green Bay Packers
and this is before us way back way like
when I was 10 years old and did you a
nut will look obviously not when you
were 10 but did you and then later on
close of course Green Bay is own
different Green Bay actually has a great
only have a fan-based
ownership right right and and I've and
I've written about that too I can send
you links um talk about that a little
bit tell sure a lot of people let me
tell you the Dodger story first yeah so
um so anyhow so a lot of all my friends
at at and Jersey were families from
brought in the Bronx so all the kids we
hang key fans and at the strip mall
around the corner from where we lived
there was a candy store you know
five-and-dime kind of place as well and
we would all buy tops bubblegum and
baseball cards you know you get you get
a deck of cards tops baseball cards ya
know I mean and this is great and what
we did is do you had a deck and you
carried the deck wherever you went we
did we didn't think in terms of monetary
value was more like like another kind of
aesthetic what did you trade him we did
but we also played games with them so
and one of the games well there was a
game where you could turn just turn over
the card in the higher batting average
won the pitchers pitchers were pulled
out but the other one was a kind of
flipping towards a wall I can't remember
what it's called maybe was called flip
and it so if you around the corner near
the store was this blank wall and all
the kids in the diverse neighborhoods
that shopped there we would line up and
we'd pitch and the idea is the closest
to the wall won the cards of that were
laid out won the whole pot the whole pot
and this one particular end and by the
what I'm telling you is an absolutely
true story it's absolutely true it's
like I flipped the car my board this is
a absolutely true story I want to give a
Perry Mason
okay yes the car I don't even have had a
card was standing like this against the
wall yeah and I go over and I pick up
all the cards my buddies come around me
you know hey what did you win what did
you ate and we're going through the
cards and I won the Mickey Mantle card
do you still have the Mackay milk ice
the story's not over right I'm sorry I'm
gentlemen it happened to be an off day
for the Yankees in the sense that they
weren't playing and by the way that
particular summer mantle lived in one of
the other neighborhoods that shop to
this place area and he and his family
arrived to do some food shopping okay
and my buddy said hey you can get Mickey
signature yes
remember what am i I'm a ruined Brooklyn
Dodgers fan Oh or maybe he was still in
Brooklyn at that moment I mean you hate
the Yankees I despised the Yankees I'm
getting the tribal I touched the card
looked at my buddies and I ripped it up
there's an absolutely true story back to
look for the card no so less so brutally
so so anyhow so I wrote this piece for
that magazine and and I said you know I
said I'd you know learn how to be a
socialist early on when the Dodgers left
or the imperative of socialism you might
say and and then and then we titled it
all that is solid melts into air that's
poor and I'm wondering is there tell me
if I'm going a field here but is there
some maybe also some connection with
your tribal loyalty to the Democratic
Party as well in terms of like get on
the team Bernie my tribal loyalty well
because your that's pretty tribal you're
a Yankee I'm gonna rip your card up so
like get on the right team man yeah well
there are no side laws but nobody in my
family would have ever considered voting
Republican well of course not okay my
grandfather who was a trial lawyer and
lived here in the city Houston is to
tell us that he would always vote twice
well Democrat it Brooklyn and Manhattan
right yeah we need a lot more so he
would vote I don't remember which was
Democrat for a while it went to bun time
you go to like you know some left a left
party then he was
liberal and Democrat but the point was
he used to say so when people say vote
early and often he said guaranteed we
need to bring that back yeah Here I am
so now I'm 68 no I turned 69 a couple of
weeks ago looks a great healthy happy
birthday 69 years old bringing some
vigor to the show thank you so I yes so
here I am back in Brooklyn today in fact
we're staying in Brooklyn and we're
staying only like what would you say not
even half a mile from where my
grandparents lived on Eastern Parkway so
back in the 1950s into the very early
60s and it's just kind of it's it was
amazing so we set out and by the way it
was at my grandparents apartment now
I'll give you another spin on this where
I met Thomas Paine I was right because
we did the illicit history of Thomas
Paine the American radical yeah and you
talked about the sky and Ike and you and
it's interesting the word choice you
mean because you really did meet him
yeah when he first said that I noticed
that it's interesting the way your
personifying it yeah then you elaborated
on it back in Brooklyn it's it's a mix I
mean I don't have the map down again in
my head but it's I mean it's great I
mean it's extraordinary tell us a little
bit about I well I want to weave a
couple of threads here I want to get to
Thomas Paine but I also want to play me
put on your headphones if you can cuz I
do want to play this clip now you sent
me a quote recently which I'm remiss I
don't have in front of me but yeah oh
great yeah maybe I would maybe could
read it after we play because I I this
is part of the dialectic I'm working on
because on one hand I think that the
left across the board whether we're
talking social democratic or more
radical whatever a big part of this show
is getting a hell of a lot more serious
about power and understanding power and
having an actual map to getting power
not interested in protesting I'm not
interested in morally you know calling
out the the just horrific atrocities of
this world I want to change it I want to
do and and so I
want this much more hard-headed
strategic and and materially materially
grounded way of looking at the world and
then conversely I do think and I think
of the che quote when he talked about
all revolutionaries are guided by a deep
sense of love and I do think that we
actually need to not shy from that kind
of word that kind of language because
each of us in our own very fallible and
failing and egotistical ways I think if
you have this draw to this kind of
politics though you do some of that kind
of global empathy that some of that real
energy to you and that's that's the
dialectic power and love and I just so
happened to find I had never seen this
clip before actually but MLK back in the
60s putting this together in a very
powerful way and I want to do this and
then maybe you could read the quote but
first we'll play this sounded it really
hit me the other day when I saw it what
happened is that some of our
philosophers got off base and one of the
great problems of history is that the
concepts of love and power have usually
been contrasted as opposites polar
opposites so the love is identified with
a resignation of power and power with a
denial of love it was this
misinterpretation that caused the
philosopher Nietzsche was the
philosopher the will to power to reject
the Christian concept of love it was the
same misinterpretation which induced
Christian theologians to reject
Nietzsche's philosophy of the will to
power in the name of the Christian idea
of love now we got to get this thing
right what is needed is a realization
that power without love is reckless and
abusive and that love with our power is
città mental an anemic power
power at its best is love if limiting
the demands of justice and justice at
its best is love correcting everything
that stands against love I love that and
maybe I want you to reaction to that but
maybe could also read the quote as well
that I kind of wanted the couple with
that that you just happened to send me
the other day yeah I was I was reading I
wish I could remember the title of the
book I've got three books I'm reading at
the same time but anyhow so I was really
and in this book this quote appeared and
and I went searching for what where the
quote came from because it wasn't very
well referenced so and I discovered this
obituary of Michael Harrington from
founder of the USA DSA right who was who
was still very much alive when I first
joined DSA and just it's a it really is
a remarkable quote and this isn't his
book fragments of a century and I won't
go through the whole story of it but
I'll read the quote it was as a
socialist and because I was a socialist
that I fell in love with America in
saying that I'm not indulging in
romantic nostalgia about youthful days
on the road but rather underlining a
crucial political truth if the left
wants to change this country because it
hates it then the people will never
listen to the left and the people will
be right to be a socialist to be a
Marxist is to make an act of faith of
love even toward this land it is to
sense the seed beneath the snow to see
beneath the veneer of corruption and
meanness and the commercialization of
human relationships men and women
capable of controlling their own
destinies to be a radical is in the best
and only decent sense of the word
patriotic and I and I when I read that I
immediately saw my my own mouth speaking
yes I heard myself speak and and I got
I'll write some related things I can
remember them all as I spin this out now
one of them is I was in grad school in
Louisiana Louisiana State University for
the PhD
and in Baton Rouge right and I went from
London School of Economics University
that is by way of Wall Street which is a
story unto itself as well postgame right
because patreon.com
yes so so and we were in this pitch
tonight and we're talking about lat and
my field I dealt with peasant studies
that was my area landlord and peasant
relation to exploitation and struggles
against it and one of my graduate school
friends a really good friend who was not
a Latin Americanist but an American
astrology Anna and was working on power
relations in Louisiana as his field and
he stood he were talking about the you
know what Americans could ever possibly
do okay and he said well the first thing
we got to do is we we have to worry
about taking power here okay not doing
good anywhere else now he didn't say it
as an isolationist thing what he meant
was the best and I just has been with me
obviously all these years good forty
years now and what he meant by that he
explained was that the best thing the
American left could do was to get it
together and secure power right okay
right and because given the place of the
United States in the world this would
enable the left globally that was his
position I think that there is I mean I
have a friend of mine who has been I
mean he's going through hell because
he's Brazilian and he's somebody who's
certainly helped shape part of the
reason that we've done such good
coverage of this and he said to me you
know I forget the context but he said he
said I honestly think if you guys could
pull off electing Bernie Sanders there
could be nothing more helpful yeah just
because of how that might keyword might
there's still a lot of pushback
obviously but in the current dynamic of
power and I and I'm always trying to
play with that because I'm one hand I
think Americans including the left need
to be infinitely more globalized and
recognize that we live in a highly
global world and we need to learn from
many different traditions and we need to
recognize them
but also partially because this is part
of America and a part of America that I
love that America really truly is a
global country and all of the currents
of every part of the planet come here
and flow back out and we focus on the
evil exploitative dimension throughout
through the military and through the
empire and through capital but there's
also the amazing and positive you know
realities of cultures feeding in and out
of the United States in a way and a
dynamism that's completely unparalleled
on the planet objectively and so but but
at the same time just from a raw
perspective of power relations yes if
the left could get it together here that
would have some pretty big implications
and you know that I have a radical
progressive Democratic small D
Democratic conception of American
exceptionalism right ok this one I'm a
little bit less on board I know that I
know yeah I know and I don't need you on
board to my theory right no but I want
to hear it again ok I like I like
because I just want to say but it's
close to this idea in fact the president
who put it best was Abraham Lincoln the
last best hope of Earth hmm and I do
believe that I really do and no I so so
my understanding of American
exceptionalism has nothing to do with
divinely ordained right or even for that
matter environmentally ordained you know
in terms of like the land we took right
right but but what actually has to do
with the fact that in my work this came
to me sort of an historical moment
between Thomas Paine the work I did on
Thomas Paine and an American radicalism
and that book on Thomas Paine and the
promise of America was my love letter to
America I've always said that
and then my work on Frank well not on
FDR alone but the greatest generation
and its legacy the Four Freedoms right
and that's my love letter to my parents
generation that what I came on was the I
what was this the fact that when push
comes to shove when when the hits
the fan if we do it right the way we've
transcended the fundamental crises of
the revolution
the Civil War the Despres depression and
world war ii right these are the the
most threatening of crises the way we
transcend to them and this is something
I don't think anyone quite realizes is
that we actually with all of the faults
and failings we didn't end slavery okay
we fell into a post reconstruction
nightmare of Jim Crow all of that's true
the fact is that the way in which we
transcended the crises of those given
years was we actually figured out by way
of the struggles from below to make
America freer more equal and more
democratic and I can hear the cynicism
out there oh but look what we it doesn't
 matter what we didn't do it
matters first is what we did do and then
what we didn't do is the stuff that we
can then concern ourselves with but what
we shouldn't lose touch with the fact
that at its best we've transcended the
crisis we've beaten the enemy by making
America more democratic and I can lay
that history out for you if you'd like
at some point or when I come next that's
I mean there's some way in which I think
part of that is objectively true I mean
I don't think there's a single time
you're talking about even with the
unbelievable contradictions built into
it that that isn't rush rue on some
level that there has been some type of
expansion I guess yeah go ahead and then
I'm always okay I mean before I go back
first place all the failings go out and
burn all that it's failings we create it
Americans created in you know as a
consequence of the arguments of pain and
the artisans and the farmers and the
slaves and others who rose up however
much some were betrayed the fact is that
we did create the makings of a small d--
democratic republic a white man's
democratic republic right but but an
unprecedented white man's democratic
opponent like that right before that
well is there i mean and then you know
i'm sorry let me take you just through
then don't hesitate to ask okay yeah
then the civil war the way in which we
fundamentally won the Civil War is the
degree to which Lincoln propelled by
slaves abandoning their plantations
swarming into Union camps enabled
Lincoln to sign the Emancipation
Proclamation and ultimately by the end
of the Civil War a good quarter of a
million 250,000 of the of the Union
troops where african-americans either
from free north and blacks or slaves and
that also leads are just gonna need to
add now that also leads the things that
people need to be very I think it's
important to be aware of because I think
on one hand if you read Carol Anderson
who I think is one of the most important
scholars in the states right now there's
no doubt that specifically racial
background and retrain and sort of right
wing sort of counter revolutions are a
continuity in American history and that
just frankly racism is one of the main
impediments that we've had it's it maybe
is the impediment I would argue along
with capital but that being said to feed
the contrasting history that people
should also be aware of not because it
whitewashes anything where corrects
anything but just because it adds the
complexity not only did you know that
happened in the context of a war there
was that brief period in reconstruction
that people should look at examples like
the Free State of Jones as an example
like that's an incredible cross racial
group of people that founded a free
state outside of both imperial interests
both north and south and said no matter
what your race you should be able to
farm and own your own land and we
shouldn't be fighting a war on behalf of
any other landlord there was also in
Wilmington North Carolina
there was a multiracial party that
governed the city in a progressive way
that was protected by Union troops when
the Union troops pulled out there was a
right wing corporate backed white
supremacist coup and that's America and
and I think it's important because I
think on one hand people need to get
that the forces we're dealing with today
of capital and white supremacy are in
the DNA of this country and conversely
people I think on the other hand who
have emphasized rightly the historical
crimes of America need to also remember
that even like the scholarship of the
internal wars in the south of people
getting some working-class southern
people being like wait a second why the
hell would I fight
for some plantation owner I should be
building a lot that existed - this is
all real I think there's a hiss I
actually think there's a radical and
small our small I radical imperative in
American life yeah okay and that but
what happens is not what happens what
has happened is the Democratic Party for
so many years so many decades didn't
just turn their back on that imperative
they participated in the suppression of
that that imperative right okay and
Bernie and in fact for all of my
criticisms of Bernie Sanders what Bernie
Sanders revealed his campaign revealed
was the degree to which that radical
imperative was live and I mean seriously
I mean I'm out of Wisconsin as you know
and I can't I mean young people I mean
he won Wisconsin yep he won Wisconsin
and wasn't pretty comfortably right
right and in fact if he had been the
candidate he would he would have beaten
trusted note he would have been in
trouble I mean I had students telling me
they came from families where their
parents would have voted for Bernie
wouldn't vote for Hillary but they
because they wanted action right they
wanted some kind of action on the
inequality the devastation and all the
things that came with it so anyhow I
mean I think that there is this radical
paradigm and just think about the
lead-up between 2012 to 2016 you know I
mean the movements that emerged black
lives matter the fight for 15 occupy
occupy the Wisconsin rising which
actually is Wisconsin rising another big
right yeah you know the way that fellow
who wrote the book the fall of Wisconsin
I don't I know if you've had him on the
majority report or he's lives here in
Brooklyn you might want to think about
who I don't remember his name but we've
had a man councilman yeah did have him
on it yeah we don't want majority yeah
yeah yeah I remember that name right so
what I'm getting at is there was there
was this percolation movement and by the
way on those grounds I'm gonna I would
make an argument and you'll get a kick
if off air we can talk about where this
comes from but that's not the point I
think we need some kind of a mate it's
gonna take a hell of an articulation
it's going to take the willingness to
listen and not listen to each other as
victims
but to listen to each other as active
makers of history we're gonna have to
figure out some way to create some kind
of united front on the left this this
the rise of this fascism that we see
which is not exactly Central European
fascism obviously but it's its own new
historic brand of fascism yeah we we
cannot stand as half a dozen different
currents on the left it just know there
needs to be there needs to be a
synchronised effort I mean there's no
doubt about that but I do want what
we're gonna do is we're gonna do a
couple of things briefly Matt and David
each have as you know because you're a
regular listener viewer they have their
own segments so we're gonna do those
segments but you're gonna be part of it
obviously but before we do that and then
we're gonna go to the postgame before we
do that I do want to I have my own
thoughts about this American
exceptionalism conversation which maybe
we'll get to in the postgame but I want
to throw to my economist David Griscom
who will have his own his own thoughts
on this exceptionalism talk I'm not
trying to stoke trouble here I'm
actually just genuinely interested in
your response to this like how do you
take this on especially the historical
complexities of this but some of this
stuff is you know well I mean I think
the question when you're talking about
the United States is that you have to
see it from two different sides right
there's the United States which is the
only country that I've ever known you
know I was born in Texas and you have
moved around I collect lived actually
very many places you said that like Alex
Jones by the way I was born Texas that
was a separate quickly harvey gets the
coastal liberalism texas these get the
 out of area and then and then
there's the point if like how other
folks experience the united states which
is like you know the it's incredible
sometimes when you read history to
realize just how many tentacles united
states foreign policy has had across the
world and in you know overthrowing you
know democratic movements love movements
but i think that there's a point and i I
agree with Harvey to this extent where
we're in like you know I spend a lot of
times with the radical left circles
right I am like very much like a text
and like I watched
poll every Saturday I love barbecue I
must be texting yeah I call him we call
him the Ho Chi Minh of hockey - yeah and
I you know why I love Willie Nelson you
know but I read my mark although I know
Elsa yes very important yeah you don't
love Willie Nelson that to me well
America Willie Nelson what they were
capable try we're trying to come out
Willie because of his bet oh oh shut up
stuff and it's like nobody like at this
point is like no one expected anything
different from Willie what you think
Willie's gonna be a trump card also yeah
yeah well and by the way I think
Willie's almost that Bob Marley level Oh
like if you don't like Bob Marley
there's something wrong dawg he does
albums Snoop Dogg yeah that's great
but I mean the point is is that you know
there's like these two currents of the
United States right and something that I
know from my experience is that there is
like America the Empire which is like
the government these are the people who
are in control of the society and then
there's the people in the society and I
think a lot of times on the Left people
have a difficult time separating those
two things right because the fact is is
if you want to create any different
future in this country in the world you
have to be able to deal with Americans
obviously right we're dealing in this
country so you can't deny the idea of
being somebody who comes from this
culture or this identity but the point
is is like if you really want to love
you know the United States is - you
notice or you know America or whatever
we want to call it is like is the
change-up route all of these systems
yeah it's - it's actually make people
make people free and it's something
that's very important to me you know
something yeah I especially want to move
from the south to the north it was
something I had a difficult time with
with that articulation because a lot of
people you know obviously the South is
fairly regressive and like there's a lot
of racism you know things like that but
so I know plenty of wonderful you know
very loving incredible people and it was
a hell of a lot of racism here no
exactly right
I know the subtext of all of that this
and that was and that was a struggle for
me that took me a long time to sort of
recognize right it's like well I left
the south because I had to leave because
I just couldn't be in that culture
anymore right then I came into a
different culture which was just
attacking the entire - the entirety of
all southern people which I always felt
was a good ridiculous strategy right
because if you look even even if you're
to base on something that it's so
Felicia says like
voting democrat I mean you know even in
states like Texas right you still get
40% 45% you know you still have a lot of
people who think similarly to you right
it's just as like these fights at the
margins right yeah and you know it's
something that I think we can take that
to a national level when we're taking
international I agree and I just want to
add to I have whatever I mean I there's
a more macro point that I'll get to
later but just the two things I think
like for me and especially because my
kind of leftism was formed you know was
very like Noam Chomsky globalization
protest Amy Goodman kind of stuff and
that was great and it did give you and I
think people need a thoroughgoing
understanding of how much the United
States both in terms of its own history
and contemporary realities with race and
so on is not a democracy
it's an unfulfilled democracy and then
also it's just role I mean even even
just getting going back into Brazil and
seeing the u.s. support for what's
happened in Brazil it's just it's truly
disgusting and it's it's total there
isn't a corner of the planet that we
can't find us abuse in terms of foreign
policy but I did find it I they're not
the same but I did find like well I find
people that wave a flag and say if you
criticize this country or George Bush
get the out that's obviously
infantile but I also find it to be kind
of infantile to say that you hate a
place that you grew up in that you hate
a place that clearly had a whole bunch
of things that is flawed and is
unfulfilled as they were we were taking
advantage of right like there was the
whole dumb like oh if you you you know
you're right to criticize it so don't
criticize and get the out but
there's also literally like we can
criticize it that means something right
that that is actually something that's
literally and I think people saw it when
they made false equivalencies actually
in the election between Trump and
Hillary frankly that like there was a
lot of people with a kind of pseudo
radicalism that took certain liberal
gains as a given and now that they're in
question maybe they ought to think about
those even as this bougie and his
complete as they were that there were
some actual gains that were made
and and we should be building off of
them and considering them and not just
sort of posing against them and you know
that's kind of part of myself I can tell
you there's been no radical movement of
consequence and memorable of a memorable
importance that hasn't taken the
position of demanding that the American
promise be fulfilled right and to do
that without sounding scornful you've
got a sorry I'm pointing over here to
the picture of King I mean you black
black the story of black radicalism has
most often been the story of demanding
the promise right not scorning the
promise right and that's also just
strategic because even like just you
know Bernie I love but I do think like
you can't just talk about mountain
countries in the Nordics know exact
numbers let's talk about what we did
here this is my argument right I agree
with you this is something that I hope
all ropes in said very eloquently right
so Paul wrote ropes and when he was put
in front of like the house of an
American Activities Committee and he's
you know going back and forth with them
he said I was born in this country and a
lot of this country still belongs to me
yet it is my people who built this
country right right and it's and there's
no that is addictive you know
kind of the kind of patriotism that like
the Sean Hannity's and these kind of
people are trying to create cuz that's
false and that's fake it's bad there's a
norm and and they're sayings like I'm as
much a part of this country as anyone
else right and I have a lot that is owed
to me from this country and I feel like
there's a lot of groups that should be
able to make that demand you know it's
bet you know from from black people to
women the lbgtq community to the working
people who built this country as well
right and whoever just have been
completely abused in this country that
has really just hyper inflated like
capitalism to unbelievable level but to
deny those histories of those people who
created this nation because you're
trying to create an America that's a
unified a unity of like the ruling class
instead of a unity of like the other
people who've built the country the
people who have been stomped on by the
ruling class is incorrect right Lincoln
that's where the multitudes concept
think is actually Lincoln hated slavery
but he actually doubted if blacks and
whites could actually could live
together give him what he saw right
and he subscribed generally today of
colonization
you know what colonization meant that
african-americans would be enabled to
return yeah life founding of Liberia
yeah but he had a meeting in the White
House during his presidency with with a
group probably of leading black figures
in America yeah close to the mic oh
sorry he had a meeting in the White
House with leading black figures in
America and he brought up this question
of colonization and they blew up at him
right they said I mean basically he's
kidding me this is our country and we
flipped never talked about that again
okay now that's also the kind of leader
we need right okay okay and then I'll
tell you something else I don't know if
it fits or not my best friend for years
a Japanese American who was born in one
of the camps during World War two while
his father was in uniform okay and I and
I but I can't tell you how much pleasure
he took in reminding others that his
family had been here before most of
their families right and moreover he
would not tolerate the knocking of the
American promise and during World War
two the fact it's interesting during
world war ii during the Roosevelt years
of a forty you know and 41 then to
well-laid 41 to 45 those who had the
least to brag about in terms of being
American it served out of proportion to
their numbers in the population in
uniform right
this included Jews mexican-americans
they weren't even called
mexican-americans till after the war
japanese-americans
not out of proportion but nevertheless
22,000 served in uniform they were the
most decorated combat unit in world wars
in the American army in World War two
right the Japanese a very I mean those
who have the most to gain from the
American promise just knew well the only
way you gain it is by advancing it right
I think that's the fundamental thing
that that I think you know the right has
argued for years that the left has
scorned a mirror
that's been their claim for years right
and and though I hate to grant them too
much on that it's not untrue hmm it's
not untrue and I'll give you the best
example the right
ever since Reagan I think we might have
talked about this lesson the right ever
since Reagan has done a phenomenal job
of laying claim to American history to
speak as if they are the you know the
speaking for the founders that they're
speaking for whoever you know people
admire in America it's out of their
mouths now the fact is that the left
could have easily lay better claim to
American history but over and over again
whether we're talking liberals
progressives or in fact Democratic
socialists we have repeatedly failed to
lay claim to American history maybe
because we're haunted by these images of
the tragedies and the contradictions
yeah and I think that's I mean I guess
we're I can't fully I mean I think it's
just that you know it's funny because I
agree with you strategically basically I
think that there's no electoral and no
kind of mass market strategy that
doesn't adopt this approach in terms of
my actual belief in it I think you got
to choose your reality to some well I
can't I don't you know I just don't I
don't see it in the same way you do
obviously because there's just too many
to me it's like when it's when it
genocide founds the place and slavery
builds it and all these other things to
me it's like it's a feature not a bug
right but I just say oh I know no I
don't know no I absolutely I know that I
know that I'm just saying the way I and
I interpret the same set of thing but
but no but conversely where I agree with
you is I do think that cognition is
company Wisconsin and go with me to the
Native American cemeteries right any
time approaching a holiday every single
man's grave has an American flag at it
right placed by the tribe right no but I
do well I think I think again in
somebody's debates right now what I'm
coming up when I'm running up against is
essentially a set of I would say like
middle-class cultural postures that are
over represented in basically certain
kind of academic areas because
I gotta say like in different class
backgrounds especially I don't I don't
ever and I'm talking across racial and
often people with extremely left
politics things like throwing up a flag
for 4th of July is naughty it's just
like what you do now it's not even a
question and I and it's funny because
I'll admit like this sort of thing in
the same way that I've never resonated
like I don't hate America and I cuz I
don't item just not wired to have like I
don't have heavily emotional
relationships with things like that
right it's like ok yeah I mean I I live
here it's great you know I don't hate it
at all but I don't I can't relate to
loving it either in that way I got to be
careful how this is clipped when I run
for office but I have to say but outside
of this of this a very specific context
there's people who I'm saying is there
are a hundred percent on board on Empire
on imperialism on on racism everything
we talked about and they have a flag and
they totally in intuitive for would
frame it as you know we're gonna
understand things properly historically
but we're also gonna give the ammunition
its to take a the less thing I'll say
that take another example you won't be
the last thing you'll see it will not be
the last thing I say the last thing I
say on this topic before we get to these
two segments but that is very correct
professor is is that it's in some ways
an analogy I'll draw is I mean we need
to understand Nazi Germany right we need
to understand Hitler and we need to
understand why that something just so
horrific could come about but in other
ways the failings of the Soviet Union
are so much more important to understand
because it started with beautiful
motives and I still think that the 1917
revolution is an incredibly positive
thing in human history in that moment
it's just my view yeah but the point but
the point being is that we have to
understand how something whose origins
and motives are of human liberation and
of goodness get distorted and that also
on the other hand gives you you know the
people slot by Dziedzic says this all
the time he says the people that got
crack down the most in the Soviet Union
when he was coming up where the people
who took it literally they said hey
these Constitution says that everybody
has these amazing programs and then
we're also in this participatory
democracy so you know I have a bone to
pick about such such a thing and they
were immediately shut off and I think
it's in some way in a fandom there's a
similar dynamic United States it is the
movements that took those words
seriously and they said well you know
what that means
a full democracy for everybody I'm not
gonna argue with you and I think that I
know you got to go to the segment's yes
we do but I got this like two minute
thing
one minute thing yeah we're gonna roll
them the post-game for sure remind me to
tell you this story about if there's a
flag pin okay in the postgame okay okay
folks you know that you want to hear the
Gulag segment the mat and Griscom
segments and a whole lot more
conversation plus I did I debated a
trump ISTA on i-24 news and we're gonna
play that clip it's pretty funny there's
a lot more to go over become a patron
today we're growing fat we're at a
steady clip and we're a little under 300
away from that 2,000 goal this weekend
Mike Hanna and I did a sort of brief on
turkeys strategy coming out of the
murder of Jamal khashoggi and the UN in
the role in a sort of post UN world
right now patreon.com slash DMBS thank
you Matt thank you David thank you David
thank you Jamison for being here thank
you for being here professor Harvey Ches
hanging out with us into the postgame IJ
and by the way even if I weren't here
I'd be able to listen I pay my dues
love this guy we are gonna see you in
the postgame thanks everybody
[Music]
