[Music]
so let's get to this speaking of people
who I wish wordy platformed I know
that's wrong of me and it's completely
unclassy liberal but budding friendship
between tucker carlson and dave rubin
the classical liberals over at fox folks
it's that time again when republicans
have suffered political loss and they
turned to the old trusty chestnut around
this time of year the war on Christmas
and who better to talk about the war on
Christmas and these two Heartland
fellows whose but you know the heir to
the Swanson fortune Tucker Carlson and
the Hollywood elite Dave Rubin living in
Hollywood
maybe not elite but definitely Hollywood
Dave Rubin probably has never lived
anywhere else besides California in New
York the Hollywood mediocre well and
he's a one of these performers but here
he is the Hollywood elite talking about
how Christmas is ruined for everybody
particularly this Jewish guy Dave Rubin
hosts the Rubin report on YouTube this
is a very wise man and joins us so Dave
as I'm watching that also they have this
kind of panic feeling and thinking maybe
I fell for an elaborate ironic prank
from HuffPo and then I realize no
because they don't have a sense of humor
but reassure me this is real right
Tucker very quickly on the last segment
I swear to you I thought you were the
positive you should tell you what
they're talking about they're talking
about Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer as
a marginalized character it's I don't
know if it's tongue-in-cheek it may or
may not be it harkens back to the
multitude of reassessments done by
right-wingers of popular cartoons things
like the American Family Research
Council saying that a shark's tail
was in fact a gay promotion vehicle in
fact I called them and we will dig up
that call at one point but here it is
they're upset about how Rey Rudolph the
Red Nosed Reindeer is being
reinterpreted and I am shocked and I'm
gonna you know I don't get I don't get
paid for these appearances but I'm going
to mail you a check for somewhere
between 15 and 20 dollars okay that
efficient this is you got it my friend
listen these these puff piece of
Huffington poem een look these pieces
that these that these authors whatever
they are journalists that they write
these are not pieces of journalism it's
so much what was going on let's the
cameraman messing with Dave Rubin there
the camera is never a throughout this
entire segment never quite comfortable
arresting on Dave Rubin
very very funny but he's just bouncing
up and down but go ahead
these these puff piece of huffington
poem een look these pieces that these
that these authors whatever they are
journalists that they write these are
not pieces of journalism it's so much
easier to destroy and then to create if
you're watching Rudolph the red-nosed
reindeer and think it's about racism and
misogyny and the patriarchy and the rest
of it well you can find that stuff
everywhere if you look back at anything
and that's that's what people really
need to understand when these pieces
come out and then you start looking at
something that you used to love or that
used to have a wonderful message about
the holiday and giving and being
accepted and all of those things that
they're trying to take that away from
you and it's not like they stop with one
thing right they find something they
kind of destroy that and they'll move on
to everything else that we love so you
know eventually they'll move on to
sitcoms that we love whether it's
Seinfeld for you know Zack doing
something they've done or or friends or
whatever else it is they'll go for
cartoons they've gone for Bugs Bunny I
mean they will literally go for a sunset
I think of whoever is watching this
right now think of something you love
that brings you a sense of peace and
decency and they will somehow link it to
the patriarchy and the rest of their
politically correct nonsense and we just
need to we need to realize that as I
said earlier it's easier to destroy than
create well that's doing
now pause it for one second alright so
what they're talking about is Huff Post
ran a piece people find some disturbing
details and Rudolph the red-nosed
reindeer and someone wrote every year
the elf throws the bird out of the
sleigh without an umbrella even though
the bird said it can't fly every damn
year someone complained somebody else
said one of the great mysteries in
modern times what's wrong with the dolly
on the island of misfit toys why she a
misfit I mean there are other ones I
maybe there's more serious stuff that
they're talking well Jamie can probably
speak to this better than I can but what
economic system incentivizes these sorts
of without even commenting on the
validity of this article or whatever
what economic system incentivizes this
sort of take blog blogosphere like
environment right what pitches are
accepted like of course it's no these
are just jokes these are all jokes even
if they were gonna seriously critique it
though right like I'll tell you
something first off the ones on the Huff
Post from two days ago they're they're
jokes now maybe there's someone that you
know that there's something else but
they're mostly jokes as far as I can
tell like but a little bit of self
satire perhaps a little self
consciousness on the part of liberals
well I I don't know but I'll tell you
something if anybody has ever watched
with any serious look at the Nutcracker
you will see a creepy-ass tale of
pedophilia I'm sorry now a lot of you
people have no idea what I'm talking
about because you've never watched I
have watched about 12 different versions
on the Nutcracker and I think it was the
Seattle one which almost like openly
acknowledges it you have a creepy old
uncle who comes in and gives the young
girl a nutcracker and then comes in the
middle of the night and takes her to
Candyland okay it's a very creepy story
so the idea that you cannot revisit old
classics and reassess what's going on
now in some of the updated versions of
the Nutcracker
they take a lot of that element out they
send them with a kid the prince is not
likely you know they send it there's
another kid like the assistant instead
of like the uncle I mean there's a lot
of stuff that's done to make it less
creepy but there are versions out there
where it becomes very explicit we see
swords creepy we should be forced to do
it exactly how it originally was yeah
exact time and if you read any of the
originals of the fairy tales that we
tell our kids they're creepy and if you
are creepy even slight sensitivity to
much of the stories that are told to
that are considered girls stories young
girls right like all the princess ones
that up until very recently when you
start getting things like frozen or
whatnot these stories all have the same
basic lesson unless you didn't unless
you land the really you know the the
prince and shining armor you are in some
cases literally dead or your life is
going to suck and you get more sensitive
to that when you have a daughter and
you're starting to look at these things
and you're like oh my god I can't
believe what the message is to this so I
in HuffPost they're there they're going
through this and they're pointing out
the sort of the some of this stuff
perfectly legitimate exercise and the
idea that they're gonna come back and
reinterpret everything for us I mean
well it seems like what they're getting
mad about is not even a reinterpretation
like the items I think they're you - I
think I think HuffPo may have made a
video where they where they go through
the whole thing and they see the various
different things that are sort of a
little bit grotesque but like the idea
that Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer is
about how you shouldn't treat people
differently because they look different
from you that's not a stretch that's
like literally the message contained in
the
story well there's a message contained
in the story of course but you have to
be really successful and lucky and and
your difference has to actually help
productivity and the group dynamic if it
doesn't of course you're still
completely ostracized particularly if
someone doesn't come down and pluck you
out and sell it sell you know save you I
mean it's a pretty crap ass message to
send to kids if you were concerned about
that but the idea that this somehow
ruins things for us like we can who
knows what's next are we going - we have
to reinterpret a Seinfeld oh my gosh
what next what are we going to do look
back on slavery and think it was wrong
continue and we just need to we need to
realize that as I said earlier it's
easier to destroy than create well
that's doing and I think you have to do
is create that's such a smart point
posit I don't know if you've ever seen
the creation of Dave Rubens comedy but
if that is just him trying to make the
point that it's super difficult to
create those things anyone gay the
audience first off the reinterpretation
of existing work
I won't call Rudolph the Red Nosed
Reindeer art but the reinterpretation of
existing work is in fact a massive
portion of all creativity that is
existed you don't even like pulp fiction
right come on
continue are we creating what is being
created in this moment of destruction
right now do you make me feel that's
what I'm worried about
yeah yeah well that's what I'm worried
about because there is some legitimacy
that some of the things happening in the
country and in the world should be
destroyed at some level look we've got
major problems in academia we've got no
change I agree now does he mean the
George Mason Economics Department is
that I problem in academia that he's
concerned no no of course we know what
the problem in academia is that people
are trying to destroy the Germany of the
patriarchy or of misogyny or
of everything except for a gay hatred
the destruction of of anti-gay sentiment
and homophobia I think Dave would
probably be okay with I think the
destruction of the the age-old tradition
that I'm sure Tucker Carlson was
bemoaning being destroyed of marriage
between only a man and a woman
I don't think dave has a problem with
that one it's just the other ones that
don't implicate him which are
problematic to have destroyed right
