[Music]
so they released the big Donald Trump
George Stephanopoulos interview of which
we had a couple clips this week right
there was the clip about him saying that
there was no collusion and then there
was the what was the other clip that we
played I can't remember now cuz it was
almost three days ago oh right I don't
need to go the FBI if somebody comes in
you know let's say Norway gives me some
information about about somebody and
then and then of course every official
involved in election said actually it's
you probably that's not you need to it's
illegal I'm gonna hear about it first
see what's in there so I don't know I
think after the Muller report the idea
must have been by the Trump
administration now we can finally
subject ourselves to a non overtly and
overly friendly media person for the
first time in probably months and months
and Stephanopoulos seemed to press him
on some things and apparently they're
also gonna this is just a bizarre moment
that ABC let the cameras run it's
unclear apparently there are some in the
media who are suggesting that this was
on purpose that Mick Mulvaney who you
will hear coughing in the background as
chief of staff was upset with the
direction that these questions were
going and coughed as a way of basically
resetting things I don't think it's
going to quite work in the way that they
thought it would because I think they
presumed like oh they'll just cut I
think Trump thought like whenever
someone coughed in the middle of the The
Apprentice we would just cut and do
a whole nother take but news people of
course are just gonna let the camera
roll and if they're gonna find that
moment and in some ways that's the most
newsworthy thing I think and could be
the most problematic for his supporters
like wow this guy just like take two I
mean I think most politicians can do
that it's just there's very little
opportunity and value to seeing it I
think from the perspective of of news
people although it might be helpful to
watch this of all politicians but here's
Stephanopoulos at Donald Trump's desk
they've got to do something about its
tanning regime but here is a Donald
Trump with Stephanopoulos when you will
see my financial statement at some point
I assume it's going to be released
you'll be very impressed with the job
we've done much much bigger much much
better than anybody thereafter my
financial statement the Senate they'd
like to get my financial statement at
some point I hope they get it you're
gonna turn it over now at some point I
might but at some point up they get it
because it's safe enough it's a
fantastic financial statement it's a
fantastic financial statement and let's
do that over he's coughing in the middle
of my answer yeah okay I don't like that
you know when you're chief of staff you
get a coffee please just to change this
okay sorry okay you want to do that a
little differently then so at some point
so at some point I look forward to it
frankly I want I'd like to have people
see my financial statement because he's
phenomenal no it's not up to me it's up
to lawyers it's up to everything else
but they're asking for things that they
should I don't even understand what he's
talking about financial statement is he
talking about his taxes it sounds like
why are they looking for his taxes in
the Senate wouldn't the house be getting
his his taxes he doesn't know that
well it's also doesn't it doesn't appear
that Stephanopoulos knows what he's
talking about the whole thing seems
wrong and maybe that's why he was
coughing because he's like
wait why you're offering your your
financial statement well there was an
early part whereas Stephanopoulos did
ask for clarification once and Trump
says acumen you know my financial
statements and Stephanopoulos just went
with it because he's like who knows what
we'll get out of this I also like how he
realized like uh I have to reset cuz the
camera had to reset it take three take
three clapper clapper oh we're just
gonna go okay because he's phenomenal no
it's not up to me it's up to lawyers
it's up to everything else but they're
asking for things that they should never
be asking for that they've never asked
another president for they want to go
through every deal that I've ever done
they've what they're doing is a
descriptor nope they're trying to do
step step-step they want to keep it
going as long as possible to try and
demean and hurt as much as possible so
they can possibly win the presidential
election I mean there's some truth to
that part
certainly the party out of power will be
doing things to win their presidential
election I think there's probably also a
lot of pressure to do more of that
certainly by grassroots Democrats
Democratic leadership seems to have a
problem with that but yeah it looks like
he could only be referring to his tax
returns and that would be the house yeah
I hope Mick Mulvaney is okay I you know
it both there's two scenarios right the
way to watch that one is that either it
was a setup and it was a little
ham-fisted like Mick if there's a
problem cuff and I'll pretend like I'm
mad at you
and then we'll reset but he doesn't
really reset you just kept going and
otherwise it just makes Trump look like
more of the Mad King in this instance
but oh there is a God and Mick Mulvaney
is dying of consumption that also would
be nice we were nice if there was a lot
tbh floating around that office
precisely but I don't know if we'll be
that lucky but who knows they had a very
strange moment there another coffee Hey
