a 702 area code who's this where he come
from
hey Sam it's bro from Engel from Las
Vegas bro flamingo from Las Vegas what's
on your mind hey Sam I don't going on
Mike how you doing
I'm all right um two things I want to
point out uh first thing this is kind of
mine the league stuff but I think it's
worth mentioning okay before I go on
actually sell it to the guys who said to
me out on the call about Joe Biden I
really appreciated brother-in you're
absolutely right he's ban on women but
uh looking into that later but um the
first thing I want to point out was I
did you guys see the tweet about all
mates over when he basically talked
about you know all the white liberals
have left Bernie right
yeah and loving bar residue left I mean
I know I know there's a lot of news
going on guys but like people like and
Mike and I had this conversation too
Michael Thursday way back but guys like
that need to be punished when they say
stupid stuff like that you need to hold
them to account because that that's
absolutely ridiculous in into your guy's
point he's not even a data guy anymore
this guy is getting almost I was almost
let's say like hotcakes there's almost
like trolls at this point like how could
even say something like that
well grievant million dollars I think I
mentioned this actually the other day
Nate Silver had a tweet that was arguing
that you know people are saying you know
Bernie Sanders took grief last time
around for not having a diverse
coalition of supporters he has now the
most diverse coalition of supporters
measured by the way that people measured
diversity in just about every other
context except for in Nate Silver's
Twitter feed that one day when he said
that the reason why Bernie Sanders has
diversity and that there are there are
component his his support is made up of
is multiracial and multi economic status
is because
most of the white people who supported
him in 2016 left there by raising the
percentages of black supporters young
supporters I guess Asian supporters and
that they're just the residue of his
support from 2016 which is just I mean
it's it's crazy we don't measure anybody
else's support in any other context
relative to the potential of support
that could be theirs in other words we
don't say like God you know so few
people voted for Hillary Clinton
relative to the world we don't say that
because there's a billion to do no
majority of the people of color vote
right she only got yes you only got a
portion of the American right with God
and if you include all the people who
didn't vote yeah I mean it's it's just
you know if you completely Dhoni she
actually did not pick up the woman's
vote is it a very very strained way of
trying to make it seem like Sanders
diversity of support is irrelevant and I
mean but but yes I agree but I don't you
know what I got to be honest with you I
think the reason why Nate Silver starts
to tweet stuff like that is that because
the star has faded on some level and
it's very difficult to be out of that
limelight and he does though I mean that
guy has like a lot of these people he
has a very very like look I'll draw some
distinctions and I make no apologies you
know there are big differences between
Sanders and Warren that need to be
spelled out but it's you know there's
degrees of either saying they're the
same thing which is absolutely false on
the on to the other extreme of Nate
Silver who really does I mean clearly
have a very bizarre or irrational
fixation and hatred of Bernie Sanders
and his supporters and it's very it's
very weird and very bizarre and very
sick to watch and there is a lot of lies
and a lot of gas lettings
you know it's that balance of ignoring
the trash but also um you know some of
it needs to be addressed I just I want
to say there's an amazing new piece by
Adolph read jr. that just dropped in New
Republic called the myth of class
reductionism which I would recommend
everybody read urgently take on this
thing you said to be very interesting
you know with the pitchman on the rise
joe biden's premise is completely in
peril and completely in parallel and you
guys made this point and i think this
applies Nancy Pelosi basically again Joe
Biden baby trunk no with this with him
being held to account allegedly you know
saying to the Pietschmann you know does
the whole Joe Biden's whole campaigns
premises dues on is is in trouble
however we have to be very careful guys
when you know when uh when the media
types from the New York Times and all
the all the other media establishment to
be inside a launder Nancy Pelosi for
doing this when it's been completely in
completely incompetent on every level
how she handled this because you I
remember you guys talked about how Joe
Biden if you enter the White House you
launder the Republicans wherever we
gotta make sure that these guys won't
get beat launder doing away yeah I mean
I the first thing I tweeted the other
night was something to the effect of
like we're gonna see a bunch of these
pieces saying that Pelosi lured him into
being so confident that he tried to
blackmail of the president of Ukraine to
campaign I mean that's gonna happen but
but but I think you know people are
pretty clear on what the story is I
would read that and share widely that
Ryan grim piece because it makes it
quite clear that that the that this was
a huge gift to not only to the country
but also to Nancy Pelosi insofar as like
a very explicit easy compact concise and
discreet example of his his dealing it
would be fun
appreciate us strategy whiteboard like
it's just like alright do we say that L
on Omar should be deported ourselves or
do we impeach Trump right that's game
plan this I mean honestly I figure all
right bye-bye
what I don't know what happened there I
hung up
