well everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam cedar
[Music]
it is Friday July 12 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report it's
casual Friday ladies and gentlemen but
nothing casual at all about today we are
jam-packed at Netroots nation 2019 we
will have a series of interviews that
today emanating from Philadelphia
Pennsylvania where I'll be talking to an
array of I'm sorry that's not going to
work of folks of various issues and
going on here so bear with me a little
bit hectic but we've got it going ad√®le
Stan oh let me turn on your mic it's one
of those days folks and I got to be
honest with you
it's not like I I just went home and
took a nap last night
now wait a second I'm sorry yeah try
that one more time
Adele Stan I'm great to be with you from
the right wing watch yes indeed here our
second two guests from the right wing
watch on the program I get this
right-wing lot to watch there's a lot to
watch well you know I just did a panel
today at Netroots about the rise of
right-wing authoritarianism and
basically my mantra is this Sam it's the
right wing the far right is a global
movement number one number two the far
right is not fringe it's at the heart of
power and we see this every day of
course with this administration no I
mean let's talk about right-wing
authoritarianism because trying to think
of the author he was a Canadian
professor and John Dean based a lot of
what he wrote in his book about
conservatives about maybe 10 years ago
based on the work of this author from
Canada who suggested there at any given
point in North America there's about 25
percent of the population our right-wing
authoritarians
and there is a left-wing
authoritarianism but it's just not as
prevalent because of the nature of of
the left-right what do you think it is
about this era that he's brought I mean
is it just a function of Trump because
you're talking about it being
international so what is that well it's
you know this is I would say that that
author is correct I mean I I haven't
read his particular work but I mean we
see that about 24% of the US electorate
and that's you know the electorate not
the general population and unfortunately
a lot of our people don't vote but 24%
of the US electorate is is right-wing
evangelicals so that sounds like a
credible figure to me I think this is a
strain of Americanism that has existed
for a very long time you know in terms
of the American form the u.s. form of
right-wing authoritarianism and the
right-wing has been building this thing
this apparatus for forty years while you
know the left has been less involved in
building infrastructure in the way that
the right has so if you look at the
ideology of say right white what we call
white nationalist now and the ideology
of say the Family Research Council
you're not gonna find a whole lot of
daylight between you know that the the
viewpoints it's Bob altameyer is he was
the author and he worth tracking down I
tried to talk to him about a year or two
ago to see if you would come on he had
issued actually a a warning in the
run-up to the election about Donald
Trump he was he had some belief that
Donald Trump was going to win I did
because these authoritarian were gonna
act be activated he was very nervous and
I spoke to him a couple of times try and
get him on the show and frankly he was a
little bit nervous just not not sure
that he had much to say at that point
you know it's it's tough to sort of warn
people about hitting the the the I guess
the the lamppost after you've run it
over and I think you know because the US
is you know got oceans on other either
side of it and and we have a propensity
for narcissism being the you know the
biggest fattest nation on the face of
the earth is we like to think of
ourselves we really haven't been paying
attention to this thing as a global
project and it truly is the religious
right has been making inroads with
far-right parties and actors in Europe
for a very long time in other parts of
the world too and as we see with Boston
ro and in Brazil you know Michele
Bachmann was working with him is that
right Steve Bennett was working we
should say Bolton Aero just appointed
his son to be ambassador to Washington
well Trump loves Boston our
I mean and so so let me just see if I
get the sort of the broader scenario
these things have been building for some
time the networks have been created and
essentially it's it feels like that the
the the idea of the idea of the the
groundwork has been laid and then we
have something like the financial crisis
and we have waves of austerity and so
the context becomes right essentially
and that's when this this kicks in right
now so there's like it's in the
background it's ongoing and it's just
sort of waiting for the right
opportunity absolutely I mean if you
look at Steve bannon's career and I
think it's really instructive I mean now
Benin is not the great man that he would
like us to believe he is but he's very
consequential and important I first came
across Steve ban and in 2010 2010 when
he was really kind of the chief
propagandist for the Tea Party movement
you know and he was not he he was not a
frontline face of the movement but he'd
been working behind the scenes making
propaganda for that movement for a very
very long time and this project just
continues and now we see him running
around Europe organizing the far-right
parties of Europe consulting for them we
don't know who's paying him
I mean is he doing okay the last
interview I saw with him he was cornered
I guess by I can't remember exactly who
it was but they questioned he was
claiming he was talking to I think like
the Italian fascists or something and
the the host said well I think it was
Axios it was either that actually a
thing where they they asked him well we
spoke to that guy and he said you've
barely been around I mean they said
we've spoken to that guy and he says he
hasn't seen much of you now so but it's
hard to know isn't it
well I would so here's something that I
came across right I was in Brussels
during the run-up to the the campaign
for the European Union parliamentary
elections Bannon set up shop in Paris in
customarily in a five-star hotel he only
stays in 5-star hotels
he only travels by private plane where
he caused some consternation to marine
lepen who heads the far-right party in
France because what he wanted to do what
he was sort of advancing himself as the
spend golly of these far-right parties
that we're all vying for spots in the
European Union Parliament and so at the
same time she needed to distance herself
from him just as salvini would need to
distance himself from Bannen because
these are nationalists right their whole
shtick is that you know they are Italy
for Italians France for the French to
have some American guru appear to be you
know bigfooting and guiding their
campaigns would not reflect well on them
so it's it is difficult to know exactly
where balance sits with them however I
will say this and that is while Bannon
was in in Paris several deputies of
marine lepen Sparty paid you know social
calls on him they and you know he's a
date he understands the data analytics
he understands messaging so is he just
having friendly how's your wife how's
your kids kind of combos right me too
he doesn't seem like that type of guy
who cares and he seems to have just his
unlimited cash flow and we know he's you
know a wealthy ish guy right he's but
that wealthy I don't know what so what I
mean
so you're tracking this stuff right and
to a large extent people have not been
paying enough attention but in the in
the parallel universe where people were
paying more attention
whoa what do you do ah this is always
the question right and this is I think
and this is I think we can loop this
around domestically to help
I'm sensing a sort of I mean it's great
to be at Netroots where it's positive
and we've got energy growing however you
know it's difficult to it's difficult to
excuse me once I get please can you just
leave the chair and not and not sit
there I'm sorry some folks don't realize
you're but it's really difficult to I'm
sorry were you pull in that chair Thanks
okay yeah no so the the question is is
like and what do we do about it right
and so you know we're here at Netroots
where the energy is very positive but
out there in the country you can feel
kind of a sense of paralysis in general
giving our domestic politics and I think
also in terms of the global situation to
those who are in the know right because
we kind of don't know what to do right
now we're not in the streets all of that
but what I would say is we need to
really start thinking about what we want
to say what do we have to say to people
who feel powerless what do we have to
say to them can we can we can we gather
people together through the use of great
means I mean the right is running
circles around us with digit in the
digital space can we create platforms of
our own we need to be super creative and
I know people want an answer now but if
we don't build infrastructure if we keep
moving from election to election without
building infrastructure of these types
of real
organically grown creative shops that's
really what we need to do we need to be
gathering people to educate them about
the threat and we need to scare people
because fear is what works well who's
the we in that scenario like I mean is
this an institutional project is this I
mean do we need more people to be
joining the DSA or or I mean what where
where does this when we say we are we
talking about okay so I would say all of
it right and I know that's kind of too
easy an answer yes we do need
institutional players we really do and
if you know if you're a democratic if
yours if you're a social democrat join
the join the DSA sure and they're good
activists organization however I also
think that people can use their own
individual agency to create things
because of the social media platforms
available to us to distribute it in
other words so I keep talking about the
word propaganda one of the reasons I I'm
I know as much as I do about Bowne and I
hardly know the whole story is that I've
always been donated by him as a
propagandist and when I discuss him I
often talk about his work as a
propagandist because he was very
talented as a propagandist we have a lot
of creative people on our side we need
to sometimes the individual agency is
what we need it would be great if some
of the institutional players would help
that along right you know help that
along grant some money to some artists
grant some money to other creative
people you know that kind of thing and
get some stuff going but it has to it
also it has to come from both places and
it and if it doesn't come up from the
grassroots that always feels canned
someone was just telling me that at the
that authoritarian panel I think that
the idea that propaganda is value
neutral term yes that came up I I
advanced that idea let's talk about that
because I have since the beginning that
I was on air America I would
say well people ask me what's your job
like I'm an aspiring propagandist yes
and people were aghast at that and I
said look like will you please just
explain that concept because I mean I've
been told that the left can't do
propaganda like literally can't do it
like it's not possible that's for the
left to do it because propaganda is
necessarily deceit you know information
right well it just explain to people
propaganda so propaganda is nothing more
than having then then having a point of
view encapsulated in a message now it
doesn't mean you lie a lot of propaganda
is lies but it doesn't have to be you
can tell the truth through the lens of
your experience and do it creatively do
it on a radio program do it in a podcast
do it in a in a sauna in a sign that you
imagine being you can create a protest
if you create the propaganda for it we
always put the we always think that's
putting the cart before the horse create
the art then make the movement around
the art right well
Adele stand if people want to read more
of your work where where would they go
right wing watch dot org where project
of people for the American Way and I
also have a column at the American
Prospect prospect org where I write a
lot about these issues as well great
Adele Stan always pleasure thanks so
much for having me Sam
all right folks we are going to now cut
to a pre taped interview right Matt you
look like okay you have a look on your
face of like maybe it's when you look
into this guy you look terrified but
we're gonna play a an interview I did
just about an hour ago
with Winnie Wong
Briona joy gray she nailed me I called
the Greyjoy
yeah but she called it the Minority
Report in the other interview that's
well we ended up we ended up both
copping to that in the interview so we
dispense to that it was a little tit for
tat it was you know it was like a
brushback pitch was the you know you're
gonna hit my you're gonna hit my batter
who hit the homerun I'm gonna throw at
somebody's head that's how I basically
push him off the plate a little bit who
uh who was taking the chair Sam that's
what everyone wants to know well no it
was a guy and he's a nice guy and he was
here before
don't take that chair well I noticed
caste no it's not it's not that he was
taking the chair he was that sure we
couldn't hear each other because I don't
have headphones for the guests and he
was talking to Brendan right in front of
the camera and sometimes it's like this
sort of there are people at conferences
where I get it like you just see a dude
sitting at a booth and you're like okay
I can walk up to that guy and what's the
big deal he's talking into a microphone
but it can't be anything that that's
that relevant it can they just start
talking to you and it's you know they do
it with the nicest of intentions but
it's like this is not a natural state
for me I don't walk around with a
microphone you actually see you is
dressing your kids it's not in
concealing right exactly have here's
what's for breakfast
and here we're doing later and I just
love that though that has anyone seen my
socks yeah yeah exactly
okay all right well I just had you know
he'll it was good no yes
well I've been I listen I'm gonna just
I'm gonna cop to the audience okay thank
you
four or five hours of sleep last night
indeed Brendan
like was like literally following around
go chug-chug-chug-chug
oh wow yeah yeah but with this new
jersey and far does New Jersey Jeeves
realize that when he does that he's
causing himself problems the next day he
called you noot New Jersey Jeeves
[Laughter]
so I got I drank a little bit and of
course the you know all the the what
Netroots is and I think it's like this
for a lot of people but it's just like
you go around and you meet other people
who have just as passionate opinions
about politics as you do and you're in a
bar and you just keep drinking and
yelling at each other about politics Wow
and but I met a great candidate who's
going to be taking on Maui in New York
1700 a that's a big one yes in this guy
that's great very very impressive guy
sorry I just lost that because we have a
really impressive guy taking on Eliot as
well yup and his name is Monde air Jones
and just you know we're in the bar he's
you know he's coming around cuz he wants
to meet these activists and his policies
are all aligned and he's he's just it's
interesting to hear the dynamics of this
I met a couple of members apparently the
Philadelphia City Council only allows
for five members of any given party to
sit on the council and in the past it's
been Democrats five Republicans to and
the Working Families Party is saying
like well guess what the Republicans
don't have to have those two other seats
and so they're gonna try and make it
five Democrats to working families party
members on the City Council Philadelphia
me people who are working with
krasner the DEA here we're trying to get
him on the show I mean it's just it you
actually saw it the first guest I liked
I liked Adele that was fascinating yeah
no she's more yes she's been around for
a long time coming to this conference
and we caught up with her but but we
should have her on more but where is cow
you're right next to s cow where's ya
know he's coming around like I'm gonna
do some pre teams with some people and
that's what I'm gonna do this afternoon
this afternoon we're also going to be
doing adam green from p triple c and i
last night at the bar came up with an
idea of like we should have panel an
impromptu panel at Netroots that we're
gonna do right here at this table and
i'm gonna record and try and figure out
how to make it
jirobo for all the reporters that Adam
green is going to get here but we're
gonna be doing a panel with a couple
other folks I'm not exactly sure who
it's gonna be Scott and I think right
now tentatively it is Amy Alyson and
Alexander Rojas and we're gonna run an
interview I did with Alexander Rojas in
a bit on this program she's the
executive director of Justice Democrats
Amy Alyson I think is ahead of she the
people and the panel is going to be a
conversation on really the question is
Joe Biden the riskiest candidate in the
Democratic field so all of a sudden we
can talk about electability you little
prick well I'm just by I'm moderating
I'm moderating so but all right let's
run this interview with Brie joy gray
and winning Wang B they are both members
of the Bernie Sanders campaign let's run
that now we are back Sam cedar our
continuing coverage of Netroots nation
2019 with me now to top officials in the
Bernie Sanders campaign Brianna Greyjoy
she's the national press secretary
Winnie Wong the senior a senior
political
welcome to you both thank you so Whitney
let's start with you what is the at this
point in the campaign what do you
perceive is the single greatest
challenge that that Bernie Sanders has I
don't I don't think we really have very
many challenges at all to be able to be
honest I think you know we're you know
we are building out a very strong
organization and we are focused on the
issues and we know that Donald Trump
must be defeated and I think that that
is what you know the senator and the
team is singularly focused on yeah with
just sort of advancing every day with
that knowledge that we have to defeat
Donald Trump that this isn't really up
for debate and so all of our energy and
all of our resources are devoted to that
and I think when you have a movement
building project like the one we are
aiming to create the enemy is often less
off less often other candidates the
challenges aren't you know defeating
other candidates or you know just
anything any other individuals insofar
as they are defeating the structural
impediments that have always kept people
from forming the broad-based coalition
that is required to actually wrest power
away from the powers that be the 1% the
Ola gargy you see Bernie Sanders
recently launched on his website a list
of people who have called him out as the
only political candidate that they are
against ome of the Democrats could win
but not Bernie Sanders and you I don't
know if you remember in his democratic
socialism speech about a month ago he
quoted did that FDR quote recess I
welcome their hatred I mean welcome
genuinely welcomes the hatred or people
who have been 14 the the needs and the
ability for the American people to live
their lives with dignity and equality
and I think that those those people
those powers-that-be who invested
millions and millions of dollars and
spreading misinformation about Medicare
for all and a lot of these other
programs that
to benefit the American people so
extraordinaire aliy that's that's the
challenge that's the ongoing challenge
that's a challenge for everybody who is
a part of this movement toward broader
equality in this country okay we have to
get money out of politics well well yeah
but I mean okay but I think you know I
mean the other candidates folks working
for other candidates would not focus
around the building of a movement as a
source of their challenge and I guess
because I don't I think it's a different
perspective on how you run for president
I mean I don't I get I mean I don't have
a huge breadth of political knowledge
but a decent amount and the articulation
of trying to build a movement as the
primary sort of focus of a presidential
campaign is fairly unique I think at
least as a conscious effort I mean can
can you look back in history in sort of
track but if you guys because Sanders
going and using his email list for on
immigration completely distinct from a
what you would necessarily do as a
campaign if that was your your singular
focus so I guess what I'm asking is when
you look back as a senior political
adviser are there models for for this
for building a movement that for running
a campaign and building movement
simultaneously in such a
self-consciously conscious way I mean I
think when we look back in history and
we look back at two different periods in
history we'll say the 60 civil rights
movement and then the movement in the
30s to defeat fascism and we see and we
look back and we see what they did wrong
and what they did right which I think a
lot of us inside do look back on those
periods of social movement robust social
movements
and it helps inform our work now we see
that both movements were movements of
we're
popular movements of people coming
together to resist a common enemy so
that's happening now but they didn't
have the internet right and they didn't
have like different forms of different
platforms where we could distribute our
message and so I think you know it's
it's it's it's it's it's it's different
now if you if you think about if you
think about the sixties and you think
about how political revolutionaries or
activists like Fred Hampton or other
other activists were really trying to
electoral eyes their work on the streets
and how quickly the state tamp that down
and we try to move that into today's
context we we see that like it's
impossible to do that now because
there's so many political
revolutionaries and our principle is a
political revolutionary so it's it's
it's important to actually take this
moment to build power politically yeah I
do think to your point but is there an
example of the movement coming from
inside the house in the way that this
campaign is aspiring to do I can't think
of an example of that but that what is
what is true is that every time you've
seen a significant social advancement in
this country a revolutionary moment it
has come not willingly at the behest of
individual political leaders but because
of the pressure of an outside movement
so a movement has always been essential
to actual change being effected and
there's this story I believe it was LBJ
who had a meeting with civil rights
leaders and said okay I agree with you
but now go out there and make me do it
because without the political pressure
you know without it provides
historically Preta some cover for
politicians who might otherwise take
political heat for doing what even they
believed was right and politicians who
did not necessarily agree with the
movement would go ahead and advance
goals right if they were so if they were
pressured to do so I mean at the end of
the day it was Nixon who signed the EPA
right so I think
this campaign because it is
internalizing the movement structure
stands to perhaps do even more than any
of these other politicians and it means
other crucial political moments have
been able to do because they're not
relying solely they don't they don't
need to be convinced and that it is
willing we are willing to do the right
thing even when it's not politically
expedient you know the reason I was even
champlain to come to that route so the
reason that I'm here today is because I
came yesterday to help protest the
closure of hanaman University Hospital
right and this is a part and parcel what
the campaign wants to do like regardless
of whether or not Bernie Sanders gets an
office and we believe he will be the
movement making doesn't start or stop
when he enters the White House he
doesn't decide to go and stand with
Walmart workers or Amazon workers or
Disney workers based on a political
cycle he's been doing that since before
entire life to be honest right and I
mean there there's an argument that I
think some political watchers would say
like well it's a diversion of resources
like I mean I mean there's it there's
there's it seems that it's not an
irrational argument say most campaigns
would say we're gonna put all our
resources into getting elected right and
then we'll worry about that other stuff
but we think people are one of our
biggest resources you know it's I think
it was an ast quote now appropriate by
Ryan Grimm first book you know they got
money we got Pete we got people right
and all those people who see us standing
in solidarity understand that the
mission isn't I need to get an office
because I think I'm the special special
snowflake that needs to run the country
it's these are my goals and my interest
in being an office is only to advance
these goals which I shared with you and
have shown solidarity for four decades
frankly in the case of Bernie Sanders
when I think about the the Hanneman
protest yesterday that we showed up for
I think about how we have this
particular conference could have
actually given more support
to the protest it could have been you
know hundreds of people showed up
mostly because labor unions and senator
Sanders turned out bodies from his email
list and if the conference had actually
said you know what we're gonna actually
like send folks over it could have been
three thousand people I mean that's a
it's it's it's a fight that like we have
to show up to and it's a fight that
people need to know about because if
this hat if this is allowed to happen in
Philadelphia it will happen in every
major city right right right
we cannot let a hospital that serves
underserved people close their our
maternity wards the maternity ward is
closing there are like forty eight women
who are pregnant and who are ready to
give birth in that hospital right now
there are patients with terminal cancer
who are receiving treatment right now
there are elderly people with diabetes
who are receiving treatment right now
they cannot go anywhere they would have
to take three buses in their infirm
condition to even receive treatment so
what this is is actually a death
sentence and so when the senator sees
that this is a fight of humanity
of basic humanity he's going to show up
and he's going to move his staff and the
resources at his disposal ie his email
list to turn people out to show up for
the fight and I think he'll he'll
continue to do that and that's like a
defining characteristic or defining it
just it's it's the defining feature
that's right it makes me proud it makes
me genuinely proud to be a member of
this campaign and I should just say for
folks who didn't hear my interview
yesterday with a David Dane about this a
Hanuman is sort of a proof of concept
for a private equity to come in buy the
hospital separate the hospital from the
land bankrupt the hospital keep the land
sell the land develop it for condos this
can happen like you say urban centers
around the country this particular
private equity outfit owns a half a
dozen other hospitals University
Hospital DC in DC l a couple other
cities and then of course it doesn't
have to end with hospitals you can go to
any sort of massive institutions that
are you know serving folks in the urban
cities all right well so with that said
this this notion of of building the
movement simultaneously running for a
campaign how does it affect your
strategy when there are other candidates
who because they rely on big donors
they've got to prove certain things
early on in the campaign to maintain
that support where Bernie Sanders relies
primarily on small donors small donors
who have not maxed out in this month a
year and a half out from the thing they
presumably you know how many of those
people have already signed up to give on
a monthly basis so the campaign in some
respects doesn't have the same pressure
how does that change the strategy as
opposed to say someone like who has gone
all-in on Iowa if we don't win in Iowa
we're done there's multiple candidates I
think who probably are you know that's
their calculation I don't think that's
Bernie Sanders calculation because he
has the resources to go and much of the
movement building theoretically right
will pay off later this is
this is not a short-term investment so
how does that affect the the strategy in
terms of like what what Sanders feels
that he needs to do or what the campaign
feels it needs to be now six months from
now et cetera I think we have to reach
voters this is the this is the strategy
you win when you speak to people at the
doors you win when you communicate a
message that is authentic and speaks to
the values of working families across
the country I mean that it's it's very
basic what do you have image that how
many voters do you think you've touched
at this point I mean how many you know I
don't actually know I know that we've
we've certainly we've sent a lot of text
messages multiple multiple millions of
text messages we know that 99% of our
small dollar donors are eligible to
donate again and they will likely be
able to continue to donate so if you
look at like the the average donation
and you repeat that average donation for
the next two quarters you can see that
we're probably on track to match what
we've what we've made in q2 and so
that's great and we are look we have a
great campaign manager we have a great
team we have a very hard working
principal he's very hard working he
campaigns tirelessly across the country
he also is a senator who shows up for
votes and organizes inside his office
and writes endless op eds so he's a busy
guy and we are building a team culture
and that I think that's that's all I can
say we're gonna reach as many voters as
we possibly can and we're gonna stay
focused on running a positive campaign
where we contrast our position to the
positions of our
of competitors yeah I mean I don't think
that any other campaign can say they
have a million-person strong volunteer
army especially at this point in the
process or who can say that in quarter
two that got nearly a million individual
donations right right like that's that's
extraordinary that's and that's not
something that you necessarily see the
benefits of until people actually go to
the polls well both those that's much
more reflective of actual voters who
have a true investment in the campaign
so early find you then you know if
another candidate might be the highest
earning candidate this quarter but if
you're earning twenty four million
dollars raising twenty four million
dollars and you have a four percent
approval rating you know it really begs
the question who is funding this
campaign he was actually asking for this
campaign and is this campaign gonna
ultimately be responsible to the will of
the people if Bernie Sanders no longer
is compelling to the millions of small
donate donors that are giving to him
well they'll stop donating you have to
keep he has to be pulled into the masses
in a way that other people aren't and
that's why you see using his organizing
list to rally people to various causes
as not a waste of time but of course
ethically intrinsically it's valuable
but also it's very much a core to
continuing to keep people inspire that
this is the mission and that the mission
isn't going to change regardless of
whether or not he is in the White House
or not well Briana Greyjoy national
press secretary it's actually Brad
enjoyed gray a lot of people do the
westeros thing with me the grandma
Thrones it no worries
exactly I mean
Yara's I'm sure and this is the Minority
Report those are the things I get sader
and my
I'm sorry I did it to you on our podcast
the other day back at you you got you
back got you back
let's finish Breanna joy gray national
press secretary Winnie Wong senior
political advisor for Bernie Sanders
thank you both for talking to us today
it's my pleasure I don't
there you go what's that Glenn Beck why
am i hearing client Glenn Beck sending
Glenn back back to me just the rest of
my library oh I just I heard
why do you have a library of Glenn Beck
I don't know we can't get it through
right now okay
that's probably best that we don't
continuing our coverage here at Netroots
nation 20 set at 2019
Jeff Hauser from the revolving door
project is that right is that what it's
called
that is exactly what it's called okay
and this is just yeah bear with me here
I think we are you say something sure
your project
gosh I don't know what's going on here
I'm trying to get the try it one more
time this is Jeff Hauser here at his
fifth Netroots nation okay there we go
sorry so your this is your fifth you fit
yeah but you haven't been here in about
seven years yes I went to the second the
fourth and then a couple more early in
the decade and then my son was born oh I
see okay
so there's really no story as to why
you're back no no it's not like I've
said the Netroots they're slimy they're
dirty they're very lefty I can't hang
out with them that's still my type of
people okay now you work on on
corruption in government must be a very
slow time for you yeah I mean the one
thing that Donald Trump has brought to
government is just a we got to be by the
books we can't we can't even push
against the limits of the law we we have
to respect the the truest instincts of
the law and the best intentions and your
your your pedigree is that you were in
the DOJ is that right yeah I started out
after law school I accepted a job when I
thought that the person who won the
election would be inaugurated I accepted
a job in 2000 unfortunately that meant I
started in 2001 in the Antitrust
Division under John Ashcroft and George
W Bush
and did you and did you let the Mighty
Eagle soar I did not my karaoke voice is
bad for all sorts of songs but
especially John Ashcroft originals okay
so so when you see this this I mean
where do you start with something like
this I mean when you look at what's
going on with the Trump administration
is there a hierarchy of because I know
you have broken stories about the the
shadow sort of cabinet secretaries in
the way that they were staffing places
and that's still ongoing and fasoli all
right just explain what that project is
and then I just want to ask how you
prioritize do you prioritize like what's
the most destructive or what's the most
destructive in terms of its durability I
mean how do you manage all that stuff
and then and then I guess we'll talk
about the the shadow sorry well they're
connected in that I got a tip in January
of 2017 that Trump was preparing a
launching pad of his beachhead who were
going to go into the government not as
Senate confirmed officials and not as
well-meaning members of civil society
but rather basically former lobbyists
we're gonna go spend a few months
setting up the Trump administration on
behalf of their both past and future
clients and they were going to do so at
a scale that had never before been seen
and they were bringing in the literally
the worst people and why that was so
important it's not just that it kind of
undermines the Constitution's
appointments clause and are just a
general sense that the executive branch
should be run by senate-confirmed
officials but also because they were
doing so on behalf of America's worst
corporate interests and to me the Trump
scandals that matter the most are where
you can connect Trump's criminality or
scandalous behavior to issues where rich
jerks are making money and the rest of
us are getting hurt so there when the
intersection of kitchen table issues end
of Trump scandals now all of the Trump
scandals matter all of them are worth it
henshin III don't disparage any of them
but to me the ones that are most
glaringly crying out for attention are
those where Trump is threatening the
well meaning of American people so in
other words it's got to be a both the
corruption with policy implications sure
if you look at the Environmental
Protection Agency which is only
protecting polluters at this point there
are lots thoghte istic aliy speaking
hundreds if not thousands of people who
are going to die on the more traditional
types of pollution you know dirty water
dirty air and then obviously we have a
climate catastrophe in the making which
is being exacerbated if you look at the
Education Department where so many
families are burdened by student debt
from slimy for-profit colleges and Betsy
DeVos hired passed for-profit college
lobbyists to run her administration and
then they are beginning the raw revolve
out and go back into that industry an
industry that was almost dead by the end
of the Obama administration but has been
revitalized under Betsy DeVos is
extremely corrupt rein at the Education
Department and this is going on
obviously for Wall Street a Treasury etc
rinse and repeat I would just got to say
about the for-profit colleges if you
take a look and I know my audience has
said this and you probably know this as
well but it bears repeating if you take
a look at a graph of a fund of
for-profit college stocks it literally
goes like this it's going down a
trajectory like this to November 7th
2016 and then it shoots up almost
directly straight up and just continues
to climb I mean the day Donald Trump was
elected those stocks went through the
roof and they all knew what was coming
yeah and Betsy DeVos was a beneficiary
as she owned a lot of those stocks on
November 6 2016 and her unwinding of
those financial ties has been um
incomplete to say the least
yes
so so for you it's it's that
intersection of policy and corruption
and and that has the most durability
with what can be done well I mean we're
gonna end up talking about what's going
on with Pelosi and we're talking about
oversight and I guess to the extent of
like what is the first thing that could
be done
it starts with oversight right I mean
like you can't Jeff Hauser can can write
articles about it and could point it out
but that's the end of the story right if
Congress doesn't do its job a Nancy
Pelosi in my estimation has to start
looking at the power she has over the
House of Representatives not as a
potential liability but as an asset that
she has the ability to cause fights with
Trump on the most advantageous landscape
available the fact that there'd been no
effort by Congress to look into Alex
Acosta until Trump let him out pushed
him out whatever happened today
that's ridiculous like why was Trump
quicker to respond to Alex Acosta then
the Education and Labor Committee of the
House of Representatives we need to
start closely needs to start looking at
oversight as a set of opportunities to
drive a conversation where she can focus
on Trump's worst behavior and the
behavior that most impacts the American
people so the Senate's presuming that
you don't even stop the corruption right
like it's a it's a benefit obviously
stopping the corruption in some way is
beneficial but there's political value
in all of this I mean even beyond like
the it has it seems to be exponential
yeah I mean there's this view you hear
from Pelosi defenders that well we don't
want do anything like Benghazi so let's
look at than Ghazi for a second a it's
not really a scandal be it directly led
to the awareness of Hillary Clinton's
email server and then everything that
happened with James Comey which was
obviously necessary to Trump's marginal
electoral college rectory was Jim Comey
was necessary
for that victory Jim Comey intervened in
the election only because of the
Benghazi inquiry so a non scandal if
investigated thoroughly can potentially
tip an entire presidential election what
could investigations into actual
scandals have as their political outcome
so yes is a good government
anti-corruption person once you see the
corruption looked at for substantive
reasons but the political analysis that
that is a potential liability for
Democrats rather than a potentially
strong course of action is beyond me and
it not only has impact on the political
fortunes of Donald Trump of 2020 but
then you're putting the entire
Republican Party in a position where
they have to actually actively either
ignore a obvious scandal or they have to
they have to do something about it I
mean if you are Joni Ernst from Iowa if
you are Martha McSally from Arizona
there are all sorts of behaviors by
Trump that you believe that you can
distance yourself from because you are
not as profane as Donald Trump you don't
violate as many norms as Donald Trump
and you are going to try to use in both
of their cases they are you know serve
the country in the military they have
BIOS that have potential strengths and
so if you're a Mitch McConnell and you
want to hold on to the Senate you were
trying to protect people like Joni Ernst
in martha mcsalley from the popular
things that a nancy pelosi could do if
Nancy Pelosi were to start impeaching
not just Trump but if she were just to
start on the cabinet officials who've
committed crimes and are very hard to
defend you could start creating pressure
on Ernst in mcsalley and many others to
either vote with Trump and risk losing
the center or vote against Trump and
risk losing their base that is a choice
they do not want to face and that is a
choice that Nancy Pelosi should be
forcing upon Senate Republicans it's I
mean this is this is not this is not
sort of you know
this is not 12 dimensional chest this is
sort of like basic wedge issue politics
right like you need to separate the
senators who are vulnerable from Donald
Trump and they don't want to they just
want to sort of like be in this miasma
and and sort of make it unclear where
they are at any given point and Nancy
Pelosi it seems to me and Chuck Schumer
is you know I think is equally maybe
maybe even more so in some respects
responsible for this I mean the last
week two weeks ago I had Alex Breen on
and we were talking about this in he he
has a theory that Pelosi is not going
forward with impeachment because not
unlike we just saw with the the funding
for the Customs and Border Patrol bill
she's not convinced that nevermind
they're gonna lose in the Senate
everybody knows that but she's not
convinced that they're not going to lose
half of the Democratic caucus in the
Senate in an impeachment vote and of
course that becomes then it becomes a
liability right for for Democrats in the
house I mean that's it's I could imagine
that being a genuine concern I'm not
sure yeah and I'm sure it is and I guess
that is definitely something that Pelosi
has to take into account but honestly
between Pelosi and Schumer opposition is
supposed to be easier in terms of
maintaining unity like and the point is
governing is harder and so Palou sees
great accomplishment in her career is
pushing the Affordable Care Act over the
finish line when other people lost their
nerve and that was hard because they
were trying to officially push a major
change in American policy and that is
difficult and she actually managed to
accomplish it then now it's actually a
lot easier because you have a repugnant
president who has not at one time in his
presidency been a popular figure
opposition is supposed to be much easier
to maintain unity like we all have
disagreements about Medicare buy-in
versus single-payer and all like those I
understand those are gonna be
complicated issues down though i but you
should be able to maintain kids in cages
is wrong like that is a type of thing we
should be able to stay united and so yes
as between Schumer and Pelosi who
whose accorded what percentage of the
blame I don't know but between them they
need to do better right between them
it's about a hundred percent yeah that's
and and the the idea that you're
hesitating to criticize and investigate
the guy who gave a sweetheart deal to a
child sex trafficker is like well I
don't understand like do you know
anybody who even know like has an idea
it's don't like what's going through
their mind like I mean there are
theories that abound but I just I I keep
like asking people like hoping to run
into the one person who's like yeah I
know
but this is the theory and nobody could
even give me a theory I think that
Democrats and there are pluses and
minuses to this but they rely on
seniority to determine who is a
committee chair and you have a lot of
people who have spent a long time in the
minority who have not been a chair
before and they all dreamed of pushing
their legislative agenda as a chair and
they did not dream of doing oversight
and it is unfortunate that they don't
consider oversight to be one of their
key avenues but they've essentially
begun to outsource all oversight to the
House Oversight Committee there's one
specific community that has oversight
over anything it wants and then 19
committees that have jurisdiction on
specific issues and oversight within
those issues and Elijah Cummings is a
very busy man he chairs the House
Oversight Committee he is doing the best
he can he has way too much to look at
but you need the subject matter
expertise of House Ways and Means on
taxes you need that House Transportation
Committee to look into Boeing and how
planes are falling out of the air you
need House Agriculture Committee to look
into how the Secretary of Agriculture is
doing all sorts of corrupt business
allowing big agriculture to take
advantage of America's farmers etc etc
and they just don't seem to see their
job that way part of its cultural part
of it is a failure of individuals but
ultimately Nancy Pelosi sets the agenda
for the entire caucus and she's the
easiest part person to hold responsible
okay
so aside from
doing podcasts and getting really mad
about it what
what could folks at like this conference
do I think they have to start raising
expectations with activists about
Congress they have to start talking
about how oversight is really critical
to what Congress does and start having
higher expectations I mean there are
potential and current primary
challengers to some of the committee
chairs and I don't do it electoral work
anymore and I can't recommend anything
about that but it strikes me that if key
members of the congressional leaders
actually any member of Congress in the
Democratic majority if they started
hearing from their constituents that you
want you the Constituent wants to see
more oversight that would get hurt it
doesn't take that much effort to make
Democrats complained a like look
I'm getting my all these phone calls
like they're saying even if you won't do
impeachment let's do some other
oversight I think that information would
be you know it's interesting cuz I've
heard people like you know with Nadler
for instance he's getting a challenger
and I'm not even convinced based on a
voting record that the Challenger is
necessarily even to the left of Nadler
but if it is communicated that like look
this challenge is coming because you're
not doing proper oversight that gives
him some leverage with Pelosi doesn't it
I mean where he's got to go to her and
say like yeah okay you can worry a
hypothetical about these you know
frontline democrats but i guess i'm real
in my backyard and i got to deal with it
so i got to move forward with you or
without you and Nadler has strategically
put out through the press the news that
like he supports impeachment like he is
not the primary person responsible that
doesn't mean a primary serves no purpose
in fact for the exact reason you've
identified it's very important in making
this pressure felt by Pelosi but I mean
Richard neo may or may not have a
primary challenger Pete DeFazio has a
challenger who's at this conference
right now there are and I think there
are other leading members of the
Democratic Party who either have
challengers or have people
contemplating a challenge right now and
I think it's a moment to say that it's
not about how you vote only it's whether
you're a high-energy member of Congress
we want high-energy members of Congress
who are willing to do whatever they can
who feel the same urgency that activists
do there are activists here who are
doing pro-immigrant activism at this
conference they feel an urgency they're
not paid to do it it's not their career
they're doing it because they're
activists you'd like to think that
elected members of Congress would feel
no less urgency than activists feel
about all the horrors that are being
perpetrated by the Trump administration
Jeff Houser people want to read your
work support your work where would they
go I just googled revolving door project
newsletter you can sign up and that's a
every two weeks we put out a compendium
of the work that we're working on and
the issues we're following appreciate
thanks for the time today thank you all
right all right folks now we're going to
go to a previously recorded interview
another one with Alexander Rojas she is
the executive director of democracy
excuse me justice Democrats and I spoke
to her this morning this afternoon
yesterday afternoon sometime in the last
24 hours
and Matt you ready to run that okay
let's run that now so continuing our
coverage at Netroots nation 2019
I'm here with Alexander Rojas she is the
executive director of justice Democrats
welcome to the program thank you so much
for having me same all right so just I I
mean I think by now my audience has a
pretty good sense of what the justice
Democrats are but but give us the sort
of the elevator pitch for those who
might not
absolutely I think we're trying to
transform the Democratic Party to
actually fight for its voters and not
just corporate donors for us that means
engaging in competitive primary
elections to recruit a new generation of
leadership and build a mission-driven
team of Justice Democrats in the house
that are actually going to present
solutions as big as the problems that
we're facing that matched the scale
scope and urgency of them and I think
that we can see you know we acknowledge
that the same leadership that has sort
of gotten us into this mess aren't going
to be the ones to get us out of it and
so we're trying to merge I think
electoral organizing with social
movement building and you can see the
sort of case study of that work with
candidates like Alexandria Ocasio Cortes
being able to once elected team up with
you know organizations like us and
sunrise to push issues like a green new
deal into the national conversation and
in the last election I think there was
65 candidates that got the over 70 over
70 who got the endorsement from the
Justice Democrats in the end not not a
huge number of those won their elections
but obviously some fairly prominent wins
you mention AOC and I think it's I think
most people accept the premise that to
the extent that there's any energy left
in the Democratic Party it's coming out
of folks like ASC all right so
we need to talk about I want to get into
sort of sort of more a theory of change
questions in a bit but but let's just
deal with what sort of right in the
front burner I think is this there's a
lot of friction right now within the
Democratic caucus and Nancy Pelosi seems
to have a strategy do you have a sense
of what that strategy is no i don't i
think that wielding power for the sake
of power and not using it to do the most
benefit for the people of the america
and you're putting politics before isn't
doesn't make sense to have it in the
first place and so i think that you know
for us the strategy that we feel is the
one that is exciting to voters is by
going straight to them carrying our
message straight to them and that's
presenting solutions that are actually
matching the problems that are facing
them every day and so I hope fancy
Pelosi chooses to do that and focus on
defeating Donald Trump and not singling
out for members of Congress versus the
problem-solvers caucus which I think is
causing her more trouble I mean but you
even from like like even from her
perspective do do you see what like I
can I think we should be I think they
should start with impeachment hearings
good I can understand I you know I can
understand the sort of theory behind why
you wouldn't but I honestly can't even
based upon what her objectives are
understand what's going on
do you agree no I I I don't understand
and like I said I don't understand it I
think leadership is operating from a
place of courage and from strength and
not just being afraid of what the
Republicans are going to say or how
politically it's going to do I think at
the end of the day
we have to do what's right for the
American people and uphold at least four
members of Congress have to uphold their
constitutional responsibility to hold
the president accountable okay so give
me a sense of what so justice Democrats
presumably the strategy is going to be
an extension of what it was last time
you're going to go out and you're gonna
primary Democrats who are what like I
mean what when you sit on presumably in
some office with a big board what are
the criteria in which you start to look
at what races well the first thing I
will say is that we're not in this to be
against anybody we're in this to elect
champions of the issues that we care
about so first off I think you know what
we're trying to do is something positive
which is transform I think the direction
of this country to speed up the time
scale that we need the tackle issues
like climate change but I think the way
that we look at districts is part art
part science that art part is what I
just spoke to which is that we're
electing champions and I have we believe
that the foundation of our process that
rests on a nomination form is because we
need a you know a Congress that's not
majority white it's not majority wealthy
and that reflects the diversity not just
avid Nissa tea but a background of the
American people right we have 330
million bright and amazing people that
make up the most advanced society
economy all of that stuff right that
means that we can diversify Congress
beyond just attorneys and wealthy people
the science part to get to your point is
where we look at I think you know
positions within the Democratic Party
how long have they gone unchallenged one
of the demographic makeups of the
district both in terms of you know the
makeup of the community there but also
is it urban is it rural is that going to
inform our field program what is the
ideological record of the incumbent
someone like Henry Cuellar is going to
go to the top of the list right but if
we had done that for just really he
wouldn't know right but he has fourth
most powerful Democrat in the House
someone that when you talk to the people
there
has been absent hadn't been challenged
in a long time and took a ton of
corporate and Wall Street money and so I
think at the end of the day what we're
trying to do is bring out the best in
Democrats we personally believe that no
incumbent is beholden to their seat we
only have so many resources so this
cycle we're gonna focus on 20 to 25 with
the majority being against incumbent
Democrats that we feel deserve to be
challenged so okay so if when you're
making those calculations the the
primary factor is going to be the
behavior of those of those of those
incumbents and then if there's a couple
of stars in a marginal seat then you go
with the margin then those are the ones
I would flip I would say the number one
thing is is that we want to elect
champion so even if it's a district that
seems really difficult like a OCS we're
gonna do it anyway because we need to
support progressive grassroots insurgent
challengers if we want to transform the
party not just from a you know win-lose
perspective but also to advance the
issues that we care about and we can see
that just over the past two to three
years right single payer is now asked at
the presidential debate to be out so I
think like either way that that's
important that's number one I think
number two is making sure that we have
that that we you know replace incumbents
that are deeply out of touch with
democratic values like dan Lipinski
Henry Cuellar or those that aren't you
know that are accepting corporate money
and ruled by special interests so I
asked Sean Kelly this question I know
the date of progress you guys do a lot
of work together what what was the
number do you think that progressives
need to get to in the caucus to where
they
they they have the ability to sort of to
basically take the problem-solvers
inside line now like a you know like
what's the critical mass do you have a
sense of that or is it well know when we
get there so i'm also a co-founder of
brand new congress so i literally used
to think we're gonna repeal and replace
and run 400 candidates so i i definitely
used to think that you know we needed
you know hundreds of justice democrats
in there but i think the reality is that
we can see that it doesn't take that
many to really expand not just a
national conversation but I think
momentum for our movement right to
continue to power it because you know at
the end of the day like these issues are
really urgent but we're gonna have to
build over time to your point right so I
think that we're I used to think it was
you know hundreds of Justice Democrats I
think if we build a caucus of twenty to
thirty and we will and and they are
putting their political ambitions to the
side and they are focusing on what's
right for the American people even when
it's uncomfortable I think that we can
see that the rest of the caucus will
sign on and you can see that with you
know green new deal on day one had like
over 80 co-sponsors and when you look at
the co-sponsor ships a lot of them are
afraid of getting primary challenge so I
think that it's a number of strategies
that we have to use to really pressure
incumbents but one of the best ways that
we've seen to be able to do that and
already have an impact is by just
challenging them yeah Miquel we also
added and I have to say like I it stuck
with me because in all my time
discussing the value of of challenging
incumbents I hadn't really quite
contemplated the idea of even
challenging those who may not be in that
column of over Cuellar but to empower
them to go to Nancy Pelosi and say look
I'm gonna get challenged here so I need
to do X Y & Z
for instance I need to subpoena or I
need to issue you know you get to get
more information or something like that
I mean when you guys are looking at this
stuff
do you and I to what extent do you look
at maybe looking at different districts
around putting aside for the moment as
to what Democrats are not necessarily on
board programmatically but if is there a
second sort of look at things where you
look at if we have this type of
geographic distribution of justice
Democrats or if we had this type of
demographic representation of Democrats
certain demographic you know Waukesha
County let's say like do you contemplate
that notion of there is a potential
strategy that involves very specific
districts around the country that would
leverage a speaker or a majority leader
more so than others or is that just
overthinking of those no that's not
overthinking it I think that's exactly
what we're doing I think that we have to
apply pressure and you know build build
power and I think you know in
absent of being able to win hundreds of
congressional seats I think one of the
only ways is by being able to choose
races at this time right I think last
time we had a little bit of a shotgun
method where we endorsed over 70 and we
did that because we wanted to back
progressive challengers and show that it
doesn't matter if you're running in
Texas the Democratic Party shouldn't be
forgetting about you and if we want to
you know actually build power long term
it can't just be a transactional
relationship with the community and
thinking about a win and lose you have
to make multi cycle investments to see
change right but I think this time where
we have you know a $16 and seventeen
average contribution I want to make sure
that we're using our resources as
strategically for the movement but
obviously to build power as possible and
I think one of the best ways to do that
is by that part art part science method
where we're building a narrative and
arrays we're finding and recruiting
candidates that are reflective of the
communities that they're serving and
we're making sure that they are going to
run unapologetically because they
champion these issues there's an
intuitive like their life experience is
why they support these policies and I
think the the people that we're going to
be challenging like Henry Cuellar like
dan Lipinski and the ones to come are
going to be that mix of champion and
also because those particular incumbents
are halting progressive priorities and
if we want to pass that legislation at
the end of the day
what have there been instances where you
have over the over the past year and a
half I guess maybe since you know
following the 2018 election where you
you thought to yourself wow they're
they're afraid of us and like who would
that be
to the extent me I have there been
moments where you sort of became
conscious of like okay now we're not
necessarily that you need outside
validation to say that you're legit but
that you've got a sense of like oh this
is how we're being perceived in the
context of the establishment that's it
well I will say I'm really proud that we
do not have an inside game beyond
getting the champions that we have in
there and making sure that they are you
know have the support and doing the good
work that they do you know our power
does not come from DC insiders and the
establishment so that's first off but I
will say that you know I don't think
anyone was expecting Jessica Cisneros to
raise 150 thousand dollars in 48 hours
and I think that people are taking this
race seriously establishment and not
establishment and I think even people
within the sort of party establishment
are it's exactly what's happening right
now in the national stage with Pelosi
attacking these four women of color who
are championing what their constituents
want are really disappointed in that
they're not just sort of Bernie bros
like myself they are people that have
been in the party for a long time that
are disappointed with the leadership in
the direction that this country is going
because we got Donald Trump right for
whatever reason we couldn't stop him as
a Democratic Party 2016 was when I got
politically activated and I feel like
it's my responsibility to
and do something about it and really
believe that the same leadership that
God is here isn't going to be the ones
that get us out you weren't involved in
politics at all before 26 I was at full
I was a full-time student and full-time
in the workforce and that's why I think
primary challenges are so important
because my entry way into politics was
during a presidential primary Bernie
Sanders you know I couldn't afford to go
to college like I had planned to when I
moved out to California I'm originally
from Connecticut but I you know heard
this crazy old white guy from Vermont
talking about these big solutions in
that you know we need a million millions
of people to step up and demand change
if we're gonna do something and I think
like that's powerful and there were tons
of other young women of color like
myself that stepped up and we're not
going away even as much as Pelosi wants
to push us out if you why do you think
that maybe this is outside your
portfolio but why do you think sure well
why do you think your generation has
been able to be more effective let's say
than my generation in churning things a
little bit in the Democratic Party
[Music]
I don't know if it's a question of
effectiveness because when we look back
at some of the biggest social movements
of our past which is our North Star
right we look at I stand on the soldiers
of shoulders of giants right that has
always been young people the founding of
this country you know as much as you
know they probably wouldn't have liked
people like me were young people and so
you know if if we're gonna sort of
continue to pass the baton I think that
you know my generation is going to be
the first that's worse off than their
parents and I'm questioning whether or
not I can have kids because in 10 years
are we gonna have a planet to live on I
grew up during the 2008 financial crisis
and watching my parents struggle I
couldn't afford to go to college and
that's why I'm sitting here and had to
create a full time job for myself so I
think when you hear people like Joe
Biden for example say Oh Millennials you
know they're they're so privileged at
all and he said that before it's really
hurtful and when you see you know the
leadership of the Democratic Party like
Nancy Pelosi sliding the youngest woman
ever elected to Congress some of the
most diverse the first to Muslim women
ever elected to Congress when I feel
when when millions of young people
really really feel a sense of urgency
not from a privileged place but because
we can't afford to do the things that we
want to do it's a privileged position
for the Democratic Party to face so I
don't know if that means that we we've
got a big fight ahead of us but I think
for me it's hard to see beyond the next
two years
what's gonna happen if we don't do
something in 2020 to defeat Donald Trump
and actually elect a Democrat that's
going to go big and gonna do what's
scientifically mandated that needs to be
done you know four-ten-four to deal with
climate change and implement something
like a green new deal because we've done
it before
it's a crazy part right right we've done
this before and we got to go back to our
roots if someone wants to give 16 bucks
or 17 bucks
Democrats calm justice Democrats calm
Alexander Rojas thank you so much your
time to enjoy some okay folks we're
having a little bit of a problem with
our video feed we're going to stop our
video feed and try and relaunch and we
will do so in just about three minutes
we'll be back we've got a lot more
guests for you and we will continue with
our coverage at Netroots nation all
right we're going to sign off and we'll
sign right back on
[Music]
