let's put this this is a pretty funny
tweet by Amy Klobuchar oh this is
wonderful
this is so you know I'm a member of the
DSA and this is we're talking about
endorsing this as our next big class
entering cloture who is supposedly
contemplating jumping into the race and
I don't think so
here's a way the American workforce is
changing and there isn't one path to
success I've introduced bipartisan
legislation you know that could go so
many different like when you say the
American workforce is changing and there
isn't one path to success like it could
be opening up and that's why I am
introducing a plan to support people who
want to work in non-commercial endeavors
and we're going to provide stipends for
people who are doing social services and
teaching no that's not where it goes so
I try to understand this I consider
myself a relatively intelligent person
and here's my guess just from reading
this yeah I don't know that I haven't
even finished the whole thing yet yeah I
thought you did no sorry I've introduced
bipartisan legislation with Senator sass
that spends as to allow people to use
tax advantage savings accounts to pay
for educational expenses like skills
training apprenticeships and
professional development in other words
we're gonna do 529s and instead of just
paying for college in private school now
you can also use that for stuff that may
not be accredited goals like a
for-profit universities or other places
like that so we're going to deny funds
to the US government and put it in the
hands of people who you know may be
scrupulous but probably not as well the
people who have ever reported they saw
the people who actually do need skill
training and professional development
things like that are not don't have the
means to save money they don't that
means to pay for it and they don't would
not have had the means to save for it
like would I be using this account I
don't know I mean but podcasting you
know gets
gets obsoleted at some point and you
know it's replaced with an AI and/or
those Korean mukbang videos or whatever
and I you know I need a new job but I
don't think I take advantage of the tax
tax advantages but this is when you're
low income a tax credit doesn't do that
much for you know the idea that you're
going to have the idea that you're going
to increase savings by just simply
meaning that you can avoid taxes by
putting is absurd this is a giveaway to
wealthy people and it to the extent that
they use it I mean so it also echoes
Paul Ryan frankly no lion would say all
the time that I mean you know you
literally had a proposal that I want to
give poor people life coaches to help
them manage their finances and plan and
it was like give them or give them like
a tax advantage having something wall
for that I you know and again I remember
I mean I would arrive now we'd take a
free life coach oh yeah
right yeah well again one upper middle
class people would definitely take a
free life coach I will take real life
coach yes maybe now the children of the
professional managerial class will
finally get to go to college but it is
it is amazing though like there's
something I think what stands out about
this at least in my mind is it's one
thing to not be embracing the current
and the energy of things like
medicare-for-all in the surge of let's
just say social democracy broadly but
the fact that this actually it's not
like I support a Medicare buy-in instead
of Medicare for all this is like I want
to run on george w bush mm I like a
compassionate conservative PPI that
basically ends up benefiting wealthy
people that is the level of disconnect
there and this speaks to her staff and
everybody well on so I you know when I
read this I think of like in journals
neutral subterfuge when I think this I
think of like you see a commercial shot
or some video shot and the lighting is
really
or someone has a piece of hair sticking
up and I think like Oh the crew hates
that that person they're not gonna tell
them that they've got you know we should
sweep this ass knots and they're like oh
this is gonna be great people realize
that you've paired with Ben Sasse like I
don't even know like there isn't I don't
even think there's like I don't even
think like what's-his-face
Chuck Chuck Todd looks at this and goes
wow like I don't think like I don't
think there's any I don't think there's
anybody like left I think Ben says if
you're working with Ben Sasse are you
and you think this is the oh he's a good
guy and you know we could reach across
the aisle I mean you're a sucker that's
it plain and simple and Ben Zion says I
think if we're talking about throwing
stuff up and seeing what works in a way
to dissipate people from developing
class consciousness I think Ben Sasse
has a very dangerous tack there yeah
yeah I think that's true and maybe we
need a solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
the law and maybe we need a solution to
it that risks the imagination of a new
kind of possibility I'm not I'm not
ready to take those risks that sounds
risky
Bennet says his face after Bill Maher
said the thing said he got in trouble
for that was that was funny is there is
there a is there an acronym we can come
out of there are I have a new kind and
maybe we need a solution to it that
risks the imagination of a new kind of
possibility do you know what that means
the Archean Cup act coming soon uh yeah
you got to hear it again risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
a solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
you put the imagination at risk so you
you gamble with it
gamble the risks well gamble the
imagination of possibility
it's or there's a possibility you will
lose your imagination connoisseur
deposit like me like I can't figure out
what this means
well there's an it starts within it so
it probably depends on the dissident of
it it sounds like you translated the
phrase audacity of hope' into like 80
different languages and then bad
audacity of hope' translated into
english that's the way they come up with
like website games that's the way they
come up with website names it's like
they do a lot of like just like cross
translating until they just sort of like
it's so far away is not like doing
people's car and that's what his books
are like - it's just all full of crap
like that he talks about going on shoot
sorry this was a while ago but I
remember vaguely Marie talked about
going on some corporate retreat that was
like kind of like a stupid like primal
scream type things you know for the
freaking c-suite and that was one where
you just maybe paid some some consultant
some fake guru like a hell of a lot of
money to lead them on this thing to you
know get him you know get the c-suite
recharged and ready to tackle the the
challenges of a new business day so I
think hiring consultants for paying a
lot of money the consultants who
ultimately don't ever do anything that's
something Howard Schultz right that's
part of the core yeah I think party
people were broadly speaking I think
wealthy people do that all the time is
the whole thing I've just received a
point from Sean Milwaukee a who's in a
union and he has noted that unions do
not charge for apprenticeship programs
they actually pay you to work in them so
this tweet is not talking about good
union jobs when they say apprenticeships
they're talking about some do liberal
neoliberal serfdom garbage risking the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
well is that I think a macabre start
saying well you know what it is it's
more personal responsibility
that's why I'm very opposed to
opposed the personal responsibility I
want less of it far less of it than I
currently have it I cannot manage my own
affairs
I spend you know well dressed I mean you
thank you yeah sure I will take
responsibility for that all right you
know that's kind of consuming a lot of
my time I had to buy the health
insurance on the public markets and on
the exchanges and I'd spend you know for
15 minutes doing this and then I think I
don't want responsibility I don't want
this I want a bureaucrat to decide what
health insurance I get I want to be put
on the Road to Serfdom if it means I
don't have to look at this
website Diane Abbott who's and she's I
think she's on the labor front bench but
a couple years ago and she was like you
know very treated in they still are
treated in a very marginal way by the
British press which is unbelievable but
she she said that point I think actually
you know she was contesting leadership
before a Corbin when it was Ed Miliband
and she you know go anywhere for but
there was a segment where they were
talking about all of these like Blair
right interventions and things like the
NHS and she's like poor people don't
need to have to make more choices and
more responsibilities they they already
have more than you do they already have
far more stress far more things to deal
with and this is not Liberatore it's
actually like choices oppressive mmm she
effectively flipped that and they were
always lower than that they didn't buy
it
