with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday February 20th 2019
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live to tape steps
from the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA can you notice the
slight change in timbre in my voice
quality's a little bit it's because I'm
on vacation folks I'm on vacation and
I'm already I'm starting to feel it I'm
starting to feel it a little bit
starting to feel a little better but we
still have a brand new interview for you
today Alexandre not a pop professor of
law of the University of
california-irvine on punishment without
crime how our massive misdemeanor system
traps the innocent and makes America
more unequal I did not understand what a
misdemeanor was I thought I did but I
did not before I spoke to the professor
I got one of those ones you had one of
those times where you thought you knew
something where I had a misdemeanor oh
you did yeah really loud party baby well
let me guess what happened to you
nothing I had to pay like $200 right
well okay it is fascinating how
problematic our misdemeanor system is
and we talk about criminal justice
reform we hear nothing about it and it
is so disparate the implications of a
misdemeanor from place to place highly
problematic fascinating stuff professor
Alexandre NAT UPOV and if you remember
if you are a member you'll have the
opportunity to hear a deep archive pick
from from Brendon our our deep archive
Explorer we sent him down there and God
knows you know what he did he found
apparently and he found a carcass of a
some type of ferret in in the in the
vault and snuff films that was right
next to my old snuff films but he
charged up a couple reel-to-reel tapes
we pulled the deep archive from the old
Air America days the old majority report
I don't know what it is maybe it's the
Cowboy Junkies singing live in-studio
maybe it's no Bill Maher we interview
Bill Maher or
Eddie Vedder or Gary Hart or Altman in
studio or I can't believe the people we
interviewed in studio and another place
anyways but if you're not a member folks
I'm sorry
Brendan's trip was not for you but you
can become a member by going to join the
majority report comm for just pennies a
day you get to support your favorite
podcast daily podcast or second favorite
podcast or third so I'm not gonna
doesn't matter we're polyamorous here
but go to join the majority port just
cause you literally had dimes and
nickels a day we give you the show
commercial free and we give you extra
content virtually every day and you
support this program
which we've been doing now for eight
sweet lord
almost nine eight and a half years in a
month my I will be celebrating my 15th
year in this business
ish alright join the majority report
calm quick break when we come back
Alexandra
now tap off and don't forget over the
next two or three days we've got
tomorrow we've got a great interview
with Catherine Ballou and then on Friday
an interview that just blew my mind
about about racism in this country but
for now Alexandra gnat UPOV be right
back we are back Sam cedar on the
majority report on the phone it is a
pleasure to welcome to the program a
2016 Guggenheim Fellow Award a professor
of law UC Irvine and a former public
defender from Baltimore and author of
punishment without crime how our massive
misdemeanor system traps the innocent
and makes America more unequal Alexandra
NAT UPOV welcome to the program thanks
so much for having me all right so let's
start with the question what is a
misdemeanor because I've been sitting
here wondering if have I ever been found
guilty of a misdemeanor in my youth in
New York City I engaged in the various
array of activities that I mean I that
was ticketed for and I had to have a
court appearance for I think both the
cases were dismissed but I don't know if
they were misdemeanors or not if I have
to tell you what they were I will but
let's why don't we start with a more
general answer well I won't make you
disclose but but as a technical matter
misdemeanor typically refers to a minor
offense for which a person can serve no
more than one year incarceration that's
kind of the generic definition but
on one end of the spectrum some states
have much more serious misdemeanors two
three four year potential sentences and
at the other end of the spectrum
misdemeanors can be extraordinarily
minor they can range from you know
spitting to jaywalking to loitering 25
states make speeding a misdemeanor it's
in their criminal that the traffic code
is criminalized so you can see that it's
an enormous Lee broad category that
sweeps in all kinds of low-level conduct
and all kinds of offenses ranging from
the truly minor to the you know to the
authentically serious DUI and domestic
violence offenses of that nature I mean
that seems so broad as to almost be
meaningless like what what is it mean
relative like what's a felony I guess
yeah so so you're right that the line
between misdemeanor and felony is is can
be fuzzy it can be fuzzy substantively
in the sense that some offense is that
one jurisdiction might treat it as a
felony are treated by other
jurisdictions as a misdemeanor there's
no universal sets of definitions
sometimes we handle low-level felonies
and the same kind of quick and dirty
sloppy way that we handle misdemeanors
and conversely sometimes we treat
misdemeanors more seriously the reason
the reason I argue in the book that it
is worth thinking of misdemeanors as a
meaningful category thinking of the
misdemeanor system as a meaningful
public institution is because there is
this enormous low-level world of minor
offenses low-level conduct for which
people are typically sentenced in more
lenient ways compared to the kinds of
long sentences we have now become
accustomed to grappling with as part of
mass incarceration and that this
low-level world has some distinctive
characteristics that are meaningful even
though the lines are blurry so for
example the offense that the underlying
Conduct is often very minor minor in the
sense of there are no victims I know
when it hurt with that as a sort of
conventional matter we don't think that
loitering or trespassing is particularly
dangerous or blameworthy at the same
time the way we process misdemeanors
average not everywhere it's a big
country in an enormous system but on
average we treat misdemeanors
differently than we treat serious
offenses we process them more quickly
many people do not get lawyers people
are under extraordinary pressure to
plead guilty is to get the process over
with or to get out of jail and and
because the system is so enormous eighty
percent of all state dockets are
misdemeanors this is mostly what our
criminal system does and it affects so
many millions of people 13 million
misdemeanor cases are filed every year I
think it's worth zeroing in on this
enormous aspect of the criminal system
and asking ourselves this is this is
this really a good way to run most of
our criminal justice system what what is
the I mean I I'm still like you know
like confuso the to the extent in terms
of the the crime I guess there is it's
it's theoretically victimless or at
least nobody gets hurt what what is the
it why do we have this system of - I
want to dig into this obviously and I
think like you know people can start to
see the contours of the implications of
such a a one like such a fuzzy and sort
of subjective quality to this one which
seems sort of arbitrary in some respects
at least in terms of like on the
punishment side and we can I think
people can start to see the sort of the
the broad contours of how this is used
as a as a way of you know what kind of
policing we're talking about but what
was ultimately the justification between
a felony in a misdemeanor
like what was the efficiency that was
supposed to be there or what was the
principle you know the the judicial
principle or just the principle of
Justice that was involved and because it
just seems to me the spectrum of stuff
is so wide and the idea you could spend
a year in jail for a misdemeanor which
is not something I think I was aware of
that seems pretty serious to me so what
was the what what's the theory behind
splitting them up between a felony and a
misdemeanor yes so let me back up to the
early part of your comment where you say
that these crimes are victimless I think
it's important to notice to note that
they aren't always right so obviously
dramatic violence is not a victimless
crime
it may be the paradigmatic a a crime
that involves vulnerable victims DUI I
you know over the decades we have come
to the consensus that even if no one has
actually hurt that do you that driving
under the influence can be a threat to
public safety so so I just want to
emphasize that the range of low-level
offenses that we that jurisdictions
typically define as misdemeanors can
range from
you know harmful or crimes or crimes
that involve victims or crimes that do
pose a meaningful or recognizable threat
all the way down to the crimes you're
referring to order maintenance crimes
spitting loitering trespassing
disorderly conduct sort of the that the
crimes that we associate now with these
deeply contested questions about fair
policing and to recognize that states
counties municipalities each of these
jurisdictions can handle those questions
differently so this goes back to your
original point if this is so large can
we say meaningful things about the
entire system or we is that you know how
much of a stretch is that one way to
answer or to address that conundrum is
to answer your
question which what is the principle
between distinguishing between a felony
and a misdemeanor and I think you know
principle is too strong a word these are
old old categories hundreds and hundreds
of years old we borrowed them from the
British as we did you know much of our
criminal system and common law system
and the the the eminent historical
British commentator William Blackstone
distinguished them merely as categories
of severity felonies are serious crimes
misdemeanors are less serious now that
used to mean something different in 17th
century England because a felony the
definition of a felony meant that you
could be sentenced to death whereas a
misdemeanor was any lesser offense that
did not necessarily that did not carry
capital punishment and those definitions
have morphed over hundreds of years to
give us the kind of sprawling slightly
vague modern treatment of misdemeanors
but the general point is that we think
of serious offenses differently than we
do minor offenses and felony and
misdemeanor are just labels that we use
to roughly capture our intuitions
there's something very different about
committing a bank robbery or a murder
felony what we what they used to call an
infamous crime then a lesser crime a
misdemeanor something you shouldn't do
or that we want the police to be able to
intervene in your life and your Liberty
in order to stop you from doing but not
necessarily because it carries that
infamy that threat of a felony as a
result of those kind of broad categories
jurisdictions all over the United States
handle those questions differently
that's why you get such a broad range of
definitions I mean I I mean I have that
dead sort of broad gist but it does sort
of strike me as being just surprisingly
uh like hodgepodge right I mean what
we're talking about something that's
been so specific and let's let's let's
talk about I guess what would be
arguably the the seminal misdemeanor
case right and this is that the case of
Gail Atwater why don't you just tell us
that and give us a sense of like what
the implications were of that case yeah
that's I think it is an example that
really captures both the hodgepodge
quality or the what I would call the
unprincipled quality of the misdemeanor
system that it's become the dumping
ground for all kinds of social controls
for all kinds of inequitable social
regulations that we just let this load
these lower echelons of the criminal
system handle for us and in kind of a as
you say a hodgepodge or or opaque and
sloppy way so Gail out water was is a is
and was a mom of two
she lived in Texas and was pulled over
for driving with her children who were
not in a seat in seat belt so it was a
seatbelt violation they were driving in
their hometown of Lago Vista Texas
around the local park because her son
Mack who's three at the time had left to
lost his little his a suction cup toy in
the park and the kids she had told the
kids they could take off their seatbelts
to look out the window while they were
looking in the park for the toy the
officer pulled them over and right there
and then told Gail out order she's going
to jail put the seatbelt violations he's
going to arrest her right then and there
the children are are crying they're
petrified and that water asks if she can
drop her kids at a neighbor's house uh
you know but before she's before she's
taken to the jail the officer says no
everyone's going they're gonna have to
come with you
it just turned out that a neighbor
passed by and took the kids but some is
out water was taken to the jail she was
put in a jail cell she was booked shoot
there her possessions were taken from
her she's fingerprinted
mug shot the whole nine yards for a
seatbelt violation for which she could
not have gone to jail the maximum
penalty for the violation that she was
arrested for was a $50 fine it carried
no jail term we we would call it a non
jailable misdemeanor in other words it's
in the criminal code it's technically a
misdemeanor but you can't go to jail for
it but and so you can but you can go to
jail before you're convicted of it
exactly and so what happened was that
Gail out water sued the police
department and she argued that because
she could not have gone to jail for the
seatbelt violation the police officer
should not have been able to jail her
incident to the arrest to effectuate
what we call a full-fledged custodial
arrest and the Supreme Court ruled
against her we should just add - right
this is not a situation where well she
was jailed because she was resisting
arrest there was no subsidiary or
secondary power okay correct it was
merely because she because she committed
the seatbelt violation it triggered the
officers power to take her to jail and
then later Kate and in a later case
the Supreme Court reaffirmed its
decision that this was the court called
it reasonable it is a reasonable
incident of any low-level misdemeanor
even if you can't go to jail for it that
the police can arrest you and take you
to jail
in a later case and Albert Florence was
arrested in this case not even for a
misdemeanor for a failure to pay a civil
fine he was taken to jail in New Jersey
he spent six days in the jail shuffling
from jail jail to jail before they
before a lawyer showed the court that it
was in fact a mistake he had in fact
paid the fine during that time he was
strip-searched his genitals were
inspected he had to take a delousing
shower basically the full-fledged
intrusive experience that people who are
incarcerated in jails often undergo
likewise argued to the Supreme Court
that for his minor offenses for which he
could not have been jailed it was
unreasonable to make him undergo all
this intrusion the Supreme Court again
ruled against him and held that like
Gayle Atwater if you have committed a
low-level offense if then the police can
arrest you and if they can arrest you
they can take you to jail and if they
can take you to jail they can strip
search you
and so the reason these are such
important cases is because they open up
this enormous net of policing and
intrusion and incarceration based on the
most minor offenses for which the
legislators in those various
jurisdictions have already decided you
can't go to jail but in some sense that
doesn't matter you you can still be
incarcerated for those for those kinds
of awesome so it's a way of
understanding just how powerful that and
that really is so if I understand it
correctly
I mean conceptually it seems like as
soon as an officer arrests you even for
regardless of the offense even if it's
an offense that is not jail worthy you
it almost as if your identity and your
the suite of rights that are available
to you changes and therefore they can do
anything with it you know in terms of
like jailing you like you can't just
walk up if you're a cop you can't just
walk up to somebody and say I'm gonna
take you to jail right because you have
you have certain rights and you can't be
arrested for no reason I mean they could
take you to jail but you know subsequent
to that you could get some type of
redress but it seems that like once
you're arrested regardless for what the
underlying crime is you enter into a new
you have a almost a a new identity under
the law that allows you to go through
these processes even if the law it's
even if the with the violation itself
does not require a as harsh of penalty
is that is that conceptually do I have
that right yes that's a messed up well
welcome to the world of misdemeanor
and the key to that is is your point the
the fourth amendment akan our
Constitution protects us against
unreasonable searches and seizures
you're right a police officer can't just
walk up to you because they don't like
the look of you say I'm taking you to
jail but because of the massive spread
of misdemeanor violations all they need
is what we call probable cause some some
small amount of evidence that you may
have committed any number of
extraordinarily minor offenses probable
cause to believe that you jaywalked
probable cause to believe that you
weren't wearing your seat belts probable
cause to believe that you have committed
any number of extraordinarily minor
offenses which are easy to show which
translates into enormous police
authority to arrest and an arrest is
really the beginning you might say that
that said stop and frisk is the true
beginning of the misdemeanor process
because because that's the beginning of
that net when those stops and frisks
translate into arrests now you have
entered as you say that you've entered
the criminal system your identity has
been altered and I think that we that
it's it's clearer in the misdemeanor
context how powerful that is because if
someone is arrested for a bank robbery
we don't get as exercised about the fact
that their Liberty has been curtailed
because there's probable cause to
believe that they committed a very
serious offense in that's kind of the
classic model of criminal justice that
we get a little bit of evidence that you
did something the state can intervene a
little bit in your Liberty if they get
more evidence they can intervene more
but that model kind of gets turned
upside down in the misdemeanor system
because the interventions at the
beginning are actually can be more
serious than the crime
self than any punishment you could ever
incur for the crime itself so it's it's
very through the looking-glass
and and so once and and you know forgive
me if I'm overusing this this metaphor
but once that identity that you have
under the law changes you are then
subject and this is where the the the
really I guess pernicious effects of
this whole world of misdemeanors starts
to kick in you are then subjected to any
number of of I guess fees and fines and
and curtailments of your liberty which
are highly problematic and also almost
like they almost replicate themselves
depending on your your class status
essentially right like if I can give I
can sort of it's almost as if it like
lowers your immunity to being subject to
all sorts of different things that can
then be be done to you I mean and let's
let's start to walk through those
because I think that's the idea of this
and and before we before we go and
before we start with that let me just
ask one more question just to get a
sense of the scope of this when we talk
about the number of incarcerated in this
country do they include people who are
in jail for misdemeanors including
misdemeanors which ultimately they even
if they're found guilty of require or
call for no jail time yes so when we
talk about mass incarceration
that's that famous 2.2 million number
that made the United States famous for
locking up more people than any other
country on the planet that number
includes approximately 1.2 people in
state and federal prison mostly state
prison of course because our criminal
system is mostly at the state level and
approximately 3/4 of a million people in
jail but the
number that three-quarters of a million
umber in jail under States the effect of
jail because that's just at any given
moment eleven million that people pass
through jail in this country every year
for arrests for pretrial detention you
can sit in jail for weeks even months
prior to your case being resolved so yes
our mass incarceration numbers do
technically include incarceration for
misdemeanors incarcerate so sixty
percent of people in jail are their
pretrial meaning they haven't been
convicted of anything they're
presumptively innocent they're being
incarcerated while they wait wait for
their cases to be resolved which is one
of the reasons that bail has is so
important in our attention to bail our
new attention and recognition of bail is
so important but it but it kind of
understates the phenomenon because
there's churn people are churning
through jails on a really enormous scale
so the you know I guess to put it in
terms of like a website the unique hits
are much higher than the concurrent you
know number of people on a on a stream
or on a website in any given time over
the over the course of a year the unique
number of people that actually go
through there is is it sounds like three
times the size of what we we typically a
note or maybe even more all right so
with that many people going through this
system being jailed for some period of
time let's talk about the implications
and you know I think I think largely we
can guess who we're talking about right
I mean I like I say I committed I don't
know if these offenses were were were
misdemeanors or not I know I got
ticketed I know I had to walk up to in
front of a judge they dismissed the
cases I mean I guess I'll say one was
publicly relieving myself in the city
and I was younger youthful indiscretion
and one was supposedly I was involved in
smoking a marijuana cigarette at the
time
and I imagine that my experience in the
criminal justice system not typical of
some others who would go through it and
I would imagine part of that is a
function my race to but but give me and
and frankly my my social class what my
economic class what would give us a
sense of who we're talking about here so
we really we have paid shockingly little
attention to the role of the misdemeanor
system in perpetuating wealth based and
race-based inequality in this country
it's such an it with thirteen million
cases filed every year 11 million people
turning through the jails this vast net
of arrests this is one of the ways that
we that we permit our government first
to disproportionately mark touch burden
punish and disable the the less wealthy
the poor the working people who can't
for example pay fines and fees who can't
afford bail and then people of color
this is the first moment if you will
when the American criminal system
reaches out and disproportionately
sweeps in people of color in these cases
for very minor or harmless or harmless
conduct again by contrast with mass
incarceration we've I think we've all
come to learn and understand that mass
incarceration is part of American racial
inequality we understand that the
criminal system has played a profound
role in creating and perpetuating it but
but it really begins before a mass
incarceration before anyone goes to
prison it's the misdemeanor system that
over police's poor communities of color
that disproportionately stops people of
color particularly african-american men
for loitering trespassing jaywalking is
a is a turns out to be a particular
culprit order maintenance offenses of
course marijuana
session as you references is famously
enforced disproportionately based on
race and so the misdemeanor system is
both responding to social disadvantage
to poverty a lot of misdemeanors are
themselves crimes of poverty you're you
won't get you won't be incarcerated for
failure to make bail if you can afford
to make bail you won't be incarcerated
for failing to pay your fines and fees
if you can afford to pay your fines and
fees there's you will not get a driving
on a suspended misdemeanor for because
your license will not be suspended for
failure to pay traffic tickets because
you can afford to pay your traffic
tickets so there's all kinds of places
in which the misdemeanor system by its
very nature punishes the poor more
harshly and this and so two of the
central chapters in the book are
entitled money and race because I don't
think we can really understand our
misdemeanor system
and I don't think we can really
understand our entire criminal system if
we don't recognize and appreciate just
how powerful both the forces of wealth
and poverty and also race are in shaping
the character of the system I mean isn't
the the story of Ferguson like this is
largely the story of Ferguson that that
that we're using the the misdemeanor
system as a way of basically raising
money for municipalities and towns and
whatnot and we're doing it on the backs
of like the the the the leverage here is
actually the poverty of people that is
what is almost like the the machine that
drives the the revenue generation like
the the inability for people to pay that
initial fine is what actually brings in
the money in a way so you're right that
Ferguson and and specifically the the
report issued by the Department of
Justice in 2015
on the Ferguson municipal court system
is really a turning point in our
understanding of in our conversation
about the low-level criminal system
because it it brought to the fore
something that has been true for many
decades but that we had not focused on
nationally local advocates in
jurisdictions all over the country had
but had been frankly pointing this out
for years but we haven't really focused
on it as a national community which is
that in many of these jurisdictions and
to be fair not all not not every
municipality not every jurisdiction
treats its municipal court as a cash cow
but Ferguson did many other
jurisdictions did Ferguson was not an
outlier in that sense it was
representative of a certain way of
running the criminal system and in
effect we permitted our we permit our
judicial system to operate as a
regressive taxation mechanism we let the
system impose fines and fees on the
criminal justice population which tends
to be poor people of color and socially
disadvantaged so that the system itself
can extract that revenue to run its own
operations again ironically in a kind of
a vicious circle in order to sweep in
those very same disadvantaged
populations and you're right it's the
same people excuse me it's the same
principles like payday lenders right
like we're gonna prey on people living
in poverty who are living week to week
by paycheck they are super vulnerable
they have the least options we're gonna
put them into a loan with an exorbitant
interest rate we know they can't pay so
that loan is going to get even more
expensive for them because they're gonna
have to take out another loan to pay off
their first loan so they're gonna have
double the amount of money to pay back I
mean that that seems to be the same sort
of like
yeah it's like the same business model
right and and as you talked about that
will you also like you keep saying fines
and fees fines I think people understand
oh you you you didn't have a seatbelt on
it's gonna cost you $30 a lot of people
all right I'll pay that $30 end of the
the situation but if you can't pay that
$30 obviously the money starts to rack
up because you go to jail but then tell
us about the fees because I don't know
that people are aware of this but
essentially like they the well they
explain what fees are in this context
yes it's an important distinction of
fine criminal fines are your punishment
just like jail or probation or community
service it's just it's the thing that
the state does to you because you did
something wrong typically those fines
the maximum are set by statute by the
legislature and judges impose them as
part of the punishment for the offense
that you committed these are different
fees are not punishment they're
basically user fees that the system and
more specifically many many entities
within the system impose on defendants
on people coming through the system in
order to pay their own way they are not
part of the punishment they're they're
theoretically incidental to the
punishment but because they're so
enormous they can easily outweigh
hundreds even sometimes thousands of
dollars that these they can outweigh the
original fine which of course is
backwards because the criminal system
the idea that the criminal system would
punish you but then the system would
turn around and levy user fees that were
even more punitive and onerous than the
original punishment I just you know gets
the whole endeavor backwards and so your
point is well-taken which is that the
system and when I say the system I mean
prosecutor offices I mean public
defender offices I mean courts
themselves sheriff's departments in
jails probation officers local municipal
government governments all these
official institutions and entities are
each
feeding off this revenue stream of fines
and fees drawn from these vulnerable
populations and I just I just want to
double down on your point about calling
them vulnerable population so we know
they're vulnerable because they can't
pay the fines and fees which lands them
in this vicious cycle they can't pay so
now they're being imposed late fees now
they're being incarcerated for failure
to pay not incarcerated for the original
offense but incarcerated merely because
they couldn't pay that fine or fee and
so as you know many of your listeners
probably know we've started to refer to
this phenomenon it's the new debtors
prison in other words people are being
incarcerated only because they are too
poor to pay off these financial
obligations and that you know in a in in
a way makes them worse than the payday
loan arrangement that you described
because whatever the payday loan loan
sharks can do to you they can't put you
in jail
civil debtors prison is unconstitutional
in every state from the founding of this
country states have declared that poor
people cannot be incarcerated for
failure to pay a civil debt if you don't
pay off your credit card debts the bank
can do lots of terrible things for you
but it can't lock you up but the
criminal system can and so it's kind of
laundered this new form of debtors
prison through these criminal fines and
fees in ways that we are now you know
really since Ferguson just starting to
appreciate okay so let's talk about what
you what you suggest in terms of referee
forming the system and you you you you
you talk about a test of the veil of
ignorance explain that to us and give us
a sense of like what what what could
start to reform this aspect of the
system because I think in terms of
criminal justice reform you know we it
feels like we're three times removed
from this right we like we hear it only
on the federal level which deals with a
small portion of our incarcerated
population in this country but that
doesn't even begin to touch the
implications of misdemeanors and and
certainly with the Justice Department
backing off of places like Ferguson
we're even further away from reform but
let's start with that concept of veil of
ignorance and then let's talk about
possible reform yeah you're right we
haven't begun to think about this we
haven't begun to scratch the surface as
although there are you know we could
talk in a minute about where there has
been movement there's been movement on
the debtors prison there's a lot of
interesting litigation going on around
the country of course in New York
she's been enormous push back again stop
and frisk and some of these low-level
offenses so that the the bumper sticker
version of misdemeanor reform is less
less is more that that we need to
rethink the sprawl the enormous saltless
in many cases reach of this net that
affects and burden so many people for
such weak reasons and the vet the so
there's a famous a famous philosopher
named John Rawls and he argued in in one
of his treatises that the way to get a
just criminal system would be to put
everyone behind a veil of ignorance say
that you wouldn't know who you would be
in life you wouldn't know if you were
gonna be rich or poor or black or white
you wouldn't know if you would be under
pressure to commit crimes or not that
you wouldn't know and that that exercise
that thought exercise would be a way for
everyone to think well then what would
be a just system if I didn't know how I
personally was going to fare in it the
idea is if we didn't if we didn't know
or that we all might be subject to it
then we would craft a fair system just
to be on the safe side because it might
affect us and our and our families and
people we cared about and and the idea
here is that the misdemeanors so the
ministration system is so enormous
I mean 13 million cases every year
this this is you know it's about as
common to get a misdemeanor in this
country is it is to go to the doctor
when you get a flu get the flu it's not
I you know or attending a four-year
college that it's a very common
occurrence and so the idea is really
we're all exposed to the misdemeanor
system I mean as you pointed out you
yourself we're exposed to it early in
life and so since we're all going to be
exposed to it that we we all have a
vested interest in making sure that it's
fair and equitable and safe in a way I
think that there's that we that people
have lost sight of when it comes to more
serious offenses we don't think we're
all at risk for being arrested for
robbing a bank and and we would be right
in thinking that but we are all at risk
of being arrested and processed for a
misdemeanor even though it
disproportionately affects the most
vulnerable anyone can get a misdemeanor
anyone of any race class anyone in any
neighborhood and so the idea is that we
should strengthen the integrity of the
system and shrink it because it actually
affects it affects all of us in some way
and if not us personally our kids our
neighbors people we work with this is an
enormous public policy to which we have
paid are just really shockingly
shockingly little attention
h-how'd but how do we do this like just
in terms of I mean this must it has to
be state-by-state maybe even city by
city the the our criminal system is a
profoundly local institution at any rate
as you pointed out the federal system to
which we pay an enormous amount of
attention comprises a very small
percentage of cases less than 5% of
criminal cases in this country or
federal small percentage of people who
are incarcerated are actually federal
prisoners it's mostly at the state level
the misdemeanor system occurs at the
state level the county level even the
municipal level for the Ferguson
Municipal Court was the city's court
and it is surrounded Ferguson was
surrounded by a dozen other
municipalities running their own local
courts in much the same extractive
progressive ways so I think that that is
both you know both a problem and an
opportunity so on the one hand the
Supreme Court can't fix it on the other
hand we don't need the Supreme Court to
fix it
the kind of reform and change that we
have seen in the last you know five to
six years on the misdemeanor on the
misdemeanor stage have largely been
local so just by way of example a couple
years ago a lawsuit was filed against
the Harris County Jail that Deb Houston
it's a third largest jail in the country
and the lawsuit argued that the bail
practices in that jail were
unconstitutional because essentially
they violated the Equal Protection
Clause they were locking up poor people
merely because they were poor which is a
violation of constitutional law while
that case is still on appeal it it was
successful in the early stages the lower
court just the federal district court in
that case declared the system
unconstitutional and over ten thousand
people have either been released or
avoided jail because of that one lawsuit
in one city changes have been made in
Ferguson and in jurisdictions like
Ferguson all over the country because
local citizens have worked with or
protested to their City Council's
because lawsuits have been filed and it
can happen in this in in the smallest
jurisdictions change can be made because
it turns out the City Council gets to
decide those things that the local
prosecutor office gets to decide for
example whether or not to charge people
for diversion programs that's entirely
within the discretion of prosecutor
offices they don't need to do that and
so there's an enormous amount of power
sitting there to be exercised by local
communities and jurisdictions over local
policies so so yes it's hard to
change from you know from above but it's
actually I think very hopefully amenable
to change and excitingly amenable to
change them below Alexandre nada pas the
book is punishment without crime how our
massive misdemeanor system traps the
innocent and makes America more unequal
it's fascinating look into an area that
I think gets very very little attention
in our country I really appreciate your
time today Oh
again thanks so much for having me
