[Music]
but let's go through this bench bureau
thing because i want to this is this is
actually I think I think it's fairly
important frankly now we mock Ben
Shapiro on this program he of course was
sold is what was it that was he built
now he was the cool kids philosopher per
the New York Times the cool kids
philosopher and there have been now
multiple instances where Ben Shapiro his
writing his Twitter his his show all of
what he produces has been cited on
multiple occasions now various instances
by people who have gone on to do
horrible things one who shot up a mosque
up in Canada cited Ben Shapiro in terms
of like the invasion and how dangerous
it was to us and etc excited me excited
Ben Shapiro but you you can't be
responsible for who your fans are Ben
Shapiro however but you can be
responsive for what you put out there
now Ben Shapiro made a point recently
that shooter in Pittsburgh was following
a similar ideology as Ilan Omar but of
course that that person didn't in any
way site Ilan Omar
but what if that person had what if it
was actually true that the ideology was
the same now it's not I don't think it
did it sought it is it all but what if
that person had said well forget about
Elana but forget about anybody just in
general what if there was a person
public figure who set up a an equation
let's say a plus B equals C and someone
went out and did something horrible and
said said well you know I was
radicalized I got into the mode modality
of thought to go do something horrible
because I listened to this public figure
well that would be bad but what if that
person said I got radicalized because I
listened to that public figure and in
fact this very act that I did I did
because a plus B equals C what if they
did what if they said that what if the
connection wasn't just that this person
generally influenced me but this person
generally influenced me and specifically
I did this act and reiterated a formula
that that person who inspired him
espoused I want you to look at that just
contemplate that generally what kind of
responsibility would that person who is
espousing that stuff have I don't know
if they would have direct responsibility
but they should look at themselves in
the mirror and anybody who's supportive
of that person should look at themselves
in the mirror because that's exactly the
situation we have a Ben Shapiro so you
have the story of an Indiana man
sentenced to federal prison for
vandalism at a Carmel synagogue a Carmel
I think is a town in Indiana
Nolan Brewer 21 of eminence Indiana was
sentenced on Monday for conspiring to
violate the civil rights of Congregation
Sharia Tefila a Jewish synagogue Brewer
and his wife Kiyomi painted Nazi flags
and iron crosses on the wall of the
trash enclosure at the synagogue and in
the defense kiyomi says that she was
radicalized one of the influences that
radicalized her was Ben Shapiro here it
is this is from the filing she then
moved on to writings by bench Pierrot
and articles on Breitbart news which
bridged the gap to the notorious white
supremacist and anti-semitic propaganda
site Stormfront Nolan brewer her husband
for his part bought into the propaganda
he wanted to please his new wife and the
material seemed to make sense to him
despite buying into these ideas Nolan
Hodari had always been rather docile and
passive person an extremely averse to
violence or lawlessness by all accounts
prior to this offense no one was not
known to have ever even broken a minor
rule so there's the defense arguing that
Breitbart
and ben shapiro articles on Breitbart
was a gateway to storm front that's
pretty bad but then
Kiyomi ended up becoming an active
participant in a white supremacist and
radical right-wing communication on a
server called discord discord has many
channels one of them apparently was a
white supremacist one after moving in
with his with Nolan and his parents
Kiyomi spent several hours a day on
discord while Nolan was at work he oh me
found pseudo academic propaganda that
purported to prove her white supremacist
beliefs
every evening Kiyomi would share her
views with Nolan and ask him to read
articles she had found according to
Nolan she began with right-wing yet
mainstream views as those presented on
Fox the discord server was related to
identity Europa who was also connected
to the Christ Church killer so um on
this identity Europa according to this
story in the indie star here where is
that now one of the reasons why these
guys chose that synagogue was because
quote well I'll read from this set piece
prosecutors said evidence showed the
vandalism was not a spur-of-the-moment
childhood prank but rather an attack
fueled by Nolan Brewers belief in Nazism
he told investigators that he and his
wife a minor targeted the synagogue
because it was full of ethnic Jews
Authority says and then in the records
of the exchanges between Nolan Brewer
and people on this board
Kord they go back and forth and no one
Brewer says we were talking about that
Peter was getting in contact with my
wife and then so this BB I don't know
who that BB is some this is the the guy
connected with the Europa she's on the
forum - yeah she's on the forum because
I was trying to get her learn about my
perspective on life
uh-huh says the guy but says Nolan
Brewer so what did he I guess what did
he or she or ever it is to tell you to
do this is uh getting trying to figure
out what Nolan Brewers plan is he said
oh well just I'm gonna look at a map of
Indiana and find all the mosques and
synagogues that are there to see which
ones are the biggest and which ones
aren't are made of like ethnic Jews
rather than religious Jews and then you
need to get this this and then hide your
face and go and apparently this is based
on the idea they said get as close to
the synagogue as possible and get in the
synagogue and then do the dumpster but
the bottom line is they why did they
care about ethnic Jews as opposed to
religious Jews apparently that is a that
was the thing that neo-nazis tell
themselves about Hitler didn't have a
problem the religious to sit with the
ethnic Jews this delineation between
good Jews and bad Jews as if the good
Jews were religious ones I mean this is
where Brewer says okay and I guess what
did he tell you what's the purpose of
doing it at the synagogue he said
because it's full of ethnic Jews which
is the main thing the religious Jew part
wasn't the being religious Jew wasn't
wasn't the deal for Hitler it was the
ethnic Jews because there was like two
percent of the population represented so
a race versus religion right so this
distinction of religious
being good ethnic Jews being bad it
turns out that the same person who
radicalized this guy's wife has the same
exact theory here's Ben Shapiro back in
November of 2011 the Jewish people has
always been plagued by bad Jews who
undermined it from within in America
these bad Jews locally largely vote
Democrat now wait a second I can't I
cannot assess from this that he's
talking about bad Jews are just ethnic
Jews and the good Jews are religious
Jews but in 2016 he clarifies for us no
it doesn't matter that Bernie Sanders is
ethnically Jewish he's a Jew in name
only blood and he quotes from daily
wired.com his own site there are two
types of Jewishness ethnic Judaism an
actual belief in and practice of Judaism
by the first standard Sanders is Jewish
by the second not in the slightest but
wait a second that still doesn't mean
that he thinks ethnic Jews are bad
here's bad ben shapiro just weeks ago
weeks ago on a BBC interview people
pointed out this interview because ben
shapiro made an ass of himself because
he assumed that the the questioner who
was asking rather reasonable questions
was must have been some type of leftist
because he was asking reasonable
questions turns out it was no a guy who
turns out to be basically a tory
right-wing by any standards but he wants
to know about this whole good jew bad
Jew thing and ben shapiro lays it out
just like the guy who was trying to
impress his wife who
radicalized by ben shapiro impress his
wife by going and committing vandalism
at a synagogue here has been shapiro
explaining to the world what a good Jew
and a bad Jew is oh well again with mr.
Obama
you said Jew and you're Jewish yourself
I only mentioned that because food is in
context the Jews who vote for Obama are
by and large Jews and name only
j√°nos you call them my statement was
based on the fact that Jews in the
United States as an ethnic group are
largely irreligious which is true by
every single poll Jews of the most
irreligious group in the United States
as an Orthodox Jew who actually takes
Judaism seriously the point that I'm
making is that most Jews who are
ethnically Jewish are not religiously
Jewish in any context no no no the point
you were making is that Jews who vote
for Obama are Jews and namely only I
said I said that yes that is correct
that Jews who voted for Barack Obama a
progenitor of the Iran deal a person we
don't need to know all that because
that's irrelevant we know that he thinks
that bad Jews let's bring up the bad
Jews again right they're bad Jews vote
for Democrats and he's saying that those
people who vote for Democrats are Jews
in name only he's an Orthodox Jew he
takes Judaism seriously the other ones
are Geno's bad Jews like the kind
according to this white supremacist Nazi
those are the ones that Hitler cared
about now ben shapiro has a list of bad
of mistaken things he said on his
website i don't know if this is on there
he was defending it two weeks ago
is he gonna add to this how many things
on a list
can you put an escaped culpability for
despite the fact that it's inspiring
people directly to do horrible things
how many times can you get away with
doing that and still have the New York
Times call you the philosopher for cool
kids how many times are we supposed to
take this guy seriously when if he was a
Muslim and mom they would end up like
literally putting this guy in jail if
not us assassinated a guy because he was
going around an American in Yemen I mean
but yet we we support this guy many Jews
are Jews in name only 2011 I wrote a
column about American Jews voting for
Barack Obama and stated Jews who vote
for Obama by and large Jews and name
only that is what that's on his a
mistaken thing I said Paige yeah that's
the defense yet he defends it on BBC I
don't know when he put that on the paper
on the thing but he defended the whole
concept on the BBC he also suggests that
he's only been saying that in 2011 which
we have examples of him saying that
sense in 2016 I mean give me a break
give me a break what a scam this guy is
running but it's it's worse than that
because he's literally now inspiring
these attacks and denying it and he came
out and he said when people pointed this
out he says people are claiming I
directed this attack nobody's claiming
you directed it here's the claim you
inspire the people who carry it out
and you also reiterate the exact
rationale that they used to attack this
synagogue the exact he said yes if
there's one thing I'm known for as one
of them
prominent Orthodox Jews targets of the
alt-right and critics of the alt-right
in America is directing Nazis to attack
synagogues what garbage
no no but you do lay out the equation
bad Jews and good Jews and who are the
bad Jews in a way that the neo-nazis
have fully embraced a lot of this stuff
comes from a twitter handle at
underscore al Makua people can check it
out we'll put a link to this so that you
can share it with your friends but this
is disgusting and ben shapiro should
have to address this in a serious
fashion and any of those people who have
written fawning profiles of this guy
need to revisit this this is what they
mean by intellectual dark web you know
what they when they say dark web they're
talking about things like gab and all
the other places where the neo-nazis and
supremacists gather to discuss their
stuff it's not a coincidence that they
borrowed that construct this is I mean
this is really disgusting stuff ben
shapiro should be held to account for
this really held to account well maybe
he'll add a couple more things to his uh
his webpage that has stupid things he
said this that he continues to reiterate
and justify yeah it'd be better named
the stupid things i said that weren't
really that stupid when you look into
him because he also defends his
palestine era arabs like to live in
sewage thing by first saying that he was
talking about palestinian leadership and
then saying oh actually i was talking
about all Palestinians because of poll
numbers unbelievable
really unbelievable
