let's talk about this story this is
super disturbing and it's indicative of
you know there are more and more people
who are digging into stories of the
family separations this is I mean this
suggests that the you know the family
separation still probably and maybe in
some respect well certainly there are
still again I shouldn't even call a
family separation is kidnapping and
they're more of these stories and on a
widespread scale it meets the definition
of genocide this is a story from The New
Yorker Sarah still stillman wrote about
this five year old girl put the picture
up of her if you have it name is Helen
she fled Honduras with her grandmother
and several other relatives gangs had
threatened her grandmother's teenage son
and the family no longer felt safe
so the grandmother Holland's grandmother
must had a couple of kids one was older
had a teenage son I was younger had a
five-year-old I mean she had a teenage
son and Helen's mother Jennie had
migrated to Texas four years ago so the
grandmother was planning to seek legal
refuge there in Texas Christian was
taken at the border put into a cage with
toddlers its teenage son a plain clothes
official told her that she and Helen
would be separated now according to the
way they classify five-year-old girls
like this who come in with their
grandmother they are unaccompanied
minors because they're not coming in
with their mom or their dad and even
when they separated the kid from the
parents then they become unaccompanied
minors so the word on accompany means
nothing
in this context so later that day the
the grandmother and her teenage son were
reunited they were released on bail with
electronic bracelets pending courts
court dates maybe not bail just with the
electronic bracelets they went to see
Jenny the mother Helen's mother the five
year olds mother with a belief that
Helen had been released to the mother
when they got there she wasn't officials
from the office of refugee resettlement
said that they were holding Helen at a
shelter in Houston and she had been
taken to a Christian Child and Family
Services which had been contracted to
house unaccompanied minors so under the
Flores settlement which was fashioned
I believe this took place in the 90s the
Flores settlement which basically was a
function of a lawsuit private civil
lawsuit brought against the government
about holding children Helen this is the
five-year-old had a right to a bond
hearing before a judge and a hearing
like that she obviously she she gets
bond she gets sent since she gets
released to her family at the time that
Helen was apprehended she checks the box
on the line that read I do request an
immigration judge I don't know why they
left five-year-olds do this when they've
got a guardian with them but if they
perceive them as unaccompanied minors
that's what they do by August an unknown
official handed Helen a five-year-old
girl doesn't matter what our sex is
five-year-old
a legal document that says a request for
a Flores bond hearing that is a bond
hearing under the auspices of the Flores
agreement which describes a set of legal
proceedings and rights that would have
been difficult for Helen to comprehend
because she was 5 it says to fully
understand Flores bond hearing you may
speak to an attorney before making a
request if you'd like to speak to an
attorney please inform staff at this
facility we'll put you in touch with an
attorney free of charge or you may speak
to your own attorney if you have one if
you requested a Flores bond hearing but
wish to withdraw your request you may
also use this form to result withdraw
your request once as a box it says I
request the Flores bond hearing at this
time she obviously checked off the first
box when she was with her grandmother we
said check out this box the second box
says I would draw my previous request
for Flora's blonde bond hearing I
understand that I may request the Flores
bond hearing at a later time and I may
do so by filing a new request former by
making an oral request in the
immigration court child's name Helen
child's signature Helen now Saul is 5 he
can sign his name he's been able to
write his name for about I don't know
maybe since he was like late late fours
if I was to ask Saul do you know what it
means that you want to request a Flores
bond hearing Saul incidentally is an
English speaker that's the first
language he speaks uh he would just look
at me he's like what flowers I mean like
what the ears
I don't maybe I'll do it with him on
Helens form which if it was filled out
with assistance from officials there's a
checkbox next to that line I would draw
my previous request for a Flores blonde
hearing and then of course she signs her
name in the cute little way that to five
year olds were her penmanship is
actually pretty good for a five-year-old
she keeps it all in one straight line
that's pretty good
her n is a capital n the rest of the
letters seem to be a lowercase except
for the H she was separated from her
family for what appears to be like two
or three months and of course it changed
her personality she was hiding under
tables and whatnot fearful even when she
finally met her mom and saw her
grandmother again this is our tax
dollars at work and some kids don't get
reunited with them there are still I
think about a hundred kids who they have
yet to might be able to locate I read
one horrifying story that actually comes
from the Obama years of a girl who was
taken away from her mom on the grounds
that she was neglectful to bring her
into the country illegally and adopted
out and she never got her back yeah
there's I think there's many stories
like this under my understanding is
under the Obama administration to the
extent that they would separate any
children from parents it was a function
of there had to be an underlying reason
there had to be some charge that either
they were involved in you know a drug
running or there had been reasons to
believe that there was abuse or whatnot
I don't know that that my understanding
is that charge was not if that is the
case the policy of just simply
separating them at day one without any
underlying causation for that there
wasn't in this case I can dig it up for
you
yeah the Senate but in this instance
this was a mass policy that did this to
thousands of children and above and
beyond the policy of we're gonna
separate you because your your dad was
also you know running drugs or
was involved in some other where there's
some you know reason to believe there
was abuse now the Obama administration
did run afoul of the Flores agreement in
that they were detaining families for an
extended period of time and you can't do
that if there's children they can't you
can't detain them all simultaneously
even you know for an extended period of
time then ultimately you need to release
them on bail but as a policy this is
what has been taking place under the
Trump administration
