[Music]
let's I mean there's a political
calculation here about beta will Roarke
getting into the race and between him
and Biden this is gonna most likely help
Bernie Sanders you know the only real
competition in the progressive lane is
between Sanders and Warren and then to
some extent Gabbard and there is a
massive you know from the center out to
the right um you know I would say
genuinely center-left candidate with
some very right-wing streaks in a record
like a calm low Harris and then there's
you know Amy Klobuchar running as a less
charismatic version of Howard Schultz
with a worse organizational culture then
you know you have other can't and so you
know in that Lane bado and Biden would
really fill it out and I guess the first
takeaway that we have in this office is
one in all seriousness fader will work
school in some ways he should run for
Senate he has buy-in in his home state
as a national Democrat his voting record
and these men you know and these
measurements can be kind of silly but
the reality is is that leaving aside the
fact you know Bernie Sanders a serious
committed leader for his whole political
life Elizabeth Warren a serious
committed a leader and policy maker and
then a people like Harris who've taken
the lead on certain things in the Senate
Cory Booker who's done great things on
the drug war in the Senate bado votes
well to the right of his Democratic
colleagues now that's not a problem when
you're running statewide for the Senate
in Texas but why on earth would that be
what
Democratic Party would want to go for
and intend a time of that you know the
crisis of inequality the crisis of
ecology and the need to not only have
this broad-based Democratic coalition
but actually see it represented at the
highest levels he doesn't tick any of
those metrics the only thing he ticks is
definitely a for the best Obama
impersonation in the race uh and here he
is um I mean look we'll see if this gets
filled in but he is very much in the
lane of and I don't know if we're gonna
play his announcement video but his
announcements video has zero nothing
specific and one could come away
thinking wow he's talking about
universal health care he's talking about
reparations he's talking about
immigration he's talking about ending
war there's nothing in it uh and this
isolated clip I mean whoa boy he it's as
Matt what did you say before after you
saw this clip about the the soundtrack
oh it's like he can hear the the sort of
swelling inspirational music they're
gonna put in the ad underneath it when
they use it for media later right but
these challenges I'm absolutely
convinced will bring out the absolute
best in every single one of us and we
have something that almost no other
country in the world has we have the
single greatest mechanism to call forth
the genius of our fellow human beings
this democracy more than 320 million
people strong can bring the ingenuity
the creativity the resolve of an entire
country and each one of these challenges
can and will be met but the foundational
challenge to get all of this done is to
fix our democracy only when it works and
only when each one of us can work within
it will we be able to meet these threats
and so this setting right now the very
first event of our campaign for
president is an example not only of the
way that I wish to campaign across this
country
every single American
and I could care less your party
persuasion your religion anything other
than the fact that right now we are all
Americans and we are all human beings
and we do everything within our power
for one another for this great country
and for every generation so uh he's not
gonna cut in to Bernie Sanders vote
share some early polls might show that
but there's a very basic distinction at
work here if you honestly believe in I
understand I agree I but I've been
saying it for a long time Bernie Sanders
definitely has a certain type of grandpa
charisma and like all politics today
there's unhealthy personality cults that
can form in pockets around any candidate
and we should you know try to disrupt
that wherever we find it in fact most
especially amongst candidates we support
but if you honestly think if you're
delusional enough to think that the
young people the people from every
category of the society who finally
responded to a candidate saying look the
fact that there is no universal health
care here the fact that these companies
are so predatory and so vicious the fact
that almost every category of life is
getting more difficult for more and more
people and I'm gonna do something about
it and I'm gonna name names and I'm
gonna take action if you think that
that's personality that can get
undermined by some you know nice guy in
a skateboard I don't know how to pull
the put this politely
you're hugely divorced from reality if
you think that Bernie Sanders came out
and gave that speech and it was like a
boats long it's a democracy and here's
more pablum and here's all the vague
points and he has things that actually
in some ways borderline offensively were
AC huge amount of American history
because it hasn't been a real democracy
in actually ever if we go back from the
disenfranchisement of woman to American
apartheid to even today
the Princeton studies saying that this
country is actually functionally in
oligarchy but I'm gonna do generic vague
west wing reference monologues and
trying to do an impersonation of Barack
Obama and people would have said oh my
god I you know what I don't care I don't
care what Bernie Sanders policy record
is it's just that pure raw charisma it's
it's a delusional argument and it
reveals why you would be interested in
bado because there's no policy argument
for bado there's no political argument
he has they tried to make one she has
even tried to make one and there's also
by the way and again we usually have
this fight and I you know look I make no
bones about it at the end of the day the
policy is what's most important but
obviously we recognize the usually
important need it's not the overriding
need obviously in my view but the need
to have a woman president to have more
people of color to have a Latino
president and so on he doesn't bring I
mean I get that he's impersonating Obama
but he certainly does not bring that to
the table he is literally a rich white
guy I will add rich to the moniker and
not Jewish and not someone who grew up
in poverty and not someone who came from
immigrants and not somebody was a
lifelong activist he's a nice suburban
dad whose wife is totally loaded from
real estate investments who has a
unusually right-wing voting record for a
Democrat in Congress and by the way his
district he represents is a Democratic
district so it's not because it's a
Texas swing and he's also Bernie Sanders
oh my god he's an independent he's an
independent Bernie Sanders has never
stayed out of a race specifically to
protect a personal friend of his who's a
Republican and by the way this is one of
these moments where a broken clock and
literally this broken clock might
actually be a great way of describing
Brian Kilmeade is Right every once in a
while this Brian Kilmeade on fact Fox
News all right so beta Vanity Fair has a
huge article and feature on him
almost as if they helped launch his
campaign here's a quote from it he says
I want to be in it man I'm just born to
be in it they also point out hey I'm
sorry could you imagine I mean look I
was born to be this literally and again
I don't I don't want to be hypocritical
and I'm you know I'm someone who really
is like let's not focus on every little
gaffe and let's not be super petty but
like Bernie is a mission driven
politician and then so he would not you
know yeah and he's also Jewish and he's
also coming from poverty okay so that's
the clear one but could you be calmly
Harris and say that like literally you
couldn't because of the history and
politics of this country in fact you
could say actually because of the the
structures of this country in terms of
inequity I was born to not do this if
we're being blunt about it and I'm
fighting to overcome that and if you can
bind that look again this is the type of
thing that if he said that and he had
rolled out a series of serious policy
proposals and his record matched it then
I'm not going to be petty about that
quote but if it's a conservative voting
record in Congress relative to the rest
of the Democratic Party and no proposals
and vacuous nonsense um that the raw
narcissism of that quote is gonna stick
out to me but let's go being it man I'm
just born to be in it they also point
out they has this huge library as if
it's a big plus that he reads books we
would assume that and he talks it all
the presidential libraries there and the
writer writes he had there's always the
sense that he belongs on that as if a
book of a presidents gonna be in there
but listen he's got a lot of charisma
he's got a lot of presents get a Brian
detail about like he has a library it
does seem like the people who on dating
sites put that John Waters quote where
if you go back to somebody's apartment
and they don't have books don't screw
them but they like only might read like
one book all year but they keep it out
on their table yeah what do you say they
keep it no yeah I know
keep meeting to finish the new Jim Crow
you notice he's got he's got the new Jim
Crow but he what he's really doing is
rereading the seven Habits of Highly
Effective People for the eighth time the
laws of power book laws of power books
to cool but I think you know I again you
know we'll see it and it's funny like
I'm I'm not strategically I think he
actually helps Bernie and I don't have
any I've liked and supported beto
obviously miss his Senate run so I'm
trying to identify what annoys me so
much about this but I just think that
there is something about just the raw
just mediocrity and entitlement of it
all and then the fact that all sorts of
people both okay I'll I'll say both who
will smear and slime and lie about
Bernie all day and then all of a sudden
will actually literally embrace just
they you know the total generic white
male and then also combined with just
the fact that the much more important
point which is like guys like this is in
fact a really serious time like a really
serious time and I and my argument for
making a structural change in this
campaign our policy has never hinged on
only Bernie can be Trump I think it's a
ludicrous argument and a lot will change
in a year and god forbid we might be in
a situation where Trump's super
formidable I don't really see it I think
what's most likely is I think basically
everybody and I mean this honestly maybe
Amy Klobuchar I'm not sure about her but
I think pretty much any of these
candidates could defeat Donald Trump
Sanders Warren Harris Booker Biden I
really do so my argument does not hinge
on that but my argument actually hands
on all hinges on a longer view which is
that okay we've stopped the emergency
we've got rid of this buffoon disgusting
grotesque jackass as president but
what's next guys like the global crisis
were in does not just hinge on a few
disgusting personalities it
is there is a reason why from Brazil to
India to Russia to Hungary to United
States to the Philippines to Israel to I
would actually just include the UK
straight up there is a authoritarian
leaning if not overtly fully so
unbelievably xenophobic far-right -
fascist politics and I don't know all
the answers but I know that some of the
answer is gonna have to come from some
form of like real serious cultural and
moral but also economic and strategic
answer to this so you know the years
2022 and all of the trend lines are
still bad maybe there's been some decent
reforms put in place but bate O'Rourke
is not doing anything structural for the
economy he's not doing anything
structural and climate and I'm not gonna
give you some vague but I'm not gonna
say like what about the next Trump maybe
worse I don't know there might not be
anybody who's as bad as Trump but even
just the gridlock of insufficient and
counterproductive neoliberalism with a
party or Republicans will still exist as
a party it will still be a oligarch
white supremacy unity party I don't know
how much longer that like that dynamic
is hugely destructive and incapable of
dealing with the horizon of things like
climate so I just find you know this
whole like really we haven't moved
beyond this like we already had the guy
who did Barack Obama's the best
politician of not only his generation
but probably modern American history and
there was a time in some ways and I make
this arguments my leftist friends all
the time like you cannot discount the
unbelievable cultural and leadership
qualities of President Obama and what he
did just even having him there in office
and then again I won't lie and cover for
the profoundly insufficient and bad
policies with regards to wall street or
drones for that matter as well as giving
credit for where he did move the ball
forward but like
we did that uh we're gonna do the Coke
Zero version of that
why exactly anybody if if you get into
an argument with somebody who's a better
supporter and they're not you don't want
to bring up Bernie why would you support
beto and not Buddha cake Buddha gigs way
better than if you're talking about
young white guys policy-wise identity
wise he's just better
he's an openly gay man that's usually
significant and he's and you know what
he is a brilliant technocrat but guess
what he said everything I've heard from
him is I think he's for Medicare for all
he said john bolton should be anywhere
near the Situation Room we need to pack
the court need to get rid of the
filibuster he's putting points on the
board yeah and he would make his own
form of quite significant history let's
he better do any of those things that
Buddha Gates himself is do and then we
can start talking about if he competes
with Bernie Sanders well it's just not
as charismatic that is the problem
yeah okay there it is our folks
