I wanted juxtapose do we have the common
law Harris thing so I think one of the
biggest efforts that the corporate
sector has done has been to try to brand
the ecological crisis as like a boutique
concerned of the affluent and then at
the same time there has been in fact a
big growth industry in making ecology a
boutique concern of the affluent that if
you use a reusable bag if you shop for
you know organic food if you have
socially responsible investments
quote-unquote socially responsible
investments your quote unquote doing
your part and again I always really want
to be clear none of these problems will
be solved by individual action or by
consumer choices period full stop
however it's great I try to make small
choices in my life that will be positive
for the environment as well one of the
great benefits of living in New York
City frankly is not owning a car and
actually that probably cumulatively does
have a bit of an effect on emissions
right but most people are not in a
position to make that choice I buy
organic food I do think it's better for
the environment and healthier I make
absolutely no bones about it so my
argument is a not against these actions
it is against the mindset and the
propaganda that is taking a massive
collective action problem that
implicates the very nature of our
economic development and of capitalism
itself and reducing it to affluent
consumer choices of people who
incidentally pretty much definitionally
are part of the largest carbon emissions
in the world right if you're an average
US citizen your emissions are very large
now I hate those metrics because we
shouldn't be worrying about your
individual admission we should be
worrying about Exxon's admission we
should be worried about bp's admission
and their politics we should be worried
about the emissions of the entire US
military footprint these are the
structural questions we have to deal
with now the second order problem here
in addition to the idea just be
completely conceptually wrong that your
individual choices whether they be
vegetarianism or anything else can save
the climate they might be of a nice
benefit but they will not solve the
problem is that as with so many those
other things it allows the right-wing to
find frankly yes
trivial elitist top-down solutions which
are basically trivial and probably end
up being annoying to most people like a
straw ban which again before all of the
friggin im's come in great you know what
I I go to some bougie coffee shop that
makes you're sure to have ecological
reusable straws that's very nice and I
even sometimes take my carry mug too so
I don't have to use a cup these are
lovely things but if you run a national
platform talking about dealing with the
most urgent question of planetary
survival and you're not talking about
systemic policy changes to deal with the
ecological crisis and then you're
handing Donald Trump a beautiful
chestnut to run with for the whole
campaign a chestnut that isn't gonna do
anything
banning straws it won't even do much in
terms of dealing with the specific
pollution crisis around plastics which
is huge well that's what common law
Harris did last night are a big thing
right now yeah
do you ban plastic straws maybe we
should yes I mean look I'm gonna be
honest it's really difficult no response
from the crowd Wow because it's nothing
I mean obviously yeah it's just Barris
yes I mean look I'm gonna be honest it's
really difficult to drink out of a paper
straw when you had if you're just like
if you don't gulp it down immediately it
starts to bake we are going to like this
is gonna be playing in the background of
some dystopian 40 like when they had
their last cycle of chance and one
montage will be Trump saying it's a
Chinese plat and then another will be
her being like Oh
to really perfect things before we do
the Straub and I mean this is just
embarrassing but but this is all you got
unless you're willing to do a Bernie
Sanders green new deal unless you're
willing to say we are going to spend
over 16 trillion dollars we are going to
slash military spending we are going to
radically invest in things we're also
going to implicate the protocols for
environmental justice for indigenous
peoples rights all in Bernie's green New
Deal's if you're not willing to do that
I mean it's kind of the Al Gore
phenomenon Al Gore has done some good
work and highlighting these issues
though there's a lot of problematic
tendencies and how he frames it but you
can watch a two hours of Apocalypse porn
in the end it's like I would change your
light bulbs it's completely does not fit
process right you don't anyway I think
we could do a little bit better than
some of those flimsy plastic straws but
we do need to bend the past we're gonna
have much more we senator Harris coming
up and just okay utterly embarrassing
utterly pathetic and I look I will say
and maybe I'll cover it more later there
were big problems in what Elizabeth
Warren had to say about this the scale
of the problem this these economic
nationalist arguments she makes which I
don't agree with because my politics I
actually think you know I could see
their salience for some people on the
right boxers don't care about borders
bosses don't care about borders and
neither should we frankly in terms and
and especially they want an issue like
this I mean this isn't a gesture or a
slogan like open borders can be in
certain contexts this is literally a
global problem this is climate change
climate change is quite literally a
borderless problem and I don't agree you
know a job guarantees that covers 20
million people in the United States and
has dry transition plans is a social
justice package not there's gonna be tax
incentives to ensure that the Green
Revolution is done in the United States
old Clinton over
style stuff I'm not into it now where
she shined was in contrast with Kamala
Harris which is that this ain't about
these little nonsense decisions and stop
asking questions like that brah some of
it dang is on cheeseburgers right there
are a lot of different pieces to this
and I get that people are trying to find
the part that they can work on and what
can they do and I'm in favor of that and
I'm gonna help but I'm gonna support but
understand this is exactly what the
fossil fuel industry hopes we're all
talking about they want to be able to
stir up a lot of controversy around your
lightbulbs around your straws and around
your cheeseburgers when 70% of the
pollution of the carbon that we're
throwing into the air comes from three
industries this is it okay this was
excellent
this was impeccable this was so
perfectly stated and needed to be done
so just nothing too but kudos for
Elizabeth Warren on that the only slight
thing you'd append to it is you're not
gonna be able to do that by greening the
military no I certainly not and again
guys you know I know people who get very
touchy about all of their various
candidates and I will say to Warren
people those are precisely the
criticisms that you would want from
people who took your candidate seriously
and who just genuinely have a different
world view and it's true her green
military proposal is not going to
achieve these things let alone deal with
if you have some concern and I think
frankly you know look I understand
people don't care about foreign policy
but you know there's plenty of things
that people might not care about that
don't affect them personally and I have
to say a US citizen not caring about
foreign policy is the most narcissistic
thing I've ever heard in my life
and also short-sighted because it will
come back and bite you okay I mean I
think now a lot of people can see oh
maybe the reason may be all that Lula
stuff in 2018 does kind of affect me in
the form of the future of my ability to
breathe
so that absolutely it's not gonna happen
through some green military and it's
interesting who she does and doesn't put
on the chopping block
Bernie's trying to put everybody in the
chopping block but kudos to her for
putting in fossil fuels on the chopping
block this is Bernie Sanders from last
night getting real about basically just
the scale of the problem and who's gonna
have to pay for it or excuse me this is
number two excuse me this is him and
this is actually Bernie Sanders making
precisely that point which is that this
is a foreign policy question this is a
military-industrial complex question and
yes it's gonna be a massive price tag to
save the human species thirdly we are
not gonna have to spend money on the
military defending oil interests around
the world
we can cut military spending there as
well yep beautiful that was a
significant step and again Bernie's
voted against all of the military
budgets put forward by Trump Warren is
voted for all three this is a crucial
area of distinction then Bernie goes on
and makes the point about basically
talking about who's gonna have to pay
for it and as with everything else
single-payer health care you need to
systemic Lee redistribute resources that
have been illegitimately gained if you
don't have a plan for that you don't
have a plan for 21st century democracy
ecology or justice
Bernie's putting it on the table here it
is there's folks out who just heard you
say they talk about higher taxes and tax
payers out there paying more would you
guarantee to the American public tonight
that the responsibility for sixteen
point three trillion dollars which is a
massive amount of money wouldn't end up
on taxpayers shoulders well it'll end up
on some taxpayers shoulders as well and
the fossil fuel industry you're gonna be
paying more in taxes that's the show
yeah and I happen to believe in general
that at a time when we have massive
levels of income and wealth inequality
where the richest three people in this
country own more wealth
the bottom half of American society when
major profitable corporations like
Amazon who made over 10 billion in
profits last year didn't pay a nickel in
taxes am I gonna guarantee Jeff Bezos
he's not gonna be paying more in taxes
no I won't boom and that really is the
bottom line like look I I understand in
the conversation with single-payer to be
clear to people look yes there might be
a top and and actually Artesia just put
this brilliant recently yes you bite on
the upfront pay a slightly higher tax
rate almost definitionally for over
ninety percent of the population or a
vast majority of the population you will
save on the other end from your medical
bills and medical expenses that's true
and there's nothing wrong with
transparency about that and there should
be transparency about that however again
where is a vast majority of this money
going to be coming from to fund things
like the green new deal and single-payer
it's gonna come from breaking up the
American oligarchy that's what it comes
down to that's the bottom line if you
look for at the plans that people have
put forward in Britain on dealing with
the housing crisis like the idea of
actually okay you can own a house but
you can't necessarily own the land
underneath the house that needs to be
put in a common trust to generate gains
for all we are going to need to find new
and innovative ways to break up the just
orderly sclerotic concentration of
wealth and resources in this country and
across the world and one of the simplest
and most direct ways that looks are well
we're gonna take money from global us
military Empire and we're gonna put it
into a green new deal that transitions
the economy not greens the military
transitions the economy and we're also
gonna pay for it by taxing the hell out
of people who should not have a fraction
of the wealth they hold to begin with in
any democracy or sane society
