[Music]
but I am buoyed by this jerry falwell to
eat from yesterday he writes this is oh
I should say this is Jerry Falwell a
junior sadly the original Jerry Falwell
has left the building as it were headed
up of course to heaven where guys like
him go
and after the best week ever for Donald
Trump
he writes no obstruction no collusion
New York time admits Barack Obama did
spy on its campaign and the economy is
soaring I now support reparations Trump
should have two years added to his first
term as payback for time stolen by this
corrupt failed coup this of course was
retweeted by the president United States
down J Trump hard cosine come could
artis ekoo endorsements I mean this is
you know Donald Trump strategy is to and
and there's going to be a theme here
today actually is to rally the support
of a narrow group of people in this
country to maintain the and the support
of his base and we'll hear to I think
from Eric Blanc and when we talk about
the teacher strikes four years I've been
doing this on you know radio or in some
form or another and the the least
informed critique I have ever received
about doing this stuff the most
consistent and least informed critique
has been you're just preaching to the
choir well I think well people are
starting to come to understand is it's
the choir who actually determines the
outcome of a lot of these things
it was the choir as it were
maybe even the clergy who were
responsible for these these strikes
across the country or at least the
catalyst for it and we're starting to
realize that I think there's broader
understanding that more and more you
have to play to your base and not just
play to your base but motivate your base
because they are the people that go out
and do all the work there is a
significant percentage of the American
public who are simply along for the ride
and you need to have your base go pick
them up at their homes and get them
involved in stuff whether it's voting or
didn't these are not mutually exclusive
activities but activism and what not
organizing and so Donald Trump knows us
I mean he's trolling and he writes
following that despite the tremendous
success that I've had as president
including perhaps the greatest economy
and most successful two years of any
president in history tell me about it
preach they have stolen two years of my
and then he's kind enough to put in
parentheses our presidency in more
parentheses collusion delusion that we
will never be able to get back so witch
hunt is over but we will never forget
which of course is a slogan about that
they use about the Holocaust we will
never forget make America great again
and there it is Donald Trump calling for
reparations hoping to get a six year
term for his presidency and you know you
start to figure out the calculations
he's I think he's thinking if I if I can
get stay in the presidency until my 80s
I am I am going to bet that no court
will sentence me to prison after I get
out because I mean look on a day when
500 former prosecutors say that were it
not for the Department of Justice's
finding that you cannot indict a sitting
president therefore that being policy
amongst anyone who is working for the
Department of Justice ie Muller Donald
Trump would have been charged with
obstruction of justice the whole point
why you have obstruction of justice is
because it obstructs your ability to
seek justice in other words it prevents
law enforcement from being able to prove
a possible crime it's quite clear from
the report that Muller is laying out
saying that there are instances where we
just don't really know we don't have
access to this but we clearly have less
because of the line and of the trading
for pardons and whatnot and there is
increasing speculation and assessment of
the report that basically and in fact
Muller writes it in the report we are
attempting to memorialize the evidence
here so that it doesn't go stale for
when the president leaves the office and
the reason why you do that it's not just
for the history books and so you know
I'm sure Donald Trump is very very
interested in winning a second term
because it's probably despite the fact
that the White House is a little bit
rougher than he's used to and he likes
my logo still more comfortable than
prison there's executive time this way
this is making do right exactly
if I sleep long enough into the day
doesn't bother me a lot of you know
leaders Putin Mugabe
yeah the part of their calculus was if I
leave
but and we'll talk about this later in
the program
pardoning a war criminal really sends a
great message and I'm I'm being literal
the guy spent five years in prison for a
war crime so we will we will get to all
that and more
