[Music]
we are back live ok resuming shortly all
right so let's go there's a couple of
things that are pretty funny revelations
about Donald Trump that you know I think
are not shocking but it's fun to hear
about one is of course how he hired a
sock puppet essentially to bid up the
value of his self-portrait at an auction
to make it seem like it was the most
valuable picture that anybody could buy
it then had his charity this has been
somewhat reported had his charity pay
back pay back the sock puppet a bitter
and then you know he hung it in his in
his house Wow president ever can we all
admit that and he apparently also
threatened his high school and
elementary school and SATs not to
release his scores you got a college boy
down a copy of an article with mr.
Trump's handwriting on it that reported
on the auction of a portrait of himself
that he arranged for the bidder ahead of
time and then reimbursed the bidder from
the account of his nonprofit charitable
foundation with the picture now hanging
in one of his country clubs and copies
of letters I wrote at mr. Trump's
direction that threatened his high
school colleges and the college board
not to release his grades Wow
if you can abstract away from all the
very bad outcomes like you got to admit
Trump is the most hilarious president
we've ever had it's true I mean you
could to get that petty this is after
he's in office and everybody says I
attacked Obama about his test scores
ever heard of best defense is a good
offense I mean
like psychologically damaged what is it
zero follow-up to Obama gets oh yeah it
says here we go there's more
when I say conman I'm talking about a
man who declares himself brilliant but
directed me to threaten his high school
colleges Eton College Board to never
release his grades or SAT scores as I
mentioned I'm giving the committee today
copies of a letter I sent at mr. Trump's
direction threatening these schools with
civil and criminal actions
if mr. Trump's grades or SAT scores were
ever disclosed without his permission
and these are under exhibit C 6 the
irony wasn't lost on me at the time that
mr. Trump in 2011 had strongly
criticized President Obama for not
releasing his grades as you can see in
exhibit 7 mr. Trump declared let him
show his records after calling President
Obama a terrible student I swear to God
when you when when when you hear stories
of like they you know they lived under
the Mad King this is this is what it was
like it just like completely you're
President of the United States
you're a 70 year old man you worried
about your high school grades being
released yeah you done yeah a fancy Jew
with his nice high school grades
meanwhile you're hosting an internet
show I'm the president if I was in
Congress I swear to God I would ask
subpoenaed I would submit that hundred
percent number one they got to be
subpoenaed and I asked Michael Cohen did
he ask you to initially approach these
universities or high schools to falsify
transcripts and then after being
rebuffed is that when the threats began
I would want to if I sat on a committee
I would want to see those grades just to
establish whether or not they're lower
enough for him to be embarrassed about
all right here is one thing people like
about Trump though like he pisses off
all those great grubby nerds
who worked their whole lives to have a
fancy job and then he waltzes in like
hey I'm a total dumbass and gets elected
no but he doesn't I won't he copped yeah
man I've got a problem art if he came
out and he was just like I'm a C student
and I'm smarter than you
that would be great right but you know
yeah I call it's cruel just like a
Limbaugh because you gotta be screwing
my mother guy was like are into old
school when I crush Virginia foghorn on
North Carolina book deal
