yeah Lindsey Graham uh is another just
utter oddity um really really terrible
person and he had a little tantrum about
MBS yesterday which I'm sure won't last
but he has been a diligent and constant
war monger and bigoted towards Iranians
this is a so he's gonna be an
and be bigoted towards Iran and also
just make just lame joke that falls flat
and then we have another ongoing in a
series of rogue woke Brian Kilmeade big
story is the president's getting better
and better being president have you seen
this he told me he was getting back so
much fun doing he's rocking it leave it
out of it re but up Donald Lindsay
Graham thank you very much come back in
a couple of weeks ago really our problem
Iranian and be like terrible great
people just bad leaders bad leaders
sorry I can't believe how fast Kilmeade
was to pick up that oh that was just a
blatantly racist than to say gray people
bad leaders God sailing at some point
for this like support for drone strikes
and getting kind of woke about racism
kill me it's part of the Obama coalition
yeah it probably has like a Iranian like
dermatologists or something like that
right yeah yeah my gerb gave me Giants
tickets he's a cool guy let's just look
at this casual racism by Lindsey Graham
which once again cuz he's a Senator in a
yes and a leading center yeah in flood
one is given constant media platforms
and also the type of guy that people
would say like wonder people like
Lindsey Graham didn't call Donald Trump
for being a bigot because of course
bigotry isn't what the Republican
Party's on yeah and most of the time
American leaders probably could be cuts
saying this maybe in private yeah maybe
in private it's also I'm also you know
as is why I want this is just so goddamn
unfunny well a couple weeks ago problem
Ian and be like terrible great people
just bad leaders a bad leader I'm not in
the ayatollah Brent wait why is Lindsey
Graham taking a DNA test about warrant
Elizabeth Warren thing for the record
don't play Trump's race science games
folks yes
like if if anyone else if he tries to
get anyone any other Democrats to do it
just say no he just tries to get it
Pelosi let's go to this yeah what are
you so anyways uh oh wait let me try I
don't get that yeah we'll do two
separate clips this is okay just uh
alright not happen it's okay
[Music]
