[Music]
all right and this is also a fun video
can we get this video of Dave Rubin he
was in Britain doing his a British tour
and he was asked you know a series of
questions at one point the host of the
program and I'm not sure what the name
of the programme was some British guy it
go go back just low it's that that
program no filter and I caramel what the
name of the host is get it go back just
a little bit there I would start right
here okay Dave receiving the truth in
real time yeah this is him being forced
to watch Ana Kasparian on The Young
Turks explain in dish her opinion of
Dave Rubin having had worked with him up
close now the interesting thing about
this is both to watch Dave Rubens face
as he's listening to this stuff and then
what I found really fascinating was his
he's refusal to actually respond to what
Kasparian said he responded to claims
that were not made now we have said in
the past that Dave Rubin receives
funding from the Koch brothers now of
course the Koch brothers don't pay dave
rubin directly they fund a institute in
a libertarian libertarian think tank in
what university is that I can't remember
George Mason George Mason and that
Liberty Institute pays him so
technically speaking the Koch brothers
do not pay him he just gets money from a
coke supported right-wing libertarian
think-tank but listen to how he responds
to Ana Kasparian criticism that he left
not because of politics but because he
wanted to make more money not he asked
for more money and was rejected that's
important can I please finally tell the
truth about why he left the Young Turks
he wanted to make a six-figure salary to
host a third
minute a week show when everyone here
you know because we work for an
independent mini company was getting
paid far less while working 12-hour days
that's why Dave Rubin left the company
and now all of a sudden he's getting
funded by the Koch brothers and all of a
sudden his opinions are very different
he has no political identity he is not
an honest actor he is not an
intellectual he is a fraud that's who
Dave Rubin is I wish I knew how she
really felt that's why where to begin
you know fraud lazy avaricious you know
and morally you wanted more money first
off I never asked for him you know it's
so silly to even unfortunately to have
to talk about these little nine billion
because I like talking about ideas not
about people I never asked for money
that's number one first half
she never claimed that he asked for more
money he's completely making up a
different it's not I didn't want more
money he never asked for more money she
never said he asked for more money he's
not disputing what she said and this is
silly like I don't like to talk about
their having him on as a profile but
this is beneath him to talk about he
would talk about ideas I went about it
was me as the interviewer yeah and then
and now watch as he proceeds to sort of
validate what she was saying till he'd
even unfortunately to have to talk about
these little nonsensical things because
I cuz I like talking about ideas not
about people I never asked for more
money that's number one I left I told
them I was leaving I left there were no
note
negotiations that's it actually my my
executive producer who I brought with me
they offered to double his salary if he
stayed so together we would have we
would have made more money if we'd
stayed but that has nothing to do with
nothing speaker I would see them no it's
like it's kind of pathetic really
I'm not funded by the Koch brothers I
mean I wish I was funded by the Koch
brothers that would be nice I wouldn't
be wearing H&M underwear I mean it's
like this is this is this is what I'm
talking about it's that sort of endless
hysteria attacking people attacking
motives nobody's interested in that
anymore I really don't think people are
interested in that are you saying this
show is boring yo Dave needs to stop
plagiarizing my impersonation of him
right
I'm putting Dave Rubin on notice to stop
stealing my impression of him for his
talking points it really is like it's
blatant it's incredible he's completely
stealing your stick all he does is do my
shtick as himself it's not at least do
your own shtick night impersonation of
your stick get your own personhood yeah
Jesus
crazy come your own person don't just do
the person that I'm making fun of you
being also two months ago they announced
a new partnership with the eine der an
institute which among other sorts of
fund raisers has ties to the Koch
brothers yeah but somehow he still can't
even get Uniqlo underwear I was gonna
say like what what like we are very very
specific underwear that expensive I mean
I mean I just get I just get I actually
have some Uniqlo Isis tried to make the
move Uniflow is good but it's mostly for
a limb for me a bit like beards go do
what let's just pure ideas listen all
ideation with that guy right
[Laughter]
