what sometimes gets overlooked and
particularly this time around because
this sort of the most exciting I think
of the the governor's races did not come
to either come to fruition or come to
fruition on election eve I'm talking
about beta or orc you know he's running
obviously for the Senate but also Stacey
Abrams who's going to a runoff and
Andrew Gilliam who looks by all accounts
to be involved in a recount but you know
those rarely change there are outcomes
but Democrats picked up seven governor
houses and some major ones Michigan
Michigan Wisconsin Illinois
never mind Colorado Kansas New Mexico
and Maine
but it's interesting Democrats did quite
well in those states that Donald Trump
you know there was so many but fours as
to why Hillary Clinton didn't win and
Donald Trump did but certainly you know
Michigan Wisconsin and Pennsylvania are
closely associated with that dynamic and
yet in Wisconsin and in in Michigan also
Illinois we saw a Democratic flip we
didn't see that know hi Oh what do you
make of that well I mean really that's
just a reversion to the status quo that
had been there before right before
before Clinton you know it may have just
been her I mean maybe these states just
for whatever reason and they and you
know he's not like Trump won them by
large margins he didn't there was a very
slim about 10,000 in Michigan and
Wisconsin I mean yeah yeah I mean we
don't even and of course you know we
don't need to replay all the varying
scenarios there were a lot of reasons
why potentially that she was was you
know it wasn't able to get those over
the line I mean obviously we'd be living
in a different world today if she had
but I don't find that surprising I mean
I really don't think that Donald Trump
you know there are a lot of people and
both the left and the right who think
that Donald Trump came along and really
spoke to these people and they really
you know it it's true that there are a
lot of people read read Americans who
love Donald Trump but you know that
wasn't the reason in those dates those
victories were so narrow that that
wasn't really what was happening there
it was just worse we were seeing a
division I think people at this point
probably a few of those maybe they
thought Trump was you know putting on an
act and he you know was going to sober
up when he became president and 10,000
of them realized that isn't true and
went back the other way you know I mean
whatever but you know those were never
going to be I never felt like those were
solid you know Republican states going
forward and the Democrats had lost the
Midwest forever it just never made much
sense I think last night sort of you
know sort of validated that view and
it's a big problem for Trump I mean it's
huge right I'm defeat that this is that
with his electoral college win was
through he made that path you know and
in Florida too by the way but you know
Florida's Florida's Florida and you know
you never know what there but had there
been a couple of districts one in
Florida Clinton would have won the
electoral college too so you know there
are these places where there were these
narrow victory said that Trump you know
pulled out that if he's unable to do it
in 2020 that's it for him so you know
those are all things that I think are
are just sort of reverting to a
different time whether it was anti
Clinton or Pro Trump or whatever it was
a very small tiny moment in time that
made that happen
so you know I'm not surprised about what
I am kind of excited about though is
that in a lot of these places I mean
like North Carolina turns 16 they flip
16 seats in their in their State House
and Senate you know Texas 14 seats went
blue Pennsylvania that Democrats won 19
seats
you know 350 seats a quote by by
Wednesday morning they were reporting
head flipped you know that's a big deal
because during the Obama years the
Democrats were
absolutely decimated any state houses
and as you point out that's where all
the action is with the redistricting and
voting rights and all this stuff that
will make it possible for Democrats to
maybe you know not have such a headwind
going forward so that's really a good
sign and if it happens in places like
Texas you know I mean better o'rourke
may not have been able to pull you know
to get over the line he came very very
close but he apparently may have pulled
in two to three House seats and then as
you pointed out in Houston he turned
over the whole local judiciary and their
progressives and their african-americans
and their women I mean this was an
amazing sort of thing to happen so
there's some kind of churning at the
lower level that really shows and I
think that I think you'll agree with me
Sam this is about the Democrats finally
getting down to organizing on a
grassroots basis getting out of this
sort of you know elite consultant
business and talking about TV ads and
the big message and all the rest of it
and just getting their hands dirty down
on a local level and it really helps if
a place like Texas has a exciting
charismatic candidate that can kind of
gather people but that was happening
even before O'Rourke took off I mean
these people were down there organizing
in their communities and that's what's
going to stand that you know what we're
seeing the results starting to happen in
the Democratic Party because of that
much activism and organization and that
really is a good sign you know III think
III agree with you totally and I don't
think that the the story about what this
says about Donald Trump's 2020 prospects
is getting out there enough now look I
don't want to oversell this for obvious
reasons right I mean we've been down
this road but the fact is is that there
is no indication that Donald Trump is in
a position to pick up a state that he
didn't win in 2020 right like it the
these states
the his numbers even in the states that
are pro-trump
are not particularly good but the
numbers in the states that are not Pro
tump it mean it falls off a cliff forum
right and so you're not gonna see states
move into his column so he has to retain
those states that he did get in 2016 and
this election shows that in those states
you know it may have saved someone like
I don't know
you know Marsha Blackburn let's say in
Tennessee to have Donald Trump visit and
be that closely associated with him but
in purple and blue states that
Association super super toxic for those
and and there the implication is that
these are not states come 2020 that he
can count on as electing him because you
know we said many times it was a perfect
storm well you know perfect storms don't
come come by that often at least
theoretical so I think people should
take some measure of encouragement of
that from these races as well all right
look we have to take a quick break when
we come back I want to talk about the
referendums that we saw and and and what
happened in New York and frankly in
California as well
New York has as does California sort of
an outsized influence on the rest of the
country because of the size of their
economies and so what happens in New
York or what happens in California
doesn't necessarily stay there we got to
take a quick break I'm Sam cedar I'm
talking to the great Digby we'll be
right back on during a fire radio
