you know we see this in a game of
Thrones right on some level this dynamic
of like there is some type of army that
is amassing across the seas and is is
coming in this mass this horde and it
has been sort of astonishing folks I
think most folks know that in Honduras
in El Salvador in a couple of states in
Central America we are seeing really
unprecedented and unparalleled levels of
violence a mix of violence and in
poverty and criminality and in
governmental instability not totally but
largely a function of our policies over
the years and supporting coos in
funneling money there in shipping
literally gang members there and people
try to escape and what happened was a
couple of weeks ago small groups of
people decided it is much safer for us
to travel in a group than it is as
individuals and what started off as 5060
people in a group or 20 people in a
group became 50 or 60 people and then 50
or 60 people became 200 and 300 and then
we have now a caravan of reportedly
anywhere from a couple of thousand to
you know five or six thousand who are
winding their way through Central
America and through Mexico they are over
a thousand miles away from the United
States now I don't know if I can do the
math the Heather but it to drive a
thousand miles would take you what like
forty hours and that's it like sixty
miles an hour to to to walk we're
talking days upon days assuming you
don't even sleep and they're walking
with kids and once they get to the
border all they're going to do is line
up and yet there's been this sort of
like rhetoric that these people are an
imminent threat to the United States so
much so that we had a woman caught in
the New York Times from Minneapolis that
her she was convinced her lake home was
going to be overrun what I mean how do
you deal with this type of lying
Heather without sort of you know I guess
you know whitewashing or laundering the
lie you know I don't know it's it's very
tough because you know this is just rank
racism let's just face what's happening
here there's a bunch of brown people and
even if you look at the pictures you're
you're not seeing a group of hardened
you know criminals or or an army you're
seeing a bunch of women and children
older people you know single men kind of
you know walking with it with a you know
pack over their back I mean it's not
good on their shoulders a kid on their
shoulders right and and you know
carrying a wheelbarrow or something I
mean these are people who are quite
clearly unthreatening in anyway as a
group or as individuals I mean this is a
bunch of Central American you know folks
who are you know you don't take on a
thousand mile walk unless you're pretty
desperate I mean these people are not
doing this for no reason but it's the
site of that and that this is what got
Trump so excited over this was when they
saw the caravan take place they realized
that they were going to have pictures of
brown people in a group and and Trump
even went out of his way to say look
look did you see the pictures down at
the border and kind of assuming that his
people were too stupid to know that it
was actually the Mexico Guatemalans
border right and and not the American
you know
us-mexico border and and there was all
this you know there people in a crowd
and there was military there the Mexican
military was there and he was so excited
because I really think he thought the
Mexican military was going to shoot in
the crowd because that would be the only
way to stop this right I mean this is
these people were coming over in various
ways and across the border and the
Mexicans weren't going to do that but
and he ended up being very disappointed
but this is the idea of this you know
there's mass of brown people coming and
this woman that you mentioned in the New
York Times article I mean she said what
was it Michigan I mean it's absurd
more to fear from you know French
Canadians coming than than any of these
people from Central America I mean
they're walking but they're not going to
walk that far so you know this is this
is a this was just playing right into
their hands and and you know I just I
don't think I need to you know go too
far into this but I'm sure you'll you'll
agree with me that the media played into
that I mean the New York Times had front
pages three days in a row with pictures
of this big Caravan
you know Trump had to love that it's not
and it's not a front-page story it
really is not first of all as you point
out it there are a thousand miles away
second of all even if they do reach the
border and many of them will fall off by
the way these caravans have happened
before and people some ended up staying
in Mexico others end up going back I
mean there's there's never this group
that sticks together the whole time but
when this group comes to the border
here's what they do they turn themselves
in because they're applying for refugee
status they turn themselves in there's
no battle there's no fight there's no
nothing and then that you know they are
cleared or not for for for some kind of
asylum and you know they've taken a
sound claim I mean there's nothing
violent or invasive about any of this
there and they aren't doing anything
illegal by the way I mean if you come
and turn yourself in at the US border
and say I want to apply for refugee
status that's the law now Trump knows
that and he that's a good thing we
should change the law we have to say
that is US law and international law
right all right so these people are not
in the colloquial that is
used illegal they're not even
undocumented immigrants they are
refugees seekers and then they get
disposed or disposed their cases get
disposed of in one fashion or another
some are very few frankly we'll mean if
if past performances indicative will
receive status
you know extended status others will be
basically told you got to leave now and
so the this is all completely
manufactured and when we when we come
back I want to like get a sense of like
how how the media should address this I
mean clearly the New York Times has no
reason to put pictures of the caravan on
for three days in a row but let's talk
affirmatively like how should they deal
with these type of lies we have the same
thing we'll talk about this to one
return this idea of a second round of
tax cuts there's not anything remotely
close to that anymore so then you know
I'm gonna announce that next
incidentally next lottery I'm winning a
billion dollars like the those two
statements have almost the identical
validity all right we're going to take
quick break I'll be right back Sam see
to ring a fire radio we're talking to
the great Digby
