[Music]
Donald Trump yesterday gave me a hashtag
resistance moment which is a moment
where I watch Donald Trump say something
and I went I can't believe that this
airhead this buffoon there's more on
this jackass this dunce this idiot this
fool is our president this is so
embarrassing
even when Obama was flying drones
everywhere and supporting horrible trade
agreements he carried himself with some
frickin dignity and intelligence this
guy's a I had that resistance
moment because Donald Trump announced
the end of Syrian military operations
the other day yesterday in front of the
White House and a brief video now
there's multiple fronts of us kinetic
activity in fact at least seven
countries the u.s. under Trump are
regularly hitting with drone strikes
rules and caps on civilian casualties
are completely out the window already
many civilians of course died as the
Obama administration continued the
essential infrastructure of the Bush
global war on terrorism and expanded it
Yemen Somalia and other places but Trump
has totally lifted all caps so we've
seen massive increases in civilian
casualties and the use of drones since
he's taken office of course Afghanistan
we've been there longer than in Vietnam
no end in sight for that brutal
pernicious war and yet we're pulling
entirely out of Syria which we almost
entirely should however there is one big
question mark around this and also a
legacy of our own massive contribution
to the civilian death toll in Syria as
well as funding through the Gulf of
Salafist groups that of course Trump is
not only going to ignore here he's gonna
go off in a very weird and frankly
disrespectful to our troops
tangent here is the that runs this
country yesterday talking about
withdrawing from Syria we've been
fighting for a long time in Syria
I've been president for almost two years
and we've really stepped it up and we
have one against Isis we've beaten them
and we've beaten them badly we've taken
back the land and now it's time for our
troops to come back home
I get very saddened when I have to write
letters or call parents or wives or
husbands of soldiers who have been
killed fighting for our country
it's a great honor we cherish them but
it's heartbreaking there's no question
about it it's heartbreaking Jesus now
we've won it's time to come back they're
getting ready you're gonna see them soon
these are great American heroes these
are great heroes of the world because
they fought for us but they've killed
Isis who hurts the world and we're proud
to have done it and I'll tell you
they're up there looking down on us and
there is nobody happier or more proud of
their families to put them in a position
where they've done such good for so many
people I really feel like the whole
subtext of this video is he's trying to
get out from having to call dead
soldiers families he's like what if they
but really put it out in the video that
this is really super bad then can I skip
the cause it's so heartbreaking so
heartbreaking so I do believe it's
anxiety-inducing for him I mean this is
my it was like freaked out by stairs I
could only imagine it's freaky to call
the family of a loved one who's died
overseas in a unnecessary US imperial
adventure you support my presidency
right right
you still sorry about your son besides
that how would you see I'm doing on
economy you know your son had loyalty
that's what I respect that because they
do this thing where they make people
unloyal for the FBI and Comey when he
first got into office and there was an
attack over there where a few soldiers
died didn't he like promise to donate a
certain amount of money to one of the
soldiers like Memorial Fund gentleman
ever did it and the checks in the mail I
can imagine him being like listen I
can't keep making these promises yeah I
mean it's one thing to lie to a couple
dozen soldiers families are you gonna
help with funeral cost but by the time
you get into the thousands I mean that's
a lot of io used at an effort my church
has gone folks it's it's so
heartbreaking the way they make me turn
out Fox and Friends would have to write
these letters which I definitely write
myself and by the way in full resistance
mode his hands actually legit or small
like I know I've never honestly like I
thought it was funny because it bothered
him so I know he looks like a cheetah
this is Kofi Annan God how does it feel
to have your sleepover with Putin you
know you are nothing I was looking at
Rick Wilson everyone cuz they sent it to
us for some reason
and Rick Wilson is a patron the last
line is and by the way he has small
hands I swear to God
yeah saw a guy reading that outside the
park at the end of the summer
just like getting both sides liberals
are such easy marks could you imagine
this guy builds his whole Rick Wilson as
a Republican strategist has built his
whole career on electing people to
office that are forwarding and advancing
all of the policies that Donald Trump is
putting into play and it's like a whole
it there's a whole bunch of people who
could just be like hey you know what I
appreciate Rick that you get that overt
racism misogyny isn't great thanks and
we'll take it from here
instead this guy gets to become a
celebrity on the weight of tweeting
against Donald Trump after a year of
damaging American Life it's embarrassing
yeah so the last two paragraphs are
these leaves with a Churchill quote
which I'm not gonna bother to read and
then skip it also Trump has tiny tiny
hands shut up oh I hope Trump roasts him
I hope chump gets it I hope that like
before I hope Trump loses gets indicted
and then in the brief interim before he
goes to jail he gets an opportunity to
do like a final roast like people like
Rick Wilson before though before they
before they take before they that's how
he wins 2020
that's the terrifying scenario yeah just
roast ya think it just raphy could just
leave he could just lean into david
fromm and rick wilson he has a chance
but look there's a serious thing here um
just concluded a great interview with
Samuel Moines which I'll talk about more
later on he wrote a really important
book called not enough human rights in
the age of inequality and we have been
exiting this myth of humanitarian
intervention ISM and realizing that the
rhetoric of human rights has served as a
proxy for u.s. foreign policy interests
and it's been applied and not only a
radically inconsistent way but also has
led to at least partially to horrific
atrocities like the invasion of Iraq and
disasters like the assault on Libya in
Syria there's a multi-party civil war
nobody likes the reality of this every
single party involved in Syria is
responsible for a massive civilian death
toll Assad the forces that back Assad
including of course Russia and Iran as
well as the United States and its Gulf
allies and then Isis is a connected
somewhat to Turkey in the Gulf and a in
some respects its own sort of entity but
it couldn't have risen
I think clearly without some forms of
support from the Gulf and and Turkey I
don't see how that would be possible and
there commits massive atrocities the
Kurds in rojava
have an anarchist confederal espera mint
it's one that is global in its
implications because of the success of
the model and things that we should all
be learning from it and it's also a part
of a justified struggle for Kurdish
autonomy and determination and nobody
should oppose that period of course it
doesn't mean everybody condemns any type
of attack on Turkish civilians and any
type of terrorist activity 100% of
course but the Kurds are absolutely
right about their repression in both
Iraq and Turkey
elsewhere they've been able to carve out
a very respectable laudable experiment
here as well as being credible effective
fighters against Isis and holding off a
genocide 'el Turkish campaign which is
really what it will be now there are
about 2000 US forces in that region that
have already begun withdrawals in
conjunction with this withdrawal Trump
just inked a 3.5 billion dollar missile
sale agreement to Turkey which includes
80 Patriot missiles and 60 pack three
missile interceptors Russia has also
negotiated a separate deal with Turkey
as well there's no doubt that part of
the adroit play that era de Juan had
putting pressure on MBS and humiliating
the Saudis after their torture and
murder of Jamal khashoggi in the Turkish
and the Saudi embassy Saudi embassy in
Istanbul helped facilitate this move on
trumps part so this is a very important
time to on the merits be supportive of a
broader withdrawal but also realize that
there's going to be some immediate
humanitarian consequences to a
precipitous one first and foremost the
betrayal of the Kurds of rojava
which of course the US were never
serious allies of in any way to begin
with but just as I'm a fierce opponent
of many aspects of Russian foreign
policy of course US foreign policy but
I'll tell you what if Russia building
more investment in relationships with
Venezuela as an example helped sea off a
u.s. coup that's a good thing
right so there was a function of US
presence there was supporting a noble
correct and right experiment and the
Turkish official Turkish government is
already talking about hunting people
down ditched to ditch and waging a
campaign of mass murder in this region I
don't know the answer to this I just
know the complexity of it and I know
that we should certainly still be
fueling the kurdish kurds in rojava with
weapons we should certainly still I
would
I would if I were president I would keep
some presents there and I would keep
some intelligence and logistical support
and we need to not go into despair we
need to affirm our solidarity and I'll
be doing a lot more coverage on this but
I do want to put that one piece of the
real complexity on the table
