[Music]
here is tomorrow Volker will be behind
closed doors talking to the intelligence
community we will get back to will see
what comes out of that probably nothing
in the short term anyways here is Fox
and Friends and despite the fact that
the latest polls show for the first time
impeachment now has not only has gone up
precipitously in the polls but it has
reached a new high is now a majority of
people and and it's quite clear to from
the polling that it was the Democrats
coming out for impeachment that really
did the dude that made the big
difference and and it's fairly obvious
when you think about it right like this
is something I learned in the context of
directing the reaction shot will define
how the audience perceives what has just
taken place you can have someone say the
exact same words and if the reaction
shot is one where someone's just
completely unfazed then this is not
gonna land with anybody that's such a
postmodern way of thinking about
politics well but it's true but it's
also Field of Dreams it's golden it will
come but but but but that's the case but
it's but it's basically when the
Democrats came out and said this rises
to the level of impeachment impeachment
at everybody knows impeachments a big
deal it signals like hey there's a real
problem here and it is it's the reaction
shot and the Democrats gave a reaction
that was commensurate
what's going on in the audience
responded and that's basically what's
happening there's a large significant
portion of the population that has been
paying no attention to any of this I
meet people all the time I meet people
all the time who tell me they have
checked out I'm not paying attention to
the primary until there's two or three
candidates I'm not I'm just waiting to
vote against Trump I just can't stand it
anymore it's not good for my mental
health all this and this is what
impeachment is done but Ainsley Earhardt
she seems confused because she's looking
at the polling now and there was a
morning console poll that came out I
think today that shows impeachment up
now at around 46 47 % 43% saying
shouldn't and the 11% don't know and
it's been on that trajectory for the
past two or three weeks
here's Ainsley Earhardt as we're about
to discover and go over some of the
sensationalistic headlines from
yesterday there's almost no there there
there's a big headline that'll get your
attention then you look at the story
it's easily explained it's too much in
the weeds
I think first they're going after the
president with the beach men then
they're going after Rudy Giuliani now
it's bill Barr and America's saying what
Tower they all connected connect the
dots for us what are you talking about
it's just so much information and I
don't think that the country if you look
at the polls the recent Quinnipiac poll
says 47% of regular voters do one
impeachment 47% don't our country is
totally divided split right down the
middle but they are gaining some
momentum on the 20 point net change in
the for the release of the conversation
regarding impeachment what they're
trying to do is they're trying to create
the narrative the Democrats are that
this is a lawless president that's what
they want people to think of course when
it goes to the Senate I don't know that
many people who think that he would
actually be convicted I love the fact
that Ainsley I heard
is basically complaining that things are
getting too complicated for her I don't
think I'm having to read like how how is
possible is Rudy Guiliani and Bill Bar
in any way connected to the president
don't worry I'll explain it there I'm a
country lawyer sweetheart anyways this
is jus named George Soros he don't want
your friend to have pizza pie shops cuz
he's a communist what do you think about
that do you even care if anything I like
this phase of impeachment stuff better
because I can't follow it it's pretty
yeah this is a lot clearer than the like
the Russia stuff oh my god my eyes would
glaze over anyone any time anyone talked
about it this is the this is what is
really shocking to me
well not shocking but this tells you all
you need to know about our our media
environment today this was a poll that
was released yesterday new poll shows
that only four in ten Republicans
believe Donald Trump talked to the
Ukrainian president about investigating
investigating political rival Joe Biden
even though Trump has acknowledged doing
so now 661 percent of independents know
that that he talked to it 85 percent of
Democrats so there's a certain
percentage of people who are just not
paying attention but only 40 percent of
Republicans are even aware of and accept
the reality of something that Trump
himself has acknowledged that's actually
pretty high I would say it does seem a
little bit high I would say probably the
rest of them don't think it's any big
deal at all well they probably think
he's right about but to bring up Biden
right well of course of course he has to
doesn't it's the swamp folks before we
