see this is interesting to me we have
seen this now and on multiple times
where Donald Trump says some stuff and
bill bar comes back and says the same
thing but in a different way in a
different context and I still go back to
when Donald Trump was you know attacking
the squad attacking Allah Omar and and
then you had bill Barr come out and say
the same thing like if people don't like
this country they should they should
leave that type of thing and here we
have Donald Trump at the Family Research
Council doing his version of and
remember he can't push it too hard right
because of his background but this
notion that we've lost religion in this
country didn't say they're too much into
the Second Amendment the world of the
Second Amendment I will tell you if if
certain of these people I would say
almost anyone or your Second Amendment
is in serious serious trouble serious
trouble
your Second Amendment socialism is
obsessed with the pursuit of power
because it is replaced religion within
government and in their eyes it has
absolutely replaced religion when you
look at some of the things that they're
in favor of it's like it's like anything
nobody's ever seen anything like the new
Green will green new you could say it
either way by the way it doesn't matter
same thing cuz in my somebody said which
comes first that doesn't make any - all
right so they're you know this is what
Trump you know I just wanted to comment
before I go to the the bill bar sort of
echoing the exact same thing Trump has
created this new way of delivering
written speeches where the line about
socialism replacing religion was written
and then he repeats it and then he tries
to improvise on it and he just gets to
like with a bunch of stuff that
crazy got a riffle and then he doesn't
know about the green new deal and that's
the way he goes I'm starting to see this
in other situations where people it's
now okay to comment on the own text
that's been prepared for you as if you
had never read it before
that's Derrida but I think he pronounced
capitalism just now I mean we took a
megachurch pastor who's literal name is
creflo dollar there you go
I mean but the idea that he's lamenting
this loss of religion bill Barr is
supposedly the top law enforcement
officer in the country who is supposed
to have a political independence on some
level on some level from the presidency
we've seen him go around like an errand
boy looking to try and build a case that
the conspiracy theories on the right
about what happened in 2016 were correct
and again here's another instance a bill
Barr delivering a very similar message
to Trump and obviously it's coming out
of the White House right I mean
obviously Trump did not write this up
and the reason why this is important in
my mind is for all the talk about
whether Donald Trump will leave office
if he loses the way he stays in office
if he tries will be on legal points in
fact there are theories out there that
what they were looking for what you know
what they were doing when they were
looking for stuff from Ukraine was a
twofer it was looking back on 2016 but
also looking forward on 2020 so that
bill Barr can come out on November 9th
or whatever it is says the election is
invalidated because it was unfair
because of foreign interference and
we're going to the Supreme Court I mean
it's not a huge stretch of the
imagination
that the Supreme Court could impact the
outcome of the presidential election I
don't know if a member but it's happened
in the not so distant past with a far
less supposedly a polarized Supreme
Court we're not far less but less but
here's bill Barr echoing Donald Trump
and this is why I bring that up is just
the more we see this the more disturbing
it is in my mind among the militant
secularists are many so-called
progressives but where is the progress
we are told we are living in a
post-christian era
but what has replaced the
judeo-christian moral system what is it
that can fill the spiritual void in the
hearts of the individual person and what
is the system of values that can sustain
human social life the fact is that no
secular Creed has emerged capable of
performing the role of religion this is
not decay this is organized destruction
secularists and their allies have
marshaled all the forces of mass
communication popular culture the
entertainment industry and academia in
an unremitting assault on religion and
traditional values you start to wonder
how did Bill Barr end up hooking up with
Donald Trump and I hear talk like that
and I think Mike Pence so I don't know
there's a lot of very worrisome signs
out there in terms of where we're headed
to the next 12 to 14 months folks and
then I read about Dalton Academy and I
think Jeffrey Epstein was it bill bars
dad yep tow bars GLAAD hired Jeffrey
Epstein at Dalton and then went to write
sex slave colony erotica he literally
wrote sex slave colony arise I think it
was a Columbia Yale English press or one
of the I want to say Columbia wished in
English departments at Ivy's are
basically just kindergarten for CIA Wow
right
