[Music]
the majority report it says cedar it is
Thursday August 29th 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps to the
from the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America yes
downtown Brooklyn USA I'm stumbling over
my words folks why cuz I'm on vacation
knocking hey I'm gettin paid relaxed
right now I'm not getting paid they
relax but I'm I'm paying to really yeah
by who Soros I'm be exactly George Soros
called up but he said Sam they could
stab you take a little vacation
not just on me but I paid by me Sam are
you familiar with the Galapagos Islands
well I'm not on the Galapagos Islands
someday maybe I hear it's nice no well
can you just travel there do they try to
keep it you know pristine yeah I have no
idea yeah no idea I to be honestly I
think I stole that from bumble you want
to go to the Galapagos no I think I just
saw somebody say they wanted to go to
Galapagos Islands and I just adopted it
and steal a lot of good material from Oh
everything that 90% of what I do now is
just basically stolen from dating apps
talk about wanderlust yep
folks on the program today
a book that I've been talking about
since we did this interview a couple
weeks ago and I interviewed one of the
authors Josh Murray the book was also
written with Michael Schwartz it's
entitled wrecked how the American
automobile industry destroyed its
capacity to compete it's a fascinating
story and it's one of those things where
every now and then I do an interview
that I for whatever reason it helps me
understand dynamics that are much larger
than the dynamic that's being spoken of
and this is a story of basically how the
u.s. car industry destroyed itself and
what the incentive structure was to do
it
and it's I think it's it's I mean it's
it's it it carries out today I my my my
former wife from Michigan a lot of folks
in her family and and around it from the
car industry Ford a lot of Ford people
in particular some GM and it's a
fascinating story you it makes you
understand so much and it's the the
incentive structure in a way that we
just don't I think that a lot of us like
just don't can't absorb in some way like
it with the thinking behind this it's a
fascinating story you're gonna enjoy it
just a reminder if you remember you're
also gonna hear a deep archive cut and
you can join that you can go back and
listen to it by going and becoming a
member I joined the majority report calm
it's just pennies a day when you become
a member you support this program
you're the free show and you get the fun
half also don't forget the a I'm quickie
we got that going every morning if you
want your five minutes news headlines
and briefs check it out
I am quickie it's in the majority report
audio feed it's free to sign up on
iTunes or podcast our pod wherever you
pata Phi or Spotify or there should be
one pata Phi there might be one stitcher
stitch fi any of it so check that out in
the meantime enjoy this interview with
Joshua Mari on rect how the American
Automobile Industry destroyed its
capacity to compete
okay we are back Sam cedar on the
majority report on the phone it's a
pleasure to welcome to the program
assistant professor of sociology at
Vanderbilt University and author of
wrecked how the American automobile
industry destroyed its capacity to
compete written with Michael Schwartz
Joshua Murray welcome to the program
thanks Pam it's great to be here
so let's start this is I I found it
fascinating and it's but let's start
with where the u.s. car industry is
today in terms of its capacity its
profitability the the jobs it creates I
mean I want to look at it from both the
perspective maybe of the shareholders
but also the the community right so well
first kind of defining what we mean by
the auto companies that are headquarters
in the US we could mean everyone that
makes cars in the United States returns
including foreign automakers like Toyota
Nissan Volkswagen right so from a
shareholders perspective we would kind
of definitely think of the US
headquartered companies ones like
General Motors Ford and they are
profitable but their domestic market
share has been just consistently
declining ever since the 60s and that
hasn't really changed in recent times so
those consistently losing marked
domestic market share to foreign owned
companies and their profitability
largely held up through outsourcing jobs
outsourcing production to cheaper areas
and that kind of then connect to review
of the US auto industry a worker
standpoint from the workers standpoint
in US headquarters firms kind of the big
story that we think of it's not much
right so
something like less than half of workers
the court and General Motors work in the
United States and so they might employee
and I would say two hundred thousand
three hundred thousand overall the
hundred thousand in the US for any given
company I think it's less than 100,000
per fourth and that stands in stark
contrast to the past when in the 60s
General Motors alone employed over three
hundred thousand auto workers in the
United States that said foreign auto
companies like Toyota Nissan Volkswagen
employee u.s. Auto Workers they tend to
target non-unionized it areas pay lower
wages so the high wage earning on a
worker that we think of from the past is
becoming more and more a thing of the
past as the US companies that are
unionized some of those jobs overseas
and to other countries that aren't
unionized in the foreign auto companies
target areas that are not unionized and
when we say unionized and I should also
say Joshua if you could maintain I'm not
sure which location it is that's best
but it's sort of like floating in and
out how your clarity but when we say
unionized what we what we're saying I
mean it's almost synonymous I mean I
guess maybe I want to make sure this
this goes with saying it synonymous with
jobs that are more stable that provide
more compensation that provide better
benefits that create more cohesion and
stability within the community I mean
that's what we're talking about when we
say unionized workers having power right
so well way of workers having power on
collective bargaining but when workers
have some sort of leverage that their
jobs pay better they have better
benefits they're more stable they're
less likely to be you know shipped off
or closed down and yes that benefits the
community so absolutely right so we're
talking really about worker power and
worth of others and so in terms of the
the American
I guess the American I don't know
branded is that the way to say it I mean
I don't know how you say the American
branded automakers for GM and Chrysler
we're looking at cars that that we're
looking at a shrinking market share and
we are looking at diminished help
diminished value to the American
community as it were in terms of workers
and and specifically communities and
whatnot so let's go back and then I
guess the your book is trying to figure
out how that happened because it used to
be and you could tell us specifically
when but it used to be that American car
manufacturers were in in in many
respects sort of I don't know what do
you what how do you analogize it as like
the organ an organ in the body of
America I mean it was it built many very
strong middle-class families I guess a
lot of say it was the engine of the
middle class when we think of the rise
of the middle class from the United
States that kind of post-world war ii
middle class the auto industry was the
engine of that and so give us a sense of
like you know when we're talking about i
guess we're talking 40s 50s maybe into
the 60s on some level like what how did
that manifest itself in terms of jobs
that the the car companies had the in
terms of innovation in terms of you know
the value to communities and i guess you
could just look you could look at
detroit I mean there are other problems
obviously that Detroit has had but they
were the sort of the catalyst for a lot
of the problems where was the sort of
decisions that ultimately were made by
these car companies I don't want to get
too ahead of ourselves in terms of the
decisions but I want to get a sense of
like what what value did it bring to the
country yeah really
wait for these from 50 60 s even into
the early 70s
seventies that it starts really changing
that this is the largest industry in the
country and and that other large
industries were industries tied to it
right so it's not just me
Auto assemblers but then the steel
industry is tied to the auto industry
the glass industry the rubber industry
all the components all the companies
that make components where the cars are
tied and they were all kind of clustered
in the same productive areas and think
of Detroit a flinch no Indiana st. Louis
you know many of these kind of rough
salt cities were built by auto right
auto was central to them and then all
these other industries clustered around
Auto and I think just Detroit and Flint
are such a good example just comparing
now to 1960 in 1960 Detroit was per
capita the richest city in the United
States and I don't remember the ranking
but one of the richest in the world
well when four small cities was the
richest in the world I don't remember
how what the definition of small cities
was when I read that write that so most
of these cities been in 1960 were just
auto production centers the people that
lived there were really benefited from
this
and today Detroit imports are both among
the poorest cities in the country they
have many different struggles that were
aware of
but this kind of really illustrates what
the effects on communities have been
this change in the US auto industry and
when we think about people being able to
become middle-class own a home you know
on a car send their kids to college part
of this was that you know that the auto
industry didn't have to have a college
degree to work in the auto industry this
was semi skilled work and once he got in
and worked for a while you're part of
the Union that the pay was was good the
benefits were great and people built
lives off of that right like you could
have one one parent working and support
an entire family
that's just that's not the case
economy-wide anymore and of course in
the auto industry the pain is still
really really good if you kind of adjust
for inflation it's not that different
right now than the Asia 1960 but part of
the problem is that there were three
hundred thousand workers just at GM in
1960 that were probably you know half a
million workers at GM and Ford Chrysler
and they're you're getting close to a
million workers and that's just not the
case now right now it's maybe two
hundred and fifty thousand workers for
the three companies combined right and
we should say with that million workers
there was a whole host of ancillary wood
jobs that were tied to that I mean even
in 2000 even in 2008 when we had to step
in and rescue the car industry people
were estimating that if the US car
industry goes under if GM and Chrysler
and Ford go under in those circumstances
you're bringing down close to two two
and a half million jobs so I mean if you
maintain an algorithm of in that late of
a day you know almost like a ten to one
type of situation it's conceivable that
at its peak the automotive industry the
US branded automotive industry was
responsible for you know possibly like
three to seven million jobs it seems or
even clip more yeah and at a time when
our populations that much smaller right
exactly and then this is this is part of
where that for me this is this puzzle
it's not just that hey what happened to
this industry
it's the largest richest industry in the
largest richest country in the history
of the world that's a puzzle then what
happened to that so so part right part
of the story of it being such an
important industry in 1960 is that
unions and workers were really strong
right so if you kind of backtrack into
the beginning of the auto industry in
the nineteen tens of twenties it's not
this great engine of middle-class well
the auto jobs aren't really wonderful it
was workers kind of unionized and using
collective power and collective
bargaining that turned those jobs into
these fantastic kind of
middle-class lifestyle and into
prosperity that then benefited all of
these communities so part of the story
of the decline of the auto industry was
altered the decline of unions it's quite
a dream in power it goes hand in hand
enough
we're telling both stories a little bit
and in fact in some respects and I think
this is you know largely what you found
in your research that there was actually
a causal a causal relationship almost a
almost like a multiple causal
relationship to those two dynamics the
almost dialectical relationship right
they're related for a reason that the
Union kind of decline comes from
decisions made by Auto Management and
that decline then feeds back into the
work you know we go on gone through
history to where we are today but
they're absolutely part and parcel and
and and before we sort of start to
address that dynamic I just want to make
sure that we understand that this is not
a situation of those jobs leaving Flint
and Detroit and those same jobs landing
somewhere else
that they're dispersed it is their
outsourced to other countries or they
are outsourced to places that don't have
unions that have that are so-called
right-to-work states where the quality
of the jobs frankly is is less right
exactly it's not that a good job left
Flint in Detroit and then a good job
showed up in Chattanooga or in you know
the Philippines in Mexico it's a good
job well in Detroit and then a bad job
showed up in these places that don't
have unions who don't have regulations
and we also and I think and there's an
argument maybe this is a subsidiary one
but the the concentration of the jobs
added to the the quality of life in
these cities I mean there was a lot of
like automata worker money and Flint in
Detroit but that meant like if I owned a
restaurant I'm also doing well and right
and whatnot whereas
if you've got one plant outside of you
know in in Tennessee it does not
necessarily have the ability to
dramatically impact maybe to some extent
but not dramatically impact particularly
when the wages are less but let's get
into this dynamic because it's
fascinating so describe the we should
probably start I think unless you
disagree with the mode of production
that took place in this era that that
that car companies had basically created
for themselves flexible production you
call it yeah right yeah so so kind of
starting the real difference so all of
the domestic market share that they keep
losing goes mostly to Japanese auto
companies a little bit to ones like
folks like in some of the European and
what really draws them apart these kind
of foreign automakers from the US ones
right now is quality of cars and
innovation right so they're innovating
in the process of producing cars and
they're able to do it very efficiently
and have high quality output and so in
studying why that is scholars have kind
of identified certain things like
just-in-time delivery as being really
efficient and so we looked at what
explain what just-in-time delivery is
just for brightness yeah sorry
just-in-time delivery is component parts
so the way the US companies do it now
and the kind of standard way is let's
say I'm going to make a hundred cars I'm
going to order parts for 300 cars and I
have a stockpile of parts and that way
if I need to you know if there's a
slowdown somewhere something goes wrong
with my components maker III I don't
have to stop producing cars because I
have a bunch of extra parts and just in
time delivery says if I'm going to make
a hundred cars i order parts for a
hundred cars not fit and I get them
right when I need them and this means
that there's no waste so if there isn't
a slowdown at all and I ordered those
300 parts now I
200 parts that I didn't need and a bunch
of waste right under just-in-time
delivery I don't have that waste and so
that that's one of the things that's
been identified so this is a really
efficient way it's been called wean
production what we did is we looked at
how does this relate to innovation and
we found that there's more than just as
just-in-time delivery it's a it's a key
component of it there's this whole what
you said what we call flexible
production that goes into it and so
just-in-time delivery means that if we
come up with a new way of doing
something right and that means that the
old component doesn't quite fit it needs
to be tweaked in order to work with the
new way we're doing something I'm not
losing any money by doing that if I have
a giant stockpile of extra parts now
those are totally useless if I change
that so it kind of works against
innovation it's hard to implement the
innovation because in order to do that
I'm losing money so now there's a is the
innovation going to save us enough money
to make it worth losing the stockpile
but with just-in-time delivery I I have
exactly what I need so in the next the
next renter I just order different parts
from my parts maker
this requires though a good amount of
trust with the parts maker so along with
just in time delivery flexible
production has long-term sole sourcing
contracts with suppliers
so rather than saying who's my supplier
going to be whoever offers me parts the
cheapest I'm going to get a contract
with the supplier and I'm going to keep
that long term I'm gonna let them know
you are my supplier and let me just let
me just tease this out so I mean so that
people understand what Sol Sol sourcing
is basically where I get into a
relationship with you and I just like
I'm not I you and I are in this together
and I'm not gonna come I'm not gonna
come back to you next year and say hey
there's somebody else offering me the
parts for cheaper can you lower your
price right I'm I'm not looking for
anybody else we're in this together
we're in this together and the benefit
to me is that if I make a mistake my
engineers make a mistake and we get a
bad part and I get a switch or if it's
even a close decision I'm not
unduly influenced by the sort of like
sunk costs of all these bad parts I have
or so I don't put off innovation and I
don't have to pay more to innovate right
exactly so if I want you to change a
part for me well we have a long term
relationship you're gonna be willing to
do that so say hey could you make the
part like this this time and you're
willing to do that and you're probably
doing just-in-time delivery of your own
parts so that you can innovate with me
and you had that before on terms
suppliers from your the raw suppliers
that supply you to make the components
so this goes down the line now if I'm
going to do that sometimes I've made all
the I've used the components that came
in and not none have come in yet right I
have to you have to ship the parts to me
that's a huge risk because if the parts
don't get to me now I have to shut down
production because I don't have any part
so I don't want you to be very far away
from me so it happens as we start to
cluster the final assembly plants
cluster they cluster with the components
plastic components points cluster around
them so it's only going to be a you know
a few a few miles 100 miles at most
you're going to be shipping these parts
oftentimes it's just down the street
that makes it easy for us to innovate
also you're right there I tell you hey
could you change this part like this it
goes now once we cluster like you
pointed out the benefits to the
community of having everybody there it's
also a huge benefit to innovation
because innovation is really a trial and
error process I have this idea I try to
do it it doesn't quite work I wanna know
why it's not quite working the
rank-and-file czar the rank-and-file
workers are right they're trying to
implement it they can tell me why it
doesn't work the engineers are there the
designers are there the engineers and
designers for the components plants are
there and everybody it's easy for
everyone to meet and figure out how do
we best implement this so it just
results in innovations being implemented
in a more timely manner and resulting in
higher quality work whereas if we're
dispersed all over the country
it could be just be hard to communicate
and figure out how it works we'll
eventually get it but it'll take longer
we'll lose more money with it it adds to
that it adds to the calculation of is
this really worth it I have this huge
stockpile I'm going to lose we keep
trying to put it in it's not working I
might make the decision to say but we
just want it right or maybe I innovate
that it cost
a lot of money the final thing is
because oftentimes stations will be idle
as we're trying to figure out how to
implement a new innovation I'm gonna
have machinery they can do multiple
things I'm not going to have single
purpose machine I'm going to use
flexible machineries so that while we're
trying to figure out an innovation on
one part of the car the machinery could
be used to do something else and that
kind of totality geographic
concentration flexible machinery
just-in-time delivery and sole sourcing
of parts is flexible production and it's
highly innovative not just in terms of
discovery and innovation but really in
terms of implementing the ideas and
implementing them in a quality manner
now so now just to be clear what this
was the type of production that American
car makers exhibited back in the in the
50s and 60s that not the 60s so what we
found that was interesting this is the
type of production the automakers
exhibited on a pre-world War two and
then starting around 1950 they started
changing out and by the 60s it's largely
gone by the late 60s it's gone
so interestingly at the height of
profitability they're not using this and
it's because they all got rid of it they
didn't have any competition music and
this was part of getting rid of it is
they abandoned this system and they
didn't see any problem for like 20 years
there they were the richest industry
still and it was fine until other
companies showed up using this
innovative system and they were no
longer using it and then all of a sudden
they lost all their market share so they
couldn't compete these other companies
were highly innovative and they were no
longer innovative so what happens in the
50s and 60s is advertising the auto
companies are no longer really
innovating in terms of parts and process
and so they start making surface-level
changes to the cars this is when you get
some of the scandals where they find out
that they're really expensive luxury car
has the same engine as the basic car and
they just named it something different
you know do a paint job on it part of
this is because they're not innovative
anymore right so they're going to sell
the people based off of style and the
advertising industry really in many ways
kind of grows around the automaticity
around this need to
sell cars that aren't innovative anymore
but it works because nobody's
challenging them right for GM and
Chrysler are all doing the same thing in
the 60s and so they still they still
make their money and it's fine it's not
until Toyota shows up in Volkswagen
shows up and they're using this old
system and they can't compete with them
so yeah so before World War two though
the US the US production system was very
very similar and flexible production and
it had all the same kind of features of
it little details are different than the
way Toyota does it the way Toyota does
it little details are different than
Nissan but all in all what I described
was present pre-world War two US and his
present in foreign auto companies now
and interestingly it was super
innovative before World War two also so
there's been studies the track
innovation it was just off the charts
innovative so and just just to be clear
when we say that flexible production is
is evidenced now by foreign car
companies including the ones that are
operating in the u.s. yes so that's been
one of the big things in terms of kind
of globalization and outsourcing has
been the different way that say
Volkswagen or Toyota does globalization
versus General Motors and Ford so when
Toyota moves production to the US they
don't just assemble the cars they're
also they also recon tracked with new
parts suppliers the cluster around that
assembler so when Toyota has a assembly
plant in the United States they also
have all the components points around
that and they don't really shift many
parts from Japan so they're building the
car so this is one of the interesting
things where we say what's the u.s. car
it's complicated the Ford GM and
Chrysler cars have a much smaller
percentage of american-made parts than
Toyota and Volkswagen cars that's fast
because of flexible production Toyota
doesn't really important very many other
parts they're going to make the vast
majority of them I think it's like 89 90
percent in the US because because they
need to write just-in-time delivery and
all that doesn't really work and the
innovation doesn't work if they don't do
that whereas the US companies they're
not they aren't using that system
interested in cutting costs and so for
them importing the parts is great they
build the parts somewhere with cheaper
labor and then just shift them into the
US and assemble them so alright so now
let's get to the the the the the why and
it is the the clue is in the describe
the description that you've given us of
of flexible production which is when you
you said you know when you have a sole
source relationship with a supplier
you've got to trust them and that means
that you also got to trust their workers
and it means that you've got to trust
their suppliers and their suppliers
workers and you've got to trust your
workers as well I mean if I have if I
have 300 parts if I have $300 a side
view mirrors and I'm building a hundred
cars you know this month and your your
workers go on strike I'm fine for
another couple of months because I've
got extra stuff here and so that
decreases the leverage that the workers
have in terms of basically shutting me
down right exactly and so they the the
carmaker's figured this out so well just
like well this is what your book is
about is like the give us the sense of
like what was going through their minds
where they said we've got this great
production system that has driven this
industry made us tops in the world so
much so that we're going to be able to
coast for 20 years just by you know
putting a fresh coat of paint on stuff
right why would you change that right
well so the the big the big story is
said we can work or leverage right now
that workers had gained so much leverage
that the demands were starting to not
just be hey we want better pay and
better benefits but we should have a say
in the production process we should be a
part of deciding things and that was
just a nassima it's a us management the
that part is certain and there
a story around that there's a less
certain part which is how much did the
US auto companies understand about this
system and why it was so innovative the
way they came about the system was
really a piecemeal trial and error way
of evolving the flexible production
system and so it's not it's not
implausible that they didn't fully
understand why it was innovative and
sync to themselves we can get rid of
this this and this Center they'll be
fine right it's also not they also may
have understood it so that part it's not
really clear how much they understood
what's clear is the comparison the
Japanese automakers and and some of the
European like Volkswagen they absolutely
understand it they came about flexible
production by copying the US companies
by saying hey this really works great
we're gonna bring this back to our
countries and do the same thing and
improve on it so they know what they
know what they're doing and they know
what they'd be giving up to get rid of
it
the US companies wasn't clear how much
things are stood about what was
innovative but what they understood what
they came to learn was absolutely its
relationship to worker power so this
starts with the fourth strike in 1936
was kind of that the dawn of benighted
Auto Workers right the United Auto
Workers is just almost no nobody at that
time I think out of General Motors you
know 300,000 or so workers they had a
couple hundred workers that were members
of the UAW but because of those full
sourcing contracts because of the way
that production is concentrated they
didn't need more than a couple hundred
workers to shut down production so they
have this sit-down strike where a couple
hundred workers at these key plants that
produce parts for all the cars GM's
producing decided we're not leaving the
plant we're gonna sit down and now this
plant can't produce anything and that
means all the way down the production
line General Motors is shut down and
there's just no way to beat that so
Jim's just losing you know millions and
millions of dollars and they give in you
know part of the story is they GM tried
to get the government to eject the
workers they tried to have police go and
inject them nothing worked and you know
a couple months later GM gave up and it
was the first time workers had beaten
a company like this huge corporation
that owns the town there and within a
couple years the entire auto industry is
unionized few more years you have this
massive industrial unionization right
after the flood strike General Motors
builds a plant in Buffalo New York with
the explicit explicit logic of we need
to build away from labor militancy in
Flint so they're already saying we need
to have options because that killed us
lost time but there's this belief among
management that it's not really their
workers that are upset from radical it
was outside agitators these communists
that came in from the outside and riled
up their workers and if they could just
get rid of them that would probably fix
things management really seemed to
believe that so when world war ii hits
the outside agitators the leadership of
the UAW agrees to a no strength watch
and aught of management kind of thinks
like okay that's that's the answer right
this is going to prove our theory here
that we got these these radicals to
agree not to strike the workers will be
happy and we'll go through and what
happens is the rank-and-file workers go
on strike anyway and there's just this
rash of wildcat strikes wildcat strikes
are strikes without the approval of
national leadership so in all these
localities around the country the
workers would just have a grievance
management would listen to them and
they'd go on strike anyway and because
the system was still set up the same
with this flexible production system a
few workers in a local area could shut
down the plant and shut down the rest of
the company and the company would fold
every time so the strikes were massively
successful and auto kind of learned
there that well this is a structural
problem we have here and we're not we're
going to keep losing right in one of the
war ends and we lose the no-strike
clause it's going to get even worse and
the workers started asking for things
such as a say in the production process
how fast is the line go where do we
produce things wanting more than just
wages wanting an ability to long term
keep there ensure that the things that
they win remain victories right because
the the history is that they win
something and it's rolled back the first
chance management gets and that was
something management decided they just
couldn't abide and so they decided to
undo the power they had and
decentralized production so
you're not going to have sole sourcing
contracts anymore they're gonna build
parts and multiple multiple plants
separated by you know hundreds if not
thousands of miles so that it's harder
to shut anyone down they can almost shut
one down they ramped up production and
another they started carrying stockpiles
so they did away with just-in-time
delivery and then those two changes
change everything else once you're not
doing sole supplier and you're not doing
just-in-time delivery you don't need
flexible machinery anymore so you can
move to cheaper single-purpose machinery
and you know down the line the whole
system changes and we get what we have
now it's fascinating and so the it
wasn't just a question of what's it I
mean how did that the worker control
stuff like what was it that that was
really driving was it just like I don't
want my workers telling me you know how
to make a car or was it like if they
asked for this they're gonna be asking
for that I mean was it a question of
like ultimately did it come down to
profits or was it just some semblance of
like pride or I'm right what what was it
that they were afraid of I mean
certainly a big part of it was this
workers aren't gonna tell me how to run
the company but it wasn't just that
right there was a logic of it of this
kind of almost slippery slope so if we
give in here and then we're giving it
there what when does it stop and workers
are just running the company and not us
and what's interesting is it's tied to
profits but it's more than profits it's
really about power it's the idea that
profits are dependent on the power
differential between management and
workers right that at some level if you
can't pay your workers collectively less
than the value they're producing for you
there's no profits and if you don't have
power over the workers that's not an
option and so even though they're super
profitable at the time that this
conflict is happening you might look at
that and say what was the problem your
GM at this time that this conflict is
happening is the first billion dollar
company you'd think you just say hey
whatever sure give the workers something
we're all rolling in riches and instead
they decide to drastically change their
entire production system but part of
that is this
forward-looking thing that says there's
under this production system if workers
want they can take the whole thing over
that they have so much leverage we
really can't compete with them we have
to give them whatever they want if they
start asking for a share and management
when does that stop and become a thing
that does cut into our profits because
we can't we can't really exploit their
labor anymore they're able to extract
the value that they produce at such a
level that our profit rate starts
falling and they decided that in order
to kind of keep that power it was worth
it to drastically restructure how much
of that anxiety is real or is there any
way to know like I mean I can you know
like I mean I'm sure they felt it but I
mean how much of it was is legitimate
from their perspective like yes or no
right so there's an element of
Toyota with the Volkswagen they've been
able to keep flexible production and
through various methods keep workers
happy enough that they don't unionize
and they don't strike so Volkswagen they
just tell the union vote in Chattanooga
and the Union lost right there's a lot
of reasons for that a lot of them are
cultural though right I mean with the
south and part of it is when the union
kid when the union votes coming up
management came in and said hey you're
gonna get a big raise you're gonna get
certain things and the union if you get
a union we might close the point down
and for some workers they're gonna look
at that and say it's not worth it right
so one of the things that we brought to
this analysis is social movement theory
and social movement what people that
have studied social movements and this
idea that oftentimes what mobilizes
people into a movement or into a union
is it's not a change in I was against a
union and then I saw the light not for
the Union it's a change in what I
believe can actually win so I'm not I
might be a worker and I know hey unions
are fine
Ian's are great but I think that we're
going to lose and given that we're going
to lose and the risks involved in losing
I'm not going to support the Union right
and so Toyota Chattanooga they've been
able to do just enough to convince
people that the union's not work you get
just enough from us
you're probably going to lose anyway
and they keep it off so in that element
maybe you know you could say this fear
wasn't as legitimate as they thought
there's techniques to forestall it's
some sort of radical work or takeover of
the system there's there's an ability to
share just enough of the profits that
workers are kept happy enough that
they're not going to do that right so in
that element you could kind of
second-guess them and say wow why didn't
you just share a little bit more say
sure we could have you a works council
like they do in Germany and maybe that
would have kept the Union happy and
everything would have been fine right
there is a reality to if you can't play
Kate the workers if you can't make them
happy if you offer them things they say
we don't trust you we've been working
with you long enough and when the
Depression hit you took everything away
we don't trust you to do it on your own
we want to have a say that they are
correct and they're worried that
flexible production does give the
workers that level of leverage that they
will win that it's it's not really and
so this is part of the Chattanooga thing
is the Union didn't take advantage of
that leverage at all right so another
reason they lost is they took no
advantage of the structure because
Volkswagen uses flexible production they
just didn't take advantage of that
they've organized the same way that they
organized in GM and Ford and you know
for the last 30 years when they haven't
had flexible production that's wow
that's I want to say funny but that's
not the right word the the unions became
just as ossified by the ossification of
the the car companies that they were
working for yep so we have this story of
the unions being so afraid of labor and
perhaps justifiably but perhaps not that
they essentially restructure themselves
into worse car companies that are the
can't function well but can keep
themselves from being at the mercy of
their workers and that's the story that
we we have today what are the chances
that that can be fixed I mean it seems
to me that like
even the union doesn't well alright let
me ask you I have one more question
before we get to that because it's also
like the it shows that the Union doesn't
fully understand this dynamic either
that you're talking about the only
people who figured it out it seems like
were the German and Japanese car
manufacturers presumably they came in
and studied how these these these these
car manufacturers worked did when they
when when the big three went to this
sort of more dispersed and I guess it's
called
the dispersed or parallel production
which is you know duplicate of and and
it's like hedging their bets and in a
lot of places right
did they that was there a moment of hey
we're bringing in somebody from McKinsey
and they're gonna explain to us how we
do this or was it just sort of like oh I
know these guys they're you know they're
meeting down at their uh their union
hall over here now you can go meet at
you you know all you want cuz because
the the factories gonna be in Buffalo
yeah I think that was more like it right
absolutely that okay you
there's no yeah there's no unions over
in Buffalo the unions the problem here
sentence a Buffalo you're gonna shut
down production here we'll build the
same part you know in Nashville or in
st. but you know in in Chattanooga and
now it's not a problem so it was really
pointing to what what's the how are they
beating us and let's just undo that Wow
and and and the unions apparently don't
know this story either because they
didn't realize they were trying to win a
big vote to in trying to sell their
notion of power but it doesn't sound
like they they basically said hey we're
gonna give you an exhibit of this right
one or we're gonna have a wildcat strike
at a supplier watch how we bring these
people to their knees exactly yeah so
and it's interesting there's a question
the union leadership doesn't seem to get
it but then there's an element where the
union leadership is also stuck in this
position of weakness and it almost seems
to me that they are so focused on just
keeping the scraps that they have that
they can't see the kind of wrong
broader movement of dock of rightly so
let's show you how we can bring them to
their knees and then we'll without just
this battle but many more it's that
they've been weak for so long in with
the big three that don't they'll take
what they can get they'll be in a tiny
little wage increase the cool just keep
that so we can say look we got you
something but there's a question of do
the rank-and-file workers get it and
clearly they're not going to get it in
the same way that that I get it as
someone that studied this kind of long
historical I'm standing back from it but
I think there's elements of it from what
I've heard from people that kind of are
embedded on the rank-and-file workers
where if you were to bring them the idea
of any of the ideas from the book they'd
say yeah that's right well that's all
its gonna ask a lot of these a lot you
know like just in terms of geographical
proximity a lot of these people have
seen teachers in if not in their state
in neighboring states do this type of
thing where they they they find their
leverage points and there just seems to
be a it's in the air and people are
understanding it a little more and in
terms of bringing back innovation and
leadership to the US based branded car
industry it's your opinion that it's
basically over right like they can't
they can't get out of this spiral it
would be too costly at this point to do
it yeah so as part of building that the
first parallel system to undo what the
power it's just there was so much
capital investment that was sunk that in
order to reconsecrate production and
reinstitute flexibility the auto
companies would have to throw away a
bunch of some capital and then invest a
bunch of new capital and at the same
moment of that the trust between workers
and management is just non-existent
right it's decades and decades and
decades of squeezing workers closing
down auto plants asking for union
givebacks the minute workers get any
leverage the first thing they're gonna
do is use that by the if they're ready
unionize the first thing they're gonna
do is use that to get something to get
confession
we've actually seen this so an
interesting thing it's it's known as the
auto companies saw the foreign companies
coming in the 70s the early 80s and
succeed and just said what's going on
they immediately knew it was going on
and tried to go back to just-in-time
delivery but they never would fully
commit so the minute they'd start to do
something you'd see something like a
strike up or down and that shuts down
production and messes up production of
the Saturn in Mexico and then the auto
companies would just give up on that and
just go back to what they had and so
it's this thing where the the big three
the only way they really compete is
through cutting labor costs because they
can't compete on innovation and so to
invest a bunch when in the process of
losing market share to invest a bunch of
capital and give up on existing some
capital and then have the Union win
concessions all at the same time it's
just something management's just not
they don't do right they're not going to
do it so there's this element of could
it could it be done yes will it be done
is the question I just think no I don't
think that the US auto management is
going to make that decision soon they're
not going to do the things they need to
do to have the worker trust so part of
it is in order to reinstitute
flexibility workers have to be part of
it right they have to be a key component
it can't just be we're doing this from
the top down it would have they'd have
to be part of reinstituting this which
would probably mean giving huge benefits
to them before they'd be saying
winning their trust back saying hey
sorry we screwed you over for the last
30 years here's a bunch of stuff and you
can have a say in how we do this now
let's do this together and I just that
seems to be Hylian improbable was the
thing that auto management themselves
would would take the lead on so so where
does that leave us and I asked that
because and I I rarely reference the
acknowledgments when I interview someone
about their book but you you started
your book by thanking WB Dubois and
that that the social structures are
constructed by people and therefore can
be destructed by those are on the wrong
side of privilege and that the the idea
of this type of research is in service
of social movements so where you have
this information is this is this book I
mean in terms of you think about like
who could use this book as it is it
basically just workers for Toyota and
Volkswagen or where else where's the
application for this stuff
so immediately yet workers at Toyota and
Volkswagen could use this and say and co
bla we have way more power than we
thought we could get way more I think
that workers at the all the other auto
companies could use it also to see what
what the leverage points of the system
they're in are that it may be harder to
get whatever the means don't do so at
the end of the day there is an element
of all of the industry workers have
power because auto man and management
capitalists need workers right so the
it's just a matter of how many workers
do you need to collectively act together
and for how long do they have to
withhold their cooperation in order to
get concessions and so you know when you
have high leverage it's not very many
workers and don't have to do it for very
long and then there other systems it
might need to be more but that doesn't
mean you don't have any leverage you
can't win just harder the other thing is
it can be applied outside of auto it can
be able to it's one of those things you
can look at the teachers unions and see
oh I see what they're I see why they're
winning now right they're doing what
this book talks about the auto workers
doing they're doing that same thing and
so the the if there was a hopefulness to
it is that there is something in the air
there is a rediscovery among workers in
the United States of the idea that they
have leverage and they cannot
collectively and it's almost unions are
involved but it's almost this breaking
away there's this kind of an old guard
of Union unionism that became this
business unionism yeah once radicals
were thrown out in the mid 50s and
unions declined in power over the next
20 years that was just let's secure
these tiny little benefits for our
workers so that we stay in power and can
be partners with business and it hasn't
really served the working class very
well it is something where it almost
looks like the the car unions became
just started looking like the car
companies it's like it's like that
dynamic where you know people you know
their dogs look like them or something
like that right right exactly and so it
seems as though workers rank-and-file
workers are discovering this the truth
is that they have the power and they
have the leverage unions are supposed to
be them unions are just them coming
together it's not as a separate entity
but they don't have to listen to
leadership that when they see a leverage
point they cannot collectively and you
know that's what the teachers unions did
that their leadership didn't want to
take direct action and the teachers just
did anyway and they won so that's in the
air and with the knowledge of how kind
of structure can be leveraged to give
you maximize your power I think that
workers could utilize that and that can
kind of spread and then human agency
takes apart I will see what happens with
that but that would be the hopefulness
is that workers are rediscovering that
the kind of other end of that is from
the management perspective of just
management's probably not going to be
able to fix they're not going to act to
fix this and so any idea of the recovery
of the US auto companies and not really
right that the recovery after Obama
Obama bailouts was really about pulling
pulling back gains unions had made and
it was short term and analysts are
predicting kind of a real decline in the
auto industry again decline in sales but
they're talking about closing plants
down
there's moves toward electric cars and
self-driving cars well if the history
and in our book says anything it's that
when innovation becomes important the
company's using flexible production are
going to win not that also that move
into that probably long term is going to
benefit Toyota and Volkswagen much more
than GM and Ford so on the company side
it's it's not a happy prognosis but on
the workers side there is this element
that it could be helpful and the
interesting part right is that outside
of a tiny percentage of shareholders in
the
pennies if the workers successfully kind
of reawaken their leverage and do win it
will be good for the communities it will
be good for the country it's good for
everybody and so that part's hopeful
right that it may be workers getting
power isn't great for the half a percent
of billionaires that own shares but for
everyone else it is the book is wrecked
how the American automobile industry
destroyed its capacity to compete
written with Michael Schwartz Joshua
Marie we'll put a link to it at majority
dot F M thank you so much it's really
fascinating look at this at these these
dynamics in this industry I really
appreciate it thank you for the mats it
goes back to get
it
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will you tell get pain
rubber bands
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
