[Music]
we haven't talked about bill maher in a
long time but let's do he had on his
panel Katey Porter she is the California
congresswoman who is a disciple of
Elizabeth Lawrence and who has been
tearing it up one of the congresswoman
of the new freshman class we've been
tearing it up in hearings particularly
in her issue silo you don't want to be a
banker and go in front of her committee
even if you're prepared I just think
that you just don't want to I think the
best thing you could do is if you're a
banker and that can be go like you know
what I'm actually leaving the business
and next week so I agree with you but
here is bill maher getting a bit of a
taste of that there is you know this
putting aside ideology this is
indicative of what we were talking about
with Ryan grim a little bit to sort of
these one of the elements of what we're
seeing from Democrats the sort of new
era of Democrats is that they know their
base of support comes from their voters
not just in terms of the the votes but
in terms of resources and they have more
latitude in the way that they can fight
for things in fact there's a greater
expectation that they will fight and we
see this out of a congressman who I
don't know that we would have seen from
remind a congresswoman from a Congress
man either just you know five or six
years ago look I am pro-choice but I
mean I'm a little squishy and always
have been because they told my mother
after my sister a very difficult birth
she shouldn't have another one so
knowing that I could have been on the
cutting room floor
[Applause]
but I get it as long as it's still in
you your mom made her choice yes we're
all here with consequences of that
choice
[Applause]
god bless her for having you I'm sure it
wasn't easy but the point is she and
your father and she made her choice
again I'm not arguing what you're
pretending I'm arguing for all of you on
this Katey Porter at the next Jeffrey
Ross Rose exactly can everybody agree
though that whatever you think of Bill
Maher total
rabbi right everybody this is a weird
defense of of forced pregnancy that like
I wouldn't be here if my mother had
aborted me he's just being a weird
contrarian and that's the thing with all
these free speech edge lords is they can
dish it out but they absolutely cannot
take it it that is absolutely true
smoking pot hasn't been edgy since the
90s bill just wrote well that's part of
the problem I think like you know once
pockets legalized in California like now
no one cares that you smoke pot and talk
about it it's like dude you we get like
you support some progressive taxation
accept global warming system smokes pot
it's literally ID in like 2002 right
it's like it's like Crowder on Ash
Wednesday it's like look at me I've got
a bottle of whiskey
