[Music]
Rudy Guiliani so we start with this
Giuliani on on fox news or the one on
Ingram before we get to the bill bar
thing probably the Ingram one
okay so here's Rudy Giuliani now look
there's a lot of cross currents here
that I don't think we fully understand
yet Senate Republicans are not exactly
closing ranks around Donald Trump at
this point they voted a hundred to one
well a fifty you know the majority of
course are Republicans to have the
whistleblower report come out they can't
control it but it's a resolution but I
think it's quite possible that they're
like okay this is gonna happen we don't
want to be on the wrong side of trying
to hide this it's not inconceivable I
would say there's probably like a 1.5
percent chance or two percent chance
that the Republicans decide like oh this
is just too toxic we've got to throw
that now is the time to throw Trump over
we could do this now you get pence in
there and then you know everything
changes I would say there's a 1 1 to 2
percent chance of that happening no
because there's no a hundred percent for
than anything has Rudy Giuliani has
taught us but more than likely they're
waiting just to figure out what we're
supposed to say and to hear from there
are their their base which they will
within a day or two after Mark Levin and
Rush Limbaugh and tell them what to do
they will hear from them and they will
they will stand by their president but
there's also some exposure for people
like Mont Pompeo in the State Department
there's also some exposure from McMullan
II because they have been named in all
of this and so Rudy Giuliani it seems is
basically trying to argue that he he was
just a play
he had nothing to do with this except
for the fact that the State Department
wanted him to contact or to beat to
receive a contact from Ukraine which if
that doesn't make any sense to you it
shouldn't
here is Giuliani explaining this all to
Laura Ingraham and it's it's a s so if
you will himself into the process
insider saying you muck this up your
response man I really did and you know
who I did it at the request of the State
Department I never talked to her
Ukrainian official until the State
Department called me and asked me to do
it and then I reported every
conversation back to them and pause it
for a second I mean doesn't it beg the
question why is a guy who thinks it's so
funny that the State Department would
ask him to take a call from the Ukraine
why does he get asked by the State
Department to take a call from Ukraine
like it means literally as if they like
the State Department called me and said
Sam you know nothing about the Ukraine
will you take a call from there number
two or three uh a top official and just
let us know what he says like there's
something missing or more right like I
mean the thing that could not be missing
is also super questionable like hey Rudy
you had a private security consulting
firm that did work across the globe
including for some incredibly corrupt
governments with some extremely
questionable policy recommendations we
have something credibly shady we'd like
you to or it could be Mike have Rudy do
it but I'm not gonna tell him to do it
you tell him to do it area conversation
back to them and Laura I'm a pretty good
lawyer just a country lawyer but it's
all here right here the first call from
the State Department the debriefing of
the state so why are they why are they
out to get you this story is filled
because I will compliment myself because
I do a pretty good job for him and they
try to destroy everybody around him but
they're not going to intimidate me
in fact I'm gonna work harder because I
don't get intimidated by bullies I don't
get embarrassed
intellectually challenged but a nice guy
I never knew the depth of this
corruption its massive it's shocking and
if I played a role in getting that out I
did a service to my country and I'm
proud of it and everything I did is
defensible and everything I did is legal
and most of what they're doing is to
cover up for a crime positive who is
there
like is he saying that Joe Biden is in
league with the State Department cuz
it's the State Department that's putting
out a notice saying that that anonymous
source is saying that he mucked this up
in some way why didn't he say he was
just a boy from Brooklyn with a law
degree like that would make sense humble
I'm a country lawyer yeah guys never
lived out of New York City his life as
far as I know I don't I don't think so
but he's a country lawyer you know what
that means I I literally don't like a
boy from the outer boroughs I'm just
like I'm like Atticus Finch
and I happy to have him challenge me
because every time they've challenged me
they go down and we win because they are
acting improperly yeah they are acting
with an abuse of power and the president
the United States conversation with that
president if you consider what a crook
Joe Biden and his son were was demanded
it was necessary you cannot let the
vice-president it√≠d States allow his son
to enrich himself to the tune of
millions why are you the one to do this
why isn't this the role of the Justice
Department or the FBI white ask you the
personal attorney the president did it I
think that's that's a question that just
layman was saying okay I get it I that
should be investigated but why is Rudy
role you know running the show on that
why isn't it FBI and just in main
justice that's a very good question that
is a good question because he FBI's
performance it's his entire
investigation
including up to this moment is flawed
why am i doing it Laura can't you figure
it out
I'm his defense lawyer I'm defending him
he's my client
I don't know only Donald Trump is not
entitled to a defense in America wait a
second hold up posit now now wait a
second
Laura Ingraham Laura Ingraham is just as
Rudy Giuliani even if we all accept the
idea that there was this deep dark
corruption with Joe Biden and I think
it's the kind of corruption that we see
like Oh China's gonna change their
policies for it's probably less than
four Ivanka Trump or Oh NBC is hired
Abbey Huntsman to work
third thing whatever it is I mean but
let's just assume stipulate there's some
corruption there that the US government
needs to investigate why is Donald
Trump's private lawyer the guy they
picked to do it and Rudy Giuliani's
answer is I'm Donald Trump's defense
lawyer oh so I don't have a right to
defend by the way I stood up the bullies
like sodomized African immigrants that
tried to be searched by NYPD it's clear
how much of a non sequitur this is
you're being deputized for some reason
to pursue a corruption case that
presumably has nothing whatsoever to do
with the one client you seem to have
Donald Trump like they're sending him to
pursue the investigation about Joe Biden
and he says the reason why I'm doing is
because I'm Donald Trump's defense
attorney well yeah uh bad the FBI was do
you realize that he is just literally
just admitting well the reason why they
sent me to do is because it's going to
benefit my client like he's literally
just admitted that the investigation
he's in charge of the investigation
because it's going to benefit his client
look I've just started and he seems to
be the only guy who has all operational
control because the FBI's dropped the
ball on this looking to fall man well
let me take the corncob pipe out of my
mouth because I'm a simple
country lawyer
but in Latin it says dias de Eternia is
also political consultants so it's the
same thing
what's a political consultant in Ukraine
Donald Trump he should just be put in
front of a firing squad he don't deserve
no defense go only Donald Trump is not
entitled to a defense in America by
investigating Biden because one of the
things that the prosecutor that Biden
had fired and then the prosecutor that
Biden helped to put in one of the things
they did was to dismiss a case against
an organization that was collecting
false information about Donald Trump
about Paul Manafort and feeding it to
the Democratic National Committee okay
that explanation was no understand that
was run by George Soros he then hired
the crooked FBI agent who is now working
for George Soros Laura this stinks this
is positive this still does not explain
any of the reason why
Rudy Giuliani even if I was to believe
this fantastical notion about
CrowdStrike and the server in Ukraine
and they've kept it there and they
looked for stuff from well you know the
steel dossier and it still does not
explain why someone's defense attorney
would be the lead investigator
commissioned by the US government to do
this by the way exactly the steel
dossier said it yourself good
you ever see Michael Clayton
unbelievable you ever see the George
Clooney vehicle Michael Clayton
