with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people
then in
conference rooms of any of these have
they are unanimous hate for me and I
hatred we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex the majority
report with sam cedar
[Applause]
[Laughter]
it is Monday December 24 2018 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
Industrial Average Gowanus Canal in the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA on the program today folks it is a
special version of the majority report
we're not even here we're in the past
we're in the past and as it is Christmas
Eve day we are going to I guess it
doesn't make any sense that we would
look back on the rest of the year on
Christmas Eve day but we're gonna do it
anyways and in fact we recorded this on
Christmas Eve Eve Day Eve Day Eve Day
Eve Day Eve day in other words we
recorded this last week we're releasing
it today but in our universe it is
actually today and we're looking forward
but taking this time to look back and so
joining us in studio to do so on this
special version of the majority report
Alex Perrine hello in studio hello
Michael is here with us three Jews
reflect and had Matt operating the board
and Brendan Jamie left where's Brendan I
think he's working out you may come back
make him back I think it's definitely a
good time to do a Matt like Phil's new
sign Phil drew talking news all that it
should grow notice today's program
ladies and gentlemen a special version
of the majority board can be a little
bit relaxed we're not drinking now
though it does occur to me that we
probably should I mean will you have two
scotch oh yeah all right I get you know
all right Matt let's break it out it is
yeah right it's Christmas Eve have a
drink this is what Jews do they it's
several days before Christmas they
gather together complain about the news
I don't need a glass I have my ass the
moms
good majority of for branded I'll put
it's a little better than that I will
get too crazy I do have to go home it's
the afternoon and I do have to go home
and make dinner for my children but I
mean there was a time where that was
still it would have been unusual for you
not to drink scotch before you made
should turn it dinner for your children
once you want the only unusual part
about dad coming home and drinking some
scotch at 3:00 in the afternoon is that
he's making dinner they have that making
dinner part would be yeah wow you really
I will bring a bottle over here whoa
gender progressive drunkenness you know
and the reason why I am sorry foul are
so comfortable with having a little bit
to drink right now is because I'm
looking at a sheet that looks back on
the the year 2018 and I really all it
makes me feel is like I don't know if
I'm gonna make it for 29 I can't believe
we made it through 2018 I can't believe
I made it through 2017 and I don't know
if I'm gonna make it through 2019 but I
want to look back you know we were gonna
do that yeah
time is totally dilated we were gonna do
a bunch of features the only one I could
come up with was Chuck Schumer's worst
moments there was the only feature I
could come up with and and and you know
maybe we can we we can let's circle back
around to that because this we had I
mean there's two parallel tracks that
are going on right through this tire
I think administration so far one is
this sort of like the the Dick Wolf
track I call it right it's where it's
all like all just about prosecutors
right and and you know the the Muller
investigation let's talk about that but
I want to broaden it out a little bit
because we don't know what's gonna
happen
I mean clearly though I don't know about
Russia collusion okay
and I don't know well let's just start
with this I don't know about collusion
hmm there could be collusion
there could be collusion it seems to me
with multiple foreign governments at
this point right like a good and you
know Russia was I think just sort of the
easy one that people settled on because
at one time the former Soviet Union was
like there's something like encoded in
our DNA well and because they were the
ones to who did the most public facing
things with like the troll army and
stuff right like so that was like a
thing that actually happened that people
get so everyone sort of fixated on like
well in addition to all the public
facing things they did were they
colluding behind the scenes as well but
also lots and lots of money could have
changed hands between many different
parties here right okay let me do my I
want to become the Rachel Maddow of
Saudi Arabia so let me just say very
interesting thing um the the
relationships with the Gulf states
though are like there's nothing
speculative about them you know what I
mean like Kushner's relationship with
MBs right
the fact that they supported this insane
reckless blockade on Qatar which is
still happening and I don't know maybe
it was a coincidence that they rejected
Kushner's requests to bail them out of a
disastrous real estate investment that's
all there and they actually have it's
not as elaborate it's not sophisticated
David they actually have Twitter and
troll armies - so you think literally
and that was what the yeah what the
scandal was with McKinsey right where
they were like hired McKenzie and
McKenzie was like so you want to
identify your critics on social media we
will ask no further questions but let's
put that that part of it aside for a
moment and just talk about the sheer
criminality that I think it's clearly
like coming out all right put aside the
collusion and that I mean I you know I
don't think it's appropriate and it's
probably and it's probably illegal the
con fraud stuff and this net but the
sheer criminality that exists amongst
all of these people right
like it's pretty up that the
chief national security adviser was
planning on kidnapping a guy for Turkey
it's like like this is like I know a guy
in pencil me right yeah you know I mean
the Gulen made it may may not be a good
guy or bad guy but like I feel like the
guy
the closest adviser to the president of
United States should not be as a side
gig planning to illicitly kidnap
somebody and bring him to Turkey right
or or like the just I think there's
massive I think the truck like the the
emoluments thing is I sort of like
namby-pamby as that sounds I think like
the the level and the pettiness at the
same time like there's a scope with a
graph and the happiness of the graph is
just like it's like the world's biggest
town you know I lived upstate for a
while in the in the and the corruption
in the reason why like there's no
difference these businessmen who live up
there are like oh yeah that's why I'm a
town supervisor so I can give my friends
the community low-cost loans right I
think what do you mean that's just like
that's like it's like me getting
wholesale first off like that's it let's
just talk about that for a moment
because I think the thing that could
happen and probably won't is that we see
an under we see a side of the world like
this I'm convinced happens in
business all the time right that the CEO
hires like oh you did my my kids a
wedding video I'm gonna make you see you
know a chief executive officer of video
is in my company like the stuff like
that like which the Trump administration
is all about right yeah and just like
we're gonna hire a tear America I know
like we had a con man up at the top at
the beginning and everyone who is
subsidiary to him
who like like a quality person would go
like hey what you're doing seems weird
why are you doing that they were not
hired because that's who a comment
doesn't watch you just got all these
other sound like you're
innovating like I'm looking through this
and think all the people who left like
you know
well yeah I'm just thinking the first
one like Zinke or I don't know all of
this got Pruitt no it just go on and on
and on price price so just in terms of
the investigation like talk about it
from that perspective because at one
point all the shit's gonna get rolled
out I think yeah and they may not be
able to arrest a trump in office but
they're gonna arrest a bunch of other
people yeah and there's so much
corruption here like I guess maybe like
oh do you think we're any closer to sort
of revealing like you know like like
Taibbi write writes you know wrote a
book that was of that genre of like
there's two systems of of of Justice and
on some level like Trump is showing is
exposing that is because he put himself
into a different positions while he went
out of the lane right no exactly exactly
yeah and I mean it is I'm comparing it
to like a corrupt upstate New York town
is it absolutely right because what
happened is that all of this stuff
suddenly showed up in the wrong context
right they were like you know we you
know like and I think the the
investigations it's going to hopefully
like force the hand of these prosecutors
who just sort of have been letting
white-collar crime slide for one reason
or another like to because it's
happening on such an absurd scale and so
in the open like you don't really like
there's not even that much digging you
have to do into it - like with stuff
like you know what with what think he
was up to and all that other stuff so I
mean I would love to see all of this
sort of keep collecting like a snowball
rolling down a hill and until it gathers
up every one but it does seem like
there's another tendency for
the sort of law enforcement type still I
get a couple names and be like well we
got them right when you started
outlining it and this shows though like
how everybody's standard starts to
subtly because I was like alright if
you're gonna include like the kidnapping
and the paying off the porn star then
we're not good I mean give them a little
slap right cuz if you just include all
of their criminal activity then it's
just not even fair sportsman like yeah
be sports but like how you could even
have a conversation about them don't she
give somebody who can't play a handicap
right and then and then the second I was
on I'm listening to crime town it's
podcast and it's on the it's on Detroit
crime and now they're doing like the
Kilpatrick administration and I guess
like in 2002-2003 I was a very big story
yeah like mayor of Detroit like
definitely because he was black and they
called him the first hip-hop mayor and
all this stuff and he was a criminal
like it's me he's he doing like a
25-year bid yeah and and but there were
some things that were like misuse of
like security guards for like mistresses
I thought like Rudy did that yeah and
then other things that are like yeah
like his wife least a Lincoln Town a
Lincoln Navigator way above price like
and all of these things that are just
like yeah that's like all of this stuff
that's be totally baked right just like
yeah it's weird you know like Hayes I
did the his rear and review and he we
were talking I don't know if it was even
on air but he was saying like do you
remember what gap part was a kept heart
or no no not yet part the other guy was
in Congress - yeah why - all had to step
aside he had to step aside because he
wasn't paying taxes for housekeeping or
child care or something no it was
something like supposedly he took he
borrowed like aid the car of like some
wealthy guy and didn't repay the value
of the trips that he took and I wrong
and you know it swears I pride like they
were the guy who did it not that it
makes that much of a difference but that
Leo Hendrie I think
was the business guy and he was like one
of these like patriotic like I'm a rich
guy who actually supports like card
check legislation like not only wasn't
basically nothing was probably like the
most positive influence and Tom yes yeah
yeah yeah and I I mean in that type of
thing but the the the other thing that
occurs to me in terms of like you know
you see this level of criminality with
like a guy like mana for you see this
level of criminality with with with
Trump and all the people around him and
you have to start asking a question like
how the did he not have any legal
problems for the past 25 years in New
York City with you know take the most
cynical and jaundiced perspective it
every guy in the Southern District of
New York US Attorney's Office every guy
Gau in the Eastern District of New Year
of the the US Attorney's Office this
state attorney general the city DA like
okay Vance gets $20,000 $25,000 that's a
lot I guess but it's not like taking
down Donald Trump wouldn't be worth that
in terms of your political career
seriously like I think and you know it's
the end of the year and I'm drinking I
can afford to be a little conspiratorial
I think that Donald Trump may have been
probably unwittingly sort of a little
bit protected yeah because of all the
information they may have get been
getting from Felix aider right and
that's why these guys floated through
life like I can't do it I'm so smart
they just might learn about every
Connecticut new cartel in New York City
just like oh you had Trump's having a
meeting with some new guys from Panama's
probably hire new premier looking to get
we didn't know about we get all of our
information I have to know Felix Seder
is CIA FBI asset yeah
they have testified this public
knowledge yeah he and the way that
they've been get
information from him is mostly because
he's been money laundering maybe square
and some other like arms deals well he's
got a money launderer somewhere - right
and that's Trump and and so they don't
want Trump's business to be ruined
because he's a repository for criminal
activity yeah they dip in say ders uh
you know New York FBI's office you know
Whitey Bulger they dip in they dip in
every now and then like you get three
for you one for us and you know we don't
and and anybody sniffs around Donald
Trump gets like no yeah I mean that's
the only explanation I don't know how
else you explain how like you know so he
can survive people like the pod he
survived the political ambition of Eliot
Spitzer exactly because he was
considered a joke I mean I think they
was still you know as soon as as soon as
he came out and said Obama wasn't born
here would be the time that they should
make ing look into this foundation like
at all of you you know that like a
binocs rich reality guy look I mean look
while ago after ransom I mean the idea
that there was never a complaint yeah
this guy yeah that nobody ever thought
like I'm ambitious I'm gonna go after
then nobody did it
that just seems well you know what
Donnie do which Singh
Donnie torched a week or two ago said
and I get you know and he's one of these
guys who I think was quite buddy-buddy
with Trump he went on this whole thing
that got clipped around all of these
places that we look at for sound and I
didn't you know because it's Donnie
Jewish I don't want to use it but he was
like this this you know becoming
presidents his undoing and everybody
knows that this whole thing has been a
criminal enterprise and if he knew New
York real estate you know his whole
organization is dirty and this and it's
like okay so wait a second you knew for
decades while you were hob not this is
the media version of that but it's kind
of like the same principle it's like it
was a open secret that this guy's a
criminal I can't my you know I know
media is different but you're right it's
making to your point play imagine nobody
touch this because it's also like maybe
it's his money
but but I
like and you know it is it is not hard
to run into people who are like oh yeah
my cousin he he does electrical
contracting out in Queens you got
screwed by trouble you get me like ever
you like everybody seems to have a story
but it was like just I find that very
strange but if it is the case it what
all right just you know look saying this
with complete candor that it's that it's
you know like sort of this is very
speculative just you know sitting around
this is not a normal show and so I don't
feel like we need to maintain the same
but if that is the case that means that
Muller's project is probably protecting
that part of the story as much as
revealing anything else oh yeah and that
makes the investigation that much harder
right it's like it's like that thing
like we found a gun on him but we didn't
have a warrant so now we got to go back
and build some other story as to how we
got to hell yeah how got it right
exactly yeah I mean that's that's I
hadn't even really considered that but
it seems like it would it would explain
some of the I mean because all the time
you're thinking like why were these
obvious threads not pulled on you know
and that I guess that would be an
explanation for it where like the things
that we know through our reporting that
you're like that seems like a
straightforward felony and like if no
one tugged on that at any point even all
the contacts that Trump had prior to you
know sort of it being about collusion
yeah you know just like what looks to us
like is what looks to some now as
collusion could very well be you know
they're just there are agencies that
just use him as like bait just like
let's see who nibbles at him and that's
this is a way for us to track in this
guy's such a you know egotistical
yeah who was bequeathed you know that
story in The Times that came out about
their tax like corruption I mean you
know
the the the the opportunity that I feel
like that's being lost in this moment is
that it's not that even aside from my
wild you know conspiracy theory there's
no doubt in my mind that virtually that
75% of the families that have several
hundred millions of dollars do the exact
same thing that Fredro need to get money
to their kids they build you know like
shell companies there was a report about
you know Ivanka and Geno Jovanka are
going to you know a two weeks ago
they're going to it's illegal to to
capitalize on tax proposals that you
propose and of course but the tax
proposals themselves are like hey this
is scandalous yeah like this is like
this is this is legal it's scandalous I
mean the the whole tax system and none
of it it seems like there's a big
opportunity that's being missed by
everyone just sort of say like we're
getting a window into what's actually
going what is you know even if you know
whether you is this where you have to
put on your be a good dirtbag socialist
and be like clear I mean that's the
dividing line I think between people who
are like we need to get rid of Trump and
we need to get rid of the conditions
around Trump and a politics of this
guy's so horrible this guy's so horrible
this guy so horrible and then let's get
back to normal but as normal for the
camp is putting is is is putting it
together like III mean I think in a
general way you hear the the left say
this is what's wrong with America but
it's not I feel like it's not there's
nobody out there doing the sort of the
reportorial work that says like this is
not sweet generous yeah maybe now but
even like a guy like Anan giad artists
who had a great thread I know this is
actually very normal behavior Trump just
did in a typically stupid way I think it
is out there yeah among people who want
to take a more systemic look on it I
would love to if this is true to watch
Trump all of a sudden flip into like
yeah for years I was just exposing cry
it was hard to be these people are
disgusting people tremble pee from
coming out at the deep state operative
himself would be incredible
fake fake wig real or would be like is
it robert muller actually he's gonna
expose all of this in like a mass
exposure of the global oligarchy Neves
just like you know like every innocent
Muslim teen I put in jail and in a trap
mid case I knew I was working towards
something finally is the whole global
Davos elite and the Trump Organization
get pudding cups I realized why I had to
put that underdeveloped
Chechen kid in jail for a fake terrorism
this is where we do is large but it was
worth it this is where we do the
crossover episode with Bill Mitchell all
right well I mean so you know I the the
question is is there gonna be enough
overwhelming evidence of like sort of
this like deep corruption or if there's
a politician who's going to emerge
anywhere who is going to start to sort
of say like I mean that's my biggest
lament this year in terms of politics in
terms of who did not get elect it was
effort each out oh yeah oh my god I feel
like Zephyr Teachout would have been
that figure to sort of say like here are
the Trump crimes and here's also
actually like Kendall and guns been
doing the same he had so hasn't
Andrew Cuomo and I don't know I just
said can let go and just as an example
but but I'm saying a Ken Langone type no
ken Langone might be super scrupulous
yes it's very fun yeah oh yes I'm saying
a very wealthy sky on Scion yeah I mean
I again this is this is a very very
vulgar Marxist take but it does still
feel like the party is like too much
made up of people who hobnob with these
people for you to make that that case
basically that like like what we're
seeing is a window into how these people
have been
all the rest of us for years and years
and I mean Sanders has a version of that
but it's like the sort of the version
where it's like millionaires and
billionaires have too much money and not
the version where it's like here are the
specific things they're doing to
perpetuate their power I and and I think
like even the Sanders critique is is not
there's still not like sort of like
there and I understand it you have to
because of the political moment and
certainly like let's talk about just
like what happened in the midterms I
mean for all of the don't run against
Donald Trump stuff and certainly the
Democrats out there as far as I can tell
as far you know from every reporter I
trust who was out covering these things
they ran a lot on medically some version
of improved the Affordable Care Act or
Medicare for all or something like that
or infrastructure you know I I never
heard one reporter the only people I
heard saying the Democrats are running
too much against Trump were basically
commentators who have no idea it's
Washington commentators yes yeah like
Ralph Nader American people are worried
about welfare reform rotor said you know
all the reporting from the districts
were like they're running on Medicare
but with all that said it was Trump who
drove people to the polls in record
numbers if gloves and and so I
understand the desire to make it about
just about Trump because it has real
political leverage but I've yet to see
anybody say like hey this criminality is
like you know this is like this seems to
be the way that things work yeah well
like again you know there's this this
thing that you were mentioning where
commentators are like well is it what
happens when you let New York real
estate into Washington is this is just
how things work and it's like well why
haven't I haven't even telling me that
for the past 10 years but then you know
you hear stuff like you remember that
Ivanka and Chelsea Clinton used to be
friends like literal friends you hung
out and then like the second Trump is
elected Ivanka
is in some way like involved in setting
absurd prices for room to the Trump
Hotel with over for the like
inauguration that they raised more money
than anyone has ever raised for for
reasons that are unknown and the type of
person were talking about type a pun
that we're talking about was still
saying like oh I think of Ivanka well
she's been try cuz she's friends with
Chelsea watching cares about the
environment
I mean these people yeah they're there's
such a broad even just delusional even
if you I don't even want to go into
immoral a lot of it of don't mile I
think denial delusion and just
insularity
alright so that's a one end of the
spectrum is that you know the sort of
that that that's ongoing story of the
criminality I think even if you discount
the sort of international intrigue
aspects of it it's still like just just
shocking that this dude I just love like
they just like we didn't even know that
this particular crew of Hong Kong heroin
traffickers existed it's like hey guys
that it's phat Chow it's bad jobs but
you friend would be thinking Soho come
on come on I'll tell you what the best
agent who's ever just like discover
these entirely its remit work you know
you you have a young kid not quite fully
conversant but you know when I talked to
my 13 year old in my my five and a half
year old who's like Trump is me you know
and my 13 year old is just like the
guy's it's like oh no I
already raised you you know where you
can't believe in princess is waiting for
like there's no you know it's like I'm
thank you for a very very early age
there's no Santa Claus and we're not
gonna shut down you know chop down
nature to make a shrine to consumer
gifts sorry folks I'm a little bit of a
Scrooge a Bijou Scrooge on that it just
so happens that the president now is one
of the most despicable human beings that
could possibly imagine
pickable presidents you could imagine
what a human beat you can imagine and
these presidents because half of the
country thought that would be a good
idea or because half of the country was
just said it I don't care if it's a
good idea right like this is so
irrelevant fourth in the country does
half of the country won't vote all right
has their whole discussed yeah yeah
that's true
I mean but that's been a dynamic that is
your long-term and it's not like we had
an era in in America and a part of that
was a function of like purposely
suppressing people but it's not like we
had an era of like 85% of the population
is voting and they're now so discouraged
it's just like there's been always been
a certain percentage of people who are
purposely and maybe in some instances
just coincidentally not engaged but this
is you know and it's all sort of
depressing it's like dad's going to work
again to talk about how don't give a
 you know sort of running the
country mm-hmm it's a little bit
depressing
that's a helpful distinction though cuz
I was gonna ask you about like what
would be the difference between george w
bush with kids and Trump and it that's I
don't know if george w bush isn't one of
the most despicable people as a person
that you can imagine he's an but
he's not like the worst person ever as a
human being
this is that's interesting this is why
non partisan hundreds actually hate
Trump because right they like that's the
actual reason is there oh yeah they
could make infer they can say and
believe with any other politician that
at heart they're a good person right and
they're unable to do that with this
because this actually kind of settles
the day cuz I don't think overall on the
merits bush is definitely a much more
destructive president than well right I
mean just in sheer variety but then on
the other hand it's like a person
occupying the office who is just a
grotesque I think yeah I think honestly
you need history you need some time to
assess who is going to do more long term
damage right now like for me just in
terms of my own life I
the reason why I'm here is because of
George Bush and because of what happened
on - on the night of 2000 in the 2000
election I mean I think like I probably
might my life trajectory would have been
different and I you know so for me that
moment was what the Supreme Court did
and you know in part because I came from
like I was raised by lawyers that to me
was like oh this is the the unwinding
and I was convinced that we would
remember the 2000 election much more
than we would 9/11 in many respects
because I don't you know so far I don't
think that that is that's quite panned
out that way but I think that you know
it I think history is going to tell how
destructive Donald Trump is to the
American project um maybe you'll be
healing who know earth I think hold on
for one second Matt is there something
going on with this microphone I feel
like there that yeah just check it check
or maybe it just needs to be okay yeah
that's better yeah okay okay I like when
we're talking about what Trump's
administration is politically I would
side at the question of Trump personal
like it's I mean it's a continuation
it's I mean right it's it's like I
didn't comparison all most of them make
sense to me because it just feels like
this is the natural continuation right
it's like comparing one part of the tree
to another part of the yeah it's it's
actually he's wearing the same thing to
itself it's just a different thing do
you remember when blend Trump's first
interview with O'Reilly after he
announced and he's like I'm gonna bomb
Morocco and rustling sound like George
Bush and show up cuz yeah I'm a little
smarter got the one where he basically
rubbed it into the fact that is it's
family had left him I've got a family a
family
oh yeah so that was after a debate that
was even more ah all right
why let's talk about let's leave Trump
aside to the extent that we can because
the best thing I
would say there's I feel like people
have been exposed this year
okay put Trump aside I think there is
more awareness today that Chuck Schumer
sucks at his job
broadly speaking yeah then was at the
beginning of the year yeah and I also
think there's more awareness today that
Paul Ryan is a piece of garbage oh yeah
then there was at the beginning of the
year I think both those things are great
for the country yeah I don't I I don't
see any resolution to what we do about
Chuck Schumer and I don't see you know I
talked about the Ezra Klein piece I
don't see any reckoning as to why did
people think that Paul Ryan wasn't a
piece of garbage what are you doing to
make sure that you don't assume this
about the next Paul Ryan well that's
exactly the point that's the that's the
thing that's really driving me crazy
lately is that like this could be a
great period of revelation and Awakening
and sort of primary education for you
know all different facets of society and
I feel like complete waste yeah yes I
mean it's like the max boot wrote the
book right about where he's like Trump
made me realize that what of this
political philosophy and and movement
I've been a part of for years with
actually mostly about racism it was like
so okay so you got a book out of it what
does everyone who already knew that what
do they get off yeah right right what
about for those of us who understood it
was about racism and weren't like no no
I wasn't racist I was really just she
went genuinely committed to like
constant global military intervention
and top-end tax cuts well what did you
know I didn't know okay I mean because
I'm curious about because you know I
read something from corpora della today
on the show you know that gets right and
I have to say that like I was convinced
I mean it was a USA Today piece
yeah but I was convinced like he just
told a very basic story I grew up in
upstate New York I was adopted I
completely denied my even though he you
know I mean he couldn't outwardly hide
it I completely denied my Asian American
heritage because I got basically beat up
because of it and that's what dictated
the next 15 20 years of my life I was in
denial as to who I was and then you know
whatever the circumstance has changed
and now I realize like wow in like
that's boots I mean I look credit where
credit is due he doesn't seem to like
racism but he's no he's not it's alike
his big thing now is like McCrone school
why are French people protest like his
thing is basically let me make the same
right yes but just in a different
context yeah like like at the very least
you could when you had an opportunity to
embrace the Third Way when it was like
relevant back during like AOL you could
have done that but that was when you
were a bush Republican and now during
like the you know proud boys era you've
discovered right clintonism great eye
drops to you buddy
this is maybe um like maybe I only think
this because it sort of involves like
the industry in which I work but I do I
do think that since basically Iraq there
has been like an actual concerted effort
to make sure people don't learn lessons
about being wrong just because like the
people who are still in charge of
everything were so disastrously wrong so
I feel like we can say people are
awakening to the fact that Paul Ryan was
always a fraud people are beginning to
realize Chuck Schumer has the worst
political instincts in Washington but
like they're I don't know like there are
there's resistance to making the sort of
changes that would like elevate people
who didn't make that mistake but hasn't
that always been there the only go is
that we actually are getting like what
you're describing is actually progress
yeah which i think is a function of like
social media and the technology that
we've seen I mean you know 10 15 20 year
it's not like people are going around
like everybody got it wrong on Vietnam I
mean
we're not gonna hear from those people
anymore like that no I didn't add like
the big lesson from Vietnam for the
mainstream pundit class like people
really over learn the lesson from that
right now we got yeah way too skittish
they bobbing other country right the
lesson yeah yeah laughter we thrashed
Grenada and Panama around a little bit
people a little mature a little bit
we've so overly triggered about Vietnam
when Bush attacked Iraq the first time
it was held if I remember as we're
finally finally over our Vietnam Sanjaya
yeah I mean that that's what it was I
mean it was it was just like there was
just a sigh of relief like we can we
don't have to be so skittish anymore we
don't think that we don't know we don't
have to like worry about all the wars
were in alright let's talk about the
midterms because that's obviously like
sort of the big that's that's I mean
that to me well I would also say what
happened in the you know the teacher
strikes it was a big deal politically to
but I think we need to see down the road
I mean I went to Pittsburgh to to the
AFT Convention and spoke to some people
there and it was interesting to me how
many of those leaders were like I feel
like I up like it didn't do
strikes for years and now I think they
realize like it's an arrow in your
quiver that actually you got to use
right and and they seemed willing to do
that but then you know I think
everything got subsumed by the election
right and the election turned out I
think as well I mean I think the I think
people thought okay
North Dakota Indiana Florida those three
states you know six months earlier you
would have been or four months earlier
you would been like yeah no the
Democrats could win those and and keep
the Senate from flipping Florida was a
 disaster
it sounds to me the other two like I
just we played the clips of Kramer in
North Dakota I remember like we played
that
what was that station he was on like the
local station 9 News live I think
talking about Kavanagh and I was like if
if she doesn't win there
there's something very up about
North Dakota and it was actually that
stuff the Cavanaugh stuff that sunk her
yeah totally up is extremely
yeah yeah I mean I I think the like it
 her up so badly that even when
she came out to vote against him it was
irrelevant I didn't know it didn't
matter yet argued
so the and I don't know if this if this
turned out to be like completely true
but there was like the I saw the
analysis that was basically like like
even in this wave election rural areas
were even more hard right than they had
been before and that's because it's like
all politics purely resentment and it's
purely like the knowledge of this is
sort of a take I'm borrowing for my
friend Thomas cocoa but it's like it's a
coalition that is acting now with the
knowledge that it has the power to deny
everyone else what they want and I think
like a like North Dakota is like like
like you like we don't like we
can't amis been doing fine because of
oil yeah last decade like it doesn't
have that issue yeah that's true too
yeah yeah and and so I think like when
you're just like nothing more dangerous
than it and then a little guy with a
little power yeah exactly and that's
like that that's like the the angry
rural vote right now how much of it is
that I would bet I don't know this for a
fact but if I had to guess I would bet
that Fox News has a hundred percent
clearance in North Dakota and that MSNBC
has about probably 20 percent clearance
in North Dakota 25 percent it's probably
higher they like their cable up there
but definitely true about Fox News and I
would I would bet that there is no
left-wing radio and there's only that's
right he left a long time like a long
time ago yeah
what god Cavan I just reminds me too of
like it's how do you not make that a
story about how grotesque elite prep
schools are
exactly sitting up there I'm gonna do it
person up there I we did oh we actually
did on alone on ion on my show did the
episode was like Cavanaugh and
prep-school villainy yeah it's like a
devolving like misspelling basically
alone I went to prep school there's just
like a bunch of prep school stories like
Jesus this is a great little microcosm
of everything wrong with essentially
oligarchy yeah the thing about the
Cavanaugh stuff that really disturbed me
at the time as I recall it now was that
Cavanaugh seems to me to be the first
person maybe we saw some Congress people
do this but on a national level the
first person to adopt trumpism has a
tactic yeah where he sat there and I and
I and I focus on this just because it's
the most sort of like tawdry and sort of
sad and and and and you know and and
obvious in some ways but the Ranade
Alumnus thing where he because I can you
know cuz like I saw this in college
yeah
and and I saw it actually I saw it in
law school you know with with with a
couple and it was not a private school
thing it was actually people who had
come from one of the New York State one
of the cuny's and a couple of students
you know who were in law school together
they knew each other and one guy knew
this this woman who I was you know sort
of vaguely whatever but the involved but
but there was a story that followed her
mm-hmm from that school because of like
of guys talking about like sexual stuff
yeah
and that stuff was on I saw it on my
campus in college and the I so I knew
exactly what that whole were not a
alumnus thing yes right I mean don't
maybe specifics yeah I mean I don't know
I don't know but certainly what was
clear to me I mean first of all and he
says it was a no Maj to her because she
was such a good friend
which incidentally apparently she didn't
know about right yes like like that's
that's the really caring homage yeah
where you don't tell the regime who you
fun you don't tell them about the
tribute how valuable the friendship was
to you it's like and and I felt very bad
for that woman cuz clearly she doesn't
want to get involved in this Oh God was
awful yeah but the thing is he's sitting
there and he's telling a blatant lie
mmm-hmm in every single human being in
that room
and everybody coming to visit his wife
his kids his parent whoever is in that
room all the Senators the bailiff
whatever it is everybody every the
people work in the cameras every single
person in that room knew that that guy
had just told off total lie the
answer could have been it was one of
those things you do as a kid that was
one of I'm embarrassed about now yes
sure for the sake of the person
that has an immature person we we hurt I
don't want to talk about it anymore
right I do apologize I'm ashamed about
it and all this and there was multiple
other things that he could have done
wrong but the weird thing to me was that
everybody knew he was lying he knew his
wife knew he was lying the person asking
the question knew he was lying to people
hearing the answer knew he was lying no
one said a word
yeah no one said the word lie no one
said a word yeah and I feel like that
was you know it's a specific thing you
don't want to get that woman involved
but that was the whole metaphor for the
entire exchange right and that happened
with trip a lot to like everybody knows
he's lying but we're taking him at face
value
yeah and that is something and it worked
yeah that's what is what is up
about it is that even with with Trump
you can just sort of people told
themselves well you know he's doing a
bit this is all like he's just kind of
playing around but this was just the
construction of a lie that he knew was
unconvincing he knew no one like no one
could possibly be convinced by this lie
and he told it like secure the knowledge
that he wouldn't convince anyone but it
wouldn't matter and that was well as
I've like found
deeply depressing about it no that was
avoided Lee you just need to come out
and live it was about that will do it
for you I forcefully and wise good
bereaved way that's gonna be the the
litmus test is not how whether you lie
it is gonna be to what extent are you
going to not break down and have any
shame about yes and yeah that is I think
a very like you know for all the talk
about authoritarianism and fascism
that's coming and this and that and I
think there's been moments where I've
sort of felt like oh this is some
of this stuff is overblown but some of
this is actually like real um that type
of thing where we sort of assess you
know up or down is gonna be a function
of just like sure we'll right like we're
not you know merit is Nath's even though
even the fiction of merit and that's a
real high right between the the voters
that Tom SoCo was talking about that is
what connects the elites to the non
elites in terms of like the just
attitude profile of this stuff we we one
of the shows that we're going to play
this week of repeats is a cultural
history of men of mesmerism do you know
you know the I don't know if you saw
this book out there but and I never knew
this but mesmerism is actually named
after a guy yeah I think the Fergana
Mesmer yeah which I had no idea great
guy and she you know she just looks into
the cultural history of that basically
that snake oil salesman in America but
her assessment about Trump is
fascinating insofar as like the marks
they know they're getting at they would
rather it's like they'd rather be with
the the guy who's playing them then than
they people who like like at least we
know he's with us yeah he's our
yeah he's our liar it's that type of guy
it's like you know this is like when
people still do that when people are
like like you actually know I can't
believe you thought Mexico was gonna pay
for the wall it's like no one thought
right he was just saying it no one
thought it it was just a thing to say to
get people excited right and we knew he
was lying but he was doing it for our
benefit yeah exactly their benefit
that's a crazy to me all right but let's
just get back to the election so the
Democrats win they flip 40 seats there's
a bigger progressive contingency then
maybe there have been you know since
like you need to say that right a
democratic politician yes which is I
don't know 30 40 years or so and and but
that I there's also a decent contingency
of not progressives in a Democratic
Party and much of this seems to me to be
driven by a non ideological movement of
people who are engaging and they're
bringing their ideologies with them but
that's not what's driving on yeah and so
so you get outcomes that are disparate
because it is the thing that's
triggering people is Trump and and sort
of like and and and and I think to a
large extent you know women feeling like
holy like with all of her problems
she still was a far more qualified
candidate did that yeah most
despicable human being like honestly
like you could come up with a more
despicable person to run for office but
it would be a child it would be hard
right like where would you find that
purse yeah you know honestly where would
you find I don't I think actually
amongst the people where it would be
like terrestrially possible for them to
actually run it would be impossible okay
for me there's like people in jail on
like pedophilia charges that literally
right right president right and they're
worse people who Donald's right but it's
I'm not
Stephen could run but keep this in mind
to our critique of Clinton okay which i
think is perfectly valid the 63 million
or 68 million people who vote against
Clinton do not have anything like that
critique their critique runs from she's
a she's a Democrat yeah and she's not
gonna cut my taxes through to she is a
murderer
yes who you know dragged Vince to she's
an uppity woman yeah you're actually
missing something at the end of each no
statements should be and she's a
and she's yeah no I would not just leave
it at the strong the subject or or it's
like she killed Vince Foster I had no
problem with Bill collaborating in the
murder but the point being so so so I
think you know and in for her supporters
who are either aware of our critiques
are not aware of her critiques and they
don't rise to the level of or people
just like sitting on the sidelines who
pay attention to politics like normal
human beings as opposed to us they're
just like this is unjust yeah like yeah
oh you know like they don't see you know
the the critiques or you know of like of
whatever it is like ah you know I'm torn
she's going for suburban voters try and
keep Paul Ryan Ron they're gonna do
something with tax repatriation I'm not
happy with that like I don't think our
GPP you know anti TPP stance is really
dead you know there's any gaps that no
that's not weird you know right we're
talking abut but my point is is like
that activated women I think it totally
did and you know all the data shows this
they brought their own ideologies with
them some of which were you know include
those critiques some of which were just
like not included that at all and they
are the most potent force in the
Democratic Party in terms of like
whether that's durable I don't know but
that's the only reason why they won 40
seats because all those people came out
were activated and did and and that
runs contrary to you know sort of the
aspirations of of the you know of the of
the laughter part of the Democratic
Party although that's ascendant I think
in many respects yeah but it is a it's a
different story it seems to me it's not
the story it's not necessarily it's
there's no there's very few people who
are talking about that narrative let me
put it I think that's true but I
actually also think and this is where I
disagree with like fellow leftists
sometimes because I think like great
right like setting aside like the people
you deal with like you know Clara
Jeffries or near earth hands and or
whatever who might try to latch on to
that and are gonna be disingenuous but
yeah but I think like normal indivisible
moms who didn't like incredible work
getting people elected I think they're
actually getting to being pretty and
meaningful to things like Medicare for
all like I think this is an incredible
it's a great but you do collaborate with
a great opportunities to move them to
the left on others like I think like yes
it is it's a great opportunity it's a
great opportunity without no doubt but
but it is there still wants there to be
a narrative and interpretation of their
showing up that I don't think is
accurate and may do a disservice to
seeing people to see that opportunity
right yeah yeah yeah I mean I think like
the yeah what drove people to the polls
was that sort of I like that shock and
anger at not just that that Trump
winning but like the way he won and I
think you know with the suburban women
probably a lot of it is like they can't
believe the number of people they know
who sort of allowed us to happen and so
that there's not that's not a left-wing
that's not a left-wing explanation for
how an election went because just not
like material conditions led people to
go to the polls and
need to be economic populist or anything
like that because like elections are
just sort of insane things that have
involved a lot of random events and
complex psychology but I think like now
is this is an opportunity now to take
this coalition and and be like what
Ocasio cortes does which is like yes
alright so like here we are like I don't
give a who elected me and why I'm
gonna take this advantage and present I
mean that is that I think is the biggest
danger for leftist at this point is just
sort of like instead of trying to make
the analysis fit you're a special just
go on the aspiration thank you take the
win take the win take the win use what's
there and you know like that's what's
interesting like just looking forward
into 2019 and then we'll wrap up I know
we're a little bit longer than we
thought we were going here but my sense
is oh we were gonna bet right oh yeah we
have to do a few bets before we get out
of here we were gonna bet as to whether
Bernie Sanders enters the race I am a
little bit skeptical because basically
because of Elizabeth Warren's proposal
on on drugs because there were everybody
in the Senate was running came out with
the drug proposal over the past like
month and a half like literally like one
is like they the drug price control act
and those Merkley and Klobuchar and Chad
brown and Bernie came out with one of
his and they all you know sort of
complement each other different hers is
the most radical I don't think it's you
know like you know the VA apparently
started doing this at the beginning of
the year they started to produce generic
drugs when there was spot shortages the
VA actually like the government in the
gerousia Jeff but she is calling for
this when there's a market failure in
defining the market failure as pretty
broad yeah for generic drugs and that is
more socialist than anything Bernie has
proposed it is the government and my my
theory is that she would not be picking
Elaine her policies would not
filling Elaine to the left of Bernie
Sanders if Bernie Sanders is gonna run
she's gonna be the person who's like
Bernie Sanders but safer yeah and that
move sounds to me like you're laying the
groundwork cuz you think Bernie's not
gonna run now maybe he is maybe isn't
maybe she just thinks he isn't whatnot
but so let's let's let's make a bet
because this is the big question right
because everything opens up if Bernie's
not there like people won't even there's
a huge percentage of Democrats on a
regular curve
yeah exactly
no not that hey only upside of Bernie
not running is to see what all these
people who do like where everyone show
yeah this is what our emotional meltdown
because that happy with these tactics
get applied to you know cory booker yeah
or these tactics get apply a very rabid
minerals i have just looked speaking of
so bowie you don't think he's gonna run
you're putting yourself down for he's
gonna be we're all putting five bucks in
a pool I don't know I know all right I
have to think I did too think about it
for a minute but I'll bet ya he's not
running I say he's not running all right
but I'm sorry what were you saying I I
think he I think it depends on if he
sees numbers did well
buh-buh-buh-buh-buh but of course it
depends a I'm gonna say everything he
runs I'll say he runs all right I'm
gonna say and and I'll maybe I'm my
biases I think that's that's interesting
but I also think like he essentially
just did a you know kitchen cabinet at
the Sanders Institute two weeks ago and
not only domestically with leading
progressives but essentially had like a
global contingent fly-in to Vermont to
beg him to run for president which is
like literally what Vera focus did there
he made sure that Haddad came within
Brazil so I actually think that the fact
he's spending so much time around
foreign policy is really interesting
because I think it's both where he wants
to go but it also opens up a whole other
Lane of daylight from somebody like an
Elizabeth Warren and you know the
not gonna be particularly important to
getting voters but it definitely is
setting a whole new standard I think
like the issues he's putting markers
down on even if he does want her to move
towards him and run anyways I hope I got
what Perrine bet he I said running he's
running
okay Matt because I want all this cash
yeah you're gonna lap it in
heidi heitkamp of this like a hedge
fund guy you just playing this I don't I
just have a feeling like it's it's
Bernie but if it's Brittney versus the
field and I want Bernie I I just always
expect to be disappointed so I don't
think he's gonna actually run like an
arbitrage all right and I'm gonna say
I'm gonna make another prediction so
it's we got 20 bucks in the pool Matt
and I are gonna split it I think you're
gonna see I think well what Bernie is
gonna do with those people I think
that's gonna be part of the deal yeah no
I want my support of you yeah that's
broader I need this this and that
I'll tell you what Bernie's running for
Secretary of State he doesn't run no I
mean but look but it's but if he knows
though the way
Warren knows this more than anybody
comes out and his life hTML is policy
I'm all talking and I think Bernie's to
learn that lesson we're gonna staff
these agencies and I actually have a
plan on democracy in Brazil and the Iran
deal then I mean the one thing that
would happen is I think any prevaricate
that people like us would have it's like
who our second pic is done immediately
support Elizabeth Warren in a heartbeat
like I think that would be a seamless
transition if they did it that way I I
think she would get a lot like at least
speaking for myself because I'm not
gonna I'm not gonna do the like who I'm
not sure yet let's see well she's wish
people say she wins the left but she
doesn't win the
the ideologically incoherent but against
Clinton vote no but fury I guess the
theory is who gets that I don't know the
Gabbard I mean I guess they're I guess
tonight I guess they're Biden or or beta
fighting our beta I mean the upshot of
Beto is that sure Brown I think sherrod
Brown could appeal to that type maybe I
think the upside of Beto is that he
knocks Biden out pretty quickly
yeah he cancels Biden out right there's
no purpose of Biden with NATO and I've
been much more bullish on Biden as a
candidate than you but if Beto's in why
did you see that that video of that
that's going around now that people is
there to dig up a bite and like there's
so much crowd out he said I don't think
he's into it actually I'm pretty sure he
won't do it no much better he's done it
I mean he has done it twice it's like
well here's the gear loved uncle yeah
but you know what here's the thing I
mean I don't know and and I think it's
true with the Republican side more than
a democratic side but I think this is
changing too
as recently as 10 years ago the
conventional wisdom is like you don't
just run for president it's a big
decision you got to get your family
around you can realize you got to go
through all this hell yeah it's gonna be
a nightmare
you're gonna destroy yourself but that's
not the case anymore no Republican
primary oh wait a second we publicly
primary showed this and it's more true I
think what the Republicans then is the
Democrats but right for president
particularly when there's more than like
five people running it's pretty sweet
get yeah because all of a sudden you
have campaign paying for you to go do
your book tour right campaign going out
to do your social media promote you
you're gonna get a radio show you're
gonna get a book deal you're gonna get
this is a business plan totally I think
right in this case that tell me when Joe
Buck would we want to go around when
somebody else is dying
but have any audience I totally agree
that's that's a right the ego's is
strong but I read I read there was some
piece that came out in New York Magazine
last week about this and first of all
important this lends itself towards him
running he actually has turned down like
Dave actually people offered Joe Biden
like 20 million dollars worth of
speaking gig which he has turned down
because he doesn't want to have the
Hillary Clinton situation which is savvy
but on the other hands on the other hand
do you really want to go from like
beloved uncle Obama Vice President to
like you run and all that's gonna happen
is he's just gonna like every single
restaurant well first of all raw he
believes segregation he thinks he's the
only guy can be Trump I think if he said
the other day I think he thinks anybody
could be Trump cycle well I said two
days ago I think anybody could be Donald
I agree with him I don't think I mean I
think he goes into that but I also think
that like he could say to himself like
his I keep my head down a little bit I
can be a guy who the Prez
has to come to that's to come to me and
say what's it gonna take to get your
support yo it's possible and you know
what I'm want to be ambassador all right
yeah be secretary pastor Terry skate
yeah honestly for anybody who is in
Bernie that's pretty likely pick for
Secretary of State regardless of whether
he runs or not frankly I mean well you
know this is the type of thing like you
you could say like I can go out there
and as long as I just keep both for the
thing with his kid that's that's not
like you know that the kid has passed
away his wife remarried the other kid I
don't think he worries about I mean oh
man honestly like you're just what
salience is that gonna happen baby
why didn't run in 2016 but you're right
today it would like I mean coming true
that's totally true
I just here's the answer I didn't have
my my imprisoned personal attorney
yes all right well look alex is there
anything else that you feel like we
cannot enter 2019 without having been
said here oh my god I am NOT that
conversation made me dread the next two
years crap I just I keep focusing I
would say on the opportunity that is
yeah it's gonna be dismal we're gonna be
living in a society god help us that
those four Democrat you know Democratic
appointees on the Supreme Court live to
2021
but can you indulge me for twenty
seconds with the Bernie becomes
president and the like Burlington
College scandal blows up and said is on
TV be like well what he did was he
ratted he's a rat should be illegal what
they do is they go they find rats
my wife's is sweet hippie and I
taken advantage of her I don't think
this goes away you say the next two
years but I just don't think this goes
away even though regardless of who
becomes president I don't think I don't
I think this is like one of those this
is not a stain on America this is like
part of it is like the you know the
things are warped in such a way that
could present good opportunities but I
also am afraid of like Brett Kavanaugh
dialed into something yep that after
lousy Ford spoke I think everybody I
know thought he's done yeah and all he
did is come out and say like I'm gonna
go with the Trump version you just just
keep saying it just keep saying it happy
holiday alright folks enjoy the rest of
the week of shows they are all best of
's matt has made compilations of like
some of the youtube greatest hits we're
going to do free
be for everybody is that way we're gonna
do this yeah Christmas spirit
yeah I mean Christmas spirit all right
fine
you can become a member of the show by
going to join the majority report
dot-com all the other stuff check out TM
BS as well and the intifada and literary
hangover and you can find Alex's work
over at The Huffington Post check out
he's got something going up got
something that'll come up tomorrow
yeah come up this week it'll be really
fun it's an end-of-the-year thing if you
enjoyed the hack lists that I used to do
for salon way back in the day you were
really gonna like this so go to go to
the Huff Post at your local web terminal
and we will be back internet live on
Wednesday of January second I believe it
is so seconds so but enjoy the best of
if you haven't heard these interviews
make sure you listen to them because
they have been voted and disciple you
know we went through a long process it's
the best and if you did listen to him
you want to listen to them again because
they're literally the best of and that's
what we called them okay folks bye-bye
to get to where I want but I know sir
[Music]
I was
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
the choice option
[Music]
[Music]
takes
[Music]
