[Music]
let's go Ryan kill me let's just check
in with Brian Kilmeade again because I
get a lot of I get a lot of response to
Brian Kilmeade yesterday trying to parse
the the jewish-american things that they
should be loyal and it's almost like we
watched Kilmeade make this point
yesterday on Fox & Friends
right yesterday where he said like I
can't believe Jewish Americans you know
how they can support Democrats I think
that's where Trump got the comment from
he got it from watching Fox and Friends
and he goes around he turns it and now
Brian Kilmeade 'he's got to defend the
comment the Donald Trump made that was
probably based upon brian kilmeade z'
comment the day before it's like or a
Buress it's some very very strange
you know like s you're painting type of
situation very late when it really is
this time really in fact this is it's
completely dark in their set and they're
doing this in the middle of the day on
hey I'm kidding no it's probably the
first thing in the morning we're like
we've got to deal with this early here
is Brian Kilmeade he III don't know
what's going on with him he seems like
he's super tanned I know if he was on
vacation for a long time or he just
feels like maybe he's got some type of
rash situation he feels like he's like a
little bit I don't know he's having a
tough time lately obviously and she
can't believe that we've gotten to a
point in our country where we have
congresswoman that are completely
against giving aid to Israel well
they're three billion dollars I think
anyway a lot of this stuff was cut by
were from President Obama who had
single-digit approval rating with inside
Israel the president brought up
yesterday I think any Jewish people that
vote for a Democrat I think it shows you
there are lack of knowledge or great
disloyalty because if you compared the
two administrations and their allegiance
to Israel and their alliance I think
that by far this president has shown on
more of an allegiance to Israel than
President Obama has so he thinks it
somehow that doesn't turn up in the
ballot box where President Trump only
got 24% of the American Jewish
I guess they could be voting on out of
the things that could be another factor
one thing that yeah there yeah yeah now
it doesn't quite explain why
where there's disloyalty to whom because
he realizes like Oh II I can't believe
I'm responsible now for making that
number twenty percent instead of twenty
four percent and ruining the whole I
mean they have destroyed their entire
project about Ilhan Omar and Rasheeda
Talib being anti-semites right I mean
he's out there Donald Trump because
Brian Kilmeade little offhand comment
that he ad-libbed and that's why he's
probably reading from his script today
saying like yesterday when I tried to
freelance a little bit I got in some big
trouble like I got the President to
repeat what I said and it's it's gonna
sink him today he's reading on a script
make sure that he just sort of like lays
it out doesn't address the dual loyalty
that they're supposed to have maybe
they're voting on other things yeah
maybe or maybe they also are voting on
other things and also have some issues
with Israel total anti-semites anyways
what's wrong with you people what about
your second country are your first
country really make any sense
who is the RJC Republican Jewish a voice
for American Jews in a GOP yeah here we
go
we take the president seriously not
literally
president Trump is pointing out the
obvious for those who care about Israel
the position of many elected Democrats
has become anti-israel what about voting
Democrats that are Jewish yeah
when to live in Omar talk loyalty
they're questioning American Jews
loyalty to the United States President
Trump is talking about caring about the
survival of the Jewish state I like that
the first reply is keep tweeting right
exactly I mean this is just it's
stunning it really is stunning the these
people are just insane maniacs and
Bernie Sanders crazy Bernie if his
proposal goes through one less
would be out of business
