with Sam's PETA the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in the conference rooms of
any elite
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday April 15 2009 teen my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA on the program today professor of
history from Berkeley Kaitlin Rosenthal
on accounting for slavery also on the
program today establishment Democrats
launched broad attack on progressives as
Bernie hits back meanwhile Trump Spurs
death threats against Ilan Omar and the
New York Post Spurs a boycott Trump
administration plans to use undocumented
immigrants as a cudgel and the rest of
us are wondering why do you think this
is a bad things
meanwhile the Donald Trump reelect
campaign raises thirty million dollars
in q1 that is a bad thing Democrats set
a new deadline on the Trump taxes and
the head of AccuWeather nominated to
head and privatized the National Oceanic
Atmospheric Administration over Sarah a
company chock full of sexual harassment
allegations
meanwhile Elizabeth Warren introduces a
plan to freeze drilling on public lands
and eliminate offshore drilling peep
Buddha gauge put a judge Buddha's pea
put a judge but Judge pea put a judge is
officially now a candidate 2020 and the
former Volkswagen CEO charged with fraud
in dieselgate all this and more on
today's program folks forgive me I took
a late flight I'm a little bit tired
this morning my voice is a little bit
actually probably sounds as good as it
ever does that is the that is the irony
of radio if you um you're exhausted you
actually sound better it's a little
Protel that's right well some of us may
be I'm not sure but that is a pro tip
there and just a little housecleaning we
are going on vacation starting at the
end of the week we have all new
interviews some really fascinating
interviews that we have done over the
past couple of weeks doubling up and we
will be providing those all next week so
don't miss those you know we try and do
some of the most interesting interviews
during that time yeah you know to draw
people in and but then I feel bad
because we don't you know because the
show is not live we don't get the same
you still do pretty well we don't get
the exact same number of people
yeah but the Big M our heads know what
it's about that's right those in the
know speaking of which you can become
one of those mr heads by going to join
the majority report dot-com join the
majority report com we give you extra
content every day and you keep you
support this show so okay the Democrats
have
hurry Department blew through the
deadline that the Democrats laid down
for the legal exercise of their legal
right in Congress to see tax returns not
something they should be doing on a
regular basis but in the context of the
president the United States who has
quite clearly lied about his business
interests relative to his role as
president we know at the very least he
had claimed that he had stopped pursuing
a multi-million hundred million dollar
deal in Moscow I think it was for a
building and had claimed that he had
stopped pursuing that and then hadn't
that in and of itself is a good reason
to look at the tax returns but of course
there's been a lot of reports that he
has avoided taxes in the past I don't
know that that's actionable maybe he did
it 10 years ago as opposed to seven
years ago and but it's always nice to
know that the guy who is president
United States may have been a complete
scofflaw for an extended period of time
but Sara Sanders has an interesting
repose is that that what I'm looking for
response repost repost to to the
requests of Democrats to send the tax
returns there Richard Neal Massachusetts
he's the House and weighs Committee
Chairman sent a second letter to the IRS
on Saturday in his push to obtain taxes
Trump's tax returns after the agency had
missed the original deadline Neal now
said that concerns about his request
lack merit and he expects a response
from the IRS by 5:00 p.m. on April 23rd
please know if you fail to comply your
failure will be interpreted as a denial
of my request
presumably I guess there would be court
cases and I have a feeling that's what's
gonna happen I have a feeling it's going
to go to the courts and maybe it goes
all the way to the Supreme Court and
maybe Donald Trump was already appointed
enough of those justices that they will
defer to his authority despite the clear
statutory basis for requesting his tax
returns here at Santos and Sarah Sanders
with a a new argument as to why Congress
shouldn't see the tax returns
not quite based in the statutory
language and the president's been clear
from the beginning as long as his taxes
are under audit he's not going to
release them he's also filled out
hundreds of pages in financial
disclosures I know but well he told the
IR a positive positive for one second no
one's asking Donald Trump to release his
tax returns no one is asking that at
this point what Congress is asking is
another is a a governmental agency to
release them as per the statute see the
the you see the the fine distinction
here Donald Trump thinks it's his IRS as
opposed to the US government's IRS go
back just a little bit here filled out
hundreds of pages in financial
disclosures I know but will he know the
IRS not hold on Chris this isn't well
they tell the IRS not to release them
now I want to see what happens on that
front but the president's been clear
this issue has even been litigated we
went through it in 2016 but one of the
biggest things that I think people
aren't seeing is the fact that the only
reason that the Oversight Committee has
the ability to request someone's taxes
or for the purpose of determining policy
this has nothing to do with whether or
not they're going to determine policy
this is all about political partisanship
this is a dangerous dangerous road and
frankly Chris I don't think Congress
particularly not this group of
congressmen and women are smart enough
to look through the thousands of pages
that I would assume that
president Trump's taxes will be my guest
says most of them don't do their own
taxes and I certainly don't trust them
to look through the decades of success
that the president has and determine
anything he's filled out hundreds of
pages in a financial disclosure form it
is a disgusting overreach that they are
making when they're not doing this based
on policy and it puts every American
who's filled out tax reform or tax forms
in the past this is it this is a yes or
no question have you filed your date
have you filed everybody have you filed
your taxes yet
I'm almost finished and then cross oh my
god how quickly can Chris Wallace wants
to move to that let's just let's end on
a jovial note here that Congress may be
not intelligent that the Congress people
may not be intelligent is know is going
to be a tough defense as to why voters
get to decide that and apparently
there's I you know I don't even know why
I know this and I think it's even stupid
and I don't want to repeat it and I will
express it only in the context of like I
don't know why there's this obligation
but I think it was the New York Times
reported that there's like 10 or 11
accountants in Congress which who cares
the idea that Donald Trump and Sarah
Sanders think that Congress might be too
stupid to look at his taxes ah that's
just one of those lines that's delivered
because it they know Trump's gonna be a
good job and say in that bath well and
not just Trump for that matter oh yeah
all the Trump pieces and members of the
Republican I mean it is it is
well-crafted politics in that respect
but it also should not even be repeated
and and by you know you just don't
answer that question we don't need to
have a congress full of accountants six
in Sarah nice job oh that was good good
makeup to come stupid thank you folks
one of the most important things we do
for our health every day is brushing
most of us don't do it properly quip is
a better electric toothbrush created by
dentists and designers quip was designed
to make brushing your teeth more simple
affordable and even enjoyable with
sensitive sonic vibrations it's gentle
on your sensitive gums and built-in
2-minute in two-minute timer pulses
every 30 seconds to remind you when to
switch sides and guide you to a full and
better in even clean they also send you
a replenishment pack every three months
so you change your brush head when it
wears out and better yet quip doesn't
require a clunky charger I would talk
about why I love my quip but instead
today what I'm gonna do is read you a
text that I got from my sister and I've
been waiting for a quip add for now
almost three weeks not a Thursday in
March my younger sister who I gifted
equipped to Sam my dentist wanted me to
thank you again for the whip toothbrush
he was impressed with my teeth and
noticed an improvement and then she put
the Astra quip and I'm like can I use
that on my show she said yes
go ahead so there it is folks another
happy quip customer her to her dentist
notice the difference that's just one of
the reasons why I love quip and why
they're backed by over 20,000 dental
professionals quip starts at just 25
bucks if you go to get quip comm slash
majority right now you get your first
refill pack free with a quip electric
toothbrush that's your first refill pack
free at get quip comm slash majority
also it may feel like cyber crime is
something that happens to other people
but stealing data from unsuspecting
people on public Wi-Fi is one of the
simplest ways for hackers to make money
when you leave your internet connection
unencrypted you might as well be writing
your passwords and credit card numbers
on a huge billboard for the world to see
protect yourself today with expressvpn
expressvpn secures and anonymizes your
internet browsing by encrypting your
data and
hiding your public IP address expressvpn
has easy-to-use apps that run seamlessly
in the background of your computer and
your phone on your tablet
turning on expressvpn protection only
takes one click and it cost less than
seven bucks a month expressvpn is the
number one rated VPN service by
TechRadar and it comes with a 30-day
money-back guarantee protect your online
activity today find out how you can get
three months free at expressvpn dot-com
/ majority that's Express expr ee excuse
me e SS VPN dot-com / majority for three
months free in one year package visit
expressvpn dot-com / majority to learn
more and lastly one of today's sponsors
is skill share this is a great service
I've already recommended it to two or
three people in my in my orbit anyone
who goes to sk l dot s h slash majority
report - and of course we'll put this
link in our podcast and youtube
description it's going to get two whole
months of totally free access to skill
shares entire library of super quality
online courses and tutorials skill share
is a vibrant online learning community
that offers courses on everything from
design to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
everything in between there are skills
share courses for everyone you'll have
no problem finding a course that will be
useful to you in both your personal and
professional lives whether you want to
sharpen your skills is something you
already love doing or you want to learn
how to do something totally new skills
share has you covered
they have courses for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal and nutrition
learning new languages photoshop you
name it I was just going through the
skill share where do I get that here was
this going through the skills share a
library thinking about like what I was
going to listen to I'm going on vacation
shortly and maybe maybe I'll do like a
creative writing course or
baby I'll look at one of these like you
know entrepreneurial classes or how to
maximize your social media type of thing
how to write content that people share
that seems like that might be relevant
to me
yeah they got posting lessons the
everything design big design stuff which
I think it might be nice for me to learn
the basics of all sorts of stuff and you
have two months for free just think of
everything you have at your fingertips
for like I say for two months again
that's sk l dot s h / majority report to
put a link under this video if you're
watching on youtube and in our podcast
description all right we're gonna take a
quick break when we come back we're
gonna be talking to a professor of
history Kaitlyn Rosenthal about a book
she wrote that examines the business
practices of slavery and how closely
they hew to our business practices of
today a little disturbing we'll be back
by the way we have music from a fan of
the show Dave ridden L and his duo colo
and written L so Dave is a superfan of
majority report so you won't hear this
on YouTube and this just got released
just released yep sunny day is the album
and also the song here all right well if
you can't hear it because on YouTube we
have some problems playing audio like
that but check it out
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program a system history
professor from UC Berkeley and author of
accounting for slavery Kaitlyn Rosenthal
welcome to the program Kaitlyn it's
great to be here thanks for having me so
okay now this is there are some business
terms in here and you you at one point
my understanding is were a McKinsey
consultant and and have written on the
that aspect of of business practices so
let's just start well how did you how
did you come to write about this and
then I want to just make make clear a
couple of terms that if we were all
consumers of business theory we would
note off off the bat but tell us first
how you came to write about this topic
sure right out of college I worked as a
consultant for McKinsey and company and
when you're the most junior person on a
team there you're the person who gets
the spreadsheet and you spend a lot of
time crunching the numbers to figure out
how you can help companies be more
profitable and so I spend a lot of time
analyzing data about people who I never
met and people who I was gonna never
going to get to meet and the decisions
that I was helping people make
nonetheless had a big impact on their
lives so I went back to graduate school
interested in the history of how data
developed over time and how data changed
the way people thought about businesses
as they got really big and when I got to
graduate school I first started studying
the history of northern textile mills
because that was where I assumed the
story would be kind of from my
undergraduate history education it was
all about iron forges and textile mills
and then I quickly realized that the
biggest businesses of the early 19th
century are actually slave plantations
in the West Indies and in the American
South so I started to look at their
records and was really surprised to
discover that some of them collected as
much or more data as the factory
counterparts that I had assumed would be
the center of the story and so
it is that and so all right so let's
with that stated that there is this sort
of almost in some ways a loss history of
of this of these business practices we
talked about let's I guess introduce it
this way to a certain extent there's a
theory or a narrative anyways of mutual
progress that that in some way slavery
was a hindrance to capitalism and that
as capitalism grew and these type of
business practices grew it was sort of
emancipating in some respect but it
really turns out to be not the case yeah
that's kind of the narrative I found to
be a prominent as the consultant just a
kind of an assumption that creativity
and innovation go together with
advancing freedom you know that the
coming of capitalism is all about free
labor and what I find is something
pretty different which is that the north
and the south were advancing together
and this is in some ways something
historians have known for a long time
but there haven't really been business
histories so we haven't seen how these
practices have unfolded in a in a
business setting there's a management
scholar who actually described this as
the denial of slavery and management
studies because he said if you go read
even history histories of the South you
don't even have to go back to the
archival records which is what I did but
to begin to understand how advanced and
sophisticated some of these plantations
were and this scholar bill cook argued
that this is kind of so easy to find
that it counts as denial so what I did
was to go back into the records
themselves and ask how they compared to
the management milestones that we
usually associate with the rise of
American business so the book is not
about like the average slave holder it's
about the people who would have been in
our business histories already that kind
of Carnegie's and Rockefellers of
American slavery who but for the the
terrible and brutal nature of their
business would probably already be part
of our national story because they were
so innovative and in fact their
innovations were far more
we're far more prominent and durable
than we we commonly understand yes
they're using what I structured a book
around the big milestones of modern
business history which include things
like what people call the M form
corporation but it's basically like a
modern organizational hierarchy and also
the accounting innovation of
depreciation and those are things that
both were appearing on plantations
relatively early and in the case of
depreciation you have only the most
innovative corporations using
depreciation until the late 19th century
and planters are using it to depreciate
people from the nineteen fifty nineteen
fifties 1850 okay yeah that was now
we're getting into the sort of the terms
and as we talk about these milestones
and business histories this is where I
think we're going to need some or I
certainly am going to need some extra
extra help so when we talk about let's
start with first the idea of of
depreciation how is that used in in and
well and I don't think it's changed
really in business parlance in in in a
couple hundred years maybe or at least
150 years but explain to us what
depreciation is so that we can
appreciate no pun intended
what what it means in this context
certainly so depreciation is when you
have a big fixed cost like at Boston
I'll just give you the example of the
railroads because that's what the
canonical example usually is so a
railroad and railroad tracks and
locomotives cost a huge amount of money
and you make that investment usually all
at once but as you're calculating your
profitability you want to figure out how
to spread that investment out over time
and wear and tear means it's going to
decline in value so you take your train
and you say it's worth this much today
and then you figure out how to value it
over time which has implications both
for your profits and then today it has
big tax implications so that was less so
at the time so it's a strategy for
figuring out the changing value of
long-lived capital assets as Alfred
Chandler a famous business ushering
calls them he says complex long-lived
capital assets are there
of depreciation and so on plantations I
mean the most complex and long-lived of
capital assets is a person and people
are unique because unlike most factories
and machines
well we're people unique for lots of
ways I mean which we could talk about in
a minute but they enslave people
appreciated in value as they grow older
grew older as they learned skills as
planter invested in what we would call
human capital then they their value
peaked in their late teens and 20s and
then already into this their 30s people
are beginning to depreciate and decline
in value as they get older and so what
does this tell us about the way that I
mean so what does that mean what does
that tell us that that that these
depreciation this this depreciation
perspective was applied to human beings
because we don't see that in modern day
worker or even in contemporary workers
who were actually paid right and had the
freedom to leave did we so we on the it
so this is like a yes and no of course
we don't depreciate people in the way
that planters did in that same kind of
productive way that assumes you have
power over someone
but of course human capital is a huge
part of the ways business think
businesses think about strategy and
planters didn't call it human capital
but they clearly do calculations of
human capital and they assess how
they're changing over time to make
business decisions and to figure out
kind of what - how to allocate the
people who are the capital that's the
basis of their business okay will you
explain that term to us - human capital
I mean what do we mean by that in in in
business parlance and then how is that
used in the context or not used but I
guess assessed in the context of of
slavery because it seems to me that on
some level the whole key to slavery from
the perspective of the plantation owners
is that this is not human capital this
is more or less these people our slaves
are more or less like the you know
the things that tell the land or
something they're just there their
machinery so you know when we talk about
human capital we talk usually about
investments and skills like businesses
might train someone to increase their
human capital and plantations are
interesting because they do you see the
exact same thing I have Ledger's from
the British West Indies that have
something like 20 different occupational
categories many of which are skilled
like a skilled blacksmith or a skilled
Cooper who made barrels and even within
those skilled categories you have
enslaved people who are the head person
within that category so they're also in
charge of being managers now today
businesses worry about losing their
human capital and planters didn't have
to worry about people quitting they had
to worry about people running away
escaping from the plantation they had to
worry about about death but they have
many of their planned problems really
radically simplified but to get to your
other point what's interesting is that
planters are at the one teaching
treating people as skilled labor but at
the same time you know the record I just
described that has those 20 occupational
categories is immediately followed by an
identical record for livestock either
that instead of the categories of Labor
you have sheep and mules and categories
event so people are being treated really
as animals and machines but also
planters understand that would make some
so value is the fact that these are
people so they're able to do both kinds
of accounting and move back and forth
between them and so when we talk about
the way that they treated human capital
I guess and and also you know this
concept of depreciation with the workers
as if there are a piece of equipment
they bought I mean what where does this
where how does this implicate I mean
we're these like founding these
practices are do they end up becoming
like the building blocks of modern-day
capitalism and I guess business
practices
so the story I tell is not exactly an
origin story when I first started
writing the book I didn't really
understand what a big deal slavery was I
mean sort of sounds silly to say that
but I only slowly began to understand
how fundation alas the American economy
so when I first started writing I was
looking for you know the single link
that was going to show that Plantation
slavery influenced northern scientific
management and I did find some links but
not really a smoking gun that said this
is the foundation what I uncovered
instead is the fact that the northern
southern economies and also the northern
and the Caribbean economies are just
deeply intertwined for the whole 150
years where capitalism ISM is emerging
so I came to think it was sort of I was
asking the question wrong if I was
looking for the single link because
really what you have is two economies
that are intertwined
all those textile mills that I thought
the story was going to begin in or of
course weaving slave grown cotton and
these people are in communication all
the time so it's not really about one
length it's really about the whole story
being more complicated and that I mean
and I think there's been there's been a
lot of them and we've we've interviewed
over the past couple of years several
historians who have gone back and sort
of reassessed the the import of of
cotton frankly and I guess maybe other
you know tobacco but primarily cotton in
terms of of driving the economy not just
of the south but of the north as well
and so was there sharing of back and
forth in terms of business practices I
mean the gist of it is it's just that
really that the how how sophisticated
these big plantations were run which I
guess is a surprise because because
because why so it's an interesting
question how surprising is this I when I
was a consultant I used to joke that you
know insights needed to be surprising or
resolve controversy and the interesting
thing about this fact is that people
either find it super surprising like
they had no idea because they really
believed that slavery was backwards from
an a person
perspective of innovation or they find
it totally unsurprising they're like I
never thought about business practices
but of course knowing what I know about
slavery I'm a so it's a kind of a disco
it's like a litmus test for where we are
in our national conversation about
slavery which is that some people have
begun to get it and they start to read
about plantation business practices and
it's still really tells them a lot to
see the granularity of how they
innovated with violence
but the most illuminating thing is that
a whole other set of people our finest
stuff totally shocking um the idea that
a planters were using basically paper
spreadsheets to calculate the output per
person in a very similar way to what we
do now
so the shocking part is is that there is
some type of presumption that exists
among some people that slavery was
somehow a I guess an aberration in some
way and that it was a function of the
the the the people who would have slaves
were not business people they were just
there was something anomalous I guess
about it but in fact it's really part of
a tradition and almost in some respects
sort of seamlessly slides into an era
where people aren't slaves right I mean
like how much of our business practices
that we have today in terms of
management techniques and control of
workers is if not a descendant of those
of those practices but at very least you
know looks very similar to those
practices so I mean a huge proportion
like if the the book talks about the
standardization of forms it talks about
the way we developed our hierarchies it
talks about this question of
depreciation which is linked to the
whole question of human capital and it
also discusses productivity analysis I
mean you'd be hard-pressed to find
another big area where data science and
accounting have
kind of art totally different so those
are I mean some four of the main
innovations and the plantation is there
for all of them
now you're right to say that you the
plantation isn't necessarily the
foundation but it's the part of the
environment from which these practices
emerges emerged and they're all kinds of
things that just look strikingly similar
so if we go back to the topic of
depreciation there's two ways that
people generally talk about depreciation
a straight-line depreciation and the
mark-to-market depreciation these were
chatted a lot about during the mortgage
crisis because which way you chose had
implications for how valuable people
thought things were straight line is
just that you depreciate the same amount
every year so you say I have something
that's worth twenty dollars and you just
reduce it a dollar every year
mark-to-market says each year you look
to see what the market value is and you
changed that market so there's a planter
named James James green Carson who for
all of his slaves he has a formula and
he values and saved people from zero age
zero to ten with a straight line doing
straight-line depreciation they
increased by fifty dollars the first
year of life because if you surprised
the first year you're likely to survive
longer than twenty-five dollars for each
additional year but then when he gets to
ten he says look the diversity of these
people means that values diverge and so
he starts marking them to the market
value which changes over time and can up
and down from year to year the market
value depending on what skills they have
maybe the black they happen good it's a
what
yeah what skills they have but also how
the market prices are changing because
the value of slaves over most of the
antebellum period is going up so the
value of slaves in nineteen sixty is is
a high value they've proven a very good
investment for people both because of
the labor that they're extracting but
also because the market value of slaves
has gone up now depreciation at that
time there was not a function it wasn't
something you did because of of taxes it
was because to determine just what are
my profits and what are my assets right
at that time as a as a plantation owner
exactly
you have the planters I've seen
calculating depreciation want to know
how much
money they're making from year-to-year
and not all of that is coming in cash a
lot of its coming in the form of their
investments so they calculate the value
of those investments over time there's a
famous I mean not that famous but a
relatively well-known quote from Thomas
Jefferson where he suggests that people
should invest as much as they can in
slaves because in addition to the labor
that they give you they also appreciate
like about I think he says 5% from
year-to-year
so you get both the labor and capital
increase and I guess if you also might
be doing this to show to a bank I mean
you you know it's a bait you can get a
loan collateralized by slaves so you
might be taking this to show to a bank I
know that's not you know I know that's
that's a scholarship that has been done
that pre-existed but but but tease that
out for us because I mean this is I
guess theoretically as I sit here talk
to into this microphone I bought this
microphone five six seven years ago or
eight years ago let's say it cost four
hundred dollars the this if I needed to
get a loan and wanted a collateral I
don't know how much I could get based on
this microphone but this this microphone
would function as collateral or the
video camera or the computers
theoretically I guess they wouldn't have
that much value but so this is another
difference between exactly the same
thing good and say people were super
valuable and they could be moved from
place to place and used to
collateralized loans to buy more land to
buy more people and so their value to a
plantation owner was not just in the
work that they produce but the potential
work they could produce her value they
could produce I mean absolutely some of
the most horrifying records from
plantations are like slave trade and not
did not from plantations on slave
traders have values for a woman with her
first child and a woman with her first
child was especially valuable not only
because of the child but because this is
a woman who is fertile she's going
reproduce again and this is a woman
who's gonna survive childbirth cuz she
survived it before so she's being valued
based on her own potential labor but
also on her potential reproductive labor
and the labor of the children who are
going to be enslaved as well so planters
are forward-looking thinking about how
assets are going to grow over time and
and one of the other themes I guess of
your book is what I guess what you
started with is that how the and I have
just come back from a tour a trial
lawyers conference where I go twice a
year and I hear stories of corporations
that make decisions that at least to a
certain extent they should they either
knowingly or should know are going to
cost X number of lives and they put a
dollar figure on that and they decide
okay we those are part of our expenses
but our revenue from this product is
going to be so much higher that it's
worth bearing the expenses of those
people dying or those people getting
injured or those people getting some
type of disease and they just go ahead
with their business I mean part of the
story here is that process of of how
data analysis allows you to as a as a
human being
to not have human thoughts about human
beings right I mean know exactly that's
exactly it it's data offered these
planters distance it could give them
information about profitability and it
also gave them the luxury to think about
people as less than they were especially
some of the records that of the West
Indies are from absentee planters so
literally they're sitting at a desk back
in England they don't have to encounter
slavery in all of its horror but they do
get to consult the numbers and make
calculations about how to make more
money and I think it's a it makes it
easier to the kind of distance that data
provides now this data can also help us
to see see further and do better but it
can
provide a dangerous amount of distance
if we don't think too hard about what's
behind the numbers I mean it seems to me
if these processes could allow people
who were trading human beings and who
were looking at a mother a pregnant
woman and or a mother with a young child
as particularly valuable asset right
because this is this woman becomes a
machine for producing more of this
product or I should say these these
machines that will work on their farm I
mean if if this type of data analysis
can allow for that it seems to me that
the ease in which someone could use this
data to fire people or to close a plant
would be you know that much greater
right like if this offers the if this
type of data collection and analysis has
allowed for slavery to be treated just
like any you know like any other type of
commodity I got to think that in an era
where we ostensibly pay factory workers
or or our workers in some way that this
allows it like really anything to happen
yeah I mean it's in one way this is a
really different circumstance because
you know and save people couldn't
couldn't quit so things are quite
different but on the other hand in a era
where we have global labor for the kind
of labor markets and lots of countries
allow workers to be badly abused allow
poor safety conditions I mean when I was
writing so many things that happened
during the writing this book like the
factory collapse in Bangladesh whatever
I think seven or eight years ago that
could have show people making decisions
kind of knowingly choosing more profit
over more safety and it's just really
easy to do that now the data also has
opposite potential
just to one of my favorite there aren't
that many uplifting records you find
from plantations but one of the most
interesting examples I do have is
there's some abolitionists who take a
plantation Journal that shows horrible
brutality and they use it to calculate
what they see as a human cost of slavery
and they use those calculations which
are based on a plantation Journal to
argue against slavery back in England so
like the data could be turned around if
it gets into the right hands
people can see different things in it
but you can also see very very little
and it allows you to be a partner to
huge horrible atrocities then as one of
the other aspects - is that the the
slave owners perceived their ability to
maximize the value of their slaves as
sort of definitional to economic freedom
and ultimately I guess states rights and
it doesn't look that way if I'm a slave
but they didn't perceive slaves as
having a perspective on this assessment
right I mean so there's I mean I guess
what I'm getting at is like these these
perspectives on labor are are durable
and it's true workers can quit if they
feel like their health care is not in
jeopardy if they feel like they're going
to be able to get another job you know
down the street if they're not worried
about their children but if that if
those things aren't somewhat obvious to
them and clear to them and guaranteed to
them then on some level they're they're
in a similar disposition to the company
and we have seen this sort of durability
I think of like these practices you know
through through the past 150 years yeah
I think I mean in a way for me is that
one of the lessons of the book is about
the need for labor regulation because
this is really a story about just how
far people will go in the pursuit of
profit when they have the opportunity I
mean I mean in the planters saw
and of slavery as a theft of their
property they saw it as the government
coming in and expropriating something
they thought they had a right to so they
saw it as a restriction on their freedom
now we of course having a different
perspective on what freedom is see it as
an expansion of freedom for people who
are enslaved but planters saw it as a
real restriction of their economic
freedoms and sometimes we still see the
same thing people talk about their their
the economic freedoms of companies and
they equate those with more basic human
freedoms and sometimes they even choose
those economic freedoms over the more
basic human freedoms yeah my sense is
this has been a it's a an incredibly
durable model that was set at that time
could it have been could you have
slavery without me could you have
slavery without this type of belief
system where I mean absolutely slavery
the super old institutions right and we
also have slavery all over the world and
slavery has a lot of different forms so
this is a story specific to the 18th and
19th century u.s. and Atlantic world so
this is the world where capitalism is
emerging in other settings as well and
so this is a I think a distinctive
variety of capitalist slavery that
blends modern management techniques and
knowledge and innovation with the
brutality of slavery and does it in
really horrifying ways but there are
other systems of slavery that don't look
like this just as there are other modes
of production that we don't think of as
being modern do you I mean how much do
you think slavery set the tone for
modern capitalism versus vice-versa
I mean we have it in a way we have an
experiment that never played out because
the civil war end slavery in 1860s in
the United States but there are scholars
who think that slavery was expanding
during that period that it was getting
stronger and there are people who think
that slavery kind of would have
eventually ended but right now our
scholarship I think is shifted to help
us to see the ways that slavery was
getting small getting larger and
stronger in the 1850s and certainly
slaveholders and the American South when
planters seceded they thought that they
were going to be able to build kind of a
whole new national product project on
the foundation of slavery and the North
doesn't let them secede but had we
allowed them to secede slavery might
have lasted much much longer and it
might have looked more and more like
more and more modern well I guess what
I'm asking more is like is this so the
civil war happens after the Civil War
many of these former slaves you know
they have nowhere to go and so to some
extent they go back to these plantations
there's a slightly different arrangement
and I've interviewed people who say that
you can see political decisions a
hundred years later based upon the ratio
of slaves to owners in any given County
in the south so if that durability
exists at least in terms of the
perspective of capitalist owner - at one
point slave and then just underpaid
worker like you know somewhat indentured
sir I mean in other words like didn't
throw out these books they didn't throw
out these methods once their labor just
became a little bit more expensive and
having you know and more expensive
insofar as like we have to pay them more
and we can't depreciate them in the same
way because X percentage of them leaves
like it seems to me I could take that
same methodology with a couple of tweaks
just operate any other endeavor I have
after that quite similarly so I mean
after the Civil War the methods changed
but there's a lot of continuities you're
absolutely right I mean and slavery has
a huge and durable impact now one of the
things that shifts is that debt becomes
a new mechanism for control for for the
former planters so they a lot of
enslaved people go into debt because
they're paid so little and then planters
are able to use debt to either keep
people on plants the plantation or to
push them off the plantation and to kind
of exercise control again on the other
hand and say people have weight had very
little control over the shape of their
day-to-day lives and the freed people
change that like they withdraw their
labor from the fields so like children
aren't may still be working but they're
working under their parents instead of
under the eyes of an overseer so there's
radical changes in kind of how control
works on the other hand planters are
just looking for new ways to regain
control and they end up being able to
reassert economic dominance and regain
political power in a way that obviously
continues to affect the south and also
the north today right it's a huge impact
this is the formative institution for
the American South but it's also deeply
connected to the north that's where that
dynamic of having your workers in debt
sounds to me like almost like a project
you would do if you were going to give
them all higher education and and saddle
them with a ton of debt I mean you know
it's not quite as direct but it is
interesting that the control over one's
labor becomes a the only leverage that
these people had yeah one of the I mean
control is the goal of so many of these
records and it continues to be the goal
of so much so much accounting you know
we forgive the word controller or the
kind of top accounting official in an
organization comes from the word control
which comes from accounting the counter
role is the control a counter role is an
accounting
payment this has to help people be a
check or control on one another and so
the kind of goal of these records was to
keep control over labor and today a lot
more of that control happens through
debt you know if you're paying your
worker barely enough to get by then that
worker absolutely I mean they can quit
in a very meaningful way compared to how
to an enslaved person but on the other
hand they really have very little power
to negotiate when you think about
because their real ability to negotiate
with early work with their employers
well Caitlyn Rosenthal the book is
accounting for slavery fascinating
account with obviously implications on
on business and I guess concepts of
freedom today thank you so much for your
time I really appreciate it there's a
pleasure thanks so much
all right folks know what's going on
here the trouble hanging up yeah oh look
at that
Michael was having that problem last
night I knew that when I knew her
research sounded familiar because she
has an essay in slavery's capitalism
which is an essay collection it's where
I first heard of the whole human capital
angle of that it sounds very interesting
it is very interesting
apparently early business histories like
to credit trained corporations with a
lot of corporate innovations that
actually came from plantations well
interesting yeah exactly
all right well we've got to take a break
and when we come back we will be in the
fun half we're in we will take your
calls at six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty we will take your IMS
we will play sounds which reflect uh
both sounds from the video we have cardi
B from the the nice interwebs yesterday
very nice it's there's an interesting
dynamic that's going on right now and
Bernie Sanders seems to have brought it
to a head at a time where I think it's
probably the best time to
done this much better now than in
February or March of next year where and
we'll talk about this in the fun half
but there really does seem to be and I'm
not being conspiratorial here it's quite
possible that one entity takes lead and
then others follow because they all feel
that this is this is the time but there
does feel like there is an attempt by
the I don't particularly like this word
but the establishment of the Democratic
Party to attempt to heal h ee l not h EA
l the progressive wing of the Democratic
Party anything they're gonna bring them
to heel well there I think there's an
attempt to I mean if you look at over
the past several weeks the D Triple C
announcing publicly that they will not
do any business with anyone who is
working with a primary challenger to
their incumbent candidates now we can we
can argue as to the merits of that or
the appropriateness of that entity doing
that it makes some sense right there
they're basically saying we're going to
protect our own membership and to some
extent it's been talked about that
they've done this in the past they just
have done it sort of submerged in some
way but the fact that they would make it
such a public statement of it is an
attempt to intimidate and they're well
within their rights of course I mean
this is what political actors do Nancy
Pelosi not defending Ilan Omar and
certainly there are other aspects to
this other than her progressiveness that
is at issue here obviously because she
is a Muslim and there is there's a lot
of donors who are highly sensitive to
Muslims saying things who would that
they perceive as being anti-semitic
well the
they love Muslims when they can use them
in photo ops but then when they have
well then you know talking about the
establishment Democrats because ALC is
Democrat sure okay so the so the we have
that example of a lawn omar and instead
of rallying around alone omar what the
democratic establishment and leadership
does is open the door for more attacks
from donald trump and the you know the
the Crenshaw guy we also have that
simultaneously Think Progress which
ostensibly is editorially independent
from the center for american progress
although senator american progress pays
the bills for Think Progress I saw that
it was a Union victory to get that
editorial independence from 2016 yes and
and i and i'm and i'm not it would be
and in the past there has been a lot of
controversy that think progress some
writers have been leaned on particularly
in the in the arena of writing about
Israel and in Palestine but nevertheless
even if we assume that there is some
independence editorially that doesn't
mean that people don't know where their
bread is buttered and when your bread is
buttered from a certain place it doesn't
some that's I mean that's arguably not
independent I mean you know George Soros
could give me a million dollars tomorrow
to run this company with the prospect
that after I burn through that million
dollars because our burn rate here is
about a million dollars every month and
a half after I get through yes that's
why I get so uptight about me where's
that but let's just assume Masseria from
but but yeah the commissary it's most
that money goes into the food here but
if I know that I'm going to need that
extra and that other million dollars in
a couple months or in a year or whatever
it is
there may be an attitude I don't think a
personal
writer cares about it but listen your
bread is buttered you're going to you're
gonna flatter that butter err in some
way and so there was a video put out by
Think Progress which ostensibly was a
was ostensibly a journalistic piece
noting that around the time Bernie
Sanders made what people suspect is a
million dollars off of his book he
dropped the term millionaires from his
typical millionaires and billionaires
assessment of who's controlling the the
country's politics now I think there's
also a there's you know put aside the
debate as to whether why he did that I
think there's a decent argument that
having a newly formed billionaire class
is more problematic than millionaires I
mean people have seen a lot of data of
analysis saying that like look there's
ever-expanding number of millionaires in
this country and their net worth I don't
know I didn't dig into it too much but
even if that's the case that he did drop
the word millionaires because his book
landed him as a millionaire you can
articulate that in obviously in a couple
of sentences and if you have some
journalistic thing in there would be
interesting to do but the video was no
one I have talked to even the most
ardent anti Bernie people are have
argued that it was a fair video or not a
hit piece and it is a it may be a fact
I don't know how relevant of a fact it
is I mean we have people at Center for
American Progress and at Think Progress
who arguably asked for higher taxes
but if someone was to write back like
why don't you just donate your money
they would miss the point I mean I think
Bernie Sanders I think is arguing either
you should tax millionaires more that we
have a policy failure when we have this
many millionaires in billionaires even
if he doesn't say millionaires so you
know I think it's it's the real point is
and it's perfectly within their their
rights to do so you have aspects of the
Democratic leadership and the Democratic
establishment attacking the progressive
win wing and what we just saw is Bernie
Sanders hit back and basically a shot
across the bow if you want to make this
a bloody war it will be a bloody war but
there is not going to be a situation
where we sit back and allow you to
attack us and not have it framed as you
faux mating fomenting an internal battle
amongst Democrats there is going to be a
fight over ideas in the Democratic Party
there's no doubt about it
and there are you know two very clear
camps maybe you could argue three but
let's just call it two on on each side
of the divide but and this is a fight
that should be had in the Democratic
Party I think it's fine to have this
fight but each side is responsible for
maintaining some type of balance here
and if they don't then it's gonna be a
big war and so Bernie Sanders is hitting
back and is basically saying like look
we just showed you what we're willing to
do because they went through the whole
litany of things that arguably have made
the Center for American Progress corrupt
font of funding from corporations
funding from horrible governments like
the Saudi Arabia
and in the past editorial decisions that
were made based upon those funding and
so this is Bernie Sanders basically
saying this works two ways and we are no
longer in a position where we can't do
that Bernie Sanders the biggest
fundraiser and on the Democratic side at
this point so it's it's fascinating that
this is happening but I think frankly
the best time for this to happen is now
because I'd much rather have this battle
right now then in you know this time
next year in the in the run-up to the
convention I have a feeling though that
we will be but who knows this is beanbag
this is being back call the cops when
you see Bernie it's great to see how non
ad hominem his response was to that
ridiculously odd ad hominem video -
right but I mean who's gonna ad hominem
yeah Ratan Yeah right I mean a bobble
like they act like he's doing whenever
he criticizes her for anything attendant
yeah whenever he criticizes any centrist
establishment for anything or like let's
expand that to progressives in general
we're being ad hominem but when
they do an ad hominem video about Bernie
they're just being like sensible well
this is very strategic - of when he the
first communications that came from the
campaign that basically were like look
be nice on Twitter calm down like
advocate for your candidate but like do
it in a classy way it's beautiful
because first of all that should just be
the approach to begin with because the
initial approach yeah and then secondly
it's like what a great opening because
anybody who's even remotely fair-minded
would be like you know they've been
pretty well powder dry but here's the
thing is that they're this is it's more
credibility for his complaint that's
what I'm saying yes but but people
should also keep in perspective that if
we walked out this door and walk down
the hall and talk to someone who has
voted in every election since they were
eight
and they have voted for a Democrat the
chances of them knowing any of what
we've just talked about is somewhere
between zero and maybe two percent I
don't think you should imply that Frank
is misinformed like that I'm not talking
about Frank okay geez
and so people should understand that
this is an internal battle that has more
import for people close to you know
things like Twitter and frankly Twitter
and it's not completely meaningless
because Twitter is part of real life the
so idea that Twitter is not real life
it's not it's not all of real life it
may not be the majority of real life but
it is real life and people are
influenced by this who are closest to
politics and I've said this many times
before there is value in preaching to
the choir because the choir is really in
particularly when you're talking about
you know administrative stuff that half
it has to happen around the church and
if you want to talk about what's
happening in the community they're the
ones we're gonna go to the bake sale and
raise the money to go get that new thing
down the street that we want to buy to
make the community better the bench the
benches in the park or whatever it is
and so this is basically arguments over
who gets to control the choir and that's
pretty important so it's very important
and may I do another Sopranos reference
sure do you remember this episode well
tracksuits now no ad watching Sopranos
Michael's whole life has become a
supreme yeah exactly the episode where
Polly's haunted by ghosts and he goes to
the priest that he's just like the
contributions the general fund should
take yep
all right we're gonna take a quick break
ahead into the fun half remember you can
support this program by going to join
the majority report comm and folks it is
April 15th it's tax day but it's also
the month of April where you can get 30%
off all the coffee at just coffee co-op
fair trade coffee tea and chocolate so
you can try the different blends we just
ordered ten pounds of the majority
report blend preppin yeah who drank it
all this weekend apparently we weren't
in here we didn't make any coffee though
yeah actually if you check the tape
we actually had some iced coffees from
outside
so maybe Brendon was in here well
Brendon was in here and had saved some
coffee for Monday and apparently
somebody came in and took the coffee
beans we got coffee no maybe you're
sleepwalking I could totally see Sam
walking in the middle of the night down
here I'm measuring all of these
potential explanations for the tell just
know that strangers in the studio all
right well nevertheless this now is the
time to go now the time is to go to Jess
coffee co-op and and I guess we're gonna
have to do the old like draw the line on
the bag as to where the man
no we're hips this is gonna be
justifying the Dropcam in the studio who
ste who's now we really should who's
dealing the coffee that's actually oh
and you can become a member to the show
by going to join maggiore report.com and
we give you and oh and if you have i
think we've caught up on emails but if
you cannot afford a membership but still
want access to the fun half send us an
email
majority reporters at gmail.com wait
wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait
wait wait and then we will get to you
that's basically the process works
Michael tomorrow is Tuesday what's
happening yesterday was Sunday and a
dome katia Chu joined us to discuss
coffee with to steal coffee let me reset
that a dome catchiest joined us to talk
about her book world making after Empire
we talked about third world ISM
fascinating history very central to TM
vs and then Derek Davison was on as well
and a bunch of other things tomorrow on
Tuesday professor Richard wolf returns
and Michael Brooks show on YouTube
patreon.com slash T MBS and if you want
a handful of tickets to snag for
Saturday the bootleg feeder for the live
show with nan Davila Ana Kasparian and
big waze waze Neal hombre see you soon
Jamie so this past Friday on the anti
Fattah
we released for our patrons a pretty
cool bonus on the movie us if you
haven't seen us yet it's full of
spoilers so go see us before you listen
to this episode or just see it anyway
cuz it's a great movie we had on Leslie
Lee the third from struggle session
because he helps us out with all of our
cultural critique because you know he's
the master so I gave my like vulgar
Marxist take we read breitbart steak
about how it's about the dangers of
socialism Sean gave a little hog alien
take and II gave a black flag related
take and then Leslie gave a pretty
accurate take about what the movie is
actually about so if that sounds good to
you
check it out patreon.com slash the anti
Fattah I think us was about the MTA yeah
literary hangover Oscar Wilde the soul
of man under socialism that was released
last weekend coming up on Saturday is
George Orwell looking back on the war in
Spain which is basically Orwell say and
he doesn't like Stalin but from the left
so people might want to check out that
if they want to understand Orwell's
relationship to both Stalinism and
fascism and also there's
to be a premium members series called or
Weller where Alex and I discuss a whole
bunch of George Orwell essays and him
generally so that's just gonna be for
patreon.com slash literary hangover
subscribers
all right folks quick break six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty will
you will take your phone calls and
foreign all right folks six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty see you in
the fun
[Music]
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man alpha males
I am a total John can we bring back the
eg dinner yeah or a couple you put them
in rotation DJ Dan well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough of a
break
I do have Parkinson's and the alpha
males Oh
Oh
[Music]
the back
the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
alpha males
Oh
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadist
happy birthday to me
I haven't thought expanded to foil the
alpha males of black black alpha males
something needs to pay the price request
me around here I am a total
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report firing up the IMS the phone calls
are there let's go to this first thing
here is Donald Trump contemplating a and
this is sort of mysterious to me on some
level but it also shows the the great
disconnect between the Conservatives and
normal people and that is this notion
that somehow we're going to punish
sanctuary cities by sending them more
immigrants that sort of really
fundamentally misunderstanding the point
of sanctuary cities but here's Donald
Trump explaining with a crew of people
and I will tell you this I know people
who work construction and they don't
wear their construction outfits just
around town they wear them when they go
to work
presumably they're these guys who are
standing behind Donald Trump are not
working at the White House these active
duty construction there they gotta wear
the uniform I K
I like the big guys get the big guys do
with the big suspenders I like that okay
here we go
yeah we're gonna and you know the thing
is our country is doing so well
economically we're setting records that
a lot of people coming up for that
reason a lot of people are coming up for
bad reasons too we have a lot of very
very bad people with big criminal
records trying to get through
and the Border Patrol's done an
incredible job with them those are a
focus they really have done a really
incredible job and when they happened
through and when they've been let
through over the years ice all over Long
Island and they come and they get them
and they take them back and we get them
the hell out of here
that's happening all over our country
ice but the job that ice and that that
really Border Patrol does is an
incredible job and law enforcement in
this country is at the job they're doing
is really incredible you know I don't
know if you saw the crime stats but
these statistics are that crime is way
down in our country over the last year
way way down and so that's despite all
of the problems we have at the border
and we're straightening that out so on
sanctuary cities as per your question we
are giving very strong consideration to
having people after a 20 day period
because again you're not allowed legally
to hold them for more than that we will
move them into sanctuary cities thank
you very much everybody thank you okay
so aside from how muddled his message is
things are very dangerous except for
they're going great in terms of crime
but bad in in terms of like the
immigrants but it great overall but the
immigrants the big guys to do bad and
ignore the fact that crime has been
precipitously dropping for over a decade
things just particularly in the last
year despite the fact that there is
immigrants all over the place who are
part of ms-13 it's going really great
it's miracle that we're able to sort of
like have this two-track success story
you know what he thinks this is he
thinks it's like when your dad catches
you smoking a cigarette so he makes you
smoke a whole pack well that's yes here
is that that's exactly it
but the difference is is that a whole
pack of cigarettes when you're a kid
will make you sick if you're sick force
do you think you immigrants are cool
what's going to happen if the if they
follow up on this plan is that
sanctuary cities who have an
appreciation for what immigrants bring
to their cities are going to be psyched
because there's going to be such a more
vibrant type of city I guess absolutely
the first one that he said where I was
like I'll make that trade right here we
go oh no here he is this is where he's
more explicit right on the specific
so-called threat we're going to send you
the people that you have already opened
up your arms to here we go we could fix
that in so fast if the Democrats would
agree but if they don't agree we might
as well do what they always say they
want we'll bring the illegal early it
calm the illegals I calm the illegals
they came across the border illegally
we'll bring them to sanctuary city areas
and let that particular area take care
of it whether it's a state or whatever
it might be California certainly is
always saying oh we want more people and
they want more people in their sanctuary
cities well we'll give them more people
we can give them a lot we can give them
an unlimited supply and let's see if
they're so happy they say we have open
arms they're always saying they have
open arms let's see if they have open
arms the alternative is to change the
laws that we can do it very very quickly
very easily okay I mean I I think this
is a I think this is a good test let's
see I think the what happens I mean now
why not go full-bore why not say we're
going to send all of the undocumented
immigrants to the sanctuary cities and
if they can live there for a year
without the cities you know imploding
then they get citizenship I mean that's
the way to really teach them a lesson
those those sanctuary cities you could
really teach them a lesson by doing that
I mean this is the mentality I think of
the right where they that there's some
type of like we're calling their bluff
if you think immigrants are so great
here's some immigrants
as if there was some type of I don't
know what kind of like 18 dimensional
chess Trump thinks that the Democrats or
the sanctuary city cities are playing
like we're going to be a sanctuary city
so that the immigrants go somewhere else
and therefore we win I don't understand
what the theory is here but it is a
fascinating insight into how what
conservatives think liberals want he
thinks that all liberals are hypocrites
so he thinks that liberals want to let
in tons of immigrants that are gonna you
know ruin other people's neighborhoods
or whatever but when it comes time to
open up their own they're gonna be like
oh no no no but that's not true on a
mass scale but that part I get but
they're literally opening up and saying
we're sanctuary cities I mean so it's
not like yes like the idea like that I
think you're right about that it's just
that they've made a catagory error here
they've they've done the hypocrisy thing
except for the those cities are
specifically not being hypocritical they
are sanctuary cities oh you're gonna
legalize weed well here's a bunch of
read the smell okay oh really what about
other dispensaries city it's really more
just saying like oh you're gonna
legalize weed well then in that case we
did legal where you live oh no any see
how that it's with you you keep saying
you want to legalize weed and have
dispensaries okay guess what you can
have dispensary is a little proposal for
you it's illegal now well you've been
working towards is happening now I
thought that was the best win-win of his
presidency it's like we need to figure
out how to maneuver him into these
situations more off yep prison abolition
too on the lips
let's go here is we just mentioned that
Donald Trump brought this up and I guess
that was on Friday he brought up on
Friday this
I guess this threat that we are going to
take undocumented immigrants after we
hold them for 20 days and release them
in sanctuary cities has some way of like
Jamie said you know making a kid who's
smoked a cigarette smoke a whole pack
simultaneously and get sick except for
that's not how it works I think with
undocumented immigrants I think it will
give people an opportunity to see like
oh these are just people who want to
come here and work and take care of
their families I guess we'll see
but then the White House walked back
from that policy because of course aside
from it maybe being illegal I don't know
it's also just a stupid policy that
sounds like someone on a talk radio or
right-wing talk radio show had come up
with and then was afraid that someone
would see the transcript and just like a
lot wanted to melt away the White House
backed off it and then Trump went out
and said he wanted to do it again I
think by tweet so Sarah Sanders had to
or Sarah sander Huckabee I guess had to
explain to Chris Wallace what the hell
is going on is the president serious
does he really intend to ship thousands
of immigrants all across the country to
cities like New York and San Francisco
and a lot of other places certainly
we're looking at all options as long as
Democrats Chris continue to ignore the
crisis at the border continue to refuse
to sit down with the President and
Republicans in Congress and come up with
the solution to stop the national
security and humanitarian crisis and the
number of illegal immigrants that are
flooding across our border and we have
to look at all options across the table
so that the towns right there on the
border aren't taking on the entire
burden and that we're shifting some of
that burden to places who constantly
claim to want to have open borders and
want to have an open city so let's put
some of those people into their
communities and into their towns and and
see if they are okay then with that same
impact again the big part of the the
question and the big thing we have to
look at here is how do we stop this from
being a problem in the first place we
shouldn't have to be putting people and
moving them all across the country to
spread that out we should have a border
that's strong aware that secure a border
that functions the way that it's
supposed to that's the president's
number one priority that's what he'd
like to see happen and that's what he'd
like Democrats to work with him to solve
I would continue to be unwilling to do
that we're certainly looking at all
options okay I want to pick up this
specific option though about shipping
migrants to sanctuary cities the
president tweeted last night that he has
the government has quote the absolute
legal right to do so but as has been
reported this was floated by the white
house brought over to DHS and they said
repeatedly that it was not legal to do
so and also they said counterproductive
take a look at some of the objections
that DHS raised they said Congress has
approved no specific money for this
purpose I says it would be quote an
unnecessary operational burden sending
them to sanctuary cities which don't
cooperate with federal enforcement of
immigration laws would make it harder to
round them up later and it also might be
an incentive to more illegal immigration
so I guess the question is how do you
overcome all of those problems again
nobody thinks that this is the ideal
solution but until we can fix the crisis
at the border we have to look at all
options this is one of them whether or
not it moves forward that's yet to be
determined this was raised at a staff
level initially and pushed back on the
president wants us to explore it again
so that's being done oh my god is
meeting thorough review but again the
big thing we don't need so so this is
hilarious the president won't let go of
it and we keep trying to tell him that
he can't do it that it's the dumbest
plan ever
that staffer won't be invited to the
meetings anything that's right I mean
it's it's
an absurd policy but good take the money
from the wall and rent buses take all
these people to sanctuary cities and
maybe this is the grand compromise we
will be there to welcome them yeah don't
listen to ice President Trump you should
do it it's a great idea they're
disrespecting I knew it you might want
to think about abolishing ice given that
level of disrespect to our totally
unbelievable it's sad don't they know
that their your ice whose
counterproductive wait a second excuse
me
hashtag apologize let's go to come from
a five-30 area code who's this where you
come from
great thanks for taking my call this is
the passive-aggressive
progressive I'm not sure I knew that
mean oh excuse me I'm not sure I know
what that means but okay that's just
Mike so uh yeah I called in last week
and tried to talk to Michael a couple
times but wasn't able to get my point
across and I want to start out by saying
in the big band and listening forever
and was a member but decided it wasn't
in my interest to do it any longer
yeah all right duly noted
yeah so so I'm a little worried a little
concerned I follow John from San Antonio
on Twitter and I think he's voiced the
same concern about what's going to
happen if Bernie doesn't win the let you
and I'm not really that concerned about
the establishment Democrat they're also
concur if there's they don't give a
you know their job is yeah
keep getting all that you money all
right listen members can swear but non
members I don't like to swear on the
phones please
so okay all right sorry sorry about that
okay so I'm
just I really value your opinion and I'm
trying to figure out how worried I
should be you know how worried you
should be okay so you're asking me how
worried should you be that Bernie does
not win the election
the primary yeah yeah well yeah I'm not
worried like I said about the Democrats
I'm well the establishment Democrats I'm
more worried about Bernie's supporters
okay so you're worried that the Bernie
supporters are not going to support the
eventual nominee if it's not Bernie
Sanders is that it yeah exactly
okay you sure your handle is not the
elusive passive-aggressive progressive
all right well I would say how worried
should you be I don't know it is uh it
is too early to assess I mean I think
like look I think it's really unhelpful
for the d-triple-c to do something like
we're not gonna work with people who
give us primary challenges I think it's
really unhelpful for Think Progress to
put out hit pieces on Bernie I think
it's okay I think they're gonna give up
their grip okay I mean I think then I
think this is unhelpful and I think are
you gonna keep interrupting me or are
you really genuinely calling to get
because you said that's what you said
the point was I'm giving my opinion if
if folks like yourself and like me do
not hold to account those people who are
attacking Bernie that is very
politically it makes a lot of sense for
Bernie to hit back in fact it's
essential so yeah I think if this is
going to be the way that the
establishment plays this if we're gonna
get more of Nancy Pelosi going on
national television
and attacking attacking the most popular
members of the incoming Democratic class
then I think maybe you should be worried
okay appreciate the call all right
all right thank you sir Mike let's let's
play that clip of Nancy Pelosi like you
know I don't know what motivates this
I'm trying to find like what is the
political value of this now conceivably
I have a couple of of ideas in my head
one could be that this is just driven by
donors although that seems somewhat
silly to me but maybe - it could be one
of those things that Pelosi always wants
to make it seem like she is the you know
from a public standpoint to seem like
very reasonable because she feels that
this makes the Democratic caucus seem
reasonable to all those people on the
right who say stuff like San Francisco
politics like I actually think this is
the most misguided and most likely
perspective that she feels like it's not
inconceivable to me that she walks off
this set and calls these five members of
the class and say look I you know you I
got to do that I got to do that because
I've got to project some notion to
protect the members of our caucus who
come from more purple districts it's
conceivable to me that she does that I
don't I don't know I mean 60 minutes is
a big platform they're very calculated
and where they release this type of
stuff and where they project this so
that's what could it be
but I think going into an election in
2020 very unhelpful to do so
particularly if you're worried like that
due to just called in that in some way
you're going to alienate a big portion
of the Democratic base or party so you
are contending with a group in Congress
over here on the left flank
are these self-described socialists on
the right these moderates posit new
years now let me just remind you
you that this is Lesley Stahl right
she's full of garbage
they're not self-professed socialist
they're self-professed democratic
socialists they're basically FDR
Democrats but good this on the right
these moderates knew yourself said that
you're the only one who can unify
everybody and the question is can you by
and large
whatever orientation they came to
Congress with they know that we have to
hold the center that we have to go down
the mainstream they know that they do
but it doesn't look like that it looks
as if if you're it's fractured she likes
to minimize the conflicts within her
caucus between the moderates and the
progressives you have these wings aoc
and her group on one side that's like
five people know the progressive group
it's more than the 4s it I'm a
progressive yeah wait what wait can we
go you do that last part again like I'm
not quite sure I understand what
happened there what happened was we just
got a new sound drop wait a sec yeah
they're different interviews but yeah go
to that that totally different interview
different time I don't know when that
took place but and the progressives you
have these wings AOC and her group on
one side side side people no it's the
progressive group it's more than that's
it I'm a progressive all right so you
know this is a I mean I think there is
it's unclear what Lesley Stahl is saying
it all it is is that Lesley Stahl
doesn't understand that may be something
she's when she says there's the
progressive group she could be saying
they're the Progressive Caucus it's not
what she's saying like you know it's
unclear and but to say that it's like
five people in terms of AOC it is it's
rather reductive because AOC represents
a lot more people in the Democratic
Party at least her perspective on these
things than just the people in Queen
yeah and it's too early to really tell
what's going on with it the fact that
they have like five people is actually
really amazing considering the history
of politics in the past few decades and
it's trending upwards well the only
speak and the fact that those five
people are the most national Democratic
Congress people in the country and but
the other thing that I would imagine
Nancy Pelosi knows is that 80 some odd
percent of Republicans know who AOC is
only 60% of Democrats know who AOC is
that she has an option here and that is
she can cut bait which it seems like
she's doing and saying well I'm gonna
allow the Republicans to define her or
she can try and reorient the the
conversation she also may feel like
she's the worst person to do that
because she's San Francisco Nancy Pelosi
so I I think that that's also I mean
Nancy Pelosi is one of the first members
of the old progressive caucus which
Sanders founded with I think Barney
Frank of all people right and that was a
process in the early 90s of basically
everywhere from you know Sanders as a
social democrat who was totally
marginalized and a couple dozen people
who particularly in the context of that
time even someone like Pelosi was
relatively speaking liberal compared to
the Clintons of the world so I think she
still I think that's what she's doing is
she's actually explicitly saying I am
the one to reconcile them because I'm
not a southern blue dog or whatever and
I'm also not this new thing I'm a
progressive and I think you know she's
kind of historically out of date but I
think that that's how she's framing it I
think that's a very conscious
triangulation within the party that's a
very charitable interpretation I don't
think it's charitable I think it's years
off I mean I think she's not in the
current historic moment but I think she
totally conceives it first self is
aggressive I mean I think that she
that's and I mean to the extent I don't
even know whether how much that even
matters I just think yeah I mean and she
cut bait on aoc in the clip for sure but
I think she thinks
in the mainstream Democratic Party which
she might be that's very well this is
backwards because I do think that she is
actually probably in the mainstream
aggressive a very loaded ideological
sense of where she's pivoting herself
well I think we ideologically speaking
as she is principal OC is probably in
the center of the party the mistake is
it seems to me that she is dividing
those five people more than the
Conservatives and in the party and that
is a mistake because the energy even if
the the population is closer the
Democratic Party is closer to where she
is in terms of politics which I think
probably the data would show but but who
knows how to measure these things even
if it's that's the case and I'm again
I'm not sure on an issue-by-issue basis
but by Ana you know the way that people
perceive themselves might be she's she's
she's whacking at the bees nest and I
think in a way that is unhelpful and I
don't think I understand well a mention
of it though like III talked to somebody
a couple of days ago who is you know
different age group problem certainly
does not identify as a socialist I would
say pretty left but is more like a Nancy
Pelosi type of person super pissed that
people like Pelosi don't have Omar's
back because of just like this is our
team and you're letting somebody take
out our team that's and they wouldn't
like the way a OC was handled in that
interview purely on that's exactly right
I don't surround that's what I was
saying that's what I'm saying is that I
think she is mistaking where she is
ideologically for where the energy is in
the party right now and because she
probably represents the politics of
people who are not paying attention and
she's whacking the people who are paying
attention right now and I think that's
the problem with well or maybe she's
absolutely aware of all of these things
but she just needs to hold on to power
and that supersedes any sort of smart
electoral strategy or strategy to appeal
to the bay
or strategy to appeal to people who
don't normally vote because there are a
lot of them and I think that that's more
important like she there are some things
are more important than helping the
party be healthy change with the times
or win elections and that's holding on
to power and status yeah it could be
she's doing that she's doing the thing
that centrist liberals do where they're
like I'm the real progressive and
everyone to the left of me is just crazy
yeah and I think I think that has been
effective in the past frankly but I just
don't think that it's gonna be effective
this time I think it's it's it's
problematic this time around let's go
back to the phones calling from a 509
area code who's this where you come from
Ronald Reagan you really got in early
today yep got the back door open so
right um hey I got a couple questions
for you okay i'ma comment I guess so
this whole thing about sending people to
sanctuary cities it doesn't really make
sense I don't think I've ever met
somebody who's come seeking asylum
that's what you know a lot of my clients
and a lot of the consultations ID or
people who've come seeking asylum and
they didn't move to Yakima because it's
like great obviously but because they
have family or friends here I don't know
that I've ever met anyone who came
seeking asylum who didn't know anyone
here already so you could I guess put
them all on buses and send them to San
Francisco to like own San Francisco and
then they're just going to get on
another bus to like Oklahoma or
wherever they have people so it doesn't
really make sense I'm sure that yeah but
think of all the all the pressure that
puts
the bus system that's true very good
point bus system collapses because of
you get more riders and there aren't any
buses anymore right our beloved buses it
does it is evidence to me that they sort
of like by their own their true
believers and yes this thing that you
were talking about the other day of like
boy these people they they're scary
monster people and when we threatened to
send them to San Francisco they're gonna
they're they're gonna be really freaked
out but it turns out like not everyone
thinks they're scary monster people so
the issue I think just broadly speaking
with right now is that we need more
visas and more ways to legalized status
besides just asylum there is some
element of truth that like in 15 16 17
you know I think that people did hear
that this is a way that you can get into
the United States and then your Asylum
case will take five or six years and to
some degree there's like a little bit of
truth there that there were people who
heard about this and and presented
themselves at the border you know
requested asylum and were paroled and
now they're in removal proceedings which
you know because the courts are also
broken will take forever but it's also
true that like we have industries that
depend on those workers so it's like an
end-around not just for the for the
people coming from Mexico Central
America sometimes I'd like just to be
clear this is complicated there's a lot
of really good bona fide asylum claims
being presented but it's a it's an
end-around for the employers and for
major industries like be packing
agriculture obviously they don't have
the visas that they need because the
legal immigration system is totally
broken and this is just a way that
people have found that they can
sometimes come in
and the you know the sad thing about it
is that Tom cotton I guess recently
reintroduced the raise act or whatever
it's called to cut legal immigration in
half and so the the proposals being
presented by the right sort of do the
opposite of solve the problem which
again just shows that this has nothing
to do with economics or jobs or you know
humanitarian you know concerns it's a
hundred percent about ethnic purity as a
horse country yeah I mean I think second
it's not it
it cuts completely against things but
you know I'm getting really tired of
seeing people say the wrong you know
immigrants paid this much in taxes and
they create John it's like there's not
the point I mean I guess it's okay to
mention those things but anyways so well
the the level of I guess sort of the the
the bar that they place on what
undocumented folks should provide for
this country is nowhere near way what
they place on people who are already in
this country same also too with respect
for laws Donald Trump calls them
illegals this is a guy who who
apparently has cheated on his taxes for
years I mean that is a far far greater
offense under the law in this country
then coming across the border without
papers and we don't refer to him as the
illegal president we slightly or just
importing you know drugs from Canada you
know going and being in you know elderly
person buying your drugs in Canada that
is also far more of an illegal offense
than then crossing the border without
documents but yeah the aldryn I had a
quiet good yeah I wanna quite recently
he's 18 he's trying to finish up his GED
then he got detained by immigration
because of
juvenile marijuana possession charge and
he violated his probation it was like
not a big deal but so he ended up in in
one of these geo geo group prisons and
had to pay a $5,000 cash bail to get out
and now he's in removal proceedings he's
got a couple good options he's lucky to
have a couple of good options - maybe
you'd be able to say but he got this big
lecture from the judge about which is
true like you you aren't allowed to
behave like kids your age like you have
to be like a 40 year old man right and
like really boring and not do anything
and don't have any fun and like not that
I'm promoting you know underage
marijuana consumption but it's just the
type of thing that you know US citizens
do all the time and then they're not
expected that like that because it's not
just oh you paid a cash bond or whatever
but he could be deported for life
right he could be 60 years old and still
facing the consequences of some
marijuana thing that happened you know
it must be just doesn't work out it must
be just a coincidence that that Judge
felt compelled as it's almost as if it
was like parental advice to say that to
a kid from Central America I presume
that's where he's coming from is very
reminiscent of what parents of young
black kids particularly boys to have to
say to their kids like look you don't
have the same latitude in society that
white people and white kids do you've
got to be much more careful when you're
dealing with certain areas and in in
relationships with the the police and
whatnot imagine that's just a
coincidence and not a function of the
fact that these these kids are not white
appreciate the call
robert e lee's hey can ask you a quick
question real quick real super quick i'm
sorry
yeah and i've been on a while okay no I
really like that torque conference how
long have you been going to that about
seven or eight years and are there a lot
of other media people that go to that or
the you know it seems like it's you kind
of got that cornered right well in the
point zero in the past in the past
Genki augur has been there and Tom
Hartman and Ed Schultz used to go
occasionally and David Pakman goes oh he
does when did you start going a couple
years ago probably about six years ago
I'm good things well I don't know if I'm
here see maybe yeah sometimes shortly
after you started doing it that's
correct yeah learn it's weird it's weird
alright appreciate the phone call my
attorney is already a busy work
speaking of trial lawyers about to sue
David Pakman calling from a 702 area
code who's this where he come from
hey Sam is performing local market bro
flamingos are from Las Vegas I was just
in your fair city I know I was thinking
about coming to visit you but I had
works now I understand it that toward
conference is pretty dry yeah but you
know you gotta support all right well a
couple things set out to Mike could
actually saw that a debate you had with
sargon of akkad
talk about a male brain I mean like nose
I don't know have like that's ancient
history man
wow that was back before Michael wore
tracksuits
every day every totally different era
but yeah nobody should watch that I
never seen it before and it's just like
you know look like Fuhrman like Sargon
they always go for the cultural stuff it
isn't
everything else is long history there's
no context it's nothing it's just okay
better get the cultural stuff and then
you just you didn't play that game I
like that a lot it's very nice you know
you picked up on the male brain
sometimes appreciate Oh male brain is a
builder yeah it actually all men Donald
Trump is the final boss of male brain
that's right final boss that's right
boss did he wait to call yeah alright
but the real thing yeah um you know that
was a very good interview saying I
learned a lot about it I recently read
Kathleen balloons book again sell us a
mic again because I actually started
reading on democracy in Chains and
that's a really good book as well you
know she she talks about how john c
calhoun in this case his kind of a
theory of governance how that's kind of
permeated permeate into society but with
this interview it just shows you how
much the institution of slavery and
south and that pepper inside type of
style has really affected the American
Way of life
I think you just kind of gloss over it
semuc because you kind of said like you
know slavery happened then it did it and
just like moved on but as we can see
like the legacies in these roots be much
as a business management practices you
know with John John Calhoun is kind of
period of governance you know they all
based on white supremacy by the way I
mean this is because all this is real a
bunch of times we talk about slavery in
this office to rather white supremacy
but when I'm kind of see now you know
thanks
thanks to you saying you're some
interviews and stuff it's just that
these institutions all have deep links
this is why the racism is just so
systemic because it comes from the
outgrowth of the institution of itself
you know I'm saying you just I don't
know I think I like to discover it about
how much influence of itself get in
politics in business in everything in
society I think people just go over soft
is gone now right but it's not but we
thought the way it works know this stuff
is I think is far more durable than I
think we we give it credit for being and
it it the the remnants of these
institutions continue to organize
society in a specific way and so the and
I and I think you
see the not just the remnants but like
still the structures of the societies
decades well you know a century later I
mean the the interview I did with Carol
Anderson on who wrote white rage but she
also wrote a book one person no vote I
think it is about Wisconsin if you go
back and we somehow got into a
conversation if you go back to the the
Jim Crow era following reconstruction
her admits of reconstruction towards I
guess around 1890 I feel it is the I
can't remember which state maybe was
Tennessee or Mississippi started to
implement voting restrictions to to
reassert white dominance in our politics
and they that's when you got the poll
tax and we got literacy tests at the
poll and I think the pain Finn you said
that you Millie for Mitch McConnell and
how we fixed the votes in the Senate and
how he where were you know you these
these these restrictions on the vote
last until the Voting Rights Act and
what has happened in the Supreme Court
over the last 10 years a little bit less
has been a full-on assault on the Voting
Rights Act and we see it now in the
states right and like this is stuff
where we're looking at things like the
poll tax or literacy test for voting
it's just been updated and the the same
impetus by the same institutions Supreme
Court and state governments across the
country and it's a hundred years later
really I guess maybe a hundred and
thirty forty years later and we see the
almost the identical tools I mean it is
so shocking to see how similarly
structured these things are as they were
you know in the late 1800s Early 1900s
in term
like preventing people from voting just
as an example of the durability of this
stuff but appreciate the call
bro Flamengo sorry we didn't see you in
vase that's alright bye bye let's go to
the IMS the David Pakman Sam I was
serious about my offer to moderate the
debate between you and Dave Rubin mayor
Pete now that I've officially entered
the race I promise if elected your
president I will to make Beto Roarke why
that's not funny
secret yeah exactly secret identity
politics trout reminded me of one time
someone said to me the reasons of the
civil war we economic nothing to do with
slavery her sources cited we're limited
to the reasons the southern states gave
for secession hard to know if people
like that are rubes or arguing bad faith
might be both not sure that it might
matter as much yeah I agree with all
that Colin from Nebraska if you've not
heard of Nebraska senator Ernie chambers
an 82 year old african-american then
please check out the unicameral
livestream sometime he's usually on the
microphone today was on the floor
calling Israel a quote neo-nazi end
quote state while defending alon omar
one of his favorite authors is Oscar
Wilde Ernie chambers water boat from
Kashmir guys try Claude brew o cold brew
maybe I don't know
also Sanders has the best response were
supporting Ilan Omar much respect
who's your comrade my company does
something with health insurance which
should be illegal they use United's name
but all the money comes in and out of my
company for a profit only paying United
a fee they don't cover anything until I
meet the federal maximum deductible I
can't even get a dollar to cover my
prescriptions or doctor visits covered
and they take over 300 bucks a month
from my paycheck I've complained to the
higher-ups and organizations out my
company but it's legal so no one can
help I have to look for a new job due to
health issues that won't be covered this
is the most people don't realize this
but employee sponsored coverage for big
employees
the money to health the the health
insurance company only administers it
they don't do the payouts this is the
this is like a side business for the
company I don't know how much profits
they derive from it I don't know if
that's that opaque this is something
maybe a good question for wendell potter
but that's the thing that I want people
to understand insurance companies and
money not on the line with insurance
with employer insurance now the
employers may get sort of reinsurance
behind it possibly in the event that
there is like half the employees get hit
by a bus or something like that and they
have to do these major payouts I guess
but for the most part that's the way
that employer-based insurance works for
bigger companies and that's why you have
some you know small business can get
stuff on the exchanges when they can't
afford to you know fund these things oh
this is nice Matt Walsh its writer for
The Daily wire is that it the daily wire
is what is that that Ben Shapiro's and
this is where he is that the young
Americans foundation Matt walls I don't
think it has anything to do with the
David Boies so probably not he's a
writer he has an interesting theory
these guys are so you know well they're
abnormal but I really think that there
is a lament on the right that they never
talk about and that is the loss of an
ability to be homophobic in the way that
they were just 10 10 short years ago and
and they're sort of like flailing around
to find a new like a surrogate for their
homophobia and it turns out to be trans
people which I is not I wouldn't you
know it's not hugely shocking
but for the amount of concern that they
have about what the existence of trans
people it that that's the part that
always sort of just I find just
absolutely stunning these are people who
I don't know may or may not have had any
type of one-to-one involvement with a
trans person but can anybody point to
anything in society that is in any way
implicated by the existence of trans
people or by the recognition that they
you know have rights I mean people
complain about the idea like I can't get
used to the idea that a book that my kid
has says he she or they like really can
you cannot get over that can you really
not get past that like it's it's
stunning but it is a rallying cry on the
right for the young rightists this is
the real arm this transgenderism
nonsense has caused not only does it
foment confusion in the minds of
children but it also cheapens womanhood
by turning it into some kind of abstract
concept that we feel is it let me just
like it is it like first of all I have
two kids who are not confused there
they're like of all the things that
they're not confused about like they
don't care it's just us they like this
is exactly what they said 10 to 15 years
ago about two mommies two mommies how
are kids gonna deal with this two
mommies the kids have no problem dealing
with it like you think the kids have
zero problem dealing with it it is if
anybody has a problem dealing with it
it's some of the parents and they can't
even handle that their kids have no
problem with it but this guy would have
been saying to mommies 10 years ago I
promise you and now it's the the
confusion that is fomented amongst young
people I Got News for you they're not
confused the only thing that would be
confusing is if watch your video the
tape of this guy
right now I'm confused Oh like oh hey
Dad how come you have
problem of this I don't get it that's
where the confusion comes from and then
the idea of like it's cheapening the
vision of womanhood what making it an
abstract concept womanhood sort of is
abstract so gender binary is an abstract
concept it's a real abstraction and that
it does work in the world but like it's
not a biological but there's also trans
men there's also like woman not all
females are women for instance like you
have children like this it is an
abstract concept he's literally
complaining about something that Archie
Bunker in all in the family does it even
mean anything to anybody
yes I know we watch right yeah Norman
Lear this was a song the the opening
song go find the opening song to Archie
Bunker the opening song are all in the
family
opening song girls and men were men yeah
this is a lament that is literally 40
years yes we gotta get this yeah ladies
go find it all right boy wait let's play
this play this dude I'll try fighting
here not only does it foment confusion
in the minds of children but it also
cheapens womanhood by turning it into
some kind of abstract concept that we
theorized about so you women in the
audience you're not even people you're
just you're just these abstractions
according to the LGBT folks or pasa I
wonder if anybody there in that audience
understands what that means like what do
you mean we're not people I've not been
treated just like an abstraction like
what does that even mean
well honestly like what does that mean
like what does that mean that like
people aren't holding is in his mind I'm
trying to get into his mind here does
that mean that people aren't holding
open doors for women because some women
are trans women like I don't understand
even what he's trying what point okay
equates um he doesn't make the
distinction between biological sex and
gender which is you know something to
manifest in the social world he thinks
that there's only biological sex
so when you say gender is a
construct it's a performance it's
something that occurs in the social
world apart from biology he thinks that
you're saying that oh you know
biological women aren't even real well
but my point is is that like I get that
you can't accept that gender is a
construct and that that that in some way
by accepting that gender is a construct
we're denying the the the material
existence of women but I want to know
how that plays out in society like what
is like what is different for women
today because we accept trans women like
what on their daily basis like what is
it that they're not they're not I don't
understand that I'm sure I'm reaching
here but I do think a lot of these
people like Jordan Peterson and this guy
confuse this is actually a place where I
think they really are confusing some of
the effects of having such an ultra
market saturated society where we really
are just sort of market demographics
they confuse it with categories of
social progress so you know I think that
that's sort of what's going on but I
have no idea he's making an argument
sort of similar it's like a weird
confluence of like right-wing
conservatives and I'll call them
feminists of another era who are a
little confused about what transgender
rights mean for women and they're I mean
okay they say that turf is a slur but
trans exclusionary radical feminists
they call themselves gender critical
whatever whatever a lot of them are
operating based on trauma they think
anyone with male parts is inherently
threatening and therefore they don't
want them in their spaces blah blah know
there are there is a small subset of
people who in that world who have that
issue I still not clear on what the the
material implications are and that guy
would have just as many problems with
those radical feminists as he would with
the transgender with I'm not clear where
he's coming from but continue according
to the LGBT folks or if not that
then womanhood is a costume that you can
put on and wear this is especially
ironic given the concern for cultural
appropriation that you find these days
if it is appropriation for a white man
to dress like a black man is it not
appropriation for a man to dress like a
woman why doesn't anyone ever talk about
female appropriation that is real
appropriation you've got women you got
you did you go drag show you've got men
dancing around in women's clothes making
a mockery and a parody of womanhood
it is like a female minstrel show it is
female blackface and feminists just sit
back and take it it's like watching the
majority of the park but here's the
thing that's unbelievable so his
argument is that thing that I don't
believe exists liberals are not
consistent with it without knowing let
me finish
without knowing that the reason why
people have an issue with blackface is
because it was specifically developed to
mock African Americans and slaves as
African American class citizens and as
slaves as opposed to an expression of
like this is who I am
and it's the the the logic again is just
like this is liberals being hypocritical
and they're so you know this is like we
should be sticking every undocumented
immigrant in the sanctuary cities every
time you and Hayes are on MSNBC it is a
minstrel show a femininity it is he also
completes drag performance with being
transgender which is another thing these
people like to do right because drag is
a performance it came out of LGBT
culture it's um often but not always
people who identify as men dressing up
as some exaggerated form of women and
it's a whole lot of fun being
transgender again not the same thing at
all yeah my two senses he has a really
sweaty face play my phone
[Music]
the guy's very veggie sounds a lot
cooler
yeah well it was parody and it was it
was a parody of that guy me it was
satire it was a satirical understand and
it may be may be that guy from The Daily
wire is also satirical maybe if you guys
want to hear another kind of satire a
few episodes back on the Itchy Fatih
Shawn and I actually did our own version
of that song but as if we were like
communists Archie and his wife there you
go
I think it was called all in the anti
photo family so here is Steven more
laying the cat out of the bag here
Steven more is the backup candidate now
to Herman Cain for the Fed because they
decided like what's the best way to sell
a guy who has complete lack of
credentials to deal with monetary policy
a guy who's literally been on television
saying I'm not quite up to speed on
monetary policy but I'm a quick learner
to be put on the federal board literally
said that I missed that one literally
said that do we have that clip do we
think we believe that clip the other day
where he's like I'm not yeah no I don't
have the experience in that but I'm I'm
gonna get up to speed I've been lying on
TV for a while and so they they float
Herman Cain as a way of making Steven
Moore look better and here's Steven
Moore and you'll recall the you know if
we're going to talk about hypocrisy
wasn't there a big push on the right to
have transparency in with the Fed to
make it more accountable to the
political process and I think there's
actually a lot of value in having it the
very least more transparent but here's
the more letting
[Music]
maybe being a little bit too forthcoming
EPEL ism is a lot more important than
democracy I'm not even a big believer in
democracy I always say that democracy is
can be two wolves and a sheep deciding
on what they have for dinner this is
Stephen Moore no relation a columnist
and an editorial board member of the
Wall Street Journal the daily Bible of
corporate America now look I'm in favor
of people having the right to vote and
things like that but you know there are
a lot of countries that have the right
to vote that that are still for
democracy doesn't always lead to a good
economy or even a good political system
with capitalism you are free to do what
you want to make there you go that was a
clip from Michael Moore's capitalism a
love story way back at a time where
Stephen Moore didn't think that well I'm
just an editorial board now I'm an
opinion writer I don't have time to take
coming through I got exactly Oh mask off
time for these people unbelieving you'd
better shut up or you know it'll be that
much harder for the u.s. to pretend it's
spreading democracy around the world
when it's really just spreading
capitalism I think I think this is an
appropriate image to button that yeah
this is one of the problems one of the
problems that comes with some measure of
democracy you you you can't be a coup
leader who your people have found out
have plundered you're essentially your
country and and get away with it do you
have a Pinochet impression Michael I
dunno I don't have to work on that let
you do it no one's capitalism unless you
do it it is a capital do what you are
like
it's all the way on the Pinochet was a
great leader and you're mocking
him at your woman's minstrel show sad
totally unfair I end a total cut I am
they cocked in the palace and he shot
himself and it was vetted by the way it
was a very not good thing I like my
leaders who don't get a corn aids drop
down I like my leaders who cut the
Maxon throw other people out of
helicopters cardi B has come out with
her endorsement I mean I guess we should
also just say AOC has come out and has
said this in regards to Joe Biden he
does not particularly animate me I don't
want to go back I want to go forward I
haven't endorsed anybody but I'm very
supportive of Bernie what Warren is
bringing to the table is truly
remarkable and transformational that's
from USA Today and here at cardi be who
I think that she officially come out for
Bernie in 2016 yep I believe the exact
quote was vote for daddy Bernie
there you go and evolved in any way are
you supporting in 2020 I don't know you
know i'ma always go with Bernie you know
because this is the thing right I burn
II don't say things to be cool like
there's pictures of him being an
activist from a very very very long time
so a matter of fact I was watching the
news and I saw like this guy named Tim
Ryan and his his speech was very
convincing to me he really wants to give
the United States free health care so
that's a big plus we need health care so
I don't know we'll see who's gonna tell
her that I love him Ryan not gonna be so
I feel like she only mentioned Elliot of
her yeah I think she only mentioned Tim
Ryan cuz like her people publicists tell
her not to get too political right
before this answer she's talking about
Trump but she's like I don't want to get
too political but I just hate him so
much
yeah that's right and so she's like
let's not just get on the Bernie train
right away they just mentioned Tim Ryan
something in a position he doesn't have
that she mentions a completely
irrelevant candidate and then ascribes
him a great position that he probably
doesn't have it's gonna be very
upsetting to her later when she finds
out Tim Ryan not to have that position
but telling her she knows it's very
happy to watch anybody
pierced lips because it looks like it
hurts so much I know it doesn't but it
just I can't I do not have that same
experience of what's already gosh I mean
it hurts when they pierce the lips and
oh it's fine okay cuz I didn't even get
like shots like if any any type of like
metal inserted it into the body I can't
can't I can't deal well you know what
Ryan is a co-sponsor of Pramila
jeyapaul's medicare-for-all oh is that
right well good for Tim Rowe Wow so the
cardi B knows more than we do but
exactly just got faced faced by cardi
that doesn't surprise me
we just got faced though he has argued
in the past against the term
single-payer health care because he
doesn't believe most pairs dimeric ins
understand what that means well good for
him that's fine I don't care what they
call it as long as that's what it is
call it Ryan care if all $1 contested
care just do it shut up Fox and Friends
got in on the yang train is that what
they call it the yang train gang gang
gang gang
it's the Trump train and the yang gang
and here are one of the policies that
that andrew yang is promoting oddly
enough very milton friedman asked his
policy of a universal basic income has a
way of replacing the welfare state
highly problematic from my perspective
it's been one of the big reasons why you
know when we had debates about universal
basic income three or four years ago we
brought some people on to talk about it
my biggest concern was less from policy
standpoint more from a political
standpoint that it would be a means in
which to to undercut the welfare state
and then it's just easier to just draw
you know slowly roll it back but here he
is on fox and friends let's see if they
can get a grip on this
zone bikes and we came to yours people
in the audience were laughing it sounds
great $12,000 a year for every adult but
how are you gonna pay for that yeah so
you have to look up who are gonna be the
biggest winners from artificial
intelligence and self-driving cars and
trucks and new technologies it's going
to be Amazon Google Facebook ooh BRR
which just filed its documents to go
public and the American people are going
to see very very little of the gains of
that innovation we all saw that Amazon
paid literally zero in federal well of
course some people work there but most
of us are not going to work there and
the truth is if you're in Amazon like
you said Steve if you go to an Amazon
Fulfillment Center it's more robots than
people and if you talk to anyone on
Amazon that is very much the plan so
your book the war on normal people talks
about how people are being replaced by
automation and changing technologies and
things like that but people are still
going to need money and so you're
suggesting a universal basic income but
Andrew you know there have been
experiments in other parts of the United
States and in other parts of the world
where just hasn't worked well you don't
even need to look across the globe all
you have to do is look at Alaska which
has had a petroleum dividend for almost
40 years and it's wildly popular has
created thousands of jobs because of the
children's health and this was passed by
a Republican governor he said look who
would you rather get the money the
government who's just gonna mess it up
somehow or you the Alaskan people and
the Alaskan people said to us and now
everyone's very very thrilled about
works posit that that is a tip-off right
there right like I got a knock
government but I you know when I was in
Las Vegas I had I spent a lot of time
sort of arguing not in a very polite
nice way with a couple guys who are
Republican trying to sort of I think
there's a couple of openings and they
the the the line like you're gonna trust
the government with this stuff they both
both work as financial advisors as
fiduciaries to their credit and the one
thing they kept saying to me over and
over again I was like people love their
Medicare that is the one thing I will
tell you I will give you that people
love their Medicare and their Social
Security and I'm like dude when we talk
about government
if you take away the military Social
Security Medicare is 90% of government
that's what governments that you know
the Social Security and Medicare that's
what government is - the vast majority
of of people in this country and so when
you tell me that you don't trust
government to do that but at the same
time you say every person who walks
through my door and I'll reluctantly
admit they love their Social Security
and they love their Medicare it's saved
I've seen I've seen Medicare and Social
Security saved the life of a bunch of my
clients and I'm like that's government
that is government by any measure when
you talk about the US government you are
talking about the administration of
Medicare Medicaid Social Security that's
it continue but awesome
and now everyone's very very thrilled
about in works yeah so the way the
petroleum dividend works is they put
aside the oil money and they said look
whatever profits come out from the
pipeline then it goes to Alaskan people
so everyone in Alaska is getting between
one and two thousand dollars a year no
questions asked we need to do the same
thing with technology and the new
innovations in our economy we can create
a lot of wealth but the question is
right now who's gonna see that wealth it
is not going to be most Americans
it's going to be people who happen to be
shareholders in these companies Andrew
who gave you something in life who gave
you something for free in life are you a
self-made success story
well are you robbing other people their
ability to make be a self-made success
story the first people I thought it was
my parents I'm the son of immigrants my
parents came to this country to create a
better life for me and my family and my
father generated 69 US patents 4G and
IBM I love this country I believe this
country's been the the exemplar of
innovation and success over the last
number of decades but we have to face
facts about the fact that our economy is
evolving in ways that's pushing more and
more Americans to the sidelines and then
telling those Americans again push the
sidelines like hey like you can be a
multi-millionaire success story - while
Amazon's making 30 percent of the
stories in their town clothes does not
seem to me to be an honest heart your
hearts in the right place James
whoa wait he just faced Brian kill me
well not all right I love the idea that
he's like dude who gave it to you aren't
you a success story he basically said
well actually I got it for my parents
actually those are too big no credit
required to do those are too big reality
doses I grew up with a huge amount of
privilege which is relative I mean even
actually not huge relative to other
people because his family were
immigrants and obviously I'm sure he's
very smart and has worked hard and then
the second part of like hey that whole
like subtext like motivation horatio
alger scam you run in this channel every
day completely incompatible it's a
modern economy I mean I'm not gonna lie
to people about it either that's awesome
I mean I don't happen to like his
prescription and I have a lot of
skepticism but if he's on Fox debunking
that that's awesome credibly let's do
that's great work yeah the problem with
the ubi as it's currently being batted
around is not that it robs poor people
of the chance to like do some kind of
ratio alger narrative all by themselves
in a magic world where people don't rely
on other people it's that it doesn't go
far enough and it's being used as an
excuse by the right to shrink the
welfare state and it's not actually
universal like you have to decide if you
want for instance social or disability
rights and so that's the region also
that's why it sucks but the vision that
talking about bringing of e80 attacks is
usually regressive this whole you know
the the the idea of robbing people of
their ability to become makers and not
takers is eerily reminiscent of the
apocryphal and Mis related story that
Paul Ryan would tell about the boy who
had the who wanted anything he didn't
want a free lunch at school he wanted a
paper bag lunch and that somehow they're
it's a moral failing for you to not have
money in this country when we dropped in
the eddie murphy a bit that really
solidified though the ice cream it's
just torturing some kid who it's too
poor to get ice cream from ice cream
trucks
like you ain't got no ice cream because
your daddy
yeah the amazing thing is is that while
he will tell this made-up story and it
was it turned out to be a made-up story
it turned out to be a story that someone
else had related to him he had never
actually talked to the boy somebody else
had told the story and it was a it was a
relating of a story I think it was
someone from Wisconsin I have a feeling
it could have been Scott Walker was
talking about a bureaucrat in his
administration who had talked to
somebody but that turned out to be a
hypothetical story and it said there was
no actual story which makes it much
easier to to express if you're a
Republican because then you can just
make it up
meanwhile Dan Crenshaw is being super
super emotional and whiny about the fact
that he attacked Ilan Omar and then
people push back on his attacks and
unprompted a member of the New York Fire
Department who was on the the pile as it
were in 9/11 had come to his office to
look for him to support the extension of
a first-responders fund because there's
still a lot of people who went down to
that pile to rescue people in the days
afterwards or to find remains who are
suffering from what they inhaled while
they were on that pile because we were
told by the EPA that it was safe turns
out it was it so here's Dan Crenshaw
saying that liked the idea that people
would attack me it's so offensive but if
you listen carefully what he's saying to
those fire department is like you may be
first responders but I was the biggest
responder since terrorists who killed
him was 3,000 Americans and we should
talk about it that way we should talk
about
with deference and and it was not taken
out of context by the way there's a lot
of claims that it was of course it
wasn't and I think everyone should just
look at the clip and decide for
themselves and and I don't think it's
not a line to simply call that out and
criticize it posit fuzzy here is Ilan
Omar here's that actual clip she is
speaking to I think a care it is and she
is arguing that all Muslims in the
United States did not deserve to be
surveilled in the way that they were
particularly in the wake of 9/11 I mean
New York City had its own basically CIA
a guy from the CIA on leave came in to
build a version of the CIA that could do
domestic spying in New York City and
they were traveling all through New
England and into New Jersey setting up
all sorts of surveillance posts and
whatnot infiltrating things like Muslim
youth groups and colleges I mean it's
it's ridiculous to say but this is what
was going on at that time and so she is
arguing that we should all not be
painted with the same brush because some
people in our some subset of our group
did something on that day but this is
what she's being attacked for you're
gonna if you haven't heard the original
tape I think you're gonna be a little
bit surprised at how easily they've
created a narrative around this here was
founded after 9/11 because they
recognize that some people did something
and that all of us were starting to lose
access to our civil liberties Oh
representative Omar had to do was really
I don't know explain herself to say
whatever she wants say she didn't mean
it I don't know defuse the situation but
don't double down alright don't play the
victim card don't start making
accusations of me posit posit don't play
the victim card
let's hear Dan Crenshaw ignore his own
advice within 30 seconds of giving it
that was uncalled for and
this is this is the height of
partisanship when we can't just come
together and and properly assume that we
should not diminish the acts of 9/11 by
by seeing things like some people did
something okay that's not what happened
and we should come together and take
note of that you know one of the most
disappointing things of this entire
controversy that have seen is again
these members from New York Alexandra
Casa Cortez max Rose trying to deflect
the attention from Omar by attacking me
claiming that I'm not for 9/11 first
responders this is a really dishonest
attack I'm gonna tell you how I am for
9/11 and 11 victims and my eleven first
responders I'm the guy who went overseas
to make sure this never happened again
to take the fight to the enemy that
committed these attacks I would go back
and do it every day if I could so to say
that kind of attacking its that is the
height of partisanship I'm really
disappointed in them for saying that
especially coming from you yeah I bet
you he's super super when when when and
this is what Dan Crenshaw he doesn't
want anybody play the victim and he's
really disappointed that he's being
attacked first member of Congress ever
to describe terrorists who killed
thousands of Americans on 9/11 as some
people who did something unbelievable
he's retweeting a 'quack imam imam
muhammad to IDI who you might recognize
from the rubin report who calls care a
terrorist organization or established on
american soil and that's what you know
I'm really disappointed in that because
it really diminishes the actual
terrorist attack that happened on that
day and to say that I'm just
disappointed this is also a fun story
Texas Rep Dan crenshaw fighting for
fellow Navy SEAL being held on war
crimes charges basically wants to get
his pretrial detention a weekend that
the guy says Gallagher 29 or 39 is
facing premeditated murder and
aggravated assault charges stemming from
the alleged killing of the Isis prisoner
and alleged instances of him
intentionally firing sniper rounds at
civilians well gotta practice you gotta
practice
you're gonna get much better folks
calling from a five-30 area code who's
this where you come from hey this is Ray
from California rain from California
what's on your mind this might be like
really old why you talking of this day
but on the whole Bernie Sanders a lot of
Oliver and Barry Sanders debacles I had
a comment on that the one debacle that
the whole body of Sanders being a
millionaire okay so um humans have a
really hard time just like really
conceptualizing large numbers right and
therefore they really hard time
conceptualizing the difference between
two large numbers and like the
difference between a million and a
billion is like massive right right like
it's a million dollars Hoff's yes I
agree oh hello yeah so like yes yes I'm
here like a say a million dollars is
like an eight ounce glass of water a
billion would be the size of really
large like garbage cans like a massive
like like 46 gallon garbage cans right
right so I think like you're our
millionaire is your argument just that a
millionaire's the billionaire is much
bigger than a millionaire well yeah
obviously but but people have like to
have we're not really evolved to
conceptualize numbers that large right
right so a lot of people just hear the
word millionaire billionaire they just
kind of lump them all into like the same
category well I mean the point is really
big difference yeah the point is is that
Bernie did this for a while and and he's
not doing it as much now there's a lot
of different reasons for it one of them
I imagined is that he became a
millionaire and you know thought that
from as a piece of rhetoric didn't make
as much sense from a policy standpoint
there's not much difference between
saying millionaires and billionaires as
opposed to just billionaires because
really the real problem largely speaking
is
billionaires and hundred millionaires in
terms of when we talk about the the
massive inequality and how it translates
into power power power and the political
power right exactly
I appreciate the call I mean the the the
the story of us moving from a plutonomy
to a plutocracy is really the story of
the era all right we have one more time
for one more call calling from a nine
five four area code who's this where you
come from pay them this is guy from
prestigious Miramar guy from here
mumbles of mayor Wayne home of Mayer
Wayne um the actual the only mayor who
should be considered the legitimate
presidential candidate my opinion but
anyways on this on the immigration issue
I don't understand why the Democrats and
maybe you can tell me that you've talked
about this I'm only a recent member a
couple weeks ago I haven't been
listening forever but sorry yeah I love
it that you guys cursed so it can of me
makes me spend most of my precious time
listening to you instead of jank anymore
unfortunately as he stop cursing it's
kind of drafty anyway I'm crystal but uh
what's that no go ahead go ahead
yeah is a good reason I guess um but in
any event the what what I don't
understand is white Democrats don't say
that therefore that there are a hundred
percent for working people and a hundred
percent for keeping wages high for
working people by putting the people
that hire immigrants that are here
illegally that they only have the proper
papers to be able to work into jail just
put them in jail it'll stop the
immigration problem overnight it'll
it'll prove the Republicans are a fraud
because they won't be for it and in it
would work I mean it would all you're
saying put the employers actually really
hold on in jail yeah put the employer
that we put yeah let me just get it's me
yeah I just do what you're saying you
put the employers in jail
yes okay we punish them really really
severely the same way we punish drug
dealers because we think of drugs is is
something that our that the the real bad
guys are the dealers the people who
entice people to use drugs and the users
are really victims okay a certain extent
so I don't see why we shouldn't be just
as sympathetic to immigrants okay and
not put them in jail right those
employers in jail that what happens
after we put them in jail in your
scenario Johnny Depp you put three or
four of them in jail and then they'll
stop hiring people without papers
they'll check the papers and make sure
that they're not hiring people unless
they're kinetically can work here legal
then what happens then then people
immigrants that want to come here
illegally want to come here less much
less often unless they're unless they
have you know these types of claims that
are based on the political hardships
that that is obviously intense violence
down there yeah I mean I think right
well here's here's I will say this that
a it's going to take a lot more than
putting three in jail I think you'd have
to put all employers in jail because
that's just the way we see time and time
again I just came from two days of
talking to lawyers who have just seen
incredible malfeasance and it just you
know it takes a long time before people
change their behavior in that respect
but I also don't think that there's
these discrete categories that you
imagine that like I'm just coming for a
great job in a meat packing factory as
opposed to I'm coming for a job in a
meat packing factory because also my
living conditions are are really bad and
I can't make enough money to feed my
family or the violence here is so
extreme that I'm worried about the the
lives of my kids I mean I think look
that the you know that whole sort of
like I it's an interesting concept and
certainly you know people have talked
about that in the past
but I think the way to deal with this
problem is to just deal with it like to
deal with it and and and come up with a
humane set of laws that allows people
and I don't know that I'm for you know
moving to open borders although
ultimately maybe that makes some sense
down the road but to come up with a set
of laws that humanely recognizes that
people are coming here not because they
want to take advantage of the system but
they're coming here because they want to
participate in this system they
contribute because of that because
they're self-selected they contribute to
society at a rate that people who are
native-born don't that they're coming
from circumstances that are obviously
difficult enough for them to risk
trekking all the way here and in and
welcome these people and you know
integrate them into our society at least
to the extent that they can you know
contribute and also benefit from it so I
don't know I mean I think I think how do
you avoid giving mmm-hmm how do you
avoid giving the Republicans the
rhetorical edge in that case we're
they're they can say that they're the
ones who are sticking up for working
people by making sure that that that
working people have easy higher-wage
easy because they're eliminating I'll
tell you right now if you integrate
these people and you take them out of
the shadows they are then protected by
the same laws that protect all of our
workers and so the problem with these
workers I don't want it I don't want to
just work for minimum wage Sam I mean
people want to work for a fair living
wage they're the reason that working
people I mean dude I take the bus like
I'm I'm one of these tree huggers that
actually takes the bus and I talk to
people the reason that people that are
working people are frustrated with
illegal immigration it's not because
they are because they want to make a
minimum wage job it's because they want
to make more than that and they feel
like that like they're their competition
is basically people that are coming
that have nothing to lose and that are
willing to live in squalor in order to
be able to send a few shekels back home
and that they they just don't feel like
it's fair that they should have to
compete it is and if it was research
that these people did not have the
opportunity to say pay me a sub minimum
wage then you would see wages go up
that's the whole point as to why you
want them legally no Slade isn't enough
for these guys these guys do make
minimum wage they're on the bus with me
you know they make minimum wage they
want to make war but you know they
listen listen listening the reason why
they make minimum wage is because there
is a subset of people in our society who
will make sub minimum wage and so if
those subset of people who are making
sub minimum wage are brought into the
system legally they will make the
minimum wage in or drive up the prices
the the prices the wages for those
people making minimum wage the whole
point is if you the minimum wage laws
applied to people who are here illegally
just to be clear it's not it's not that
and how do you actually really let me
ask you a question you're illegal you're
undocumented how do you file a claim
against somebody who's going to pay you
sub minimum wage are there tons of
lawyers here in Florida that will do it
for you and are you aware that you can
prove that you would yeah listen you're
telling me that people who are here
without documentation feel comfortable
bringing actions against their employers
for language I would not say that
generally they are no right generally no
example that's my water however there
are plenty of the plenty of people who
are here without documentation that are
willing to do that believe it or not not
no Haitian people do it I've seen I
think look a friend of mine hired
somebody illegally and
I was extremely afraid because they got
a lawyer's letter from from the person's
lawyers but even though they were the
person was here illegally
this guy was she was working in his
house he was cleaning his house he was
worried that he was going to get sued
and that he was going to get dragged
into court because she actually did go
to a lawyer and she actually did sue him
for minimum wage so we ended up paying
this woman you know money because he was
actually afraid that he's going to get
sued can I take a stab at this because I
agree with let me just mute Jamie I'll
have the last word
appreciate the call I think this is
really important to understand because
we have heard this argument from the
right as well as some people on the left
the immigration is bad for the average
u.s. born worker and that's just not
true and it's really really important to
debunk that argument on its merits as
long as people are making it so I
understand everybody wants to make more
than minimum wage including immigrants
by the way because the minimum wage in
this country is not enough for people to
live on and it's not enough for them to
raise a family now what drives down
wages for immigrants what drives down
wages for everyone when they are
criminalized like Sam was just saying
and their status is in jeopardy when
they're excluded from institutions of
Labor like unions primarily that also
drives down wages for everyone the
afl-cio itself has come around on this
issue and said they now support more
legal ways for working-class people to
immigrate to the US they support the
right of all workers not just u.s.
foreign workers to organize together for
higher wages than minimum wage so when
people take it as a given that oh
immigrants come with this this status in
jeopardy they're not looking at the
source they're not they're only looking
at part of the story they're not looking
at the beginning of the story so just
call a lawyer when you make it
easier for working-class people to
assert their rights and to come here
legally
that's when wages go up for everyone
right all right final call today call
them from a 6-1 ou area code we get a
lot of people holding here for 90
somewhat minutes
six-one oh who's this where you come
from I Sam Mike from canceling our Mike
from Pennsylvania let's not have a big
argument the last call of the day Mike
oh wow I just called to launch some
scurrilous attacks against the judge and
okay nobody fair enough yeah in all
seriousness that I wanted to discuss we
could I'd rather you caught the Emerson
Pole we can have one of those quick
discussions about the contours of the
race yeah what I think's interesting is
well what is it what I think is
interesting is Bernie's pulling away
nationally right now according to that
poll just had a five point lead on Joe
Biden and it appears like you know Pete
bootie judge or all these other
generation Act candidates they're all
flavors of the month they're dividing
the same group of people and they just
kind of slide around whoever's getting
the most media coverage and it's just
got to be it just to be clear though I
mean to say the Bernie is pulling away
from Biden it's there's a margin of
error of five and change of course right
so but but but yes he's sorted still and
you should really look at the aggregate
of polls but I think your point is
reflected probably across the board in
the polling well we to things like
there's there's a big difficulty with
the Joe Biden because he's the basically
the only candidate now who is considered
a major candidate who hasn't even really
I don't even think he's launched
exploratory committee so he's in a
totally different category where he's
not truly being subjected to the
scrutiny we had that short thing with
the inappropriate touching of women
which he handled terribly right and we
haven't had it we actually haven't had
that many polls showing like the effect
of that and this Emerson poll is like
one of the few that has happened since
that I mean I know where it like time is
violated now but you know polling
usually like
weeks and if you look what was really
interesting in the insights were just
he's not like he was that Bernie was the
first choice of like sex first second
choice of Joe Biden voters by like
twenty five points now so and he's
really winning like he pulled ahead they
did a poll Wisconsin Bernie Sanders is
way ahead he's winning in Iowa most
polls have him well have him ahead in
New Hampshire all right yeah Carolina
what cut to the chase Mike already gonna
win I think I think I hear the the the
big question at this point is III think
if your implication is if Joe Biden
doesn't run which still seems to me to
be a possibility I mean he keeps I would
have thought he would announce by now
frankly but there's obviously maybe he
didn't what he wanted to create some
distance between all those stories and
him coming out he wanted to be able to
be a little bit sarcastic again of like
and show that he really doesn't get it
in any fashion whatsoever and now he's
gonna create a little distance before he
announces but this is starting to cut
into fundraising theoretically maybe
he's finding out you know I saw some
story saying the big donors were like
we're not that interested in you if
Biden stays in the race it's going to be
interesting because what you'll start to
see is you know as it moves forward
maybe people leave their candidate for
Biden maybe but if Biden stays out of
the race let's just assume you mean like
you say whatever percentage of Joe
Biden's second choice with Bernie
Sanders let's just assume that you know
Sanders gets a third of Biden's vote and
the other two-thirds gets split up
amongst the other people that is the
best case scenario for Bernie Sanders it
seems to me in terms of his his chances
so it's gonna be interesting
Joe Biden is it's going to make a big
difference at least in the next five or
six months before we see a before we see
a you know primary
but all right Mike we'll see you right
we'll see if you're right in a couple
months
oh if we could dedicate some time in
bashing fruity Buddha Jets would be
really great for my mental health
because the guy is really terrible well
I don't think yeah I mean I don't know
yeah we'll discuss I think we'll do some
deep dives later you know we're gonna
have opportunities when we see the
debates but appreciate the call
bye bye and that is all our calls for
today folks you want to mention notes
for damn oh yeah let's look at this this
is horrible when did this happen is
happening now all right so this is I
guess this is breaking news the
notre-dame Cathedral in Paris on fire do
we know here's here's some video imagery
appears to be accidental do we have some
video image here here's some of this is
uh from from Twitter it's horrible this
the mid spire actually collapsed after
this so we did you know let's see if we
have this is a six seven hundred year
old cathedral oh yeah I saw it last year
oh there's the spire going down oh my
god how come we don't see any like
firefighters there Trump is on the case
so it's right there's only so much they
can do maybe I don't know
yeah really horrific but there it is
I guess we'll know more later as to what
the cause of it is in Donald Trump ikuo
watching here's Donald Trump sort of
incapable of showing any empathy without
trying to prove that he is some type of
expert in
Wow he writes so horrible to watch the
massive fire at notre-dame Cathedral in
Paris perhaps flying water tankers could
be used to put it out might act quickly
I didn't have a totally this is a blur
we should have thought about the flying
water tankers Oh Thank You president
patch me through to the lease we didn't
think about the water tank thank you the
there's nothing he can't make worse
really unbelievable all right we'll take
five items get out of here doh link
holder Pelosi Perez have all said
recently no socialism holder says Bernie
must be a Democrat
great interview liked your question rias
entually with slavery a template for
today's capitalistic business practices
where did the idea come from for entire
social system that would include people
spending their lives in cubicles and
high-rises as an example in the
beginning of Earth's creation it was a
blank slate now we're stuck in this form
of society matthias did you see the
interview where the Hillary where she
complains that the worst part of the
family separation policies they lost
track of the kids and that she'd have
Silicon Valley developed software to
keep track for them oh my god Wow
I got a great idea how about fit beds
for kidnap children qualms qualms
I like how Sam's imaginary Trump uses
words that the real Trump has never
heard let alone used J tingle I don't
agree with the cigarette analogy Trump
speaks solely to his base let's see if
they have an open arms Marga believes
liberals are faking their liberal
beliefs to feel altruistic indeed
Jeffrey undocumented immigrants to
sanctuary cities is the best immigration
policy in ten years to be honest it's
literally an amnesty brain party have
any of you read about Tulsa's
connections to Chris Butler and the
science of identity cult it's not
there's an interesting three-part
investigation meanwhile in Hawaii that's
worth a read meanwhile in hawaii.org
kentucky fried comrade hey Sam saw that
picture of you tasting ice cream and
just want to say nice thank you I was
taken out to dinner was very nice I love
Sarah Palin on Democrats sacrificing
Elon omar up to a representative glory
eyehole and Fox News
whole thing shows how acceptable
Islamophobia still is in America indeed
two more Sepp Korkis business card one
putting Dan Crenshaw's military service
aside as politics really lack depth
perception and the final I am for the
day I know this isn't your favorite
topic but get your messaging game on
they're releasing the bar report on
Thursday not the Muller report all right
folks
see you tomorrow
[Music]
Oh
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes yeah
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
