speaking of people that you should have
no sympathy or respect for here is Jeff
Lake still on his conservative
Reformation project is nothing this has
nothing to do with the Republican Party
everything that we have witnessed over
the past couple of weeks nothing to do
with the conservative movement it is all
there is only one element there's only
one thing wrong with what's been going
on with our government and that is just
Donald Trump who incidentally as you
recall was dropped out of a metaphorical
helicopter and fell into the presidency
without any help from all of those
Republicans whatsoever one final
question because you were in New
Hampshire are you thinking about running
for president um you know every senator
that thinks of that something not very
seriously I'm probably one of those
having said that I do hope that somebody
does run in the primary against the
president I think the Republicans need
to be reminded of what conservatism
really is and what it means to be decent
pause it what vote what vote has Jeff
Flake taken that has not been aligned
with Trump's agenda that expresses the
true conservatism also could he fit any
more pictures of his family in this shot
behind him right I mean give me a break
there is no conservativism there is that
what what is conservativism it is it is
like I mean Latin exists Latin exists
but nobody speaks it it's a dead
language conservativism is a is a is a
dead ideology it doesn't really exist in
the world
that's pretty sensible reaction it is it
is it is simply a label for a set of
policies that are
at its root sort of just fearful of
anyone that is different from themselves
in some way well it is it presents
hierarchy right I hope lake runs for
president though that may not be where
that's just me hierarchy and dominance
displays what you got all Trump do sup
that flake for 2020 primary would be
pretty funny that maintains a hierarchy
that is fundamentally though you know I
mean the the hierarchy is it's not even
it's not a generic hierarchy right like
it's not like they like hierarchy for
the sake of hierarchy it is so that
essentially white men like Jeff Flake
can be on top now they're willing to
make some trade-offs here and there and
but that that's basically it and the
outside of that there is no other
conservatism and and Jeff Flake much
surely must understand this now because
he's seen the entire conservative
so-called conservative movement that is
their organizing principle about
deficits are not spending if that's the
case there is not a single conservative
in the Republican Party maybe there's a
couple we don't know if they're reader
we don't know if they had the ability to
stop anything that they would actually
vote that way but the vast majority of
the Republican Party doesn't care what
Jeff blank thinks is conservatism
they are motivated by it it's just I
don't know how anybody could argue
otherwise well he's got an incentive to
pretend that it's something else because
somebody just sent me a video of Jeff
Flake speaking in support of apartheid
in 1987 oh yeah anyway he was a lobbyist
anybody in government anybody in
Republican politics supported or was on
the wrong side of the liver and Jeff
Flake voted with Trump 84% of the time
he did not vote with Trump on
immigration bans and apparently with
Jeana Haspel at the CIA here's the
difference I was polite when I said that
Nelson Mandela should stay in prison
right ANSI should be banned
and that black South Africans should be
systemic ly murdered and repressed but I
never I said specifically to never use
the term what we did it right so
uh yeah according to now is there any
issue beyond I mean that is greater in
the imagination of the the ninety-five
percent of Republicans who voted for
Donald Trump than his immigration stuff
I mean honestly like you know I Got News
for Jeff Flake if he thinks there's
conservatism guess what he's not one
he's just a corporatist who's mad about
the immigration policies that they made
some doubt you know chip away at
low-cost labor he also named his most
recent book the conscience of a
conservative which is barry goldwater's
book right barry goldwater of course
moderation and protection of liberty is
no virtue extremism in defense of
freedom is no vice so this is what that
party and remember what freedom meant
yeah I can have I can have a lunch
counter and I have to serve right people
freedom and and and but in Goldwater was
actually a pioneer of the I'm absolutely
not racist and if he literally had the
perspective of some idiot that would
call in this show look are not
personally racist and it's bad for
business but if we tell the south to
stop empowering power military terrorist
organizations and systemically
oppressing black people that would be
antithetical to freedom yeah I agree
with the second part right like
extremism in defense of freedom a okay
just have a different definition of
freedom Brooke
