so Kiera in the last segment you had
basically walked us through the the
processes in which confusion is created
and and how this and and I think you
know folks are pretty well familiar with
the the concept that in general
Republicans will do better when there
are less voters but specifically they'll
do better when there are less younger
voters and less voters of color and so
when we talk about these issues of
sowing confusion how is it that the
confusion may be in the wake of a voter
ID law or in the wake of a vacating of a
voter ID law by a court how does that
create more confusion particularly for
students or people of color as opposed
to you know the any other voter I think
you have to remember that laws like that
voter ID laws and voter purges those are
specifically intended to disenfranchise
certain voters and those includes
students younger voters and voters of
color when Republicans pass voter ID
laws they know that disproportionately
African Americans will be affected
because they are the people that don't
have the the eligible forms of ID and so
when these laws are passed they when
these laws are passed educated wealthier
white voters know that they'll have the
appropriate form of ID and this likely
won't be a problem for them so these
laws aren't something they have to pay
attention to right but when but elderly
voters and especially African Americans
across the south
like I saw time and time again over the
last few years they're more likely to
lack those forms of ID they might live
far from the DMV they might not have the
resources to pay for a new ID ID when
there's expires so they are the ones who
are being distant
franchise by these laws and they're the
ones that have to keep up with the
updates and have to constantly educate
themselves on what is required to cast a
ballot and so even when these laws are
overturned they're the ones that have to
have to be on top of the changes in
election laws well other voters kind of
have the privilege of not needing to pay
attention to those changing policies and
we should say I mean there's plenty
examples of the this targeting that is
you know rather explicit and obvious and
when you see stories coming out of Bama
that not only is there a voter ID law
but they have shut down branches of the
the DMV in counties that have a higher
concentration of people of color when
you have a state I think it's enough of
Texas or states where student IDs don't
count but your hunting license does
count as a valid form of ID these are
obviously much more explicit and I think
you know in the idea that and people
should also be aware that we're talking
about largely people in living in
poverty will also be disenfranchised but
that's sort of I mean I think for the
Republicans even if they perceived those
people to be potential voters for the
Republican ticket it's almost like you
know catching some golfin within the
context of a Hall of tuna in terms of
the nets at the end of the day they're
willing to suffer that and we should say
this is not this is not a particularly
new dynamic I mean we saw this post
reconstruction in the late 1800s where
you would see laws that were put into
ultimately to disenfranchise people of
color but they would also just franchise
people living in poverty you know with
poll taxes and whatnot so when we talk
about like you know what also strikes me
as amazing is that you you have
I mean the but isn't part of the problem
this that we have an entire election
system that a has no federal laws or a
federal right to vote and then
everything subsequent everything
downstream from that is willy nilly you
have volunteers who are not even
budgeted to go and work as poll Watchers
I mean just expand on that a little bit
because we have the most patchwork
ridiculous system for voting in this
country and I wonder if that's not by
design - it definitely is and that's
something I write about as well like you
mentioned elections are run on the local
level in this country and not only do
laws change from County to County and
state to state but they've changed from
election to election
some people polling places are literally
moved from a primary to the general
election in Georgia where I was an
election day people were showing up to
cast a ballot at the place in their
community where the early voting center
was located but that early voting center
wasn't actually a polling place on
Election Day
and people were holding up signs saying
this is not a polling place go find the
right place for you to cast a ballot so
I think when it comes down to it the
fundamental way that we run elections
and the way that the laws are governed
on the local level is designed to
confuse and without federal legislation
that protects voters and without a
supreme court that's on the side of
voters and willing to stand up for
low-income voters voters of color people
living in poverty across the south I
think we are going to continue to see
issues that arise when counties and
states push for laws that really don't
consider the majority of their
population so we just have a minute left
here I mean so what I mean what is to be
done about this I mean obviously people
can try and elect a Democratic Senate
and a Democratic Senate and House can
come up with a new formula that may
it may withstand a Supreme Court test as
to preclearance for the worst of states
and we should say even New York City I
think Queens and parts of Queens were
part of that preclearance as well
because of a past record with the
dispossessing different minorities of
their vote but what so what else what's
the other we just got a minute left
what's the what's the plan be sure well
so many election experts told me that
there is no silver bullet especially
because our country does have such a
patchwork of election laws it's going to
require a similar patchwork of fixes but
certain things that they pointed to that
are known to expand voting opportunities
and help alleviate confusion are things
like offering same-day registration
allowing people to register on the same
day to cast a ballot is one way to just
eliminate potentials for people to fall
through the system another is automatic
voter registration having people
automatically register to vote when they
turn 18 just eliminates another barrier
which all of the barriers that arise
when people have to fill out voter
registration forms so I think those are
two somewhat easier fixes that a growing
number of states across the country are
looking at and like you mentioned it
will require electing democratic
elections officials and lawmakers who
are on the side of voters or anyone
who's willing to stand up for voters and
understands that election resources and
certainly the Democrats introduced
legislation to that effect but they'll
need the Senate and the president to
sign off on it Kyra Lerner thanks so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it
