[Music]
meanwhile Mick Mulvaney is out there now
and there this is I I don't know what
drives Mick Mulvaney to think that
opening up healthcare again is going to
be a helpful debate for the Republicans
and I can't imagine there's anything the
Democrats could have dreamt honestly
like I think I think if somebody had
gotten up in the Democratic caucus
meeting when they all got sworn in in
January and said hey I just want to say
guys just wait till the republic to the
White House tries to repeal and replace
Obamacare again because then we're gonna
this is gonna be great for us and
everybody in the room would have gone
like hey newbie have a seat the idea
that they would ever ever reopen this
debate it would just be astonishing
political malpractice and however Mick
astonishing political malpractice
Mulvaney was on ABC's this week as he's
doing his rounds I want to ask you we
are eight and a half million people that
are enrolled in Obamacare in 2019 you
also had another 61 million at the very
least who have pre-existing conditions
and that's it for one second I just want
to clarify I don't know why Carl put it
that way there's eight and a half
million who are enrolled in the in the
exchanges I think that number is up to
like 11 and a half but I don't know
where you got the ain't half in but and
then there's another about ten who are
on Medicaid as part of the expansion of
the Affordable Care Act because that
will go to that is part of the law and
so if the whole thing is D deemed in
that court case to be non-separable that
will go to and then of course as Carl
makes the point the PP part of the PPACA
is the patient protection 61 million
people
are protected by that provision
specifically on pre-existing conditions
that's why that has such salience
because that's actually now you're
talking about a big chunk of the
population that is not covered by
Medicare and Medicaid regular Medicaid
and existing Medicare now you're talking
big numbers now and and that is just a
pure benefit that's not like we've made
it marginally more affordable and so but
continue testing conditions and have
been able to get health insurance in
part because of the guarantee that they
can get health coverage without you know
under Obamacare but even if they have
pre-existing conditions and also about
six million Americans who are twenty six
and younger are on their parents health
plans because of Obamacare can you
guarantee that if you succeed in court
that all of those tens of millions of
people who have health coverage
guaranteed because of Obamacare will not
lose their coverage at home yes and
here's why let's talk about pre-existing
conditions because it gets a lot of the
attention and rightly so every single
plan that this White House has ever put
forward since Donald Trump was elected
to covered pre-existing conditions every
single plan to that Republicans the
house voted on in the previous Congress
covered pre-existing conditions every
single plan considered by the Senate
covers pre-existing conditions the
debate about pre-existing conditions is
over both parties support them and
anyone telling you anything different is
life syphilitic Latino it's raining
there you go
he he's joking it's April Fool's he's
April's he's joking about that now you
don't need to take my word for it the
fact is is that the pre-existing
conditions forces insurance private
insurance companies to basically destroy
their business model which is let's
ensure people who will never use our
product and if they use our product too
much we boot them offer for going over
the lifetime cap limits or the yearly
cap limits or the way that we cut down
on the odds that this person is going to
need our services to make sure that
they're not sick as they enter in
because you know one one-fifth of the
population is you know has had problems
in the past which is a actually a an
indicator that they may have problems in
the future and so we can boot them off
and that is that's the whole game there
is you know that you you need to
basically say to insurance as an
institution you can't discriminate
everybody gets it and private insurance
there's no business model for that to
the extent that there is a business
model they have to lay off the costs on
the government so the government has to
subsidize it and that's what's happening
in the exchanges or the employer has to
subsidize it or the government has to
subsidize private insurance by having
Medicare for people at 65 and older
because after pre-existing conditions
age would be the next indicator of your
likelihood of needing health insurance
whether it's prescription drugs or
whatnot and so that's why Joe Lieberman
was all in favor of a 55 and older buy
into Medicare before the ACA because the
business model was broken as the baby
boomers aged the business model became
untenable it was great when all the baby
boomers were thirty and there were less
people who were you know ages 40 to 65
business mom was better but it was
untenable and so this is just a business
that cannot work without government
subsidies and so if we're subsidizing
these companies at one point you're just
like why why why every dollar we give
them we're basically flushing 20 cents
down the down the toilet you wanna tap
into the miracle of the profit motive
Sam I mean it's literally we're flushing
would start kicking in probably more
technically sixteen cents per dollar
down the toilet and getting a subpar
product to boot yeah but would've at the
post office
they're competing to see who can rip
people off the worst yeah but if you
think about it that is literally their
business model that's how they were
awarded by by the stock market which
then just feeds a handful of people who
whose whose compensation is a function
of that so people could always decide to
not go to the doctor so if they were
good consumers if they were good
consumers
