Niomi uh
the your latest book the on fire the
burning case for a green new deal this
is a book that is a compilation of
things that you have written or talks
that you have given over the course of
almost I guess about ten years with a
with an introduction that in and of
itself I feel like could have been its
own short book and let's just I just
want to talk just a little bit about
what what what's the idea behind the
this sort of I guess the the the being
able to watch this argument lay out over
the course of ten years well so I've
been making the case for why responding
to the climate crisis is actually an
opportunity to fix a truly broken
economic system for for a long time now
and so you know as momentum has built
for further green new deal and I've been
writing about about that and speaking
about that over the past year
it just seemed useful to to put it in
the context of where this idea comes
from it is not a brand new idea it's
it's been part of a climate justice
movement for a long time and you the
other reason I guess to sort of have
that ten-year arc for me is it also
shows what what's at stake because in
that short decade we've lost a lot of
ground we've lost the Great Barrier
Reef's we've lost a hell of a lot of
Arctic ice we're losing the Amazon it's
a it's a reminder that even though we
think about we still tend to think about
the climate crisis as this sort of
slow-moving you know disaster that we
have some time to deal with it's really
really speeding up and the more we stall
the more we lose
and it's also just speeding up I mean as
we speak you know a million and a half
people in California don't have
electricity because we are in this is
not a future disaster we are in it
how has and I have to say that you know
one of the things that I think maybe you
know I mean I think I was probably
primed for this on some level but one of
the things that I think that I that I
came away from your book was sort of the
the and maybe part of that is just the
introduction of the the green new deal
is that is to understand that climate
crisis is not something that is siloed
and is in fact even more connected to
all the other issues that we talk about
then I think maybe we we give it credit
for
to what extent I mean to what extent
over the course of those ten years what
was your I guess what was your
trajectory and understanding it that way
so my trajectory is that I don't come
from the environmental side of this you
know I think you and I first talked
probably you know 15 years ago or more
when we were talking about the invasion
of Iraq disaster capitalism the Shock
Doctrine and so you know I'm more of an
economics person a human rights labor
rights person and so that's my
background and and I cut it's not that I
didn't think climate change was an
important issue but I think I told
myself like a lot of people who are
focused on those sort of immediate kind
of emergencies like lives on the line
right now you know I kind of told myself
a couple of things one that climate
change was less urgent and whatever it
was that I was focused on and I also
told myself that
yeah the environmentalist kind of have
it in hand they seem to have a lot of
money compared to the other groups that
I tended to be coming across and so I I
just sort of triage because we live in a
time of multiple
intersecting emergencies and we can't
all focus on all of them you know so I
sort of triaged that one it said let
other people deal with that right and my
wake up call about the sort of
intersections of all these crises was
when I was in New Orleans and I was
there in the aftermath of Katrina the
city was still partially underwater I
was working on the Shock Doctrine and I
was covering the fact that this whole
sort of private military infrastructure
that I had reported on from Iraq the
Halliburton for the back tiles and the
black waters had just immediately
descended on New Orleans in the
aftermath of Katrina as a kind of new
frontier for profiteering and and in
addition to that you had all of these
opportunists descending on the city
which had been evacuated going wow this
is a great opportunity it's a blank
slate let's privatize the school system
let's get rid of public housing and put
up condominiums and much of that
happened so you know what I saw in New
Orleans was this intersection of what
happens when you systematically
starve the public sphere right those
levees should never have broken they
broke because of infrastructure failure
just like by the way the electricity's
grid in California is so vulnerable
because of years of neglect and
privatization and and then and then this
heavy storm comes along breaks the
infrastructure there's no real response
and and you have this overlay of white
supremacy and vigilantes coming in and
and and and there was and the response
is not not let's figure out why this is
happening and try to prevent it from
happening again
it's Oh actually just let's build an
even more unequal society that's going
to be even more brittle in the face of
storms so that's when I realized like
wait climate climate isn't separable
from all these other issues and it isn't
just about things getting wetter and
hotter it's about things getting meaner
more divided uglier and I think frankly
that that's what we're seeing
at the border you know I think we're
seeing that writ large globally right
now with the rise of xenophobia and and
strongmen figures like Donald Trump so
okay and and I'm you know like I feel
like I there's about seven questions I
want to ask simultaneously but so with
this understanding that you know it's
sort of like the the aftermath of a an
event that has been that obviously we
didn't prepare for that is a climate
that is a climate issue didn't prepare
for it in terms of like a certain change
in the climate we didn't prepare for it
in terms of attempting to slow the the
changing climate and then there were
implications after the climate and on
some level like that is you know will
you talk about climate bar barbarism
let's talk about that because it feels
like we are now at least in terms of
folks awareness and and maybe the
development of the climate movement that
we are in a different stage because we
can look around and there is at least to
the extent that you know we're talking
about normal people some recognition
that climate is impacting all of these
things it may not be creating all of
these things but it is intensifying the
implications of all these things and so
I mean talk about barbarism and yeah I
think I think what one way to understand
it is like when you're turning the
temperature up right when when our house
is on fire as gratitude berg says right
everything inside that house gets worse
so if you already have inequality and
intensifies inequality if you already
have valle neural populations they
become more vulnerable and this just
stands to reason you know it's almost
been a year since the Paradise fires in
California and if you look at who died
in those fires it was elderly people it
was disabled people we see Assad this
after after superstorm sandy in New York
who was abandoned in public housing on
the 20th floor when they couldn't get
down and
these people who are already vulnerable
it intensifies those vulnerabilities but
we happen to live in a society that is
pretty okay with it with with an intense
hierarchy of life this is why you know
who it is impacted by police violence is
so unequal it's why who is so imprisoned
is so unequal it's why who doesn't have
health care is so unequal and on and on
and on and so what I'm calling climate
barbarism is really just what happens
when societies that are all read that
have already found justifications for
certain people being sacrificed suddenly
finds itself facing these mega
disruptions and so I don't think it's a
coincidence that at the moment that that
climate change becomes pretty impossible
to deny we have the rise of you know
figures in Europe who justify allowing
thousands of migrants to drown in the
Mediterranean why you have a Donald
Trump who becomes president promising to
build a wall why you know figure like
junior Boston ro comes to power just
running on straight up hate I mean
there's a sense even if people still
claim they deny climate change people
know that we are in a period of
unprecedented mass migration people know
that things aren't getting better
they're getting worse there is a sense
of scarcity in the air and so it's very
easy for these guys to use a formula
that I think we're seeing in many
different countries not just in the US
where you have you know a figure a
strong man figure who says I'm going to
protect the sort of real
fill-in-the-blanks like America's
Israelis Italians Brazilians and and
define these out groups right and pit
people against each other and and talk
about invading armies and so on and we
are also seeing some overt eco fascism
of these are and these are people who
say yes climate change is happening yes
more and more people are going to be on
the move
and that is all the more reason for us
to not just fortress our borders but
inflict tremendous violence on
immigrants and so in New Zealand the
Christchurch terrorist attack at two
mosques where more than 50 people were
murdered at prayer on March 15th of last
year
sorry of this year that was that that
shooter said he called himself in esto
nationalist eco fascist and that is why
he visited a mosque and he then inspired
the el paso shooter who went to a
Walmart and wrote in his manifesto you
know I don't think Americans are going
to change their way of life but not
everybody can have the same way of life
as Americans so that's why he went to a
Walmart which is frequented by Mexicans
like literally to say America Mexicans
can't shop like Americans so this is
this is what I mean by by climate
barbarism this is what it looks like to
adapt to the reality of climate change
without challenging these systems of
white supremacy and other forms of
supremacist logic they just intensify
you know I actually think that we may
someday soon look back with nostalgia on
the days of right-wing climate change
denial well okay yeah that I mean that's
or
have we has the climate movement on some
level to the extent that it's been
constituted in the extent that we have
we have known it for the past I don't
know 15 20 years I feel like we you know
people have been talking about it and
this notion of like you know divestiture
and making people awareness and you know
arguing for the existence of climate
change has that moment I mean it is the
climate movement obviously necessary but
is it now like insufficient insofar as
we are too close to and and already I
mean too close but also to some extent
already in the sort of like problem zone
if you will to sin
we addressed the question of people
acknowledging that it exists right
because the Christ Church like you said
the Christ Church shooter he
acknowledges it exists I'll pass it so I
mean what is the next iteration and to
what extent is it unhelpful to look at
it as climate and more as I mean and
this is where we're about your book is
many respects is about is you get to the
green New Deal
but to what extent is it what has to
happen to that movement both both in
terms of like in real terms but also in
the way that it projects itself to the
rest of the world right so this has
always been too big for the
environmental movement right because it
isn't if this isn't a problem that can
be solved by banning a substance or
protecting a river you know it gets much
much broader than that the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change is the the report that they this
fateful report that is often cited that
came out last year where they said we
had 12 years to cut emissions in half
right I mean in the summary of that
report they said it is technically
possible to cut global emissions in half
in 12 years but it would require
unprecedented transformation in
virtually every aspect of society and
then they went on to listen because our
whole economy is built on fossil fuels
so no the environmental movement is not
equipped to pull off the momentum
required to transform every aspect of
society that's something that is
actually going to require you know
everybody if you know every aspect of
society at the table whether you know
its farmers its workers its its every
possible constituency so I think what's
exciting about the green New Deal
framing is that it reminds us of a time
in US history when there there were
transformations in pretty much every
aspect of society in the face of the
twin threat of that that the Great
Depression and also the Dust Bowl so you
know when we talk about the New Deal
that it's worth remembering that this
was not a couple of policies this was
reregulate in the banking sector it was
it was the Civilian Conservation Corps
that planted 2.3 billion trees it was
electrifying rural America was a massive
Renaissance of public funding from the
art it probably built your local library
it build public housing I mean so it
reminds us that it is possible in the
face of grave threats to transform
society on a pretty short timeline I
mean it was nine years when when these
transformations happened and followed by
that the transformations of the Second
World War which which transformed
American industry and turned it into a
war machine and that's not the co
transformation we need but it is
important to remember that there is that
in the history of the United States
because I think the biggest problem we
have at the moment is not climate change
denial it's it's sort of liberal doom
ISM it's kind of like yeah I get that
it's a problem but there's no way we're
going to get anything done and and plus
people are too short-sighted and too
selfish to change anyway so you know
let's just throw in the towel and
there's a lot of that going around these
days I I don't want to get like two
Quigley here but but but but just from a
conceptual standpoint um what would it
have made sense and and I don't know I
guess people could argue about the
political efficacy of this and maybe you
have a thought about that as well but it
just the green New Deal being called
like a new New Deal
I mean as opposed to sort of like you
know because when it's announced as the
green New Deal people are like why
giving job guarantees I mean is it is it
is part of the value of that that it
teaches people like well these are the
implications of our climate catastrophe
or is it or does it does it limit the
people's understanding of it because
they perceive it is like oh this is
something about climate change which is
sort of siloed like I mean I get like
the idea that it's you know the green
new deal as opposed to the new green
deal right agreement a lot of people say
new green well but that limits it right
I mean because that limits it to a new
deal that deals with the green thing and
doesn't necessarily signal that well no
this is
a societal problem that in many ways is
like a debt that's like you know 150
years overdue we started with a premise
that was problematic in capitalism that
we thought like this could last forever
but it can't yet right well I mean the
way I often talk about it is I mean it's
it's a vision for the next economy
because our current system is failing
and it's failing us on multiple fronts
and climate is just the biggest one is
just the sort of meta one that affects
everybody but but it you know it's also
failing workers it's it's it's you know
it's it's failing it's failing young
people on so many fronts you know I did
when I launched the book I I did the
event at the event with varsity Prakash
who's the executive director of a
sunrise Lisbon and you know has done so
much to put the green ideal on the map
and she was saying that there is such a
huge generational gap around the
appetite for for this kind of change
because her generation has you know came
of age in the rubble of the 2008
financial crisis and they see this
system failing them on every front right
whether it's whether it's jobs you know
whether it's guns in schools whether it
is you know tech companies that don't
protect them from online hate and
misogyny it's just nothing is working
and so the idea that you could have an
an infrastructure for an X system like
an overall system upgrade is actually
really exciting now your question about
whether or not calling it green limits
it
I mean maybe but at this point you know
I think that the real truth is that the
reason why there's pushback is because
there's a lot of money on the line and
this is this is going to cost fossil
fuel companies and the banks that fund
them many many billions of not trillions
of dollars in wealth that they had
planned to exploit as the planet burned
so no matter what you called it they
might be slinging mud on it edit on fox
news plus the fact that the entire
right-wing infrastructure is the entire
thing take
structure exists as a counter-revolution
to the original New Deal so they're
going to hate whatever New Deal it is
because what they hate is public funding
and they hate getting taxed and they
hate having to take responsibility for
anything so the idea that we have a kind
of a branding problem I don't really buy
I think this is ultimately about power
and whatever this was called you know we
would be in the fight of our lives
right I mean and III mentioned that more
just less for about a branding question
and more just like conceptually in terms
of like you know what needs to happen
and to what extent we need to educate
people of this dynamic that you know our
capitalist system was built on a premise
that was faulty and and you can't you
know we went pretty far down the road
till we figured that out on some level
which is that you're we just don't have
these infinite resources we're not going
to be able to you know innovate our way
out of this on some level to what extent
though to is there this question of you
know this sort of I guess I mean I
remember was it Koval the he was a green
candidate and maybe 15 years ago
watching his response to to Al Gore's
movie like a more Inconvenient Truth or
something to that effect was his
documentary which was basically saying
like you know we got a people are gonna
have less I mean on some level like it
would talk about that that notion I mean
it it reminds me on some level with a
caller that we have on this program who
called me years ago when in the wake of
the Affordable Care Act and Vermont's
attempt at going for a medicare-for-all
there where it's like we've got to tell
people there's gonna be more taxes
because we don't want to surprise them
and it's still a benefit but what about
that notion of just like explaining to
people like yeah I mean we're not going
to get rid of hamburgers but we're sort
of gonna get rid of hamburgers yeah I
think
in the book I talk about George mom BIOS
British author and columnist he talks
about the idea of private limits and
public luxury which is the idea that
when it comes to our individual
god-given right to just shop as a way of
life and buy as much disposable crap as
we want and just be free of any kind of
limits whatsoever
yeah that's not that that it that is the
problem and we are going to have to be
honest that there are going to be limits
to how much over consumers can consume
and I stress over consumers because it's
not everybody it's it's you know 70
percent of global emissions come from
the 20 percent richest people so it is
you and me but it isn't everybody and
and and and the reason why I like the
framing of private limits in public
luxury is that it is that what I think
is exciting about really really fleshing
out what a green ideal could mean is
that there are areas where we can have
abundance where where we can have
conditions that are better than what we
have right now which is why I think it
is important that Medicare for all is
part of it the right to child care as
part of it that jobs guarantee is part
of it a new rebooted Civilian
Conservation Corps which is about you
know this original Civilian Conservation
Corps created 800 state parks and about
the right of people to have access to
nature it's why I talk a lot about the
original New Deal's support for the Arts
and the fact that it led to a Rena
Renaissance and American art and tens of
thousands of new works at art in the
country we can have abundance in those
areas they're actually low-carbon and
and you know not necessarily touring art
but but if you say everybody has the
right to art in their local communities
that that that can be done in a pretty
low carbon way I just did an event with
a called care workers climate work where
I brought two back together
nurses and
teachers and homecare workers you know
pointing out that part of the reason why
we don't think of this as green jobs is
because it's done by women but it
actually doesn't burn a lot of carbon to
to take care of each other and and so we
can have big investments in those
sectors we can pay those workers better
this is the fastest growing sector in
our economy actually is it is is
homecare workers because there's an
aging population and this really matters
because you know I mentioned the
paradise fire and the fact that it was
elderly people and disabled people who
died this happens in disaster after
disaster so we are going to face more
disasters we we have emitted enough
carbon that we're things are going to
get hotter even if we do everything
right now things are going to get worse
when it comes to climate change we can't
avoid that and so these investments in
health care and and in that sort of
infrastructure that builds stronger
communities and make sure it makes sure
that that our our public infrastructure
is stronger when the disasters hit it's
not an add-on it's actually how lives
are saved in these disasters I mean
think about Hurricane Maria and Puerto
Rico and the fact that you know
somewhere between 3,000 and 5,000 people
died and in the months after after Maria
it wasn't because of falling debris it
was because of neglected infrastructure
and a broken health care system and
people not being able to plug in their
respirators that's what actually kills
people so there's a lot that we can do
that will make people's lives better in
the day to day which will also save
lives in the context of climate change I
mean just as you describe that notion of
like you know um more parks more sort of
like families getting together taking
care of them you know you know more more
more personal care on some level it it
sounds a little bit you know Leave It to
Beaver ish like I mean it seems like
there is room for sort of a simpler time
you know get back to when it was when
things were a little bit less
complicated I mean on some level that's
that's part of the pitch right well the
truth is that there's a ton of data that
show
that what actually increases well-being
is these types of public investments
like there's a reason why people are
happy in Denmark even though it's like
cold and dark a lot of the year it's
because they have massive investments in
your public recreation and there's these
incredible sort of you know indoor
swimming parks that people can take
their families to and things like that
so I know they believe it Leave It to
Beaver exactly because in some ways
that's antithesis so this suburban
nuclear family everybody in their own
little box you know I think what
actually makes people happy is a sense
of community and and and and deriving
our joy and identity from things other
than just going to the mall which
actually doesn't make people happy I
mean we're in you know a and opioid
crisis an addiction crisis and isolation
and lonliness crisis so a lot of what
was promised as being you know the
American dream and and and the route to
happiness doesn't actually deliver which
is great for capitalism because then you
just go shopping some more and hope that
this time well this will really do the
trick but that sort of those investments
in access to nature access to art
stronger communities less work a shorter
work week so that people have time to
spend with their friends and family you
know I don't know if I'd call it Leave
It to Beaver it's kind of more of a you
know a Mediterranean with his life which
which isn't half bad well I don't want
to get too deep into an argument about
Leave It to Beaver what I what I think
okay because what I think about it I
just think of like kids riding their
bikes and just walking around and it
being sunny and everybody seems to be
relaxed nobody's rushing anywhere I
don't have that quality of like where
life was simple you don't need both
parents necessarily working there was no
you know talk of like what are we gonna
how are we gonna pay the electrical bill
I mean everybody's just seemed to be
content I mean there was obviously a lot
of problems that Leave It to Beaver was
was hiding but just I guess as a as a
kid that was my perception of that world
and on some level you know that is the
that's the type of sentimentality that
sells at least on its surface in this
country I think there's some darker
things underneath it a lot of times but
it would be interesting to see if the
left on some level can at least sell the
wrapping of that and so alright let me
ask you sort of the uh maybe this is a
the the converse question on some level
you you talked about Christchurch and
you wrote this obviously before what
happened in El Paso to what extent do
you think that there is and so part of
this is like you know part of what what
what you argue in the book is that that
we need to have an answer for this sort
of like you know we need to have the the
post Katrina answer before Katrina hits
essentially do you think there is and we
need to do that because we don't want to
leave a vacuum for what took place post
Katrina in New Orleans which was you
know some type of like paramilitary
coming in and then all this
privatization there's not a public
school I think in New Orleans that exist
anymore a lot of people were displaced a
lot of uh people you know never came
back and it just ended up being you know
hedge funds going in there and
privatizing a lot of it to what extent
you know and and I think you know it's
pretty clear that we need to have a
solution even if we're not ready to
implement it yet but to what extent do
you think that there is a I don't know
if I want to call it eco fascist or a
soft eco fascist I mean to what extent
do you think that there is another
solution that the neoliberal regime or
whatever you want to call it has already
started to work on like I mean you know
if the idea is that we need to fill the
void with a competing narrative what do
you think the other narratives are are
out there I mean there's the Eco fascist
one I mean is there is there a soft eco
fascist one that's happening I mean I
guess I say that just cos like it occurs
to me like why do we need a passport now
to go into Canada you know as opposed to
driver's license like if somebody I
realize like it's probably good to do
this now because Canada might get filled
up later
hmm well I don't mean with Canada that
was driving it from the US I can push
the conspiracy even further but I mean I
know I'm just using that as an example
but you know the wild-eyed 3:00 in the
morning when I don't feel well it's like
of course we've done that because we're
gonna take Canada over him we just want
to make sure that we get to choose who
comes in one of the things that I find
interesting is like um the role of
Canada in the in the in the imagination
here and I don't think the Handmaid's
Tale
you know the serve narrative in The
Handmaid's Tale where everybody gets to
just go to Canada and they get there
like you know free health care in their
care package I'm not so sure Canada's
gonna play that role but that's another
conversation well but I mean on some
level it's conceivable that if we head
down this road Canada is going to be to
the States as the states is on some
level I mean obviously there's different
resources and as you know the United
States is to a little bit extreme that
way but I mean is there is there a
another plan that is out there I mean
the Eco fascist has there's we're gonna
just shoot we're doing it literally just
just to echo apartheid or climate
apartheid which is just the sort of
fortress borders and you know the
discourse of legal illegal
security threat you know not security
threat that that has risen up in
Australia the European Union the US and
and and the the mo actually comes from
Australia where I think about a decade
ago the Australian government introduced
this I their Island solution plan to how
to deal with migrants coming to
Australia and the idea was we're not
going to let the boats land we're going
to intercept the boats and we're going
to send migrants to offshore detention
camps on these remote islands they had
one and malroux which is a very small
Pacific island and another on Modest
they are privatized camps they're run by
for-profit companies and the idea is
that you pay these countries who are
poor in and it's a new model of economic
development for desperate countries of
like we'll pay you to be our jailers and
this is sometimes referred to as the
Australian solution and and the European
Union has started to adopt it and so
that's why it became illegal for
humanitarian boats to rescue people off
the off the coast of Italy and and and
Greece because now the European Union
has outsourced the patrols to what they
call what what what is the you know it
in quotes this the the Syrian Coast
Guard I say in quotes because they are
basically warlords and they they
intercept the bows or they don't and
many people are being left to drown but
when but when there is a distress signal
it is the Libyans that go and they take
them to these camps that are
concentration camps where murder where
it where rape and torture are rampant
and now what we're seeing with Trump is
is if something very similar right I
mean Guatemala was a safe third country
essentially or making it down Mexico
right
so make a deal with Honduras make a deal
with El Salvador first you cut aid right
so you increase the desperation and then
you say here's your new model for
economic development you can be the
jailer for migrants and you will give
you some money for it and you'll use our
private contractors for it so I mean
this is not off in the future that we
are seeing this take shape right now
yeah that's uh disturbing um so well
let's I know you just got a couple
minutes here so let's let's let's finish
with something that's maybe a little bit
more hopeful you know at one point I
think it in the book you write that
we're live and I don't know the exact
quote but to something to the effect of
like we're we're here at the last
possible moment to really basically slow
the roll as it were or to address it is
that that optimistic I mean is that
positive I mean what's anxiety I think I
think we should all feel the weight of
what it means to be alive in this moment
in history because we do have a window
and it's not a window to stop climate
change we are in climate change it is
going to get worse but if we are lucky
we have and we do absolutely everything
within our power we we should be able to
stop truly catastrophic unraveling and
the the space in which humans are going
to be able to live on this planet is
going to contract that is part of what
we're dealing with there's going to be
living on less of the globe but we we
have this window and there is something
that is happening out there because
there is a massive generational shift 7
million people participated in the
climate strikes a few weeks ago I think
Greta Jim Berg may well win the Nobel
Prize well no I don't know when this is
airing but we'll find out tomorrow
and probably I shouldn't have said that
but you know it's the kind of numbers
that we're seeing at very very short
notice it speaks to the fact that people
really will really want to do something
and you know we're also seeing it in the
polls I mean I've been writing about
about this issue for a long time and one
of the most frustrating things is that
even among people who say they care
about climate change if you ask them to
rank you if you ask them ask people to
rank their concern they'll reliably
place it last after pretty much
everything else now in the Democratic
primaries you know people are putting it
up there with health care is their
number one concern so there is a shift
and and and for the first time we are
talking about the scale of change that
the crisis actually demands you know
which isn't to say that every candidate
you know vying to lead the Democratic
Party gets it but but a few of them
really do and so this is a game changer
it's never happened before we've only
ever talked about you know what's better
a carb no cap-and-trade or a marginal
carbon tax we have never talked about
the sort of transformation that the
crisis actually demands understanding
that actually this could be you know a
historic job creator we you know we
actually have an opportunity to address
many many crises at the same time if we
do this right if we design this right so
you know I wouldn't say that it's like
sunny optimistic but I do believe we
have a chance to do something that isn't
just better than in a pocket of you know
apocalyptic climate breakdown I actually
think that if we do this right we have a
chance to do something that's better
than Tuesday the book is on fire the
burning case for a green new deal we
will put a link to it at majority FM
Naomi Klein thanks so much for your time
today I really appreciate it thanks Sam
it's always a pleasure to speak with you
take care
