[Music]
the impetus that that drove that guy to
shoot up people although he was also
anti corporate apparently but that was
because that they're letting in
immigrants Tucker Carlson special
exactly right up right up Tucker
Carlson's alley
I mean Tucker Carlson let's face it if
you're Tucker Carlson today I'm sure you
feel bad about the loss of life I mean
look I have no idea what Tucker Carlson
feels but let's just say let's not talk
about Tucker Carlson for just a moment
we'll get to that we'll get to that but
let's not talk about Tucker Carlson
let's just talk about a hypothetical
person all right let's call them
Schmucker Ralston and if you're smug or
alson and you go up and you promote this
notion of an invasion okay and you you
promote this notion of Democrats just
want immigrants in because they're gonna
take over the country by replacing
basically white people with brown people
and they're gonna get all the votes if
you put on this thing that like
corporations don't care about us they're
willing to bring in immigrants and
replace white working people that's the
most disingenuous show ever and if this
Schmucker Crossan or whatever that
hypothetical guy is is saying all this
and then someone hears you and they
regurgitate everything you've been
telling the country for years and they
write it down and they use all your same
language and your same construction in
your same perspective your same disgust
with politicians who are too cowardly to
do anything about it whether they're
Democrats or Republicans
like all of the nuances even I'm sure
you say like oh I wish this guy hadn't
shot all them I wish he did something
else in support of that exact same
agenda I don't know what it would be I
don't know what it would be what would
it be well would it what would it be
because this guy basically regurgitating
not even the same ideology as this
hypothetical person that we're talking
about but also the same frustrations
about politicians aren't going to do
anything about it if you say it's an
invasion how can you look at yourself in
the mirror and say I care about this
land that's being invaded but I'm not
going to do anything about it if it's an
invasion how else do you stop them we
already saw Donald Trump's rally the one
suggestion that was there
here is someone completely unrelated to
the hypothetical character I've just
talked about this guy's name happens to
be Tucker Carlson and he's on Fox News
what's a quarter million people this
isn't an invasion it's terrifying and
you're seeing obviously the okay he's
talking that's the ease using the
invasion of the the people coming across
the border here's here's here's stuart
varney
saying the same thing it's all totally
wrong i'm not gonna call it an invasion
like it or not Jason all right call it
invasion like it or not here's Barney
doing it again this week I'm gonna be
quite as spoken about this I presumably
care attention that middle America that
of American Buddhist accept this
invasion this open borders policy I
simply don't believe that America
accepts that wow they don't they're
gonna go what one of them is gonna go
buy a weapon and he's gonna go into a
Walmart and he's gonna shoot everybody
let's hear Jesse Watters using this
invasion
bade all right as the illegal invasion
at our southern border intensifies AOC
tours one of the overcrowded detention
facilities and makes some wild claims
about what she saw ins yeah but she did
is a wild claim but his a claim of an
invasion where who else I mean that
can't be that has to be it right there's
nobody else saying anything about an
invasion I found it amazing that Nancy
Pelosi is upset that the president is
having an incredible success in being
able to get Mexico to finally come to
the table and cooperate in stopping the
invasion and that's what it is
it's an invasion folks get your weapons
we're being invaded
yours baddest was on our clip of Beto
being played on that guy Tucker Carlson
the president achieved nothing except to
jeopardize the most important trading
relationship that the United States of
America has so in case you're trying to
follow the reasoning at home by asking
Mexico to stop encouraging an illegal
invasion of our country were quote
jeopardizing our relationship with
Mexico folks you're being told that
there's an evasion if I keep telling you
there's a fire that the house is on fire
and you show up with a hose with water
I'm not gonna be like wait what what are
you doing I didn't mean I didn't mean
come up with a hose
I just meant like just be aware there's
a fire there that's what's going on here
he's gonna there here's Pete hagseth I
mean the whole network this was a
talking point president Trump just
announced moments ago that the US has
reached an agreement with Mexico to stop
the invasion it is an invasion of
illegal immigrants and an invasion of
illegal immigrants from Mexico well if
there's an invasion we've got to stop
there in that invasion
the Minutemen yeah I mean it's not like
there's no precedent for this it's just
that this guy was just
like yeah your tactics aren't working
time for me to move on to mind and
specifically there's a really good piece
in The Washington Post by I Shantha
Rohrer
on this specific language of replacement
the great replacement theory which
connects the Trump the rhetoric of the
Trump presidency and the manifesto of at
least the New Zealand terrorists I don't
I haven't really heard those guys in
Charlotte were marching name you will
exactly you will not replace us is the
same thing as this demographic
determinist white supremacy white
anxiety argument I I think it is really
important though more broadly one of the
reasons I've been really appreciating
Cornel West so much right now among many
reasons is that we can sort of his
argument that there is this savage and
murderous from its inception American
tradition and then there's always been
the Liberatore Democratic American
tradition as well and we need to choose
that one and actually win and embrace
what's right yeah it's very dangerous to
act like the only answer is the
precisely well I also want Democrats and
liberals I mean you know the ones who
agree with us anyway to be more
conscious how they talk about the border
because when you use the language of
security you use the language of safety
you use the language of the war on
terror that's not that far from this
kind of white supremacist hysteria that
we're hearing from the right it's maybe
it's quote-unquote smarter right they
don't want a wall they want a smart wall
made with technology that they bought
from Palantir Peter Thiel's company but
it really is a slippery slope to this
like a lot of the infrastructure for
what's happening right now was created
by Obama and Clinton before him so I
just want people well-intentioned people
left liberals social democrats to think
a little bit harder about these things
when they talk about them yeah I mean I
think people have to be aware of the way
that they're framing it and you can have
a secure border in claim but but
just when they talk about them sorry
like when they do the things as well
right well I don't know what they're
doing what they when they when they
grant government contracts a Palantir
for instance yeah I mean I don't think
those are yes I agree they vote for
spending on border security well in this
instance that spending was earmarked
towards trying to provide better
facilities I guess but the idea was that
there was no sort of way of maintaining
the trusting essentially the the Trump
administration as to how they were gonna
use the money
oh sure this is going right to the
nicest suppliers right no right to think
you man they're gonna get Trump branded
supplies everyone happen to be the best
Trump sheets
