[Music]
here really good all over the place can
you pull this now I don't this is very
appreciated somebody I saw this actually
last night
totally I've got about it now ladies and
gentlemen a lot of people are out there
the the new the new libertarians out
there we're talking about you know Oh
Sam cedar he's not he's not libertarian
enough to run in the election let me
tell you something I'm more libertarian
than anybody who's running in the race I
mean would race would run what would run
in the race if I were to run in the race
I've talked to my grandpa Tyrians Hashem
forgive me I am exactly I've talked to
non libertarians and forgive me I have
my own I have a version of
libertarianism that we've been
developing here for years and maybe I'll
come out with it publicly maybe I won't
if I do decide to run for the
libertarian presidential race and I do
decide to run I will unveil my my
platform we I am in consultation with
various folks about my social democratic
libertarianism the utilitarian I am a
utilitarian social democratic
libertarian but also with some touches
and I don't want to be held to that
because we're still working on the
definition because the definition of it
is very important I know a lot of people
are gonna just jump on certain words in
there and say but and are gonna make a
big hey of it but I don't want to be
taken out of context now with that said
there has been a new poll that has been
released and frankly I cannot I don't
know the validity of this poll I saw it
was retweeted by Adam Koch Hesh it was
it is done who does the polling on this
let's see yeah third party wall third
party watch now I don't know this a
thing and so I cannot vouch for this and
we haven't checked it all I'm saying is
that somebody has posted this and it is
a 2020 Green and libertarian primary
polling from March 10th to the 14th
pulled a total of 1231 registered voters
from the Green and libertarian parties
and their opinions on all declared
candidates running for the presidential
nomination of the respective party now I
have yet to I have yet to officially
declared my nomination so I don't know
but I'm a libertarian than anybody who
might run and here is the result of the
polling I come this name right this
could be just name recognition you're
the body but there are five names that
are in the polling Avron waha vermin
supreme John McAfee Adam Koch ash and
Sam cedar and I have just read them in
the reverse order in which they are
listed in this poll I came in first with
forty two point seven four percent now a
lot of this could be name recognition or
it could be an appreciation of my sense
of strong civil libertarian values
combined with a sense of a deep abiding
desire to have freedom almost four
different types of freedoms if you will
which I of course will in the event that
I do run I will be more specific
building this around a four freedoms
concept but but freedom is crucial as
Americans as human beings freedoms
beauty it's and but we will discuss more
of this but it is an interesting thing I
can tell you that this polling result
whether it is actually from an actual
polling outfit or just some guy who
mocked it up online there's some
interesting crosstabs
do we know do we do we know for a fact
that this is real this just looks like a
Google spreadsheet you never know with
the
yeah I feel like it's hard to tell with
libertarian sort of things must be a
website they have the sample size there
in the Green Party they don't even have
Jill Stein is she not running I don't
have time to make I can tell you that
this poll whether it's real or not it's
going to weigh heavily in my decision
well so there was three hundred nine
women Sam surveyed Sam you got 166 of
them Wow
now there was 548 white people versus 73
black people you got thirty four of them
so again the other competition was
khopesh of McAfee so you're doing pretty
well with a lot of that a lot of the I
guess the non-traditional libertarian
vote right that's the concern you're
polling very well with non libertarian
voters is that undermine your electoral
calculus I mean I'm doing better with
with the with I mean I'm doing pretty
good even with the with the white
population
well khopesh is beating you with men
right okay that makes fair enough the
billionaire software developer and
alleged murderer John McAfee was in the
race only only in the Libertarian Party
folks I will say that documentary these
numbers V in Belize is actually usually
these these numbers are consistent with
internal polling that we have so I would
just say that but I don't know if these
numbers are real I just wanted to put it
out there I will be making a decision
within a certain amount of time so I can
assure you stay tuned in to this area
and I will be making a a decision soon
called from a three
