[Music]
reeking of Katie Porter
one of the highlights of Katie Porter is
a tenure brief tenure in Congress at
this point was her questioning of of
Jamie Dimon the CEO of Chase Morgan JP
Morgan and Chase Bank and let's check
out what Chase is is using its Twitter
feed for these days it is to admonish
people for not saving in their bank to
give them helpful advice right and here
it is the chase tweet of the day
this is Monday's motivation coming to
you on a Tuesday you :
why is my balance so low and the bank
account speaks back to you make coffee
at home eat the food that's already in
the fridge Bank count says you don't
need a cab it's only three blocks and
then you say I guess we'll never know
bank account seriously that's why
there's no money in that Bank because
you haven't cut back on things you've
learned your $3 coffee you you you let
the food go to waste do you know the
concept of the panopticon and Foucault
like of this sort of like internal gaze
of surveillance you can easily see all
the cells basically from one central
point right there is it and there's this
way in which it's like not only is that
disgusting and inappropriate we'll you
know explain all the ways that that
Chase benefits from public largesse but
like the way it taps into like a certain
kind of like relentless self-criticism
that people already subject themselves
to which which they shouldn't in a time
of absolutely scarcity like like the
psychology of our time that the response
to record inequality and lack of
opportunity and and basic decency is
like well you shouldn't splurge on a we
just didn't try hard enough that's why
people are poor well now your account
has that seemed a couple
interviews in the past with
ethnographers who have gone across the
country looking at poverty and people
who lost their homes in the in the
financial crisis and one of the things
that was consistent was that they all
thought it was because of personal
choices that they made and did not have
the the bird's-eye view to see like
there were major policies that left them
in these type of situations now jamie
dimon you know obviously doesn't work
the the Twitter feed for Chase Bank but
you know one way that Jamie Dimon
the his bank could have responded would
have been you know you why is my bank
account so low chase because you didn't
get 3.7 billion dollars in additional
profit because of the tax cuts that
Donald Trump I mean could you just
imagine just if even if you were just
you and you got just let's say a quarter
of that less than a billion dollars
worth of benefit from Donald Trump
boy you would you could take that cab if
you in fact you could take that cab just
across the street you could give me a
three million dollar bailout I could
make do with that right and that's
nothing oh yeah you have chump change
you can that's total bullsh 1% of that
and you would be like forget it I'm
gonna buy a coffee every single day boom
even if I don't drink coffee just be
pouring it out on the street but yeah
coffee yeah it's my bailout there's also
other reasons despite not getting a 3.7
billion dollar windfall in the Trump tax
cuts and a Katey Porter points those
reasons out to Jamie Dimon just weeks
ago as they as the bank still sort of
like contends that the reason why you
don't have money is because you're not
cutting back on things enough this woman
had and I apologize you're gonna need to
follow orally she had 24 2425 dollars a
month she rents a one-bedroom apartment
she and her daughter sleep together in
the same room in Irvine California that
average one
apartment is gonna be $1600 she spends
$100 on utilities take away the 1700 and
she has net 725 dollars she's like me
she ties a 2008 minivan and has gas $400
for car expenses and gas net 325 the
Department of Agriculture says a low
cost food budget that is ramen noodles a
low food budget is $400 that leaves her
77 dollars in the red she has a cricket
cell phone the cheapest cell phone she
can get for $40 she's in the red 117
dollars a month she is after school
child care because the bank is open
during normal business hours that's 450
a month that takes her down to negative
five hundred and sixty-seven dollars per
month my question for you mr. diamond is
how should she manage this budget
shortfall while she's working full-time
at your bank I I don't know that all
your numbers are accurate that number as
they start is it generally a starter job
she is a starting employee she has a
six-year-old child this is her first job
you can get those jobs out of high
school and she may have my job one day
she made it mr. diamond she doesn't have
the ability right now to spend your
thirty-one million dollars wholly
sympathetic short 567 what would you
suggest she do I I don't know I have to
think about that would you recommend
that she take out a JPMorgan Chase
credit card and run a deficit I don't
know I'd have to think about it would
you recommend that she overdraft at your
bank and be charged overdraft fees
I don't know I never think about it so I
know you have a lot of love to call up
and have a conversation about her
financial affairs and see if we could be
helpful is the genesis of the idea right
here nobody's to say you know what you
got to do stop taking so many cabs they
have your coffee at home so I went home
and he thought about it and let me first
ask you you partially iced coffee
drinking a lot of those does your kid
need child care uh and chase then
quickly apologizes our Monday motivation
is to get better at Monday motivation
tweets thanks for the feedback Twitter
world
Wow being less poor I mean yes there you
go we get back to like every company has
hired like a handful of agencies for the
same like brand design and ad copy so
like can't we at least get back to like
the Dick Cheney era of like I'm evil
 you and we have to have like chase
be sorry about that we're just gonna go
back to totally pillaging the rest of
the economy and destroyed your life
hashtag case of the Mondays somebody may
have reminded them that they got 25
billion dollars worth of tarp bailout
money taxpayer money I would have liked
now have a phone conversations i mended
that those of you want to call in and
tell me that they they paid that money
back I'll tell you what I'll do you give
me twenty five billion dollars I'll put
it in a CD I will pay you the money back
twelve months later how's that give me
the ability to loan it out you give me
that money at 0% interest and I promise
you I will pay you back in a year and a
half or two years and then you will
never hear from me again I will be
somewhere probably in the coast of
Mexico in my own you know red bed and
breakfast bed and breakfast well I'm
gonna run a little bed-and-breakfast
you're not gonna charge anybody
very Chu I'm already in it yeah depends
it's like you were like sneaking up to
this like you sneak up to the rooftop
pool like no that's the way I don't well
that's easy it's gonna be very very
inexpensive the bed-and-breakfast with
top quality stuff but you get to listen
to me why is it you why isn't anyone
joining me in the commissary yeah hi
I made the commissaries commissaries
open they're lying about the Nellie's
breakfast this morning's gonna be very
exciting you would still do you think
you would just do it once a week that's
what I'm saying I would you know once a
week no I would have a bed and breakfast
and have like captured audience
literally literally that's right you'll
see tonight I know your is locked
outside those nineteenth-century stories
as better breakfast murder it's like
it's like it's a Twilight Zone one way
one way intercom in all the rooms good
morning good morning
it might want a fresh guy because we're
talking about the actuarial report is
Tuesday April 30th podcasting live from
you what you thought was a dream big
