speaking of which let's play cory
booker's oh boy video it's a it's I mean
it's a well done video like I like the
it starts with a drum universal love huh
yeah let's let's just play it play a
little bit of like the FIR I can't watch
the whole thing again but uh let's a
little seven a little bit Sam can we do
those have you not I have not
this is all I wanted to wait to have a
real live reaction to it
all right we're just gonna play it I'm
already nauseous we'll play the first
twenty I'll tell you what we'll play the
first twenty seconds and then the last
twenty seconds and then maybe we'll play
more of it when when Virgil uh sits down
with us but here it is one drunk in
America we have a common pain but what
we're lacking is a sense of common
purpose I know it the only way we can
make change is when people come together
when I was a baby my parents tried to
move us into a neighborhood with great
public schools but Realtors wouldn't
sell us a home because of the color of
our skin a group of white lawyers would
watch the courage of civil rights
activists or inspired to help black
families in their own community
including mine and they changed the
course of my entire life
because in America courage is contagious
my dad told me boy paws every one second
I see winging I don't know I don't know
cory booker's story enough to know what
those white lawyers did yeah helps us as
a family movement to a suburb oh did
they did and I believe that's the story
I want where's that I mean I'm not even
it's a cheap shot maybe but like where's
a picture of him which movie botella
when he's talking about like housing
discrimination it's like no housing
discrimination here but home bulldozing
there it's a little bit early to roll
that out and you're in know I always
appear but but let's go now
fast forward to like you know the last
20 seconds because that's when the
music's really starts to swell there's
more drummers now and go ahead instead
of shuffling more children into cages
and coffins where we see the faces of
our leaders on television and feel pride
not shame it is not a matter of can we
it's a matter of do we have the
collective will the American will I
believe we do together we will channel
or common pain back into our common
purpose together America we will rise so
I'm Cory Booker and I'm running for
president of the United States we know I
you know now part of it is like look I I
have spent a decent amount over the past
30 25 years doing voiceovers and in one
form or another and I can't help but see
him in the studio when he's hitting
every point and the the Poetry Slam that
he went to to to get the cadence like
that and I am Sam cedar saying that and
now but most people won't have that
problem and I know that's sort of Patti
responds to it but Kamala Harris had a
had her big speech 20,000 people that's
pretty impressive Booker has this it
shows some polish but both of these two
candidates are running on sort of like
pretty general stuff now Kamala Harrison
followed it up with a town hall on CNN
where she came out very forcefully for
medicare-for-all and then the next day
sort of not so much
[Music]
and so I don't know what uh what's
what's your sense oh okay so this is
this is my line throughout the entire
primaries I don't like anybody all of
them are going to have like as much as I
like Bernie Sanders Bernie Sanders if he
runs like which we all assume he is he's
got some issues that I just do not like
about him but you know he just came out
I guess BDS unnecessarily so he could
have made its point without even
preferencing it with that he you know he
has a couple of blind spots but I only
bring that up just to say that I don't
like any of them but whoever wins this
primary I'm going to love that person
put on their t-shirt
I'm gonna go door-to-door you can call
me a neoliberal shill and you can thank
me later when we're not hemorrhaging
even more judicial appointments and even
more Supreme Court picks so you know I I
can I can easily jump on on board with
like how much I really really dislike
cory booker i think i got a video out
there called cory booker's trash feel
free to come give me some clicks because
i explained a great detail how
inauthentic he is right phony but man i
will eat my socks and my words if he
gets this nomination i'm gonna put on a
cory booker's t-shirt and I'm gonna go
door and I'm gonna talk with the same
cadence and tenor and my you know and
say you need to go it's almost like a
Jim Kirk like you really need to go vote
for Cory Booker but um but you know
that's that's my take man I'm not in
love with any of these candidates and I
think it's important for us
realistically to not approach this like
one of them are boyfriend or a
girlfriend like we don't have to defend
their honor we just need to you know
let's let's find out these primaries see
who has the best policies realistically
who has the best ground game because
that's what's gonna matter the most and
and then when it's all said and done you
know let's let's let's get this madman
out of the White House I've been in a
committed relationship with Bernie since
2016 but I do you think though when you
look at this video just like he's not as
good in my estimation of performer as
Kamala Harris and he's also good wing
what like you know
Obama did is matter to be boys so rice
president okay that's very logic
there is people but you know what good
two more very revealing because it's so
far as the only actual policy thing or
the only specific thing he talked about
in there is like oh my family we had the
money to buy a house but they wouldn't
sell it to us because of the color of
our skin and that's a problem that he
can help you with if you don't have the
money to buy a house mmm he's probably
out of ideas and that's what it means to
be an evil Jew to be fair he did expand
affordable housing in Newark now there
was also a lot of things that he did
that were not particularly good that he
did in Newark but fortunately for him
Newark was was it mean it remains an
incredibly poor and sort of debilitated
city government now by a progressive
education activist who ran explicitly on
repudiating all of Booker's work yeah
and and fortunately for Booker when when
he came on the scene there it was a
disaster like it is about as disastrous
as it could be but yeah I think your
your your perspective on this is as an
interesting one I guess I have one
question for you in terms of Kamala
Harris which is yeah you know this came
up it seems to me that the there's gonna
be an opportunity for candidates like
her to avoid dealing with going too deep
into the specifics of policies like look
she came out and was forceful and saying
no private insurers and then had to back
off that a day later that to me suggests
that her relationship to that issue was
not necessarily as deep as she wanted to
communicate oh yeah and but I think when
you have 20 people in a race you can
maintain that like you you know you can
hide quite a bit and the one area where
I think that she is not going to be able
to hide and I
and I'm curious as to your perspective
on this is her record her record as a
prosecutor and I yeah I am NOT against
all prosecutors I think right you could
be a very good prosecutor and healthy
like I was hoping Zephyr Teachout would
be one but the question to me is in my
mind is will the black lives matter
folks who are best situated to address
this at least first right with Kamala
Harris the people who have worked in
judicial in criminal justice reform you
know across the board they are best
situated to address this first - Kamala
Harris my question is are they going to
do it yeah it you know it really depends
so - I mean if I'm gonna answer this
question honestly it might open up a can
of worms here so the honest answer is
they probably will and and more than
happily do it because of her clear and
abysmal record you know targeting
truancy and and you know - with policies
that disproportionately affect people of
color because they disproportionately
affect affect uh impoverished
communities and so it's really a slam
dunk
and it's already happening right so
let's be clear like there are plenty of
voices who are not like officially
affiliated with black lives matter who
were speaking out because of just their
personal opinion with regard to Kamala
and her and her track record and and
more importantly her her attempt to spin
herself to be a progressive prosecutor
which she was not so it's already
happening it's going to continue to
happen but we're where it gets
complicated is is if there is this
expectation that they have to do it for
one because then they'll you know I mean
realistic may be like well no I don't
have to do it you know if I feel like
doing it I will and is that petty yeah
but it's also a dynamic that you have to
keep in mind like you know if the
expectation is for black lives matter to
save you all from Kamala Harris then
then that's not gonna that's not gonna
resonate really well with with us
and I just I just use that kind of like
categorically I'm not even affiliated
with black lives matter to be sure but
um but but but you know just just keep
that in mind that people are doing it
individually but um you know everybody
pitched in and if you really just like
Kamala as much as you probably should
let's just uh just keep putting keep
replete repeating her videos over and
over again I think they speak for
themselves yeah I think so and I think I
think once that what once that wall is
breached right from one she is put on
the defensive for her process or her
record as a prosecutor then you're gonna
start to see the people who are coming
in saying like and here's who you didn't
prosecute right yeah because that's
gonna open up a whole nother group of
folks because if she gets lumped in with
Booker as a friend of big finance that
is going to set up that's ultimately
going to be the dividing line but we
shall see and we're going to talk more
about this with Virgil Texas in a minute
but
