oh this is this is actually encouraging
like I'm not I'm not the biggest jay
inslee uh you know proponent but this I
thought was a very good media appearance
I understand why more so why politicians
would go on a program like this because
you're trying to you're trying to reach
as many people as possible and I don't
think I mean I think there is definitely
an open case as to whether or not
politicians should go on to a fox I
certainly don't think others should go
on to Fox unless there is in some way at
odds with the narrative that Fox wants
to push and Inslee seemingly seems to
not not be at odds but is really rolling
over Steve Doocy here Steve Doocy
thought that he was getting the the
lightweight assignment I'm talking about
the green new deal but here is and I
love the chyron 20/20 hopeful makes the
case for climate change regional leader
not a pessimistic one in the White House
I think I'm ready for that job this
country needs a spark of optimism all
right
a lot to unpack with that are you
suggesting that climate change is why
there's flooding out in Nebraska right
now
yeah the science is really abundantly
clear on this we need a president who
believes in science and gravity and the
climate change modeling by the
scientists are clear it's going to cause
more forest fires it's going to cause
more flooding at the same time in
various places more drought rate and so
we're getting it on both ends of the
situation here I met a scientist from
university Washington last night who
suggested that we ought to believe both
in climate science and gravity look if
you went to 10 doctors and we all told
you you had cancer you don't sit there
and deny it it's time to have science
this is a sign
differently literate country and we need
a scientifically literate president who
really believes in the can-do spirit of
this nation well I intend to be that
president well I grew up in Kansas which
is right next to Nebraska I remember 50
years ago the flooding then so you know
I don't know that people were talking
about climate change back then but
that's why they weren't they work but
they're taking it about it now when you
run your towns burning down when your
towns burning down the people of
paradise California are talking about
climate change and they deserve a
president who protect them rather than
the oil industries and I'm tired of
putting out billions of dollars to the
fossil fuel industry and the lobbyists
that he's put in charge of this nation
he wanted to drain the swamp he's put
the swamp in charge of our tax policy
it's just wrong
uh Steve Doocy just officially got a
pathetically steamrolled that was pretty
impressive I mean that you know intially
going around with that I you know maybe
there's a climate change SAR in the next
administration if we're lucky and
someone like that seems to be to be well
suited to because this is obviously a
tremendous emergency people believe in
it like my friend's dad in rural Rhode
Island who's a trump supporter and has a
ton of guns I kind of take him as a
bellwether for a lot of this stuff even
he believes in climate change now and he
cares about it because he likes to go
out in nature and hunt has never been
for a long time it hasn't been about
that the people are divided on this
issue is that the powerful are
