so Eric when we broke we were talking
about this what I think you said was an
extraordinary time in terms of Labor
activity that we have not seen at least
in terms of just sheer numbers of
workers who have participated in in some
form of strike or work action in 2018
since the mid-1980s and I suspect we may
see in 2019 that record broken as well
we had mentioned already that this year
we had the LA teachers strike we had
talked about the power that labor had in
reopening the government and not just
federal employees but private in the
private sector in terms of flight
attendants and their union but let's the
last time you and I spoke was during the
LA teachers strike let's just that catch
us up on how that resolved and then
let's talk about this Denver strike
that's taking place right so the short
version is the LA strike was a
resounding victory and in my opinion it
was the really by far the best organized
and most powerful of all of the strikes
we've seen since West Virginia UT away
the teachers union they're like a Big
Red Machine they organized the city
that's very hard to organize and they
did it through four years of buildup and
the proof was in the pudding day they
were able to win not only their major
demands around class sizes a nurse and
every school more counselors but they
were able to actually push forward an
agenda and get real steps around
reversing the Charter is a ssin in LA
and California wide so they did that
against a really powerful enemy to
awesome Buettner billionaire
superintendent backed by forces of
privatization so that they were able to
defeat that interest group backed by
really big funders was really remarkable
and it sets the stage now I think for
what you're continuing to see is a
spread of the strike wave to blue cities
and blue states so Denver right now but
I'll
Oakland is gonna be going out on strike
later this month Wow okay so let's get
back to Oakland in a moment tell us
what's going on in Denver this strike
has been going on since Monday of this
week what why are the Denver Teachers
striking how many how many people are we
talking about yeah we're talking about
6,000 school workers tens of thousands
of students affected and they've shut
down the school system for demands that
are actually quite similar in many
respects to the types of demands we saw
in places like Oklahoma or West Virginia
and Arizona where the question of just
being able to make a living wage is
central but made demand right now in
Denver is just for a living wage from
teachers against the district that which
like in LA was taken over by privatizes
about a decade ago and which is
systematically really dismantled the
public school system most students
aren't even in traditional public
schools anymore and so one effect of
that is wages of declined rights at the
workplace have declined and so in some
ways that the question of the strike
right now even though it's specifically
around wages do that kind of complicated
bargaining Caraga tubs they can't
actually at this point raise demands
beyond wages for contract reasons but in
many ways it's a proxy war for this
broader battle of the teachers to push
back answer the private eyes in Denver
which like LA has been subjected to kind
of the corporate education reform for
many years now
you know let's talk about that corporate
education reform agenda because in in
Denver if I'm not mistaken they have a
form of so-called merit pay now merit
pay sounds good you know but it in in
practice it ends up being not only
oppressive to the teachers but it ends
up hurting their educational mission in
the classroom just tell us what that is
yeah basically merit pay means that you
if you're a teacher you're your pay is
pegged to some sort of metric mostly
standardized testing that's what it is
Denver and the result is that teachers
in order to survive end up having to
teach to the test the actual amount of
teaching the classroom is dropped
precipitously because there's a
tremendous amount of focus on
standardized testing and a lot of
paperwork
that's entailed and the the item is that
is neither been shown to raise test
scores because even if you think that
test scores are a good metric for
student learning which I don't in which
many experts don't even if you think
that's true it hasn't actually raised
test scores in Denver nor has it done
what the district says it wants to do
which is to give merit pay for really
high needs low-income schools the data
shows that teachers the extra pay that
they're getting from a bonus to teach at
these schools is not is not sufficient
to get them to stay because it's not
really about pay for them it's about you
know being able to do a good job
teaching and to be able to really give
the students the type of education they
deserve but without resources just a
little bit more pay isn't going to do it
and it basically just incentivizes the
teachers to throw out any other sort of
educational philosophies or approaches
and just teach to the test because their
jobs are on the line in that instance
yeah I mean it's really demoralizing
experience for everybody involved for
students and teachers well you know
wonder that one of the teachers I spoke
with just yesterday he said basically
that the merit pay system and you know
this emphasis on standardized testing he
said it it's taken the joy out of the
classroom you know maybe there's not
always right in the classroom but
there's usually enough to you know keep
it going and the the the corporate
reformers have done a good job of eating
it out as the father of a of a couple of
public school kids I can tell you that
when the high-stakes testing was the
order of the day in New York it was the
the the kids as young as the you know as
a third grade could it could could sense
that they were doing nothing but focused
on the on the test because the the
teachers were so stressed out about it
all right well let's tell us so so this
is ongoing what do you think their
chances of winning are I mean how how
cohesive
is this union and where else are they
getting support from well they've done
massive support I mean one of the one of
the really interesting things about the
Denver strike that sets it apart from
other places is that for reasons that to
be honest I don't quite understand yet
the level of student activism has been
off the charts students organized
sit-ins even in the lead-up to the
strike to support their teachers and
just yesterday instead of instead of
going directly to the picket lines the
students actually made a point of going
into school to prove that the school
couldn't function at their teachers and
sure enough it became a chaotic very
quickly and some some of your listeners
might have seen the video that went
viral of a dance party in support of the
teachers in East High
and so you using a real kind of student
upsurge the parents are supporting the
latest poll has the support for the
strike at hovering around 80 percent so
the teachers are feeling very yeah
she-she's I think very confident they're
going to win but you know you never know
how it plays out with this the district
might wait them out but at least at this
point people are feeling confident that
what they're asking for is really quite
reasonable and that they have the
support to win it all right we have
about a minute left tell us about the
the next strike you anticipate well the
next strike is definitely going to be
Oakland the question is just when
whether it be a next record the final
week in February again like LA like
Denver this is a city that's been
decimated by the privatized errs and the
Union is fighting back talking strike
action and I think we should expect it
to be really one of the more explosive
and exciting strikes extreme so far I
mean I get my sense is is that you know
and I had a chance to speak to some of
these aft teachers in in Pittsburgh at
their conference over I guess it was
maybe in the fall and there was a there
was a broad sense that the that for too
long teachers had left this arrow
essentially in its in their quiver to
long and they were feeling like this is
something that needs to be used more
often this is all happening in the wake
of the janice decision which
theoretically cuts into the the funding
of unions probably to some degree
in practice so this would be a rather
intense year in 2019 and Eric Blanc I
imagine that we're going to be talking
more so thanks so much for for letting
us know about this Denver strike and
this upcoming Oakland one
