[Music]
I've got a new answer to for our buddy
who didn't want a band didn't want to
ban assault weapons because banning
assault weapons won't help gun control
in any way or won't diminish well I have
a new answer and it was basically
provided to me by Senator Pat Toomey
I'll let Pat Toomey explain part of it
the shooter in Dayton had to over 240
rounds at his disposal when he was shot
and killed he had the capacity to kill
many more are you making any calls or
recommendations on changing laws
pertaining to that so my focus is on
keeping guns out of the hands of people
who should not have guns people who have
no legal right to a firearm you know
guns that are described as assault
weapons are almost invariably no more
powerful than ordinary hunting rifles
they they look different you know
they're painted black and they've got
features that an ordinary hunting rifle
doesn't have but they're no more lethal
and what about and they're extremely
popular and so to ban an extremely
popular firearm I'm not going to support
that that would be an infringement on
the rights of law-abiding citizens
there's also five to ten million of them
at least already on the streets entangle
million firearms in total so I don't
know never get rid of all the guns and
then no one that's right and it's in the
cottage north nor should we be cop I
love the idea that because they're
popular there in the Constitution
they're there right because they're
popular I mean the fact of the matter is
the Supreme Court has ruled you can ban
stuff that is not used in normal use and
alcohol was pretty popular for a while
they ruled that you can't ban stuff
that's popular well it's true you can't
the Supreme Court has ruled that if it's
in within normal use which is sort of
like popular you cannot ban it and it's
a fairly relatively new
nomina that these assault weapons are
because there was a ban on them up until
George Bush reversed it
bless his heart and but I would say that
to the extent that you can ban them as
allowed by law that a bunch of them are
already on the streets makes no sense as
to why you wouldn't stop more of them
coming in right like you could say like
oh my house is flooded up until two feet
might as well let another six feet of or
just a continual flow of water blow
through my home no you wouldn't say that
but I would also say the value of
banning these popular weapons is it
takes market it takes a market away from
these very very bad companies that are
making money off of the deaths of
toddlers people suicides obviously these
mass shootings and the less money they
have the less ability they'll have to
impact our laws and so I think it's just
worthwhile to do that right there I
would just keep out ban whatever they're
selling that you can ban I would ban I
just have a problem with the word common
sense right because when you say common
sense first you sort of have to ask what
common is do you follow the thing yeah I
do
find common are still doing this would
you define Commons freedom common
freedom what is common freedom to you
common freedom what is common freedom to
you know I have no idea what common free
right but then you want the government
to take away people's guts I mean do you
sort of see the contradiction there I
see a little bit of what you're saying
it's common freedom if I wanted to send
my dad a semi-automatic machine gun and
a copy of hustler what would this mean
for that I think that guy I hope that
guy gets paid
