[Music]
all right
speaking of hoax let's just play this
and then we'll get to Bernie on Rogen
that's exciting
what what is this do we know who she is
I do you want do we want to know who she
is no I guess not but like do we know
what context like was she posting this
to Twitter and mastering bumble no I did
not mess with your pop up this video now
where was this Brendan was it just on
Twitter this was on Twitter I believe
shared by will summer and the people who
are most chronicling Kuhn on now what I
don't understand is like she driving why
she live stream always driving yeah like
what's going on with that Thunderbird
I've just arrived at Safranski is in an
SUV as far as I can tell looks like with
a big big sunroof not even a sunroof
it's looking like a moonroof and here is
I mean this is nuts
and if there's a lot of this going on
out there and there's reason to believe
there is apparently was just one of the
Trump one of the Trump sort of ads
they'd ran with like had multiple
sightings of Kuhn on signs in it because
they like this stuff it's helpful to
them gotta be careful folks because all
a lot of campaigns like this conspiracy
theory stuff but this is scary here is
this random woman who posted this to
some social media I don't she live
streamed it or what but she's explaining
questions about Q and on and wowza
please remember where you were and the
circumstances very first time you ever
asked who or what is cute and here's why
he focused on the camera
q is U and Q is me Q is logic Q is a
plan to save the world
she was not a secret but Q is secretive
carefully-crafted
secret education that anyone can have
access to
q one day we'll be in every history book
q is the best thing that has ever
happened to you
so remember remember this moment
permanently I that is the one of the
creepiest things I think I've ever seen
like I yeah I thought when I first watch
that I thought oh god I know how this
ends right she just like hits a button
and the car explodes or something or she
slams into an oil tanker or something
ler and where are you playing and
sending your son to college look at me
I'm sorry I just do it a bubble date
with that woman
oh well fasten I would but and also not
the I mean that's super scary yeah
because here is somebody I mean uh she
does not you know the the the narrative
of the economic anxiety she she she's
driving what looks like to me like some
big Escalade type of yeah that is
Trump's base you're not unemployed coal
miners they're like small business
tyrants driving an Escalade but it's
also stunning that like someone like
that like me we don't have to be
horrible things going on our life that
she needs something like that so no I
don't well exactly so that's actually if
you grow out the conversation that like
this whole like I mean look I think
there's definitely people in economic
anxiety that are that's a very serious
thing I don't want to discount that
right that's actually matters that
that's like kind of the core of my
politics but if you look at it but the
broader concept of something like
alienation or sociological problems or
psychological issues and material
conditions does not just mean that
somebody's broke therefore they do it oh
absolutely and that's why I said the
other day that socialism would actually
help the ones on top as well even if
they don't realize it and even if we're
gonna have to fight them because having
a less alienated society I have to
believe people would there would be less
pinwheel I'd crazy people talking about
queueing on and mainly maybe I'm not a
hundred percent convinced about that but
think I mean if you look at places where
though this type of thing
ishes I mean there's a lot of broader
non alternatives right like if you look
at like Saudi as an example I mean
there's only like and obviously it's
much more extreme than here but like
there's a reason there's such a
proliferation of such narrow and wild
and extreme narratives there isn't any
other pressure valves right and some
people believe it or not experience our
own society in the same way even though
obviously there's more options than
Saudi but they have a similar experience
yeah I mean I think gun they adopt the
pre-existing poison either already in
the system yeah I mean I think there is
definitely people out there who are
overwhelmed by modernity and they want
an explanation for everything and the
secret knowledge provides it I mean I
think that's why people turn to religion
to a large extent too it's like hey I
wake up in the morning and I got a half
a dozen questions I don't have to deal
with because if I have a set of rules or
I have some type of secret knowledge
that's gonna answer these questions for
me when they come up sometimes it's like
what am I gonna wear today I I don't
have to worry about it I'm a
fundamentalist I have wear the same
thing every day
there's another example of why a left
answer can be at times you know
extremely helpful because if you have
over complexity and then there's a
right-wing narrative that simplifies it
in a toxic way and then on the other
hand there's a everybody gets health
care we're gonna cancel debt you know
there's the appeal or even frankly that
is why ninety nine verse one percent
really is an enduring beautiful
formulation there's a lot of truth that
that covers and it's not that
complicated
