[Music]
Donald Trump we don't have that clip of
Donald Trump
not being aware that there were
protesters in in in Britain but here is
Laura Ingraham and there is a real
concerted effort by by Trump and by
apparently those on Fox to in some way
deny the fact that Donald Trump has been
met with thousands upon thousands of
protesters there's there was footage of
Trump completely denying it saying like
I didn't hear about here it is yes there
every news outlet has basically said
this is just not true there were
thousands of protesters and nobody was
cheering for Donald Trump and Trump
realizes there are two different
narratives there are two different media
ties and we were saying this quite a bit
a year or two ago I feel like and we've
sort of forgot but that moment where
that woman at the Jason the the Amash
Town Hall worries she's like I had no
idea that was anything negative about
Trump in the Muller report no idea she
is involved enough to go to see her
Congress person speak what percentage of
the American public does that right so
she's that much of an informed voter
here's the weird dynamic she is not a
low information voters
she is a narrow information voter and
they have figured this out that their
core audience does not listen to any
other media outside themselves and
therefore they can create a narrative
that it doesn't matter that other people
are reporting
something that is diametrically opposite
that here is Donald Trump saying I
didn't see any protesters what far as
the protests I have to tell you because
I commented on and yesterday we left the
prime minister the Queen the royal
family there were thousands of people on
the streets cheering and even coming
over today there were thousands of
people cheering and then I heard that
there were protests I said where are the
protests I don't see any protest I did
see a small protest today when I came
very small so a lot of it is fake news I
hate to say but you saw the the people
waving the American flag waving your
flag it was tremendous spirit and love
there was great love it was an alliance
and I didn't see the protesters or till
just a little while ago and it was a
very very small group of people put in
for political reasons so put in for
political reasons yeah exactly
there was about a hundred thousand hours
conservatively 75,000 people and one guy
put a penis shape in his lawn right from
blonde over just so trumpets plays yes
yes I know I know just reiterating I
don't I don't know that that was love
well I mean but it was crystal clear yes
crystal clear his favorite phrases I
think but but this is this is this is I
think effective that is the clip that
they're going to be playing on Fox News
and they're gonna say like the president
was absolutely right and it's going to
be effective I mean this is one of the
difficulties when this looks like love
yeah this is yeah there's a picture of I
mean people
we should tell you our shakers yeah this
house a cop this is one of the
difficulties that I think is
underestimated in the calculations of
candidates that are trying to convince
Trump voters to switch back that you
don't necessarily have a way of reaching
them in the way that you think you do
now it's possible there's marginal
things and you know but largely I think
a lot of this is talk radio
you know Fox's couple million five
million ten minute I don't know but talk
radio is much bigger with that said
there's this ongoing program Donald
Trump as we mentioned sitting with
Teresa may standing with Teresa may
claiming like I didn't see any protests
well that's position a but just in case
any of the fox viewers saw the protests
on other stations there is there's a
position be it's sort of like this is
the this may be the Alamo here is Laura
Ingraham queen of the Alamo the protests
went just a bit too far they've labeled
them every east every negative every
pejorative you can imagine and I got the
sense out there the few Brits I actually
met most of people didn't seem British a
lot of people were more from outside of
London
just fine but they every one second
first of all Britain is bigger than
London but I think the idea that she was
saying maybe they were outside of
Britain like she was basically saying
they weren't white go all the way back
so she's basically saying that I'm gonna
say saying it saying it Tess went just a
bit too far they've labeled them every
east every negative every pejorative you
can imagine and I got the sense out
there are the few Brits I actually met
most of people didn't seem British a lot
of people were
just fine but they even some people like
if they were watching the protests
seemed a little uncomfortable about what
was unfolding hmm I tell you what I love
all of the just like impressionistic
nonsense of like well it didn't sing him
and it didn't feel but I will say from
watching laura ingraham and and that's
one of the really painful counterman
intuitive things that I have to do in
this job from time to time a tremendous
meditative excuse game apologies
I think even the fact that she's after
making that dog foghorn that she said
and that's okay
keep calling our advertisers Oh daddy a
little in the armor you got there
without a doubt I'm sure some of them
were good people but yeah he's not
somebody who does she does not usually
pull of course it's definitely having an
impact but it is fascinating like well
okay there may have been protests she
says but they weren't really genuine
people
