so shy there is obviously you know a lot
of questions I imagine that you come
across some measure of skepticism in
some quarters as to why you would be
challenging Nancy Pelosi both in terms
of she's obviously rather well-funded
but also many people have a perception
of her that in the in the context of the
the Democratic party that she's
progressive I think people would would
say you know she she was originally a
member of the progressive caucus why why
are you primary ngering speaker Pelosi
from the left because after Democratic
Speaker of the House unfortunately she
all too often supports conservative
policies and conservative figures she
protects the president a criminal
president from impeachment she's funded
voluntarily without being coerced today
Trump's concentration camps without
securing any protections for Human
Rights she's insisted upon Republican
fiscal austerity rules that constrain
the progressive aspirations of the
emerging House Majority the largest
caucus in the House the Congressional
Progressive Caucus is one that she
co-founded yet she consistently turns a
deaf ear to that caucuses interest you
know speaker Pelosi is a avowed opponent
of universal health care she derives
robust solutions to the mounting global
climate crisis she presided over a
historical collapse in federal spending
on affordable housing she helped sweep
CIA torture under the rug she funded
Bush's Wars I could go on but the
reputation she has as a progressive is
entirely undeserved by today's standards
she may have been a progressive by
yesterday standards and I appreciate the
work that she's done over the course of
her 30-year career but because there is
anything that is increasingly clear with
every passing day in our country it is
that we need a transition and leadership
a generationally to
people who are more acquainted with the
experience of working people - people
who are more concerned about the future
and the various mounting environmental
constitutional international crises that
the failed leadership of the past
continues unfortunately to create and
fester instead of fixing and that's why
I'm here
let's let's let's talk about a couple of
those I know that you you took a tour of
of one of these concentration camps down
at the border with children and we
should say that you're specifically
referencing the four point I think it's
six or poro four point nine billion
dollar bill that is funding
theoretically the the expansion and
providing resources to house children to
basically imprison them there were
progressive defect and legally imprison
them I mean that's a work thing worth
noting as if we have no authority to
detain these people right this is an
illegal enterprise from the outset that
speaker Pelosi could have defunded like
she could have defunded Bush's illegal
wars but at every opportunity to support
a military industrial complex even when
it undermines human rights again
unfortunately speaker Pelosi has has not
been on the side of this city
she's instead represented the Beltway in
Washington why do you think that I mean
why do you think that message has not
gotten out and or let me let me rephrase
that
to what extent do you think your message
is getting out yeah well I mean honestly
I do because I think that like there's
listen we are living in a different era
now as you say and the for many many
years those of us on the Left have been
told this is the best we can do
III have ideas you know Barack Obama
famously said you know if we had a
different situation in America we could
have Medicare for all he said that back
in 2008 he sees since said a different
thing in 2018 that it's it's it's an
idea whose time has come but but at that
time you know we are always told
on the left that we are proposing by
many in the Democratic Party we are
proposing as much as the as left as we
can go but that has shifted and it does
seem like Nancy Pelosi has not shifted
along with it to what extent do you
think that message is is that people
understand that concept and then to the
extent that anybody doesn't in your
district
how will you let them know that yeah our
message is certainly out there and I
wouldn't even say it's taken me to
deliver it I've only half-joking we said
publicly that speaker Pelosi appears to
be campaigning on my behalf recently and
and it's very much to the point that
you're making she is revealing a
relative conservatism implicit in her
not just policy and not just a
representation or her rhetoric but is
her entire paradigm as you were
reflecting you know the progressives of
today are much bolder than those who
preceded us and what you're ultimately
reflecting on and I think what the body
politic is only only now starting to
understand beyond the context of Bernie
Swick 2016 beyond the context of
Alexandra Ocasio courses in 2018 is that
we are living through a generational
transition in American politics and it
will be an earthquake by the time it is
done the boomers will be gone the
Millennials who are already the largest
generational voting bloc and that's why
Bernie did so well in 2016 that's why
he'll be the next president it's why
speaker Pelosi's career is nearing its
end and it's why I'm increasingly poised
to replace her in terms of how do we get
the message out across the district it's
a combination of ground game traditional
media engagement the conversation we're
having a host very robust social media
outreach and our ground game is stronger
than it ever got in 2018 in 2018 I got
as many votes as representative Ocasio
Cortez did in her primary in three
months without any media attention we
have a full year this time we're getting
media attention we have nearly daily
mobilizations hundreds of volunteers
there signs up all over the city and
we're still a year out from the election
so I have a great deal
of confidence that unless Speaker Pelosi
recovers a willingness to represent the
district which is to say if she
continues representing the beltway first
she will number her own days in the
house and I'm very eager certainly to
offer the voters of San Francisco an
alternative and having received the
support were four thousand donors now
from across the city across the Bay Area
of the state and even the entire country
were increasingly poised to liberate the
seat that's exactly what I plan to do
it's interesting because I think to a
certain extent there was a parody of
Nancy Pelosi developed by the write and
was not and frankly I don't think it was
terribly successful at least not
recently maybe maybe it was more so back
in in in the day but nevertheless that
the sort of the corruption of the Bush
administration still brought her to the
speakership but there was a parody of
Nancy Pelosi based upon the idea of San
Francisco that she represented San
Francisco politics and and presumably
that was the right using homophobia as a
as some type of tool yeah as a dog
whistle and and what's interesting is
that and I don't want to overstate this
but the electoral salience of like the
question of marriage equality seems to
be essentially gone I don't want to say
that there is that homophobia is in any
way eradicated or the desire for people
to turn back the clock is is radically
over felt decision it's off the table
right it's been constitutionally decided
by the supreme court yes and it's you
know knock on wood there's you know they
don't get another seat and they don't
start revisiting settled law but
regardless at this point it no longer
has the salience and I wonder if to a
certain extent progressives bought in to
the right-wing frame and just simply
assume that Nancy Pelosi is is
representing their their interests but
let's take a break here and when we come
back I want
talk about some specifics about Nancy
Pelosi you mentioned a reference to Pago
I want to talk about that and what the
implications are and then I want to talk
about the the relevance of this I want
to get a little more deeply into the
relevance of this race to people outside
of your district
