yesterday it was revealed and Andrew
Cuomo bill de blasio some union reps at
a press conference in New York City that
new young New York had won the lottery
they were splitting it half the water
yeah Mega Millions they're splitting it
with a place outside of Washington DC
and the details of the plan are
essentially that New York is providing
at least and I'm seeing higher numbers
because here's the thing this is the
plan right I mean this is not the
exactly the same thing as Foxconn
although the way these things go is
generally in the same trend you make the
deal then the jobs don't quite reach the
amount that they're going to be but the
costs get exceeded I mean this let's
just put it this way the numbers they
announced today I guarantee you will go
in opposite directions the cost to the
to the city and the state will go up and
the the supposed benefits will go down
because and we know this because every
single type of incentive deal like this
that takes place anywhere that's the
trend that it goes but even if you are
convinced that it's still worth it I got
a buddy of mine who is convinced that
it's it's a good deal
ah it's a good deal we make deals he's
in tech and I are these natural herbs I
have no doubt I have no doubt that this
will increase the size of the tech
industry in New York I'm sure it will
cool the point is at what the point is
at what cost
I mean even if you think it's superb
specifically but but but the the problem
with this is what it does to the broader
community and ALC does not represent
Long Island City as a listener corrected
me on but the implications of it are
going to spread out I mean this is the
way it happens right like as soon as
Long Island City gets priced out and and
and in metropolitan New York has already
driven out hundreds of thousands if not
close to a million middle-class folks
because it's just simply too expensive
and this is going to maintain that that
that trajectory ALC came out and said
this is a billion dollar company the
idea that it will receive hundreds of
millions of dollars in tax breaks at a
time when our subway is crumbling our
communities need more investment not
less is extremely concerning to
residents here yeah at the very least
but but let's be fair Stuart Varney of
Fox Business visited Fox and Friends
today to make the substantive case as to
why New York City needs us now remember
okay
maybe amazon would go somewhere else if
there was no incentives and I say maybe
because it's quite clear amazon needs
New York far more than New York needs
Amazon there's a reason why they chose
these two places because they want to be
near the the seats of power in this
country they don't want to be the
primary they don't want to go to a place
where they dominate the the scene like
they do in Seattle because it causes too
much scrutiny on them I really thought
Tulsa had a chance well that's the thing
if you go to a city like that you're
expected to do something for the
community honestly and here nobody's
gonna be saying like where's Amazon
contributing they're gonna throw a
couple bones but this is a this is a
trillion dollar company
maybe trillion is a little bit much but
it's we're talking this is
and a company worth billions upon
billions of dollars the idea that they
need a subsidy to come here is is a joke
but nevertheless New York does not need
Amazon however let's hear the argument
from the other side there could be a
very substantive argument here as to why
we should be investing in Amazon this is
putting aside all the other problems
that we might have with Amazon any
argument I can make about Amazon three
days ago I still make that the company
itself is problematic in terms of its
size we had an interview when was that
Brendan that we had on from the the
woman from Portland Maine and what what
was yeah Mitchell and about Amazon's
attempt to become the market not just
dominate a market but to become the
market but putting all that aside let's
hear the argument as to why it's a good
thing here the young lady does not
understand growth you got a grow a
business
she doesn't understand growing a
business you got to put money in to get
money and some of them is the one second
now positive for one second now I don't
know what business he's talking about
Amazon that business is growing but it's
not the business of the state of New
York to grow Amazon all right Amazon's
going to grow anyways
that's a big part of the problem now
maybe he's talking about New York State
as growing a business but New York State
is not a business it's a state and the
mission of New York State is not to
increase its GDP the mission of New York
State is to help the lives of its
citizens no you guys can agree to
disagree on that one we can do agree to
disagree but let's hear Varney's come on
this is gonna be we
want to be fair and balanced here let
him have his econ 101 here we go
understand growing a business you got to
put money in to get money and some of
the money does go to infrastructure
right absolutely it does infrastructure
new high school they're gonna build a
school but the price per job is
something like 48 thousand dollars per
job that New York is giving up in tax
actually it's 61 thousand dollars per
job in New York City which is a very
stiff price I think it's worth it
because to bring in a company like that
with all that money you can say no go
someplace else so if they're giving up
60 thousand per employee what is the
average employee make there I don't know
I simply don't know what what kind of
employees I don't know I do know that so
that's the argument I'm I don't know the
details just know like what are you
gonna do say go somewhere else I minored
in economics at Bates and I hated the
numbers but I did end up acing my finals
with a see where he gets you go
somewhere else argument go somewhere
else how much is it gonna cost me I
don't know like you understand economist
dynamics very well yeah man it's
expensive yes I also like how he
basically is making all these Kenzi and
arguments all of a sudden what I like
it's like whoa you're saying all of a
sudden we aren't worrying about spending
and we're not being tightwads because
you have to spend something to make
something I guess this only applies when
you're giving corporate welfare here's
the point if New York State is capable
of providing $50,000 sixty one thousand
dollars per person for job why not go
out and hire people to do exactly
exactly what will benefit New York State
Bildad why schools fix the subway I
don't know let's let's just assume for a
moment like we know you'd have ideas as
to what that is surely there is a
commission that could come up with a
list of things that the state could do
that would increase the the happiness
and the productivity if you want or
whatever it is the value of being a
citizen of New York State that would
undoubtedly have benefits to other
people but it wouldn't be a bank shot
how can we benefit people directly and
maybe that is we you know like a local
state senator who says let's get rid of
all of New Yorkers student debt I mean
we know the implications of that in
terms of the economic value of that
right more people buy the the number one
reason given by the president of the
Home Builders Association in the nation
for why there have been the the the
number one inhibitor to building new
homes is student debt according to the
president of the Home Builders
Association of the United States I mean
just the numbers for this argument she
just says we should just get rid of
student loans what are you gonna say no
to that
well let me doesn't make any sense the
there are so many other ways to directly
benefit New Yorkers if you're going to
expand this money and since we now know
that we can expand this money let's
expand and if Amazon says well then in
that case we're gonna go to Boston fine
fine the reason why I come to New York
is because New York is New York and I
think Boston I would suggest that they
also don't offer them that kind of money
yeah but that's I mean obeys us will put
on his secret Bionic suit he's been
working on and just start taking out
cities right I mean is where this is
going I mean if you look at his steroid
regimen this is a very disturbing time
and trends we all seen what happens with
Lex Luthor I'm not an acceleration estoy
what I have I mean I feel like we have
no choice we're all riding the wave
right now and if giving up basic public
services to build a helipad for the
richest man in the world Briggs on the
rev increases class consciousness silver
linings well and just so that people
know you're talking about apparently
there's they're gonna build a helipad
and he gets a hundred essentially like
passes of
/ can do over a hundred of where you can
do is helicopter flights in I mean
mister Blasio is a tough negotiator it's
easy to be it's easy to poopoo that but
think of how much work that means you're
gonna be hiring one more guy who's gonna
be at the helipad full-time velocity of
money and and then and then there's all
the arguments as to why why Amazon is
problematic period and what do you say
no to them so you know it is a
problematic thing to do if you don't
care about monopolies and the
implications of Amazon you know
nationally and as an entity but then
it's a problematic thing to do from the
perspective of just being like a mayor
or a governor of a city or a state just
got to hopefully Bill de Blasio will be
listening to this podcast and one of his
commutes from the Upper East Side to go
walk on a treadmill in Park Slope there
you go
