[Music]
all right let's um let's go to this this
is pretty exciting
you know folks we have spent a lot of
time we've devoted probably somewhere
between 70 and 80% of our shows over the
past year to the walk away movement led
by Brandon Florrick has start Sturken
yep sterben Brendon Rondon storica
Brandon strucken and as you know we have
spent the vast majority of the episodes
of this program covering that well he
finally has a challenge and this
challenge is coming from my people know
now the Democrats the Jews and here is
here is Elizabeth pip Coe on Fox and
Friends that was it this morning okay
she's introducing a Exodus president
truck slamming the Democrats for failing
to take tougher action against
congresswoman Ilhan Omar's anti-semitic
remarks the Democrats have become an
anti-israel party they've become an
anti-jewish party and a group of Jewish
Millennials called Exodus agrees they
are encouraging Jewish Americans to walk
away from the Democratic Party the group
says quote we reject the hypocrisy
anti-americanism in anti-semitism I
posit for one second
first off the idea that they would use
walk away without giving branded
Strachan any type of credit whatsoever
is really offensive trademark did but go
ahead messed up can is amman
anti-semitism of the rising far left
progressive democrats and far too many
old-school jewish organizations take our
support for granted here with more on
the movement is former trump campaign
staffer and exodus spokesperson
elizabeth Pepco positive for one second
hold on
roll back the tape I just saw something
that I hadn't seen before
stop okay I didn't realize what I was
like that first of all they're not
they're using the Jewish star with the
American flag and I can't that they're
they're Hebrew letters they're okay
music who has matter American flag to
make it really pop right exactly okay
continue for granted here with more on
the movement is former Trump campaign
staffer and Jack siddhis spokesperson
Elizabeth pepco Elizabeth good morning
good morning let's start at the
beginning
Jack siddhis means what obviously it's a
plan Exodus but we left Egypt and now
we're leaving the Democratic Party okay
posit now there's a couple of things
here wait wait before we get to the two
that she's a former Trump so that's what
I was gonna say what is she exiting
Jesus did you just stab the Republican
president no the whole point of Strock
strike strike Landon was that in Brandon
was that he was a fervent Hillary
supporter right I'm confused and he
walked away now here's the other thing
as you know Exodus is one of the books
of the Torah which talks about the Jews
at the time probably the Hebrews and the
Israelites leaving Egypt so a Jewish
Exodus is redundant it would be like
like saying this year at our house we're
having a Jass over a Jewish Passover so
it's like Israel but for Jews jizz rail
is just really jiggles bangles for Jews
bagels for Jews you jiggle or maybe this
year I think I'm gonna celebrate jump
Kippur it's a Jewish Yom Kippur
everybody's getting in on it there's a
new Kwanzaa for black people apparently
Kwanzaa wanza didn't just call it
accidents like this part too
or deck siddhis would at least be a
democratic Exodus
I love how every Jesse sessions just
turns into like that's fine you want to
do some little Internet hustle that's
okay put use apathetically correctly but
it is it is pretty I mean it's not like
Jack siddhis rolls off the tongue it's
not like well yes I know it's not
exactly
I know it's obvious range it to good
there was a reason she was in a
volunteer capacity I'm still daydreaming
about Jezreel we're gonna make Jolly ah
it's a Leah for Jews obviously it's a
plan Exodus but we left Egypt and now
we're leaving the Democratic posit she
left Egypt we all left Egypt that's what
that's what you say to the that's what
you say to the the wise son the third
son I can't remember did you decide to
do this and start this movement um I
thought it was time obviously we saw a
lot of anti-israel policies kind of
start under the Obama administration and
it got worse and worse and include seen
it's been plastered on our TV screens
the last month there's anti-semitism in
the Democratic Party they can hide it
they could do whatever they want they
fail to condemn it and now it's there so
it's time Elizabeth how much does this
hurt the Democratic Party the fact that
it sounded like they we were going to
have a resolution voted on in the floor
non-binding perhaps with congresswoman
Omar's name on it and then at the
eleventh hour because of all the
pressure from the let parties left they
wind up not naming her and it was not
about anti-semitism it was just
generally about hate across the board I
mean the scariest part obviously was not
the original anti-semitism it was the
lack of leadership coming into play when
they were supposed to come into play
condemn what happened and they they
failed they should have joined em did
it's like a condemnation except for Jews
a Jewish kinda nations condemnation
under JPAC is getting behind
[Laughter]
Jewish AIPAC I remember when Obama went
to AIPAC and he said I'm cutting off
your funding you goddamn shop owners
Niels
my daughter's gonna be John Mitzvahed
you know American Jewish Bat Mitzvah and
my religion Jesus is a prophet like any
other I would never blaspheme him by
calling him the son of God it's an
insult to all prophets but you people
still are Christ killers goddamn
guttered well it bloodsuckers cutting
off your aid I kill it I call it jace
Dillards diced killers joy price killers
but Jews we can't cut off the Christ
killers aids unless you willing to work
with me and go door-to-door with me
every morning I filed down my Jorns is
there it's there I go horns but for Jews
on your Juma boy there are Jack's it is
so funny and we have we as anybody
looked for the just a Exodus dot-org
let's see what we got here oh there it
is
and they usually the same X's oh yeah
they use the same way how much they paid
for them for that website for the logo
for the baseball hat with
I would wear that actually that looks
super cool and nobody will have any idea
what it is so you're not promoting about
you should join to send a message and
change the narrative you know what would
I find a little bit problematic about
that writing and I get that like I mean
it's Hebrew letters and I think that's I
mean I think that's fine it's just
Hebrew font it's it's a Hebrew font it's
just that the the idea of like of the
star with the sort of almost like it
almost looks a little bit like the you'd
from I mean it's kinda looks like a
white supremacist website it sort of
does like but one that feels like the
Jews have glycome
like they're there they've taken over
America and this is what they're gonna
be doing soon oh speaking of which
America's
