with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday March 12 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this would be
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Trump's budget details will be ignored
until the 2020 election commences
meanwhile speaking of 2020 Joe Biden
enters the race
Vado to follow meanwhile Nancy Pelosi
doesn't understand what impeachments for
New York Attorney General opens
investigations of Trump Inc and Facebook
makes Warren's case for Facebook's
demise meanwhile the Writers Guild is at
war with hedge funds posing as talent
agencies
if you're making dinners to dinner plans
tonight introducing Mogga Yelp meanwhile
Amazon warehouses seemed to be labs for
suicide attempts and the Muller probe
already funded through September of 2019
[Applause]
[Music]
and while Venezuela still in blackout as
the United States pulls its remaining
diplomats all this and more I should
also add Bowl scenario associates
arrested in the socialist City Council
woman's assassination Mario Lee Franco
all this and more on today's majority
report yes ladies and gentlemen welcome
back to the program it is Tuesday as we
said earlier we are all accounted for
here everyone seems to be in decent
health and enjoying adjusting to
daylight to spring ahead my kids I
thought it was me but my kids do not
adjust to this and then they make my
life miserable so I'm a little testy
today that's why because I'm exhausted
they stay up later and they they they
don't I don't know they get their angry
in the morning wasn't exactly rocky in
here when I came in this morning that is
the truth no well one more thing the rev
will do is abolish daylight savings and
spring forward and replace it with sick
Euler circular time circular sudo
pseudocyst you can't clock this morning
cyclical time yes there you go no there
won't even be clocks ladies times just
to construct man however let's get to
the important stuff look a lot of folks
turn to this program for because they're
foodies and they want to hear some of
the latest recipes or what we're doing
with with different when we did try out
different foods and whatnot
kind of pop-tarts kind of pop-tarts and
good restaurant recommendations well
your wait is over ladies and gentlemen
we are no longer needed because finally
finally someone has come up with a an
app that allows you to safely eat at a
restaurant if you're a conservative here
is the story from of course Fox and
Friends we wanted to make sure that
people could let others know what
restaurants may have a political bent
now we're not looking to try and find
restaurants that are conservative or a
pro Trump or our aim is to get politics
out of local businesses local
restaurants and make everyone feel
comfortable when they go out okay and so
I've seen this described as Yelp for
conservatives but Scott on the on the
facade on the location said do they have
like I mean they have literally hundreds
of producers working there how is it
that the guests just said we're trying
to get politics out of everything and
then they come back with and this is
Yelp for conservatives let's check it
out here on the facade on the locations
that are deemed unsafe and that one
right there is safe what what what went
into saying they're not safe sure well
you know users can review the local
businesses and restaurants is just four
quick questions yes or no questions
number one does this location serve all
customers regardless of political
beliefs will they protect their
customers if they're under attack by
others in the restaurant there's a
concealed-carry question and does the
location have a political presence in
their social media again we're trying to
get politics out of these businesses we
want business just to understand that
there's no money in politics that we're
working to call them out on it should
tell you the guy who wants businesses to
understand there's no money in politics
if you go to 63 or 60
third or sixty-three red.com I don't
know what this 633 I don't know what the
number 63 is but it literally starts off
way welcome to 63 red a family of
conservative tools it is a company a
business that is making money through
politics with 63rd News conservative
news 63rd 63 red keeping conservatives
safe 63 red real time conservative chat
63 red gather conservatives together we
if we figured out what the 63 is about
I'm trying to find it right now looks
like we had some sort of DDoS attack did
accurately name themselves as
conservative tools so that's good there
you go all right and so here's this guy
we just want businesses to know that you
can't make money from politics just just
to understand that there's no money in
politics that's when we're working to
call them out on it people just want to
go out and eat they just want to go out
and shop let's not mix the two there's
sort of a general unease among
conservatives and we want to make sure
everything everyone's safe out everybody
space loser let's be the last majority
report dinner and we saw this guy in the
corner he was reading a Wall Street
Journal and I said hey Sam
you think I don't know rough demo let's
just do it anyways and we put down our
glasses and we beat him in an alleyway
like literally I would someone hold my
glasses yes Samson hold my glasses I was
like god dammit or I'll stretch out and
you can almost see like do see and
what's her what's her name Ainsley
Earhardt brains actually working as he's
saying there's no money in politics and
they're just sitting there going what
that's but we said Kaepernick did it for
the money
that's all there is that's all there is
folks do you remember 18m excuse me 1989
sadly I do this is the year the world
wide web was invented we've come a long
way since then so why does it feel like
software you use every day at work is
stuck in the past take a leap into the
future by finding the right software for
your business on kaptara calm the
leading free online resource to help you
find the best software solution for your
business they have over 700,000 reviews
products from real software users
kaptara has everything you need to make
an informed decision search more than
700 specific categories of software from
project management to email marketing no
matter what your business needs kaptara
makes it easy to discover the right
solution fast folks is a free service
they've simply aggravate aggregated all
I imagine I don't think it's all
existing but it feels like it a business
software and with reviews from people
who actually use them Jamie pick a
letter L all right I'm gonna go down to
L you're not gonna believe this they
have laboratory information management
system software land management software
landing page software landscape software
law enforcement software law practice
management software lawn care software
lead capture software lead generation
software lead management software l was
probably a wrong choice because I think
we could be here literally all day
library automation software I'm gonna
skip a couple live chat software live
chat software I mean I'm literally
looking at this I'm going like this is
where I should check out where we get
live chat software and the landing page
software logbook software log ok log
management software that's not as not
that's not a lumberjack stuff it's the
other kind long-term care software
lost-and-found software and I only read
like a fraction of the else folks you
get to check this out it's actually just
fun to go through it even if you don't
have any software needs visit kaptara
dot-com slash majority for free today
because
polymath exactly your horizon nothing
like being in a conversation going like
you know what you probably need you need
some manufacturing execution software I
mean just off the top of my head I can
tell you that you know the highest-rated
one is master control probably or maybe
you might want Ike um SMEs I'm not sure
it's you should check them out kaptara
dot-com slash majority that's kaptara
capt erra did i even spell that right
capt e RR a.com slash majority Tim Apple
Apple Tim doesn't matter also has your
company outgrown QuickBooks are shared
spreadsheets manual processes and legacy
systems costing you time and money
introducing NetSuite by Oracle the
business management software that
handles every aspect of your business in
an easy-to-use cloud platform when
NetSuite you can save time money and
unneeded headaches by managing sales HR
finance and accounting instantly right
from your desk or even your phone
thousands of the best known and
fastest-growing companies use NetSuite
to manage their business and now it is
available to you better yet it's more
affordable than you think because right
now NetSuite is offering you valuable
insights to help you overcome the
obstacles that are holding you back
for free don't miss out unleashing your
business's full potential with this free
guide crushing the five barriers to
growth you'll learn how to acquire new
customers increase profits finally get
real visibility to your cash flow
Michael has already downloaded this yes
getnet sweets guide for us to iron out
to growth
NetSuite dot-com slash majority now
that's NetSuite comm slash majority to
download their free crushing the five
barriers to growth guide today NetSuite
comm slash majority alright let's take a
look at this Donald Trump budget because
the in the two years that the Trump
administration has put out his budget
even the Republicans ignored it
and certainly it's going to get even
more ignored this time however it really
makes you wonder what the theory is here
as to why they're doing this but here is
Larry Kudlow going on Fox News Sunday to
sort of roll this budget out i cud load
does not look like he's been working out
in the whatever every put is this regime
he was on before he joined the
administration I think that's and it
last time I said this he had to take a
health break yeah I am you know mister
joke about anything I don't worry about
it
and I was all set for some great Kudlow
health regimen material and then I saw
him on screen I was like oh whoa okay I
have no comment after that President Ron
stop oh wait hold on for one second I
guess we want to play this in a
different order here let's do it this
way so Donald Trump one of the things he
ran on early on in his campaign now look
I think people who know anything about
politics knew that he was full of crap
but one of the things he ran on was this
idea that he was not like a Republican
that he had even said to the Republicans
like I don't know why you would ever go
after Medicare or Social Security people
love these things and so he put himself
out there is the one guy particularly in
the Republican Party who was gonna save
Social Security was gonna save Medicare
from the Republicans areas and back
here's this is a montage of the times
that he talked about this I'll save
Social Security
I'll save Medicare ben Carson wants to
get rid of Medicare you can't get rid of
Medicare you know Medicare is a program
that works every Republican wants to do
a big number on Social Security they
want to do it on Medicare
Medicaid and we can't do that and it's
not fair to the people that have been
paying in for years and now all of a
sudden they want to be cut don't get rid
of Medicare you can't do that people
love Medicare and it's unfair to them
I'm gonna fix it make it better but I'm
not gonna cut it
now that's pretty explicit he said that
throughout at least the Republican
primary maybe didn't harp on it as much
during the general he also seems
significantly more lucid at that time at
a time when we thought like this guy's a
little bit off so it just shows how sort
of far we've traveled he's not the only
one in the administration who who claims
that they're not that well first off as
a candidate he was not going to cut it
and now his acting director of the
Office of Management and Budget or I
should say the White House budget
director makes this claim about Medicare
and Medicaid quick questions one to go
back to to drill a little bit on what
Jon Karl asked if the deficit is such a
problem why not at least cut the rate of
increase to the defense and the defense
budget and secondly he has said promises
kept
but we're cutting Medicare how does that
keep his promise to the American people
he's not cutting Medicare in this budget
what we are doing is putting forward
reforms that lower drug prices that
because Medicare pays is a very large
share of drug prices in this country has
the impact of finding savings we're also
finding waste fraud and abuse but
Medicare spending will go up every
single year by healthy margins and there
are no structural changes for Medicare
beneficiaries that why not at least not
the rate of increase if the deficit of
such concern is in the trillions
why not cut in trees because he's the
commander in chief and he thinks it's
important to secure the country it's one
of his most basic constitutional
responsibilities the the military put
forward a five-year defense plan it was
done over a series of years about the
needs which gets back to John's question
we are going along with that five-year
defense plan in addition we're putting
additional dollars towards the military
construction funds that we have tapped
for it so in other words let me break
that down for you one yeah he lied about
not cutting Medicare and Medicaid we're
going to be doing that in our budget and
- why are we increasing the the rate in
which we increase the Pentagon budget
because the president's insane and
thinks that there's a national security
threat particularly at the the border
and that's basically where we're at here
is and this is the the problem with the
Trump administration it's not just that
they're bad people they're bad at what
they do
so it is you know that old stupid or
evil it's sort of both with these guys
on one hand both had Donald Trump had
said as a candidate I'm not gonna touch
Medicare I'm not gonna touch Social
Security then the White House acting
budget director says oh we're not
cutting Medicare even though our budget
says we are we've found savings and
we're just not we're just we're taking
those savings off the table right
incidentally guys I want to talk about
some savings I found in your salaries
best safe but then they send out their
chief economic adviser to Fox News
Sunday and Larry Kudlow explains why
they actually do have to cut these
things president Trump's top White House
economic adviser Larry Kudlow
welcome back to Fox News Sunday thank
you all right the president sends a new
budget to Congress tomorrow that will
reportedly call for stiff domestic
spending cuts and environmental programs
transportation anti-poverty programs at
the same time that is calling for a big
increase in defense spending and you've
still got those tax cuts why do that on
the domestic side why not I mean why not
so like why when you're over 60 why not
have $1,000 a day cohabit it's maybe
you've tried you see done the Weight
Watchers you've done the diet not the
first time Larry's in college
Larry you've been on the way back to the
eighties Donald Trump's around I'm
around the stakes around things are
flowered you gotta hand it to him for
not for not following up with that like
I'm rich just go backwards I love that
why not like I'm this is the thing to do
can I write off stimulants that's why do
that on the domestic side why not I mean
if you want to deal with budget deficits
you've got rapid growth which means keep
the tax cuts in place we believe the 3%
growth rate of 2018 will continue in
2019 and beyond 2020 and so forth I
think the other element is always to
limit spending and the president is
proposing roughly a 5% across-the-board
reduction in domestic spending accounts
it will be a tough budget we're gonna do
our own caps this year I think it's long
overdue some of these recent budget
deals have not been favorable towards
spending so I think it's exactly the
right prescription all right you say
that you're gonna have a 5% domestic
spending cut on the other hand
reportedly you're gonna ask for another
eight point six billion dollars from DHS
on land security and the Pentagon to
build the wall so there's going to be
another budget fight over the wall well
I suppose there will be I would just say
that the whole issue of the wall border
security is a paramount importance we
have a crisis down there I think the
president has made that case very
effectively it's a crisis of
economics it's a crisis of crime and
drugs it's a crisis of humanity we have
to be much tougher and have more
constructed great I mean you know what's
fascinating about this to me is to know
how how thoroughly and deeply this guy
also knows that he's lying like there is
nothing that he's saying right now that
he knows to be even remotely close to
the truth and I get this is the job that
he's got to do but this is shocking like
it's just his ability to just to sit
there and lie with stuff that he know
because you understand that everything
else he's saying is it's at least at
very least like motivated truth this is
just out and out like he's got to say
this I've got to say two cuts against
everything I believe I got to say it cuz
it's my job now it also explains maybe
why he's such a wreck and could barely
keep his eyes open I send him guys
another theory as the way such a wreck
which maybe we could put on screen
alright well let's let's keep going here
Isis of humanity we have to be much
tougher and have more constructive
immigration policy which we will be
developing over a period of time so yes
he's gonna stay with his wall and he's
gonna stay with the border security
theme I think it's essential ok here's
the problem with this you talk about
balancing the budget and that the way
you're gonna do it is by cutting 5% in
all domestic spending but you know that
if you take entitlements off the table
that you just can't get enough from
domestic discretionary spending to cut
the budget and and your new budget is a
case in point traditionally Republican
presidents have said we're going to
balance the budget and our budget they
project it out that it's going to
balance the budget in ten years
your new budget doesn't balance the
budget until fifteen years until the
2030s and and the question I have is you
not don't each other a long time when I
covered you in the Reagan years you
cared and you thought the deficits and
debt matter
and what happened not overwhelmingly so
hope either way during the Reagan years
we were joking we were joking we didn't
really hear you misinterpreted did I
 guy you idiot 40 years in the
makin good and what happened not
overwhelmingly so hope by the way during
the Reagan years look I don't think I
don't think good growth policies have to
obsess necessarily about the budget
deficits and so forth look Chris my view
and I believe the view of the
administration we are going to point a
steady glide path towards lower federal
spending and federal borrowing as a
share of the economy as share of GDP
that lowers the burden the deficit
increased by an enormous amount in the
first few months of this fiscal year I
think seventy percent we're gonna run I
think about four and a half to five
percent of GDP that's a very modest
number compared to even with the recent
past and with our low be close to a
trillion dollars so yeah just it's hard
to appreciate how monumental this is
this guy has been the sort of probably
the one of the most prominent Reaganites
that has been sort of still in the news
and in the mixed he had his own TV show
on CNBC they ran in the as recently as
midway through the obama administration
may be at least him at least towards the
end of the first but but certainly into
the mid way into the second the idea of
deficits was literally as much of the
conservative brand as a signifier as the
second amendment and abortion like it
was like there was I mean I distinctly
remember three or four years ago sitting
here saying their deficit obsession is
just one more
signifier it is meaningless in many
respects but they will they will they
will grab it as tightly and as
white-knuckled as they grab their guns
and now one of the guys who's considered
one of the few guys I think it might be
around like actually articulating things
since from the Reagan era is out here in
basically saying man now I I happen to
think that he sees his position is
correct but they've jettisoned this
within a matter of thirty six months
yeah he's like an mm tea guy now for the
wall it's it's not it's nuts hey that's
a very modest number compared to even
with the recent past and with our little
bit close to a trillion dollars perhaps
so but the economy is twenty trillion
dollars and net worth today household
net worth is about a hundred trillion
dollars so I don't think that's a burden
on the economy and I think all the
incoming data so here's something let's
go to the financial markets striking
really see that apropos of nothing was
just some interesting news from The
Daily News you just wanted to see that
headline first all right well in the
meantime let me get to some of these
numbers that they are actually actually
are cutting five percent
across-the-board right every single
agency gets cut equally that's right
except for you they have 1.5 trillion
dollars in cuts to Medicaid over ten
years this is going to be a function of
work requirements these are the savings
incidentally and understand when you
hear the word savings it's just they're
figuring out a means in which to deny
eligibility to people or to cover less
and that is what theoretically is
savings is start with Medicare for eight
hundred and forty five billion dollars
from a Medicare two hundred and
forty-one billion from Medicaid through
structural reforms as well as a nine
percent cut across on non-defense
programs so when they talk about five
percent across-the-board
they're averaging out stuff 1.5 trillion
dollars in cuts to Medicaid over ten
years they will block grant this to
States which of course then begins a
almost an automatic process of cutting
each year eight hundred forty five
billion dollars to Medicare over ten
years which is about a ten percent cut
and it's supposedly going to be - you
know wasteful spending and provider
payments which of course is a bit of a
joke twenty five billion dollars in cuts
to Social Security over ten years
including cuts to disability insurance a
two hundred and twenty dollar 220
billion dollar cut to snap over ten
years a twenty 1 billion dollar cut to
tant that's the Temporary Assistance for
Needy Families which is super unfunded
already and it's a it's one of the few
cash assistance programs we have for
folks living in the worst of poverty two
hundred and seven billion dollars in
cuts to the student loan program it's
going to eliminate parts of the public
service loan forgiveness program and
cutting subsidized student loans
increases in defense spending of course
by thirty four billion dollars next year
eight point six billion in funding for
the border wall and it's more overall a
nine percent cut to non-defense programs
section 8 housing vouchers public
housing programs Head Start WIC which is
the nutrition program for women infants
and children of course so many fat
babies walking around these days they're
gonna cut the low-income Home Energy
Assistance Program we're going to hear
more about this during the course of the
campaign you're gonna have
the Democratic candidate I would be
betting don't know who it is and don't
know exactly what version but they're
gonna be articulating in some form of a
medicare-for-all program versus Trump's
cuts to Medicare
you know 2016 Paul Ryan said explicitly
and I remember playing on the show don't
worry about what he's saying on the
campaign trail if he wins the presidency
we're gonna dictate the budget process
I'm gonna cut all these programs and
give you tax cuts and he's actually gone
out ahead of them I mean I'll be honest
Donald Trump's not looking over these
numbers going like hey they have looked
into Medicare we can have some savings
here this is all reflection of the
right-wingers that came into office with
him
and he is one of them cuz he doesn't
care he doesn't care I know but I think
the big takeaway is the kind of like the
Bannen hustle is done like this is just
a pure Reagan whatever you want to call
it agenda there's not gonna be any of
that counterSpin I beg to differ I'm
gonna be a little bit more naked in mind
well in terms of the racism but again
I'm saying I'm predicating that on like
yes more naked but the racism and
xenophobia has already been there as
heyo see so elegantly reminded us about
Reagan the specific scam of Annan ISM
was the fake sort of pivot it was like a
european-style red toria's kind of thing
he wants to slash the epa by 31% like i
said also the student loan forgiveness
program if you head into you know some
type of service job on a federal state
or local level now again this stuff is
not going to be enacted we need to wait
and see what happens in terms of the
budget my guess is we're just going to
see the same more or less trajectory of
course the deficits will continue to
grow because of the tax cuts not a it
will not be a big deal the deficits
until the day a Democratic president
takes office and attempts to
and programs that provide material
benefit for the most amount of people on
that day and to be fair it will probably
be a ramp up as soon as uh you know
grover norquist realizes the republicans
are gonna lose the deficit will be
meaningless and larry cudlow if he's
still with us in one form or another
we'll start talking about well I said
you know I said well it's really we're
really now we're moving into the red
zone before we were not in the red zone
now we're gonna be there I mean that's
the game that's always been and it's
gonna return that way that's what
Republicans do and you will hear the you
know save the debt people remember how
much money they were spending during the
the Obama years they were rolling out
like you know stuffed like cans you know
they were spending money there if they
were really serious about the problem
why didn't we aren't they writing checks
to the federal government ourselves to
solve the problem exactly
they had former senators you know
dancing the what was it the the Harlem
shake and I don't Simpson exactly now
good news Trump's budget is going to
steer an extra twenty million dollars to
the Jack Nicklaus based Hospital project
that is down in Miami cell spiring
there's a lot of hope you do is you get
people and sometimes they haven't had a
hand job yet before it's like a bigger
wish for adults all right let's talk
about Joe Biden we're gonna be talking
about him quite a bit
I would imagine now he's entering the
race i right now Joe Biden enters the
race atop all of at least the majority
of polls he you know there's part of
this is a function of name recognition
Bernie and Joe Biden had the highest
name recognition of any of the
candidates in the race at this point it
doesn't account for all of their lead
but certainly a significant
a portion of it and I think one could
argue that at the very least when it
comes to positions I would be willing to
bet and to be fair I haven't seen any I
haven't seen any type of poll like this
but I would be willing to bet that if
you were to list ten issues and put in a
column you know what is Joe Biden
believe and do the same exercise with
Bernie Sanders that Bernie Sanders
supporters 25% let's call it you know in
these polls vs. Biden's
supporters let's call it 28% just for
the heck of it that I would bet a lot of
those Biden supporters don't realize the
positions he's taken when he was
actually in the business of taking
positions that weren't a function of him
being vice-president and here is Joe
Biden it's him announcing this is
announcement yeah here's his
announcement right here and he pegs it
to Trump's a budget which of course is
not ever gonna happen but I was going to
stay away from this but I can
did you see the budget was just
introduced it cuts and cuts 845 billion
dollars
almost a trillion dollar cut in Medicare
and almost a quarter trillion two
hundred and forty billion dollar cut in
Medicaid why because of a tax cut for
the super wealthy that created a deficit
of 1.9 trillion dollars and now they
gotta go make somebody pay for it
something that gave millionaires and
billionaires excessive tax breaks and
who they asked him to pay for
middle-class families and like you the
neighborhood I grew up in trading
Medicare Medicaid for tax breaks how
that's gonna help anybody in this room
and most of the people you live with
how's that going to help this country he
was hinting it then in that speech that
he was gonna declare he declared I guess
today yeah I didn't know only they were
candidate running who's willing to go
after the millionaires and billionaires
right I know we're not gonna talk about
Bernie right now we're gonna talk about
Biden and so a Biden is running a
campaign that I think sounds exactly
like one you would have run ten years
ago 15 years ago 20 years ago right and
I think over the course of this campaign
is gonna be clear in the Democratic
primary voters are gonna want more than
this and can I ask a question though
isn't it very well reported and I'm
trying to find source here but when
Obama offered the worst of the okay
you're gonna get that's fine yes yes and
so the problem is that Biden's
Biden's record is going to catch up with
him and specifically in the idea of
cutting Medicare and cutting so-called
entitlements which are
a silly name they're simply programs
that their social insurance programs
that people have paid into during the
Obama administration and longtime
listeners of the show will remember this
because every time Digby would come on
the program we would talk about it from
day one of the Obama administration
literally day one in ghent in January of
2009 Obama was on record as saying that
we're going to have to have some type of
in title room of reform and he was
looking to cut Social Security and to
perhaps raise the eligibility age for
Medicare this was on the agenda for at
least four years nearly four years
first certainly from 2010 to 2012 it was
near the top of the agenda for the Obama
administration they were trying to cut
Social Security through the way that
they were going to index cost-of-living
increases they were floating this idea
of of raising the eligibility age for
Medicare at one point Obama was seeking
a grand bargain with the Republicans and
Joe Biden was the lead person in the
Obama administration who went to John
Boehner and said here's the deal we will
give you we want modest tax increases on
the rich and we will put on the table
cuts to Social Security
in fact this deal was on the table for
almost a year if it were not for the
lunatics in the freedom caucus who did
not want to empower John Boehner and
refused to accept any increases in taxes
because of the nature of their
supporters Barack Obama would have
successfully cut Social Security and
perhaps raise the eligibility age of
Medicare with
the help and understand how this works
in an administration they don't randomly
pick an emissary it's the opposite those
people who have the proposals come and
propose the deal to the president and
the president says I agree with that
proposal I dispatch you to go out and do
it
and make it happen this this idea well
was there was no reluctance I can assure
you on the part of Joe Abidin for this
and so it's incredibly disingenuous in
in and how do we know that this guy
could have bought into something like
that all you need to do is look at his
record he entered into the Senate as a a
conservative when it came to everything
but well here it is when it comes to
1974 he told he told The Washingtonian
when it comes to civil rights and civil
liberties I'm a liberal but that's it
I'm really quite conservative on most
other issues in fact he went on a lot of
us sit around thinking up ways to vote
conservative just so we don't come out
with a liberal rating that's what he
said I believe that and I think that
lasted through at least the odds yep
he he had a fairly liberal foreign
policy record relative to the era which
was more conservative than it is now but
when it came to his domestic politics in
terms of like what material benefits he
was willing to provide for banks and
wealthy people versus the rest of
Americans the Joe Sixpack guys that he
really relates to because he likes
trains he voted more with Reagan than he
did anybody else he voted for the
Omnibus Reagan
tax bill I remember this I was actually
interning in DC in 86 getting beer for a
congressman from Quincy Mass every day
that was my job Joe Biden's an
dude oh yeah he cut that top income tax
rate from 70% to 50% it exempted many
families from the estate tax
he called for a spending freeze on
Social Security his pitch in 87 was very
much in line with Bill Clinton's it was
very much government is the problem
the era of big government is over
government's an obstacle we're going to
work around that we need to he said
quote we must demand more of ourselves
our managers our workers our consumers
are needed to change their attitudes to
revitalize society because government is
not what that's not what government's
for he was deeply in favor of the
welfare reform he voted for the
rygel neal interstate banking act which
allowed banks to expand across state
lines he voted to repeal glass-steagall
which he said he regretted in 2016 was a
couple years too late to regret that he
voted to bar federal or state
supervision of credit default swaps I
mean there's a reason why they called
them DMV na now Delaware to be fair is
okay well it's all where all the credit
card companies come because they can
avoid all sorts of taxes there a garbage
place but it's not a question of him
being the sort of like serious lefty who
had to just make some compromises he got
elected from there because he was one of
them he's that that's the oxygen he
breathes
he was instrumental in the overall of
America overhaul of American bankruptcy
law and this bankruptcy law was done to
protect the interests the interests of
credit card companies who were afraid
that American families could go into
bankruptcy and be shielded and get some
type of bankruptcy relief from their
credit card debt now understand if
you're a company or you're like Trump
Inc you go into bankruptcy and you get
your debts relieved he did not want this
to happen with American families when
they owed money to credit card companies
Elizabeth Warren I think at that time if
I remember correctly was I think writing
on a section of talking points memo as a
law professor at Harvard going this is
incredibly cruel and we see all these
medically induced bankruptcies we see
all of these other bankruptcies just
horrible for folks he also wasn't so
great on race back in the day or can I
just add one quick really quick that's
why his new like I don't want to hear
millennium Millennials complaining is
not just a gaffe it's a reflection of a
worldview absolutely he I mean look the
best defense you could you can make for
this guy is well you have to understand
his politics formed in another era and
that's why they are so out of touch
today though I think that's a perfectly
fine defense but it is exactly the
reason why he shouldn't even be running
yeah and a lot of other people running
are pretty old too so I mean that's true
that's true
I mean Sanders is the same age Warren
more or less the same age Warren of
course was not in politics at that time
and Sanders is is fairly unique in US
politics
when he says he's liberal on civil
rights issues um does that extend to
measures to integrate schools like say
busing it did not at that time it did
not at that time no there's gonna be a
lot more coming out about Joe Biden also
people start talking about the reason
why Anita Hill was the lone accuser of
Clarence Thomas that most people know of
it's because Joe Biden prevented the
three women who had other stories about
Clarence Thomas from testifying these
were all things you're going to hear a
lot of in the coming days and weeks now
with that said there's value for other
candidates for Joe Biden to be in there
it's like you I think I think it helps
Bernie I also I do want to watch you
know disingenuous pundits who you know
are constantly lying about Bernie to see
how they handle Joe Biden's in actuality
tremendously problematic record yeah
that's gonna be fine that's gonna be
interesting battle of the old white guys
I can't wait to see how centrists are
going to spin Biden as the more racially
sensitive candidate I'm sure they're
gonna try but it's not gonna be hard job
with him with the invasion of a rock yet
I mean it's incredible you can go
through any single metric that somebody
will be voting and thinking on whether
it is the so-called identity issues or
the so-called economic issues or foreign
policy and this guy is a just a
catastrophe when but he is a talented
politician and he does have a certain
charisma that people in this world like
and should not be under without a doubt
friends with Obama without a doubt use
the beams yeah the the the speech that
he gave at that fireman's that that that
is extremely effective for those folks
well what's going to be very difficult
for people to swallow is I mean look the
reason why
Barack Obama picked picked him as a
running mate and they may very well be I
imagine they're good friends by now he
needed foreign policy experience and
frankly Joe Biden when he went out there
and said that you know Barack Obama was
very clean and articulate black eye I
don't know if people remember that I
don't think he said black eye but yes he
did say clean it was bad enough it was
basically he became he became for Obama
what Al Gore thought Joe Lieberman was
going to be for him right Joe Lieberman
was the big moral scre but you know the
big voice morality scold against Bill
Clinton and so Al Gore wanted Joe
Lieberman as a way of of of being able
to say I'm at arm's length from Bill
Clinton I'm just because he's huge
mister blow jobs are really distracting
us from banning video games and killing
Arabs right exactly and I think in many
respects Joe Biden was the you know
provided for Obama the same type of like
message to the to the to the broader
country like I'm an arm's length from
you know guys like Jesse Jackson and
those those other types that joke I mean
I think like there was a similar dynamic
there and so you know we'll see I don't
think he's a white guy it's not just
that he's a white guy he's like got the
same kind of a populist vibe which
Bernie also has but used two completely
different ends right I don't I mean I
don't I'm saying something different I'm
saying not just that he's a white guy
there's a lot of white guys we've had a
lot of white yes like appeals to like
the people who might have got mad at
Obama for like guns God and religion
that's right
that's right and he does like a grandpa
who's not trying to be racist but still
kind of is he had a sort of a
blue-collar type of quality and also a
sort of like you know I think that
perspect
to somebody who was against against the
bussing against a school integration and
regardless of whether one thinks that
that was the politics of that era that
is not the era we live in anymore I also
do I do it's way less important but the
way he had to drop out of 88 because I
but it speaks the flange result right I
mean he plagiarized speeches from Neel
kenick who was the Labour Party leader
and they were very personal passages
they weren't like oh I like the way he
formulated that argument for
infrastructure investment it was like
you know I grew up in the coal mines my
rhetoric like very weird stuff to be
plagiarizing so maybe even when he does
put that across you have to question
some of the sincerity of it too I'm
calling it we're gonna hear a lot of
stories about him being a groper and
they're gonna come soon after he
announces you think so that is my
prediction well we'll say we should we
should we should get like a pool going
once everybody's jumped in bed I was
gonna jump in I actually think that
Biden is good for Beto because he can
dry he could sort of like draft behind
but I think there I think he is I I
think though it's it's it's gonna be
interesting to me and again I'll only
frame this in terms of Bernie because
this is a hit on Bernie Bernie's been
very clear of that like I'm in this to
win it
I'm incredibly serious about it and he's
he's already taking off the table a
Democrat needs to win period Joe Biden
has borderline endorsed Republican House
candidates which we played clips of and
beta O'Rourke specifically has refused
to support I forget her name but a very
progressive candidate because of a
personal heard he's friends with heard
so I do think I think what's interesting
in some ways like Biden it's either
gonna be that everybody discovers his
policy history and all of a sudden he
just tanks which
possible or it could be most democratic
primary voters doesn't mean he wins but
he's just he just inoculated like it
doesn't matter we know him we like him I
think in Beto's case I think there is
much more of like a you know it's even
like me
I love bate over when he's running
against Ted Cruz but what are your
positions on oil
what are your positions on endorsing
fellow Democrats so I don't know I think
it could be trickier than bado than we
realize and I think Biden is more
inoculated in a way because of his age
and the way he's just been around
forever you know well I for one cannot
wait to hear what kind of nickname Trump
comes up with for him for Joe Biden yeah
what doesn't he have one already how did
he not have one in the dopey Joe Joe
dopey Joe wealthy all right folks don't
forget you can take a leap into the
future with kaptara
dot-com the leading free online resource
to help you find the best software
solution for your business with over
seven hundred thousand reviews a product
some real software User's kaptara can
help you make an informed decision no
matter what your business needs visit
kaptara dot-com / majority for free
today to find the right tools to make
2019 the year for your business kaptara
com / majority kaptara that capt erra
dot-com / majority don't forget this
program relies on your support by
becoming a member you support the free
show
we give you extra content just pennies a
day ladies and gentlemen and you can be
a member of the majority report go to
join the majority report calm don't
forget we will not lock anyone out of
the fun half for lack of funds a little
bit behind on the emails but we will
catch up believe me believe me so send
us an email at majority reporters at
gmail.com if if you want access to the
fun happy you don't have the funds to do
so otherwise support something that you
listen to go to join the majority report
dot-com also just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority get 10% off two
is Tuesday March 12th which means it's a
Tuesday indeed
tonight John Ida Rolla from The Young
Turks makes his debut on T MBS and
Joshua Kahn who is a long-term activist
and organizer globally in the LGBTQ
movement and the climate justice
movement we talk about building a
culture of activism how it actually
works the mechanics of building
campaigns and building community we're
gonna be starting live at around seven
ish on the TMDs YouTube channel where
there are plenty of clips and this
weekend in elicit history of Joe Biden
with Zack Carter 40 MBS patrons
patreon.com slash T MBS Jaimie out now
on the anti Fattah we have a patrons
only
bonus wherein we talk about electoral
politics with Hamilton Nolan from
splinter News specifically the candidacy
of one Bernard Sanders Hamilton wrote a
couple articles a while ago there was
sort of urging Bernie not to run so we
have a little back and forth it really
is a report from the Bernie rally in
Brooklyn I did not
he was definitely some reversals going
on oh that's good I feel like we might
have changed his mind with some of the
things we said too so I don't want to
take all the credit for that but uh yeah
he's I think I think he's on board now
and then tomorrow we are releasing a new
episode with interviews that Andy did
while he was down in Tijuana with people
from the Mac the migrant caravan that's
getting so much attention right now
telling their stories in their own words
oh yeah check out literary hangover also
do you want to find out what trump's
nickname for Biden is this is from five
months ago yes
we call him 1% Biden until Obama took
him off the trash heap he couldn't do
what
what's 1% oh wait no I mean polling
waited without 1% in the polls
oh I don't look up to the Obama think
about the chance I had 1% was about when
I read it I thought it was 1% is in like
he's for the 1% maybe Bernie will
repurpose that though that's not gonna
work so well 1% of 1% Joel all right
what is this what is this Dylan has a
new here we go all right folks
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
interesting a little bit
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
and there's a way of saying thank you we
give you the unpredictable fun I just
made I just made that and if you don't
have the finances they send us an email
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
there you go folks
not bad oh my god
dave rubin is getting really annoying
these days what he just does like
everything is just so this sort of like
cloying he was just mad that he does
you know he's like supposedly joking
like that he didn't get attention from
something I don't know Etsy shop that is
it's etsy.com slash something I can't
remember slash debate Sam cedar and
there are like graphics of Rubin and I
like on mugs and stuff I get to find it
it was have you heard about the SJW
nonsense
let's go to the phone I don't even care
about those guys does it really just
honestly doesn't matter so much so that
I can't even say their names let's go to
the phones calling from to10 area code
who's this where you come from this job
in San Antonio good afternoon John from
San Antonio so good to hear from you
John how are you I'm great
great it's been a great start to the
Bernie Sanders campaign they've already
raised ten million dollars before his
announcement the National polling
average for Sanders was at fifteen
percent an average of national polls
after his announcement it's up to 22
percent with some polls you know going
up to 27 28 % Harris was at 11 percent
an average of polls in the month after
her announcement now she's at 8 percent
in those same national polls since
Bernie's announced Bernie's doing
excellent and pulling for black voters
in the latest South Carolina poll
conducted by Emerson College from
February 28 to March 2nd Bernie's
getting 15% with Harris only at 9% and
the Ben Dixon and armondi poll of
Florida conducted on March 1st to the
4th Bernie in here is it tied at 8
percent of the black vote I think Bernie
has exceeded all expectations as far as
improvement among black voters and
polling but we still have a long way to
go till the primary start Bernie's held
held two rallies in a in Brooklyn in
Chicago while most people think it's
important to show everybody that he can
still draw large crowds I think he's
actually having more of an a strategic
move to increase his percentage in urban
areas the change pull of California
which is conducted in February and 9:00
to 11:00 divided the state into six
regions Bernie did the best in the rural
areas which are in the central area and
the Central Valley in the northern and
mountain areas Verna the Bernie's worst
areas were in Los Angeles and in the Bay
Area this scenario played out throughout
the 2016 race and the same thing is
happening in 2020 as far as the poll
lingos if Bernie's gonna win the
nomination he's happened he's gonna have
to get a higher percentage of urban
votes and that can be achieved by going
to large cities and getting the largest
crowds of any politician in America
during this early period what do you
think about this strategy of kind of
veering from you know the early States
even Iowa New Hampshire even though he
did go to those obviously this weekend
and he's going to South Carolina on
Thursday and Henderson Nevada on
Saturday do you think just going to
these large cities to get more of a more
of a higher percentage of urban vote do
you think that's an effective way of
campaigning in these early time the
here's the thing is that the the normal
dynamic of campaigning first of all I
think the the the the old paradigm of
campaigns has has changed and I and I
think it happened you know it started to
happen with the Dean campaign and it's
in part it happened with the Obama
campaign in terms of primaries and that
is it used to be the reason why you had
to to win early okay decisively was
basically to convince the donor class
and to convince people to continue to
donate to you otherwise you would run
out of money and there are going to be
people who are gonna be subjected to
this like Elizabeth Warren they're
already you know like some talk like is
she gonna have the cash to make it
through you know even past Super Tuesday
if she doesn't get a win Bernie does not
have these I don't know about this is
all I can say about the strategy okay I
can't I can't I can't give a full-on
assessment but I can say this the thing
that Bernie does not have to worry about
based upon the fundraising he's shown up
to this point the number of people have
already committed to to fund going
forward is that he does not need to come
in first or maybe even second in New
Hampshire and
in Iowa to continue the enthusiasm right
like I don't think there is going to be
a time where at least his base of
support is going to stop providing him
funds unless he's like way behind and
it's almost impossible to imagine in a
field of this many people that there
will be that type of dynamic it's much
more likely that there's gonna be three
or four people who are within five or
six points of each other more or less
coming out of all of these you know
these these these primaries and so he's
gonna have an advantage because all he
has to do is to be in the hunt to to
have this fundraising juggernaut
continue and it's all gonna come from
small donors it's not going to be a
liability like it's conceivable to me
there may be some candidates who they're
getting their money from you know
corporations or from big money to
interest and that's gonna be a bit of a
liability in the context of this of this
race so I think it makes him sense for
Bernie to go to where he was weakest
last time and in some respects gamble
because he doesn't need generally you
need to make sure that you win right
early so that you can get the confidence
of people who are gonna fund you later
he can afford to sort of like take some
of that for granted
he's like expending it's almost like
he's basically you know like he's
expending on some levels it's almost
like a mortgage strategies that make
sense Jon like he's expending some of
his equity that he knows he's gonna have
months down the road in terms of his
ability to fundraise and it's expending
it now to give him the room to broaden
the map for him early on does that make
sense
yeah it makes sense and and there's no
doubt that he's gonna keep that
commitment even if he doesn't do well in
the first states but I mean
if he can actually win I mean I think he
has a much better chance of winning New
Hampshire than Iowa and that's not gonna
get him anything other than a not a loss
right because everybody's gonna say well
it's Vermont he's right next door to
Vermont so but but yes I think you know
but but it's it's it's gonna get it's
gonna avoid a narrative that like you
can't even win in New Hampshire forget
it
but if he can win in Iowa I mean
everything is gonna be turned on its
head at that point and because I mean I
can't really remember I mean that you
know it hasn't been that long to where
those two states are the you know the
first two states because there have been
variations on that as far back as the
90s but I mean you know even when
somebody wins the first two states it's
almost impossible to be stop the machine
you know I mean even Obama and in 2008 I
mean you know he didn't win New
Hampshire
you know Bush didn't win New Hampshire
in 2000 I mean there's just it's just
it's extremely rare and I think that if
if he can win Iowa I mean that'll put
him on his way because I'm still
concerned it's great to see him you know
doing better among Latino voters it's
great to see him doing you know more
among black voters but you know that
first Super Tuesday still has me a
little bit worried and I think he should
be spending more time and he's already
said that he's going to be doing it he's
going to be coming down to Texas and he
Rd his you know did a few tours through
here last year right at this time I saw
him twice it talked about it on the show
so you know if he keeps doing that and
he keeps going to those Super Tuesday
States so he can you know really you
know hold his own on Super Tuesday you
know I think that's going to be you know
really great and he'll be in a fantastic
position at that point so we'll have a
better sense coming soon John appreciate
the call all right right okay thank you
let's go to the phones you call them
from a six for seven area code who's
this where you come from
I'm calling from Los Angeles wanna
looking over the phosphate you two love
I have for easy questions
my first question what is a man well
what is a man yeah what is what is a man
I think that'd be a little above our pay
grade yeah I don't know I mean are we
examined their philosophical a
philosophical question I don't
understand I don't know that I'm
qualified to determine what a man is and
I can tell you you love all people do I
love all people no of course not well I
don't know about specific people I don't
I don't know about specific do I not
love black conservatives I don't know I
mean I which which black conservative
are we talking about the black
conservatives who had their job stolen
by the illegal alien oh yeah those I
don't love no question amazing you
support the hashtag meeting do I support
the hashtag me too
I don't know notes oh do I said worth -
I I don't really know what it means to
support a hashtag you know who do I'm
not even aware of these people woman my
Cruella De Vil I have no idea I think
the real it is fun yeah
question Messiah Barack Obama and his
wife Michelle I'm sorry what was the
first question what was it what was it
the big vote to follow Messiah Barack
Obama did I vote for Barack Obama the
the father's Messiah fallen the Messiah
what do you mean the fallen Messiah when
did he fall well here's the child of the
life he's the child of the line do I
support the great white who's the white
I thought I was the great one to
appreciate the call I don't I don't
follow
listen if you listen to the show on a
regular basis and you only get the sense
then I'm a progressive like you are just
not listening like like I feel like
you're you need 21 questions to find out
we're betas yeah exactly
you could you just come right out with
question number one
are you a beta of course calling from
1/8 1/4 area code who's this where you
calling from hey this is uh Alex I'm
from Erie PA hello Alex what's on your
mind so I wanted to talk to you guys
about something that happened in my
hometown very recently sort of on the
track of a weird question my Wolf
Blitzer asked off Bernie Sanders what if
people like their insurance with regards
to health insurance so Erie's like the
fourth biggest city in PA it actually
flipped for Trump after going for Obama
twice which didn't help when
Pennsylvania flips a red with that
election since first time since Reagan
so there's two insurance providers and
in Erie there's a UPMC Hamit and blue
Blue Shield and 4y and there's two
hospitals as well st. Vincent and UPMC
hammett so the insurance one of the
insurance companies also runs the
hospital so naturally what sort of
happens when competition starts kicking
in is that you and TMC hamath decided
that you know we just don't want people
going to that other Hospital so they
they got rid of something called a it
expired actually backing up on June 30th
this wasn't really covered all that well
but it they got rid of the consent
clause which allows there's basically
said you can't go to these other
hospitals so there is an article it's
one of the only articles from like the
local news you can like find on it go
eerie it's sort of a it's the headline
itself if people want to look it up is
Erie family navigates new health
insurance landscape it's on go eerie
calm basically outlines about how a
woman in her 50s who was basically going
to the same like doctors and network and
hospitals for basically all four adult
life lost all of her doctors and all of
that stuff she's used to UM that's sort
of an anecdotal thing but I can also
corroborate that literally every person
who has insurance in Erie PA at the very
least had to sit through meetings where
they were like wait is mine insurance
the same am i keeping the same doctor
like all this when did all this happen
this happened so the this was uh I
started hearing about a December of 2018
it's still I think it still has to
happen I don't think it's in effect yet
so another one this is not this was not
implicated in Obama's loss this is just
something this is just a different
dynamic that's just taking place now I
mean again like we started hearing about
this in December 2018 okay um it's
supposed to go into a
On June 30th and so this is something
that I think that people with like
Bernie and like whatever the Democratic
nominee ends up being but it's gonna be
Bernie
hopefully especially was something like
a place like Erie where it's left red I
feel like the first question on the
people who are like a going door to door
the first question out of their mouth
should be how did this insurance thing
affect you because it affected pretty
much everyone on some level even if it
was even if you like you didn't actually
lose anything you were still like at the
very least sitting in meetings I'm
curious I'm curious to what extent they
are getting like when they say why is
this happening
I'm curious as to what the answer is
they're getting are because my if I had
to bet I would say a percentage of what
the the answers are gonna get is
Obamacare like I mean that is you know
and of course it has nothing to do with
Obamacare it may have to do with the
lack of some other proposals but it
doesn't have anything in any direct
bearing from from changes that would
have happened with Obamacare although
maybe there was some you know I don't
know cuz some consolidation but but to
the extent that Obamacare is implicated
it would have been very peripherally but
I but you know the problem is when you
have a vacuum like this in terms of
providing an explanation
certainly the insurance company that has
essentially this you know this is an
antitrust issue of course - right I mean
you know you're having the payer I mean
they're trying to they're trying to
build their monopolies you know that's
that's because that's what's the end
result of any sort of large corporation
is they want to take over an area right
and or you didn't really make sense for
their business to provide insurance that
would allow them to go to the other
hospital that they don't want making
money yeah I mean I what's shocking to
me is like state regulators don't have
an issue with this right like the
insurance regulators now should the
insurance regulators know yeah the
insurance regulators in Pennsylvania
should be going to the insurance company
and saying you can't do this I mean this
is this is when we talk about you know
runaway cost this
is another example of what is driving
costs up it's probably not the biggest
force because I don't know how much this
dynamic exists although it's it's it's
it's increasingly existing there's
another wrinkle in this it's actually
because only one of those hospitals has
an emergency care center only one of the
hospitals has an emergency room no no
the insurance will still cover the
insurance the insurance will still cover
the emergency room but will then happen
is that they will get stabilized in the
emergency room and then they will have
to agree to be transported to the other
hospital which you know after is
expensive it's expect yeah have you
contacted any of like I mean where are
the local politicians in on this like I
don't understand how I'm actually going
to school in Kansas right now so I'm
from my hometown at the EPA but I'm
going to school in Kansas because that's
just how my life worked out weirdly but
I haven't been like local in a while
it's been like seven or eight years but
I saw I go home there eventually and
like one of the one of the things that I
was like talking my friends about is
like how they were sitting like it was
very recent at that time that they were
sitting through with scruciating
meetings that's entertaining and like
everyone and everyone was freaking out
about it that's interesting there so I
really feel like to to your point about
how the probably being said this idea
that it's Obamacare people need to start
going door to door and be like no this
is just like the end result of what
happens when you have for-profit
interest interest in this industry but
you don't even really have to I don't
even feel like you really have to go to
fallout just like this is like this is
capitalism at work you just have to
point to this thing it's like yeah this
is this is how they're going to make
money this is what they're supposed to
do that if you don't want it to be this
way
well then and this is that that story is
that eerie calm you send me a link to
that at majority reporters yeah all
right thanks man
interesting story appreciate it yeah
thanks
that's nuts but that that dynamic we're
seeing more and more of this where
insurance companies are buying hospitals
and of course then you have a a classic
antitrust issue right where you have the
payer the insurance provider is going to
push people towards their their their
hospital I mean it's I mean it's very
classic and it's like you know it is
there's a similar dynamic with net net
neutrality right like we put the pipes
in we want you to use Verizon's music
service instead of Spotify for Raisa Phi
or whatever the hell they would call it
one more entry for the book called the
private sector should not be in charge
of health care yeah I mean the the this
is you know I mean there's so many
different genres of problems with this
that type of relationship
all right let's um let's go to this this
is pretty exciting you know folks we
have spent a lot of time we've devoted
probably somewhere between 70 and 80% of
our shows over the past year to the walk
away movement led by Brandon Clark as
start darken yep sterben Brendon Rondon
storica Brandon strucken
and as you know we have spent the vast
majority of the episodes of this program
covering that well he finally has a
challenge and this challenge is coming
from my people no not the Democrats the
Jews and here is here is Elizabeth pip
Coe
on Fox & Friends that was it this
morning okay
she's introducing a Exodus president
truck slamming the Democrats for failing
to take tougher action against
congresswoman Ilhan Omar's anti-semitic
remarks the Democrats have become an
anti-israel party they've become an anti
Jewish party and a group of Jewish
Millennials called Exodus agrees they
are encouraging Jewish Americans to walk
away from the Democratic Party
the group says quote we reject the
hypocrisy anti-americanism in
anti-semitism I posit for one second
first off the idea that they would use
walk away without giving Brandon
Strachan any type of credit whatsoever
is really offensive
he trademarked it but go ahead musta can
ISM in anti-semitism of the rising
far-left progressive Democrats and far
too many old-school Jewish organizations
take our support for granted here with
more on the movement is former Trump
campaign staffer and Jack city
spokesperson Elizabeth hip co+ for one
second hold on roll back the tape I just
saw something that I hadn't seen before
stop okay that first of all they're not
they're using the Jewish star with the
American flag and I can't that they're
they're Hebrew letters they're okay she
uses who has matter American flag to
make it really pop right exactly
okay continue for granted here with more
on the movement is former Trump campaign
staffer and Jack city spokesperson
Elizabeth hip Co Elizabeth good morning
good morning let's start at the
beginning
Jack siddhis means what obviously it's a
plan Exodus but we left Egypt and now
we're leaving the Democratic Party
okay posit now there's a couple of
things here wait wait before we get to
the two that she's a former Trump so
that's what I was gonna say what is she
exiting she's like did you just stab the
Republican president no the whole point
of Strock strike strike and in
was that in brandon was that he was a
fervent Hillary supporter right I'm
confused and he walked away now here's
the other thing as you know Exodus is
one of the books of the Torah which
talks about the Jews at the time
probably the Hebrews and the Israelites
leaving Egypt
so a Jewish Exodus is redundant it would
be like like saying this year at our
house we're having a Jass over a Jewish
Passover so it's like Israel but for
Jews jizz rail Israel jiggles bagels for
Jews bagels for Jews you jiggle or maybe
this year I think I'm gonna celebrate
jump Kippur it's a Jewish Yom Kippur
everybody's getting in on it there's a
new Kwanzaa for black people apparently
Kwanzaa wanza no Ben just call it
accidents like this part 2 or e Exodus
would at least be a democratic Exodus I
love how every Jesse sessions just turns
into like that's fine you want to do
some little internet hustle that's okay
but use apathetically correctly but it
is it is pretty I mean it's not like
Jack siddhis rolls off the tongue it's
not like well yes I know it's not
exactly
I know it's obviously too good
there was a reason she was in a
volunteer capacity I'm still daydreaming
about Jezreel we're gonna make jolly ah
it's a Lea for Jews obviously it's a
plan Exodus but we left Egypt and now
we're leaving the Democratic posit left
Egypt we all left Egypt that's what
that's what you say to the that's what
you say to the
I son the third son I can't remember did
you decided to do this and start this
movement I thought it was time obviously
we saw a lot of anti-israel policies
kind of start under the Obama
administration and it got worse and
worse and include seen it's been
plastered on our TV screens the last
month there's anti-semitism in the
Democratic Party they can hide it they
can do whatever they want they failed to
condemn it and I was there so it's time
Elizabeth how much does this hurt the
Democratic Party the fact that it
sounded like there we were going to have
a resolution voted on in the floor
non-binding
perhaps with congresswoman Omar's name
on it and then at the eleventh hour
because of all the pressure from the let
parties left they wind up not naming her
and it was not about anti-semitism it
was just generally about hate across the
board I mean the scariest part obviously
was not the original anti-semitism it
was the lack of leadership coming into
play when they were supposed to come
into play condemn what happened and they
failed they should have joined em dit
it's like a condemnation except for Jews
a Jewish condemnation condemnation
I wonder J pack is getting behind Jewish
AIPAC I remember when Obama went to
AIPAC and he said I'm cutting off your
funding you goddamn shop owners deals my
daughter's gonna be jack Mitzvahed you
know am i Jewish Bat Mitzvah and my
religion Jesus is a prophet like any
other I would never blaspheme him by
calling him the son of God it's an
insult to all prophets but you people
still are Christ killers goddamn
guttered well it bloodsuckers cutting
off your aid I kill it I call it Jase
Dillards diced killers joy price killers
but Jews can't come off the Christ
killers aids unless you willing to work
with me and go door to door with me
every morning I file down my Jorns
it's there it's there I go horns but for
Jews on your Jew my gosh
you see that there are Jack's it is so
funny
it's and we
as anybody looked for the just a Exodus
dot-org let's see what we got here oh
there it is
and they usually the same exes oh yeah
they use the same way how much they paid
for that for that website for the logo
for the get a baseball hat with it I
would wear that actually that looks
super cool and nobody will have any idea
what it is so you're not promoting about
you should join to send a message and
change the narrative you know what would
I find a little bit problematic about
that writing and I get that like I mean
it's Hebrew letters and I think that's I
mean I think that's fine it's just
Hebrew font it's it's a Hebrew font it's
just that the the idea of like of the
star with the sort of almost like it
almost looks a little bit like the you'd
from I mean it's kinda looks like a
white supremacist website
it sort of does like but one that feels
like the Jews have glycome
like they're there they've taken over
America and this is what they're gonna
be doing soon oh speaking of which
America a good transition there what's
that good transition to the Lapage sound
oh yes all right
thank goodness ladies and gentlemen we
have things like jek siddhis that of
course is the the movement to have Jews
leave the Democratic Party led by a
millennial former Trump campaign staffer
who is explained to us
it's like Exodus but for Jews and we
Jews as we Exodus what is to continue
the the metaphor what is our promised
land who is there waiting for us in the
promised land we are all headed into the
desert as part of our Exodus and we are
going to be on the outside of
of Judea and we're who will be there
waiting for us at the promised land why
it's the Republican Party with folks
like former governor Lapage Paulo posh
of Maine who explains why we should all
come running into his hands in what is
ostensibly a critique of the
anti-semitism in the Democratic Party
Paula podge can't help himself great to
have you on and we appreciate you making
time for us this morning
well my pleasure I can tell you guys
right off the bat I feel completely
vindicated from anything I've ever said
in my life now that we have Omar in this
country so go ahead and expound on that
why don't you to begin with so you have
he's jumping right in mic saying Omar in
this country yeah just suppose anything
he said yeah
yeah also gonna say you've said a lot it
said quite a bit but let's just hear his
reasoning because Paula posh so
supportive of the Jews go ahead and
expound on that why not you to begin
with so you have of course the
anti-semitism from representative Omar
unbelievable I'll tell you the Jewish
people in America have been great
supporters of Democratic Party in fact
that's where their money comes from for
the most part let me just come right out
of the gate by saying it's super
offensive you could you think about
these these friggin bird beaks have been
shoveling these are grateful bastard
their gold for so long and you think
about its really are grateful to not do
something for he's done for you
it's been I feel vindicated everything
I've ever said about life right they
have completely bought our politics they
own them they bought them and yet this
is the kind of treatment they get I mean
I feel as if I go to a restaurant for a
service
well these guys own the whole goddamn
establishment you still got this girl
that shouldn't even be in the country
with me and she gets to disrespect them
well I feel vindicated and everything
I've ever said they own the media and
then people in the media criticize them
it's unbelievable now to be fair to be
fair we should say and and I want to be
absolutely clear on this that Governor
LePage said nothing about Jews drinking
the blood of young Christian kids so I
want to get that whatever years they've
put down their chalices of Christian
virgin blood and the only thing they've
done is look up to see if they could
build a new body lending business a
write a check to the Democratic National
Committee and this is the thanks they
get you know I know those people have
low self-esteem because I watched a
quarter of a Woody Allen movie once
quite this is a bit much you know
totally self-deprecating
I think we should just let them keep on
going because there's no better
advertisement for the fact that plenty
of people in this right-wing Zionist
coalition are extremely anti-semitic
and plenty of them think that Jews are
going to hell too they just have some
like really really wacky beliefs la
vallee actually did a cartoon about this
very recently
we're basically illustrating the fact
that they can say whatever they want
they can they could accuse us of
drinking Christian baby blood as long as
they uphold the Trump of Israel I wasn't
purgatory for a Jew
it means it's it's perpetually a week
before they collect the rent anyway
democratic
like wow guys boy I'm sure making
McCain's excited I'm sure she called
insects parent wow I bet she did she
pulled it pulled up she pulled a Brooks
himself care Megan Monday's got a two
eight one area code who's this where he
gone from hey this is Aldo from Illinois
hello Aldo from Illinois hey what's on
your mind okay so about a week ago you
guys were talking about definitions of
neoliberalism and I think Jamie was the
one who brought it up and I had a couple
thoughts about that she was talking
about how you know you can look at
neoliberalism as a sort of periodization
or sort of like such a point in history
or whatever and you can look at it as an
ideology and as an economic philosophy
and etc but I was thinking about of it
from an ideological perspective and the
way that it functions in our society and
I thought that the first sort of example
that I could give you of what I'm
thinking here is the idea around modern
monetary theory and how a lot of it
focuses on the fact that we can do a lot
of things with a Fiat system
right there's a lot of possibility and
flexibility with that but yet we still
have a sort of a ideological situation
in the hire and the Treasury in the
reserve and everything that prevents
that from happening and I guess this is
to say that maybe the fight or the point
of analysis that we should get a new
system from is from an ideological point
of view and not so much from electoral
is I'm a things like that
so what do you mean by under if I
understand you correctly what you're
saying is that well I mean I think
that's what the MMT people if I
understand you correctly I think that's
what the MMT people are trying to do I
mean I think that they think right the
and I think that is why you have people
who are evangelical about it is because
they're trying to and and and and I I
mean look it is I mean I don't know what
this has to do necessarily with with
neoliberalism per se you know from this
narrow in this narrow context right
because mmt is simply a a a different
perspective on how you analyze our
monetary system that is large part a
function of us becoming untethered to
the gold standard basically becoming as
you say a fiat currency and and so what
I'm saying is that essentially the the
fact that we grew out of a sort of gold
standard system and went to a Fiat
system that in itself is is indicative
of the fact that we haven't evolved
ideologically to the to the point where
we can do something like I'm MT and I
mean that in AI think I think I think
the the I I think the the point that the
MMT people would say is that I mean that
it's not a question of growing
ideologically changing ideologically to
assess this it's simply that the the the
the technical analysis of people is
stuck in that that pre or that that
gold-standard mentality and I think
they're there that's their argument
that's the MMT people's argument is that
people are still thinking in terms of
the the old relationship that we had to
money when it was tethered to the gold
standard and work I think this is
distinct from you know neoliberalism or
social democracy it mean these are i
think it's distinct from that I think
it's just simply an analysis about about
how money works when it is a fiat
currency and so it may be the case that
some of these people are neoliberalism
may be the case that some of them are
you know sort of Social Democrats it
doesn't matter you know they still have
this perspective of mmt I don't think
that Bernie Sanders frankly I mean I
don't know where he is today but I know
that when he was on you know when when
Stephanie Kelton was was working on his
staff like I don't know that he had
fully bought into the idea of MMT as you
know in terms of as an accurate analysis
of of what you can do with money so I
don't know that it's it's not an
ideological and I don't know frankly
that mmm tears aren't neoliberals I mean
plenty of Marxists who are also very
critical of mmt from a leftist
perspective yes but like it's not
neoliberal ideology that's keeping them
from getting it's not any ideology well
in the case of Marxist I think it is
their ideology that prevents them from
from viewing it you know mmm tea is a
form of analysis frankly because it
doesn't address what they want to
address and I don't think that mmm tea
is well isn't the idea of a gold
standard like an ideology I mean but
fact that we haven't gotten to the point
where we we don't think of a system of
currency as having to do with a physical
you know object that's out there but to
do more with a you know Fiat in the
government isn't that a form of ideology
I guess I mean I guess I mean I think
like increasingly less so but I mean but
I don't think that I I think it's a
mistake to look at mmt as an ideology
and and I don't think that you need to
have a specific ideology to accept the
analysis that mmt purports to provide I
don't know I think everything is
influenced by ideology and there are
definitely people who come to MFG from
different places there are there are
leftists who think that it makes sense
I'm not fully convinced quite yet we'll
see there are right-wingers I don't I
would push back on the idea the MMT
is essentially incompatible with
neoliberal capitalism
nobody's that's exactly what I've been
saying no caller said that it is well
he's saying that he's saying that a
neoliberal ideology keeps people from
accepting mmt I'm saying that's not
necessarily true and I think if you dig
in to the some of the talks and writings
of a lot of energy advocates I think
that they do uphold a version of
neoliberal capitalism but this idea of a
balanced budget isn't that sort of a I
mean this is something that has pervaded
since the gold standard look and the
when we spoke to Philip murasky about
this a couple years ago his definition
of neoliberalism was not simply that
it's a market solution for everything it
is also that it is a market solution
however that a the the the
powers-that-be as it were would
basically still steer government in such
a way specifically to help
industry right which goes beyond that so
there they're not like full-on free
marketeers his argument is that in fact
the the free market is really more of a
rhetoric and that they are looking for
the government to enhance the power of
of corporations in some fashion and so
you know the the it is conceivable that
if you were a neoliberal I guess you
would see a a threat to the idea that a
government could feel like it could
spend on and provide for people because
it would undercut the ability of a
market and specifically a specific
industry for providing where the
government might be able to do so right
so it's conceivable to me that you would
be hostile to it because of your
ideology but I suspect to the extent
that there's hostility towards it it is
because you know in the same reason in
many respects and and I say this without
without feeling a hundred percent
confident that mmm tea is the proper
analysis for our you know for our way
our monetary system works but I would
think that the dynamic is more like you
know people who have worked in film for
25 years and the introduction of you
know high-definition video coming in
people are like whoa whoa whoa we can't
do that cuz that's crazy I dunno having
read quints LeBeau Dean's book on on
globalists in the neoliberals like the
Milton Friedman and those sort of Mont
Pelerin guys they were all about
balanced budgets of amendments because I
think in some level it curtailed the
ability of the state to provide things
that they wanted the market rarefied if
you brought of a use of the term
neoliberal I think in today's sort of
music is way too much neoliberal
describes like everything and so there
is like a precise I'm using I'm using
the one that like mirowski yeah and I
think
the one that Moravsky uses yeah I mean
obviously thing is true in Slobodan we
had him on and he's just talking about
it from an international perspective
which again was about curtailing the
sovereignty of nation wool and was
because he was they were afraid of how
populist will get ahold of agendas in
interference and the corporate sort of
agenda and specifically that that uh
that these things that the market
policies aren't organic and naturally
occurring they are highly bureaucratic
and regulated and a result of government
spending the result of just I mean
that's what Sam always says about where
you set the putting the plane fee but if
you look at let's say the most recent
snapshot of neoliberal thought which
I've seen which is that report from the
new Skinit Center they do accommodate a
mixture of markets and government
programs I don't know if that's because
the Overton Window has shifted or what
but I don't think that that's
essentially incompatible with an mmt
framework which is also tricky because
mmt is very slippery to define and
different people define it in many
different ways in many different
contexts depending who they're arguing
with I'm not gonna argue like economics
right now cuz I don't think I think
that's gonna be really boring but I just
I just want to emphasize again the
influence of ideology on you know on
everything everyone's got one right and
what I have seen a pattern from some of
these mmt people is they're looking for
a way around changing the relations of
production right they're looking for a
way the capitalism can continue I hope
you read the the response to that
critique they're looking for a way that
these inconvenient truths posited by
people like Robert Brenner somehow that
like we can we could get out of them and
that is what makes me a little bit
suspect I also think though historically
like I I think niskin indefinitely they
have to move a little bit more because
the playing field has been shifted by
Marxists and by mmt people and by Social
Democrats and my movements but
on the other hands I mean there's a book
like that came out in 2005 called the 2%
solution fixing America's problems and
ways liberals and conservatives can love
by matthew miller where you know it's
precisely this hyper you know privatized
but slight government intervention stuff
so that's always been their approach
it's just a question of how long far
along the scale right oh you do it i
mean if i'm thinking about how palatable
it will be for people when we're talking
about doing stuff like the green new
deal doing stuff like infrastructure
investment and then to you know get them
out from a rhetorical standpoint yes it
is it is helpful because in it already
has i mean look mmm tea is helpful in
that respect but also the fact that the
entire sort of deficit religion has
completely collapsed on the right yeah
does a monetary theory yes has has has
had as much impact it seems to me i mean
i think mmm tea has been helpful on the
left but really the fact that like paul
ryan walks out of you know his control
of the house with the largest deficits
and debt that we've seen also
functionally have that same impact
nobody there's nobody to take it you
know nobody's pretending anymore but
appreciate the call if you're using it
to answer the question but how did we
pay for it and get these social programs
passed great if you're using it as a way
to say we do not need to change the rate
the relations of production and
transition to a socialist democratic
system then that's bad do you think that
the that a job guarantee program changes
the the relationship to the production
no it doesn't know oscar if the
government is is providing jobs that
doesn't in any way change the
relationship between people who hire
people and people who get hired i guess
it depends what portion like it's the
course mate doing production it may not
yeah well i guess it depends what
portion of the economy it's it's
happening with that way so a job
he could I mean we don't know I mean it
you know I mean I guess if you if it
comes down to the matter degree but but
of course it could right because if I'm
competing with the government on the
government podcasts for people it's
going to change the relationship yeah I
guess so I've heard the jobs guarantee
talked about in a lot of different ways
from the left and from the right like on
the one hand it would certainly be
better if workers aren't so scared of
being fired that they're afraid to like
unionize or agitate for their rights or
whatever on the other hand you know I do
have pretty strong anti work politics
and some people have described it as a
kind of work fair certainly better than
the kind of work fair that we saw in the
90s but like do we want what's a little
bit better or are we looking to a long
term horizon where you know people work
yes I guess what I was addressing was
the the and I think henwood makes this
critique that it does not impact it that
modern monetary Theory does not impact
the relationship between I guess their
ground about a way then yes it could be
note in a direct Grahams adequate way to
help in a direct way it certainly could
I mean that's the thing is that I think
like you know no but but the way that
it's been used in arguments and like
right when I started here some guy kept
calling in and saying oh you just don't
understand mmt it renders your ideology
redundant which is not true I would
agree that it doesn't render it no
redundant but that's not the same thing
to say it doesn't impact the
relationship sure like I'm talking about
the way it's used in arguments not the
way it's used in policy yes that IMR was
wrong scott Walker's Texas Ranger Exodus
to electric juga Lou bull Prague is this
a true hypothetical in regards to the
cradle act newly pregnant millennial
parents use cradle act now accrue a debt
to their Social Security saving Social
Security gets cut per Trump budget
general public and goals these parents
return to work paying less towards their
Social Security I'm not sure about the
cradle act I'm not sure I follow
Dewey Dave hey Sam I don't agree with
Jamie much at all but I live in Delaware
and it's objectively garbage place I'm
also down with by
bad touch scandal prediction oh okay I'm
also down with the look at the pictures
that we already have of him hi rub half
the shoulders in this state I feel like
he's just done with so much visibility
it's like the Marilyn Manson thing where
if you just do all of your stuff that
embarrasses you publicly then like
nobody can bust you on it I mean Marilyn
Manson has been busted I've seen a bunch
of those videos where he that one photo
we're like the bikers girlfriend is like
grinding she's there might be others who
aren't in coming YouTube video entitled
Jesse Lee Peterson Kuck beta Sam cedar
Jesse Lee Peterson is the guy who wants
to have me on a show right are you sure
you weren't already on the show just
earlier was that him was that actually
him I don't know oh I thought that was a
bit I think I think it's a bit I mean I
don't know him so I don't really know
but I know that he's reached out to have
me come on a show hilarious I was
sitting on what I can call in but they
wanted me to go out to LA oh okay they
do it in the morning well I could do it
some maybe Thursday morning maybe I'll
do it next not this Thursday but next
Thursday from home or maybe I'll come at
what time is it I'll come in right cuz
it's prep time you're though you don't
get in till 10:30 anyway so I guess for
10:30 that's not true but you're the
first person I don't the first person
who should understand then you get in
late you just come in you're just like
[Laughter]
me with this one arrows neighbor and
just go through this well that's
actually really poor I wouldn't mock the
assassination of Mario Lee Franklin I'm
not making fun of me all you want but I
think undermining that story is actually
a very bad taste there's a new there's a
new element a story that just came out
that you wouldn't that uh apparently
balsa narrows daughter's day
being the guy that pulled the trigger
that's a coincidence in some ways that
makes it less nefarious leaves and
politicians kids out of it you can my
dad is JR Paulson are oh I'm just really
scared daddy says really daddy says if
you loved me you'd kill us someone on
the council hey crew Bill Maher seems to
be having more people on that our anti
sjw and blame Millennials for everything
my parents who have pretty much centrist
Democrats love him and agree with
everything on that program do you think
he poses a danger in the upcoming
election no Fran from Philadelphia you
see Philadelphia recently banned
cashless stores his discriminatory
discriminatory against the poor dude I
think Massachusetts the only other place
in the country with the same band dude
is this directly connected to the
awesomeness cross-pollination due to the
Worcester Philly direct flights that
started last year is that right
that must be the only place you can get
to from Worcester I don't know just
saying dude also check out this
dissident peasants latest episode
garbage politics of the Green Book Chris
Berg Chris verdict the Green Book is
that the movie that just won yeah I
never heard so I was confused because
this does that movie refer to Phil and I
talk yes it's those green books those
green books are actually really
important yeah and then of there's
Qaddafi's green book so I was like Chris
verdict I just hope that Jackson is
grows into an even bigger movement
called Java takus which will then
evolved into jus Dharana me oh my god
it's jumpers it's the book of numbers so
Joe it's funny to make Jewish things
more Jewish whoa all right I've been in
New York but you got damn long how much
more you this whole operation oh I'm
having some shots of ball soup it's
matzo ball soup but for Jews you fellas
know juror speaking - Jase you fellas
know juror I felt like julie-san okay I
think you're allowed to talk about this
Matt when you've had a bagel Julie
Seinfeld have you never had a bagel I
fell for June I mean have you still
never had a bagel I mean I've had like
the ones you buy it store some sugar on
it for you never even occurred to you to
walk into like like a bagel go to SNS or
something like that
HNH all right well we know it will be
when we hit 3000 patrons that's finally
the goddamn bagel I love Sarah Palin Sam
you've been suspiciously quiet about the
Robert Kraft story now you fashion
yourself as some kind of leftist my
question is will you stand with real
leftists and call for the complete
dissolution of the systemically criminal
organization that is New England
Patriots I don't know if you saw our
Instagram feed recently but there was
some upsetting pictures that that
apparently have been exposed care of
Larry Murphy who said that to me and we
put it up on the Instagram are you
seeing it hi mrs. Kim there's no
lavender oil at the place right cuz I
don't want to get sick I always with you
know I posted a lot of people supposed
to picture with a lot of people dough I
have Medicare and still had ten thousand
dollars out of pocket last year podcast
like such a picture you're not laughing
about Medicare we're laughing about the
picture people should understand
Medicare as it stands now you still have
payments not only do you pay for
Medicare but you still have
out-of-pocket costs under the Medicare
for all proposal from Bernie Sanders and
the even more aggressive one from
jeyapaul free free at the point of
service oh and by the way he just added
a long term care into Bernie did just
added long-term care into
following you know lots of treasure from
activists so well jeyapaul had had her
is headed at hers and that's that's good
news
podcast by the Commonwealth Fund the
dose his excellent about health care in
America and the rest of the world
usually fifteen minutes long showed how
much Medicare recipients still have to
pay after Medicare I have to file
appeals for denials of claims of some
meds and prescribe medical devices that
keep me well and prevent damage and more
expensive invasive procedures thames
Darwin Sam a Miami today to remind you
Purim brings begins in one week from
tonight
I don't celebrate Purim I celebrate
jerem the Jewish pearl on that blessed
evening we will knock on German Taschen
which are like hamantaschen but for Jews
good young Tiff's poor arm is so lit
it's like it's like jolla Wien for real
everyone dresses up you crazy costumes I
used to live in her signais BER hood it
was lit a a fun for him oh really yeah
and we would always have a party event
too because that was the one night when
they were all like drunk and partying so
they wouldn't call the cops oh that's
funny
contagious chameleon neoliberalism is
market totalitarianism
there are Marxist mmm tears the two
aren't mutually exclusive Anthony from
Baltimore hey Sam it's been a while I
just want to say hi and I love the
phrase a pathetically steamrolling the
truth
the apathetic steamroller is the
nickname I gave to the stronger alpha
male who routinely play spacebar well
done
my fiance is an ER nurse and she can
confirm the same emergency room
insurance transfer dynamic and Phoenix
they'll stabilize you and make you pay
for the transfer because the insurance
has a deal with one hospital I think
Biden is waiting until after the first
quarter deadline so he can hide his
fundraising until July oh that's
probably that's that's probably it we
will have other campaign totals in April
he can say propped up with big money and
have three months before anyone sees the
numbers that's a that smart assessment
call from a 2:07 area code who's this
where he come from is a D live from
Boston he live from Boston what's on
your mind so I've been thinking about
the minimum wage and a couple months ago
you guys talked about it and how if it
kept up with
activity the minimum wage right now
would be like twenty one dollars and
seventy something fun right right so my
question is basically about whether or
not you guys think it should reflect
productivity if the minimum wage by law
should reflect that I would I would
index it towards productivity I don't
know if I would go one to one
necessarily but I would certainly index
it in some fashion it should it should
rise with productivity so do you guys
know how productivity is quantified
because I I don't I think many people
don't obviously I you know take you guys
at your word because you guys have
looked at the studies and and stuff but
I mean I think it's basically I mean off
the top my head I would imagine it is
work hours
you're like GDP / work hours some
something for that effect okay last
question is there an update on the whole
billboard situation with Dave Rubin
debating you're not debating you I don't
know I you know what that's a good
question I haven't even thought about it
I was not involved in that endeavor
whatsoever so no I am is in in the dark
as much about you as you are and I guess
after vacation I had totally forgotten
about it but that's a good question is
that GoFundMe still up i if i think i
think the GoFundMe raised a lot of money
well i hope i hope whoever it was it set
it up is he's gonna put up a billboard i
certainly i will keep you up funny
whatever oh sorry it's so funny whenever
you tweet back at dave rubin cuz i'm
like i know he's never gonna respond
he's probably never gonna block you
either but like he's muted me I'm
terrified he there's no doubt in my mind
that he's muted me but the thing that is
that is like I think most hilarious to
me is that anytime he tweets now it
feels like like half of it is full of
people who are giving him grief
and I think he must realize that
something's going on
wait is that hit I think this is it holy
crap oh my god I think we got the yeah I
don't know I can't verify whose imager
is that real
yeah this Photoshop is this real I can
appreciate the colleague what it was a
digital ad like this so yeah this is
it's not real why didn't you tell me
about we'll try to figure out if this is
real or not it looks I don't think they
would shop it through all these
different wires so I think it's real oh
my god when was that up February 54 by
the debates why didn't somebody tell me
about that seen it god no I haven't I
haven't seen this I have that is the
first time seeing it that's pretty funny
oh my god that's unbelievable but you
want to throw up the t-shirt too
I sent you an email with this will you
send me a link to this I want to I want
to frame that I want to print out that
picture and want to show me I feel I did
look at let was past does things my life
I didn't it was not me that's amazing
that's unbelievable
let's go to the phones come from a 978
area code who's this where you come from
yeah oh hey this is Eric Hall from New
Jersey how you doing good how you doing
Eric what's on your mind
good good um so I want to talk about
Medicare for all just briefly I don't
know if you I don't know if you guys
caught on to this but that guy that
called earlier with that weird for
questions thing he was doing a Jesse Lee
Peterson schtick okay that's like hey
yeah amazing amazing and my children of
the lie like those are standard Jesse
Lee Peterson idiotic lines and the show
just I'm gonna go on his show but I
didn't quite realize I mean is that I
gotta look into it maybe yeah and then I
think
the other weird thing he did with the
four questions with your last name is
Seder like cedar for questions I think
that was just who he attempted that's
just my the way my brain works anyway
yeah so you know I'm a physician and I
obviously have a kind of big stake in
Medicare for all I'm a big supporter of
it but I did kind of the way that it's
been getting discussed is that this is
kind of nebulous you hear a lot of
people talking about in different ways
to what extent are we going to cover
everything versus supplemental policies
and Sharons policies and you look at
different politicians what they've sort
of prescribed was how they want to go
about this do you guys feel strongly
that the I mean I heard you guys talk
about this a couple episodes ago where
I'm just trying to understand your
perspective are you opposed to any plan
that would involve gets preserving the
sort of private sector as a supplement
to say a Medicare for All system that
would cover a high percentage over
overall costs and then having you know
sort of a social safety net to cover
people that can't afford the private
sector or maybe a more robust like you
know not-for-profit sector within the
private sector of insurance companies or
you all four that's it just single-payer
medicare-for-all no co-pays no
out-of-pocket you know transactions in
healthcare I mean I when I read like
jeyapaul's
program or Sanders Medicare for all
program that's the one that that that I
like I mean I I'm not so concerned about
private insurers being around for more
sort of like elective surgeries I guess
or you know or you know if there are I
don't rying to think of like what other
what other reasons why you would have it
I mean I don't I'm not I'm not against
the existence of the private insurance
industry I just don't wanna have to deal
with it at all and so I want to be able
to in you know and according to jeyapaul
you know the
the providers at the end of the day will
probably get pretty close to what
they're getting now on some level I mean
the the biggest driver of costs are it
seems to me
drugs and then basically like
inefficiencies and inefficient by in
efficiencies I mean like administrative
overhead
I mean salaries comprise only a couple
percentage of overall health care I'm
not really worried about that not not
just administrative but also procedures
like they're you know there's a that I I
mean I always referenced this this piece
by Atul Gawande but it to me it was the
the most seminal piece where he compared
to towns in Texas and their Medicare
reimbursement rates and one was thirty
percent higher than the other they had
the same health incomes all everything
you know it was controlled as much as
you could the only difference was in one
town doctors owned the owned devices and
they would prescribe these devices right
like you need an MRI for this and prices
went up I mean I'll tell you something
like I the the other experience I had
with this was and forgive me for getting
too explicit but you're a doctor you
don't care we do what the was I have had
two colonoscopies at this point in my
life I had I started a little bit
earlier than most because of you know
family stuff and the first time I was I
had propanol and apparently this is very
common yeah yeah that's this is common
on the East Coast when you go in for the
colonoscopy they bring in an
anesthesiologist who puts you out of
this pro phenol and then the doctor
basically his job is just basically or
her job is just to you know stick the
thing the pipes up and look around and
then get out and go to the next one
yeah and the second time around my
insurance company would not cover that
they would not come
anesthesiologist and I'm like I don't
understand they said you can get local
and I'm like local like what is that Oh
duh
now as a layperson I didn't know what
that meant but all it meant was yeah it
was some other type of anesthesia that
you did not yeah they were talking about
conscious sedation they were talking
about giving you a little spent alone
versed which kind of makes you go to a
lala land the problem with that is
you're groggy the entire rest of the day
it takes longer to wear off propofol
better because you're in you're out
is there seconds and you're good that
was not my experience at all it was the
reverse I felt great for two days after
the probe and all the other one was just
like I was out and then I was out and
then I came to and I was fine but the
difference is is that the doctor who
would do the profane all he set up
basically a factory where he would do
where he would just go in and do much
more an hour because he was offloading
the cost of the anesthesia anesthesia to
somebody else so he was maximizing his
profit at the cost of everybody else
whereas the second time I got it the
doctor himself administered whatever it
was that put me out into lala land from
my experience they were almost identical
experiences I wasn't aware of anything
and but it was much cheaper it was five
hundred dollars cheaper the second time
around now and I think like you know a
medicare-for-all will basically say like
you don't need that in it and apparently
it's coastal like on the west coast they
barely use that program at all on the
East Coast they use it more and that to
me just sounds like that's not a medical
necessity that's just a business thing
even okay I didn't yawn this never ran
for Annoying reasons maybe it still will
they won't even give you conscious
sedation for comparably painful and
invasive gynecological procedures and I
talk to doctors about it and it's a
hundred percent well it's mostly because
it's just too expensive and doctors are
hemorrhaging money every second of the
day
mm-hmm they will do it under
circumstances like if someone has like
autism or mental retardation or like
vaginismus like somebody who just
clearly can't tolerate
but I guess I guess the point I thought
the larger point I want to make is that
when you talk about this type of system
you're describing where we just kind of
would totally eliminate any presence of
insurance I think one of the easiest
ways to defend medicare-for-all is by
saying look the rest of the developed
world has done this yeah every other
industrialized major well it is untrue
in a boat we do have insurance before
you force at that point before if at
that point when you talk about the
complete elimination of insurance
because that's not true
a lot of the developed countries
worldwide do have a very you know they
have a presence of the project character
I mean you even you take France for
example yeah consistently ranked the
number one health care system worldwide
they're sort of Medicare for all jacent
system covers 70 maybe 80 percent of
overall cost then you make up the rest
of the by brought you know purchasing a
private insurance plan the difference is
it strictly regulated they take out the
profiteering motive they've got a strong
social safety net so if a single
household can't with all the costs it's
on the house after that you know Germany
they've managed to sort of universalize
their health care system by using the
individual mandate but the reason that
works again it's not for profit and
there's a strong secondary social
support that make sure no family is
either being economically harmed or you
making sure that there's no prohibitive
nature of cost so that some people are
paying in a pocket or we're purchasing
whatever kind of supplemental plan but
the point is you know your your
universalizing if I'm making sure
there's nothing prohibitive and I think
that's really going to be the strongest
aspect of Medicare for all is we spend
too much money on secondary and tertiary
care because people don't want to go to
the doctor when nothing's bothering them
and you let these very indolent very
easy and cheap to treat chronic
illnesses like retention yes right are
very cheap to treat the okay we're
saving money by not covering Joey when
he turns 25 years old between then and
45 but it's maybe gonna cost you know a
hundred dollars a year to take care of
that right the function of samurai
Jonases I know he's on dialysis by the
time I forty and now he qualifies for
Medicare number one and his care is not
going to cost fifty one
thousand dollars a year right add that
up I think that mark Marquita study I
don't think factored any of that and
when they were you know talking about
how its so-called expensive this is
going to be is going to be the
importance of you know not only disease
prevention but health promotion which
are not profitable modes of care but are
exactly infinitely less expensive and
you know more efficacious in terms of a
whole healthcare system but again the
idea that we necessarily have to
eliminate the private insurance as
opposed to keeping them around is sort
of a secondary nature I agree with it
until the dialogue I agree with you on
that I mean I just I think that is that
is I'm more interested in in getting
somewhere than I am in yeah in getting
to that point where I don't have to fill
out but you know if somebody else wants
to deal with private into health
insurance god bless him with Lou Evander
allergies be considered essential care
or essential T appreciate the call
thank you very much this also points at
one of the issues with the rhetoric of
Medicare for all because what a bernie
is introducing is better than Medicare
it's more of a single-payer system so I
get it why they did that way because
people already know what Medicare is and
generally liked it but it also makes it
possible to muddy the waters like we've
been seeing with like pretty much every
Democratic candidate running yeah that's
true call him from a four seven eight
area code who's this where he call him
from hello this is Jeff I'm calling from
the Jewish Georgia which is just Georgia
Oh interesting
hello Jeff from the I don't Georgia
worked out man hey I was please act like
I will plug earlier in on your show yeah
people want to learn more about both the
real last green book in the
movie that made millions of dollars and
took home three Oscars I did episodes on
both those things it's pretty amazing so
everybody I come for the 80
italian-american rhetoric and stay for
the racial politics
deconstruction to find fan tip suit I
worked very hard on it check about folks
this isn't peasant yeah just a peasant
girl always know other things as health
care is on everyone's mind that that you
know i i've always really thought about
as a somewhat creative type all my life
I miss it before I did used to be a
musician for play professionally for a
little while hmm and uh you know what I
think about is all these go fund me is
basically they're like a third of them
are all for medical debt and I don't
want to get all you know a capitalist
entrepreneurial on you but I you know
part of me really does think that the
human spirit is a glorious and amazing
thing if you just give it a little bit
of room to flourish and a lot of times a
little people really do just need a
little bit of money to get off the
ground and and I want people to think
about the effects of something like
single-payer health care would have on
the world how many pieces of art and
music projects all different kinds it we
will never get to see because people are
too busy scrapping just to pay their
medical bills everything that we're
missing that on we can't even imagine it
literally can't imagine I would expand
that I would like I would expand that to
how many people are working at jobs they
don't want to work at because they are
tied into their health care I mean
absolutely true and and even a fixture
even if they're just gonna take the time
to you know spend more time with their
family or you know get better at cooking
and not eat out so much or whatever you
know that's still human flourishing
right that maybe never show up
necessarily in any numbers that you look
at or maybe it does depending on the
kind of numbers that you look at but it
doesn't matter at all it's all good
that's what it means to be a person and
and so much of you know people's lives
is tied up in things that aren't know
I'm nothing to do with being a person
it's got everything to do with just
trying to survive and in single-payer
health care you know is it it's the
littlest bit
form the biggest little reforms that
could have a lot of amazing knock-on
effects - we literally can't imagine I
would only add that the former CEO or
the former VP of GoFundMe Dan Pfeiffer
still retains a significant financial
interest in the company that makes a
third of its money from medical
crowdfunding campaigns so maybe he
should disclose that the next time he
talks about why we're not ready for
single-payer on the podcast that it
shall not be named appreciate the call
Jeff
good you named it I'm sorry I didn't
know which one she saw him out my bad
this is sort of so all good for me
so here's a good lesson in what you
should not do if someone is making the
case that you have an outsized power in
our society and therefore should be
subjected to some type of of scrutiny
and regulation by the government so that
you do not have this outsized authority
in our society here is here's Charles
Payne trying to justify why Facebook did
the right thing by pulling down
Elizabeth Warren's ads talking about her
introduction of antitrust measures our
proposed antitrust measures to break up
Facebook Elizabeth Warren going after
Facebook I'm liking it for a while then
Facebook made a reversal Charles Payne
host to making money on FB n here to
tell us the stories that she she put
some ads on Facebook saying break up
Facebook Facebook took the ads damn
right because they said she used the
Facebook low logo right and then they
later put him back up yeah what's
happening on it my back said kicked me
yeah I'm gonna take it off
we went through this in third grade I'm
like okay no problem keep it there take
it off
why does Charles Payne think he's that
funny you know it's it's creepy because
that probably did play a role in Mark
Zuckerberg decision to remove those ads
I don't know if Mark Zuckerberg really
thought about put on his back that
there's no doubt that's how he gets to
feel like persecuted victim even when
he's an old guard but this I mean the
the aura was base culture jammer inside
Facebook whose what's really underscores
of her point I just want to yeah exactly
I mean Facebook we know that most people
get their news from Facebook at least in
part if not in you know the the majority
this is where they get their news you
know they're these where news stories
come from and the idea that they have
the ability to to do censor in that way
is highly problematic
now you could nationalize it but then of
course you've got a real problem I think
with the the US government being in the
business of determining if some stuff is
you know borderline you know an
exception to the First Amendment and so
I think you know nationalizing Facebook
or Google I find to be highly
problematic I think there's a lot of
things that would be everything would be
tied up in the courts better to make
Facebook not the the sole means in which
people get their news but rather there
be other platforms if Charles Payne's
back was the place where most of the
people at his high school got their news
that's might be a problem that's right
Oh incidentally if you need to know the
change in the cafeteria schedule it's on
the back am i visibly on my back exactly
they're just trying to do something
about bullying okay but how
short-sighted too
this is the other thing is that these
are not very bright people if you wanted
to make elizabeth warren's case for her
that's what you would do and that's why
they put it back I almost wonder if
Warren's people didn't include the
Facebook logo for that purpose
intentionally oh they definitely were
goading Facebook into doing it there's
no doubt that was smart of them to do
that frankly what's perfect
Fenster you nobody hated Friendster
right I was not on that I didn't know
anything about that this is pretty
impressive I want to show this this clip
here the state Senate Judiciary
Committee in Arkansas took up the
discussion of a bill on stand your
ground and basically rammed it through
the committee process and one of the
state senators Stephanie flowers
basically lost it because of the lack of
debate that was taking place in this
Judiciary Committee and she basically
gave the chair an earful here is state
senator Stephanie flowers in the
Arkansas legislature I'm Jerry and I
don't know really where mr. ballinger is
from but I can tell you that for a long
time since I've been back here in
Arkansas I have feared for my son's life
now he's 27 he's out of Arkansas and I
thank God he is when you're bringing up
crap like this it offends me and then to
limit the debate to this is crazy
you don't have to worry about your
children will I worry about my son
[Applause]
boys and girls and people coming into my
neighborhood into my city saying they
got open-carry rights walking down in
front of my dog going off is in front of
the courthouse that's a belly you have a
right to stand my ground I don't know
what the hell he intends to do but I
know I am scared I feel threatened just
like some of y'all walking around here
up in the legislature with these damn
guns that what's his name garner came in
here walk around here with a damn gun
you can see the damn shoot me senator
 help I'm telling you this deserves
more attention you want to come up here
with all these little NRA bills and
bills that
[Music]
do what the hell you want to do go ahead
but you can't silence me
you got your damn silenced gun out the
damn chamber today but you are not going
to silence me
[Music]
listen to flowers if anybody hasn't
tried to silence you it's me we
literally just watched him try to
silence her yeah awesome that was really
really good I mean every single person
Gio Pierre who's pushed these gun open
carry bills should that's what they
should get every single time
exactly and she's right these are
basically written with via Alec and the
all those legislators are sent to Alec
you know retreats and they get their
marching orders and then we see these
laws go state to state to state
oh also this just in can we put up this
a breaking story from
listen from a former CIA analyst Evan
McMullen former Senate candidate - right
didn't presidential can run against the
Trump I forgot no he got in Utah right
he did well in Utah he apparently has
been doing some digging and he actually
found an actual line from the Democratic
socialists of America website you could
probably find this at I don't know
TSA dot-com or do you probably just
google Democratic Socialist America and
then website on the dark web or know now
this is a quote in the short term we
can't eliminate private corporations but
we can bring them under greater
Democratic control they call themselves
socialists because they are socialists
I mean it really are we I mean this is
this is the Masada this is the fear that
the that private corporations are gonna
be brought under greater Democratic
control like maybe union members will
sit on the board of directors or then
maybe they'll be management councils or
what he was sent around the world
operative to help stop I did not know
the part about him being a CIA analyst
that makes it so much funnier oh yeah
that's that's how we figured that out
that was a initial brand preposition
yeah that was as well he was like on the
guys in the CIA who's worked for was at
Paul Ryan and he worked directly for
Paul Ryan he worked for the staff for a
prominent report I learned a thing in
CIA tradecraft about not being overtly
racist see you on pod save this idiots
made him redeem one of the things when
you work for the CIA you learn is that
the words in between the quotes are what
they say it's like more and more you
realize like I feel like we've all been
a little bit gas lit and to thinking to
this class of people
is it least like competent you know
that's their main selling point she's
the most qualified candidate of all time
but like no actually they're not they
just they just wear the lanyards and
they try to trick you knock it off
all right let's play this Alon Omar clip
this is pretty good
so as you know Alon Omar the other day
had comments about Barack Obama which
you know if you've listened to this show
over the years will would not come as a
surprise to you the we had plenty of
critiques for Obama in real time we had
many guests who particularly in the
run-up to the 2012 election who and I I
disagreed with this perspective but
certainly we aired it on this show in on
many occasions that Obama was was
actually the the more evil of the two
evils because people was harder for
people to understand the implications of
his policies now he moved to the left to
some extent in his second term but
nevertheless Omar Allen Omar had said we
can't only be upset with Trump his
policies are bad but many of the people
who came before him also had really bad
policies they just were more polished
than he was and that's not what we
should be looking for anymore we don't
want anybody to get away with murder
because they are polished we want to
recognize the actual policies that are
behind the pretty face and the smile she
talks about the droning of countries
around the world on Obama's watch the
beginnings of the caging of kids at the
u.s. MEC Mexico border this was not a
practice Trump took it to a different
level but this was not a practice that
that started with with Donald Trump and
the hope and change offered by Obama was
a mirage so people caught up with her I
guess it was Fox News or who is it that
not sure who caught it was far
everything as Fox News and the question
was that Fox News was trying to ask wick
oh it's Obama and Trump of the same and
it's it's I don't know you know it's
like I think basically we have just a
crop of younger more savvy
Democrats who are able I mean there's
their politics is one thing but it's
also just sort of their ability to not
be cowed in the same way that the older
generation of Democrats were by the
existence of a camera and a microphone
like there is not the same legitimacy
offered to being on television or being
in a newspaper like the the the the the
media world has flattened in some degree
in terms of like what is constituted
intimidating or prestige well it also
helps when they don't have to equivocate
right
well that's but my point is that's why
they don't have to equivocate well no
and that's why they don't acquit not
doing this hypocritical dance of like
yes you can have the things that you
want we would love to have single-payer
health care but the Republicans won't
let us things like that yes but but
there is there is that that does not
explain why they are as free to say
certain things which others might say in
in private and here is alon omar
exhibiting that
think and equal to what is human the
other is a truth she's asked mama and
rub the same image cuz that's silly to
equate the two one is human and the
other is nan nan Chi Yas Queen
she's so great that's awesome Yohan and
again that's not that's not the ability
to do that in that context has nothing
to do it's not tethered to ideology
we've had outspoken you've had outspoken
you know Joe Biden in some respects is
outspoken his politics are garbage but
the idea of addressing something like
that and being able to sort of just be
that sort of fluid in unflinching
because the they don't care well frankly
though on and on just like the pure
media level I mean that is one of the
highlights frankly of Joe Biden's career
like he helped cap Rudy Giuliani when he
was like he's walking and they stick a
mic in his face and this was definitely
still a period of time where everybody
was like oh that's Rudy you know and he
just said everything he says is a noun
verb in 9/11 right not punctured him I
mean like that actually mattered so it
is it is and it's one thing to do that
after you've been a senator for 30 years
or whatever it is it's another when
you're like six months in as a freshman
and you're being attacked from all sides
and you're just like I'm gonna go out
Obama now she's the best she's Michael
ECA she's the best
i'ma appropriate all of the liberal
feminist buzzwords alright folks we've
run out I'm gonna do three Iams and then
get out of here I apologize to the
callers we of course have 25 people on
hold you can only get to about 10 today
did our best and we'll do three IMS and
get out of here water boat for Kashmir
Jewish ami equals Jamie you know what
makes Jeanine Pirro rant about Alana
Mars
much worse she used the same Alana Mar
image as the Islamophobic West Virginia
poster about 9/11 so did Jonathan shaped
nice
Theo Dillon pro tip if you're going to
submit a song for the show make sure
it's mixed in mono yeah sorry about that
Theo Horton's packed court a crew thanks
to yesterday's guest for jarring loose
memories of my conservative upbringing
with the mention of Pizza Hut stuffed
crust pizza does anyone remember the
commercial with Rush Limbaugh I do I
remember hearing it from my bedroom I
remember waking up the next day and
being told I wasn't going to school why
I asked we're getting pizza
Larry L there on the radio shaking the
windows eat it the wrong way Toby like
rush but Dad I think this is too much
cheese no no big and strong like uncle
Newt thank you dad miss you papa
I just saw that there was a Donald Trump
one too but seriously F that guy oh my
god that's nuts
meliss demeanor I've been volunteering
for text for Bernie and I've probably
sent about two or three thousand texts
if people say they aren't voting for
Bernie we asked them who they will
support and literally no one has said
Biden a lot of Harris or Warren a couple
of mayor Pete's but no Biden also a
couple of eff off commies but that's to
be expected
two more West Coast comrade Biden's
nickname should be back at the bus Biden
in his campaign slogan Biden 2020 I
calls him likes i sees him and the final
i am of the day
[Music]
Tim Apple did you see Trump talk about
Marilyn Lockheed see you tomorrow
[Music]
no sir
I'm gonna I was late I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
somewhere the choice option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
