yeah hey round Reagan tell us about this
public charge thing huh oh oh oh you
want to talk about immigration
yeah well I have fun um so for public
charge
it might help just real quick to talk
about already exist so if I have a
client he's a foreign national let's say
he's Mexican and he's been here for 20
years working and supporting himself and
without access to the public safety the
social safety net and he gets married to
US citizen she wants to petition for him
she has to also file this after support
this contract with the government but if
he's a stay-at-home mom even though he's
completely self-sufficient for many
years in this country his income doesn't
count towards the affidavit of support
because it doesn't technically come from
a legal source since he's working about
Commission so yeah this person he's been
totally self-sufficient has to go and
find a co-sponsor usually a family
member or maybe a boss and ask them to
sign off on the same sort of contract
that they'll support this person yeah
and let's just be clear here you need I
just want to be clear here and and you
got a you gotta talk a little more
clearly because your there's something
going on with your phone that sounds a
little weird but what this this
affidavit is a contract where you're
basically it's almost like you're
guaranteeing a you know an apartment for
for somebody right it's like if they
don't pay the rent I will pay the rent
that obstacle for a lot of people even
though like I said they've already been
working very self assistance and and the
new rule is like a other pages long but
there's some pretty Masseria stuff in
there lessons and what's up English
language skills determine whether or not
the press
to be self-sufficient and that never
been a requirement I just listen to
credit score credit check and more
things like that overall it doesn't
apply to a lot of types of everything's
like asylum or refugee but even those
people then taking their kids off of you
know Medicaid or Obamacare thinking that
they're going to be rounded up and
reported if they get brain but one of
the things that I think is not really
being reported which is pretty
mysterious about all of us the benefit
agency it's not I hold on hold on for a
second can you what are you talking and
yeah what are you talking into you
talking into a phone like are you
talking to heads yeah headset oh that's
better
whatever you just did right that's much
about guy yeah much better okay okay I
turned off my Prius great I'm gonna die
I'm gonna die I came here to earn it I
don't know so USCIS has made two other
changes Oh God if you file for a green
card they can essentially deny the case
typically they'll issue a request for
evidence if they're unsatisfied with the
evidence that you filed or that you
submitted but they they announced this
change I don't know maybe a year ago or
so saying it wasn't satisfied rather
than issuing a request for all games we
can't just flatten all the case and so
you're then out the twelve hundred
dollar filing fee if you if you filed
for a green card so that's one change
and the other kanjis doesn't going to be
more aggressive in issuing notices to
appear removal proceedings for cases
that they deny so
take a situation where now instead of
just looking at an affidavit of Sakura
does somebody support you who earns
enough money yes or no all of these
other circumstances like why can't all
pieces you might have or if you speak
enough English all of these other things
that the pretext to deny your
application or aggressive and denying
applications and importing your case the
immigration court for deportation
proceedings it has a real effect and
also to result in you know lots of good
people being denied and tied up in
hearings so this guy is a real douchebag
Ken Cuccinelli with all due respect but
it's not just the affidavit of support
and and the the public charge thing
although I think it's horrible but it's
it's a sort of combination of four
different policies which make it
possible to to really target people and
and ant on what's supposed to be a
benefits agency into an enforcement
agency right and there's also a lot of
other types of cases where people have
to go back to their country to consular
process and that's you know they've
emboldened the consular officers to deny
more cases on the affidavit of support
and the public charge grounds and the
problem with that is that if you go to
consular process in Mexico a little
plane and if they deny the affidavit of
support now instead of being in Mexico
where a couple of weeks the process can
really drag on to be down for three or
four months and for a lot of people
that's not an option so you know more
and more people are going to just stop
applying
I think that they perfectly qualify for
and you know about your 1882 wait wait
wait wait let me let me just we can get
to the 1882 law in a second so what when
you say that people are applying for
benefits what what benefits are they
eligible for now could mean based on
their status
well usually aren't applying for
benefits all US citizen children right
which is perfectly fine so things like
that
under the current roles medicaid and and
Obamacare those sorts of things are okay
mostly it's you know Panos and certain
things I thought they're not supposed to
be getting or I think like certain types
of emergency medical treatment could be
included the affidavit of support
typically is used it's not enforced all
that much by the government but it can
be used in the family court context and
in in a divorce so when Michael brings
over his his wife from wherever Moldova
right there you go and it's amazing you
like that joke Ronald Reagan yeah his
wife yeah and then he's like you know he
kicked her to the curb because it's
Michael right she could use the
affidavit of support in in their divorce
proceedings to say look this guy
promised to provide for me and that's
typically how its of course right so we
said you know today is also important
are there situations where someone is in
here they have no papers that they're
getting tant support oh no right are
there are there instances where people
are in here without papers and they're
getting food stamps
now so what we're talking about we're
talking about people who have a legal
status but they're in route to trying to
become citizens because their kids are
citizens or they're getting married to a
citizen or their their their parents or
citizens maybe theoretically I guess and
they're simply yet in and so they have
they have some type of residency status
here they have some type of visa their
legal right well so it's it's people who
are either so they're not applying for
citizenship applying for permanent
residency or a green card so they're
either going from undocumented or what
they call a non-immigrant visa so as a
student these are temporary allowed to
stay here permanently with the green
card so in that process that they look
at all kinds of grounds of
inadmissibility or reasons to deny your
terrorism grounds or recent negative
immigration history big long list of
things that can disqualify you and
public charges one and it has been one
for a long time basically since like
1997 they've said just fill out this
form prove that you earn one hundred and
fifty percent of the poverty guidelines
based on your household size and that's
sufficient to to not be denied a green
card because of the public charge
grounds and now what they're saying is
well we don't want to just look at how
much you're making or how much
responsive making we want to be able to
pull back the curtain and look at all of
these other things and you know let's
run a credit score of you or your wife
or your sponsor or let's you know take a
look at how much English you're taking
and these sorts of things so yes they're
widening and widening they're raising
the bar essentially is what they're
doing and they're looking for any type
of excuse to deny people all right
so Jamie had a question about the
original underlying law
of the public charge that Cucinelli was
talking yeah like reading through the
language in this law I don't see how
what's happening now is not a legacy of
immigration policy that we've had for a
very long time right yeah and in a way
like telling a accurate version of
history and people who we are and we're
better than this thing not only my and
of the history and immigration history
specifically is actually approximate and
and that's the problem right so like
getting lost in some poem rather than
talking about the realities of our
policies of the last hundred plus years
like a rule failure in the court of
media how was I loved how was how was
the charge law though used I mean 97
obviously it was amended what was it
prior to that well when you knew about
97 no I mean I'm not sure exactly you
know I think it's been pretty much the
same for quite a while but I'm not sure
if it was more strictly enforced
Westerkamp or I'm sure abdun flowed
right all right well thanks yeah I mean
this guy's a real piece of work and he's
terrible I did want to ask you real
quick about Chris Coleman yeah don't you
think it was kind of lame that he
stepped to this guy and friend to push
him down a flight of stairs
that's like stepping into somebody and
threatening to push him inside of a bus
kind of right like I think you're either
gonna fight a guy
or you're not but don't like use a
flight of stairs to win the fight for
you you know was the most offensive part
I thought it was okay all right oh I
think yeah I mean Ronald Reagan immunity
looking like a guy who really clearly
never never gotten in any type of like
altercation with another guy that's his
way of saying like I'm gonna beat you up
and then I can do with you whatever I
want like i'ii throw you down the stairs
that was like what that guy said to that
guy the the former Staten Island
congressman he's like I'm gonna throw
you over the edge here that's protocol
boy yeah
