the midterms not yet over insofar as we
don't have you know totally all the
results the counting has gone on and has
the counting has gone on over the past
you know ten ten or so days Democrats
what started out like a solid you know
fairly wavy wave has now become you know
bigger than that I mean the people were
talking about a tsunami was between you
know forty and fifty five pickups which
I you know and I guess that would have
been even conceivable but by the end of
this coming week we could be looking at
nearly forty pickups for the Democrats
in the house we saw over three hundred
pickups on a state level you know we
hear a lot about during the Obama years
Democrats lost about twelve hundred
seats on a state level the Democrats
picked up about over three hundred in
just the first two years of the Trump
administration Florida is headed into a
another recount a hand recount believe
of the senatorial race and so you know
this this there was a lot of votes cast
it was a record number of people who
voted in the midterms and the the
Democrats are fairly well positioned I
mean you know we talked about this a
year ago I don't think either one of us
would have imagined the Democrats would
be in this position absolutely not we
didn't die I imagine that you and I
actually talked about it a year ago sure
you know looking forward and I think
that was you know we're going well it's
you know it's tough sailing but you know
maybe they can eke it out and you know
they need you all they need is one vote
and you know we were you know we weren't
optimistic I don't think I wasn't I mean
I'm terrified of being optimistic just
generally but nonetheless looking at the
map and the fact that it had been
gerrymandered back after the 2010
Republican red wave we really didn't
have high hopes for this and it has
turned out to be a it's not a tsunami if
you're count if you're saying that would
have taken 55 seats but it's a really
big wave it's a wave on the level of one
of those north waves on the North Shore
where the surfers have to get a jetski
to take them to the top of the wave huh
that's how big it is it's a big big wave
and and the reason I say that you know
people go that's 940 seats and the
Republicans 160 well you have to look at
what the what the lay the land was at
the time the reason that the Republicans
160 and it was a you know as a
percentage of the total votes it was
actually less than the percentage of the
total votes this time the reason being
that Barack Obama had come in with huge
waves in 2008 there were just a lot more
seats at stake and and they and the
Democrat held a lot more seats it was a
big majority in the house between 2008
and 2010 so you know that wave just
receded and they picked up a lot more
seats but as a percentage of what seats
were at stake this was as big as that
one was and you know you see all these
numbers crunchers and they're putting
that all together and you know we can
argue all we want but the fact is is
that it's it's big and you're seeing
things like in California where you know
that someone like Katie Porter for
instance and here in Orange County
California 45th district yeah
California's 45th I mean that has that
is bedrock Reagan country I mean that
hasn't hasn't gone gone to the Democrats
I don't know why 3040 years maybe even
longer and and Meany Walters people
should know wait a second when we say 30
or 40 years we're talking that places us
like in the you know in one third of the
era when Democrats maintained the house
throughout the entire country for 40
years I mean people don't understand you
know a house seed that was Republican 30
or 40 years ago that was a solidly
Republican district I mean that is
stunning yeah it was I mean this was you
know did this this was you know this is
Reagan country I mean this was
put Reagan these were the people who put
Reagan you know in the governor's
mansion and put him in the White House
from California I mean it's really a
stunning turnaround and Mimi Walters the
woman who who was defeated by Katie
Porter at least we think so as I'm as
I'm telling you this she's a shameless
you know she she wrapped her arms around
Trump I mean she decided that she was
going to go full Trump and Katie Porter
who is actually a very progressive
politician I mean she's an Elizabeth
Warren acolyte I mean she is not one of
these sort of you know purpley kind of
politician she's the real she's a real
progressive but she meant a super smart
race and you know she made hardcore
against Trump I mean she did not hold
back realizing that in that district
what had changed was this idea that she
understood that Republicans in Orange
County in California in general
recognized that Donald Trump is a
monster and that it would the Republican
Party is going along with him I mean
that that was her message not one that
would maybe work everywhere but it
certainly worked in California and
across the board we're seeing I mean
they're picking up more seats than I
expected I didn't think Katie Porter
could win I didn't think that Josh
harder up in Modesto in the Central
Valley in California could mean could
beat Jeff Denham we've been trying to be
him for years up there and he just
seemed so solid that's farm country it's
rural you know it's not the kind of
place where you expect a Democrat to win
but you know something really did change
and I think that you know across the
country we're seeing that there were way
more rural districts picked up than
people expected yes it was a suburban
wave but it wasn't just that they made
inroads all over the place and in states
like Wisconsin Michigan Pennsylvania
things have really shifted so you know
this the Democrats did more than what
they needed to do and I think they've
set themselves up for the next two years
which are going to be I mean you and
I've talked about this many times
they're going to be hell face it but I
think they've set themselves up well
kind of able to sort of understand the
lay of the land and recognizing that
something you know this this
conservative crack-up that people have
been talking about for you know decade
now it's here and we'll see how they're
able you know Donald Trump the most
extreme manifestation of it but it's the
Republicans this is them this is their
party their coalition is is falling
apart because they you know this is
years and years and years you're making
and we're seeing it finally start to
crack around in these places where they
have for many many decades held fast and
you know I mean III think it was a big
big showing for Democrats and I'm
feeling relieved well certainly the
Republicans anticipated this I mean that
is why their project for the
gerrymandering was so important you
still have states like North Carolina
where essentially the the Republican
Democratic vote was split 50-50 across
the state yet the Republicans walked
away with 10 of 13 house dist I mean
state house House districts federal you
know Congress districts and so this is
indicative of in North Carolina that
gerrymandering is pretty extreme but
this is indicative of of the hill that
Democrats had to climb and they climbed
it and then they yeah then they took a
jog around the top of the summit frankly
but again and we got to take a break
here for in a minute but there were 968
state legislature seats that were
flipped from Democrat to Republican over
the eight years of Obama's presidency
and there were more you know as of this
week but 380 flipped from GOP to
Democrat so one win one cycle that's
pretty amazing i but look we gotta take
a break and when we talk about flipped
let's talk about Donald Trump and the
way that he's been handling this not
very well
we'll be right back I'm Sam cedar
talking to the great Digby bring a fire
radio
