[Music]
okay let's do the Soviet Union one more
one more clip of Donald Trump talking
about Russia he's gonna you lay a little
history on you I think we're now the
largest energy producer in the entire
world
bigger than Soviet Union formerly
remember the Soviet Union when it was
all together the Soviet Union when it
was all together before they decided we
got to call ourselves Russia when it was
all together they wanted to be that was
always their dream to be the biggest in
the world then it became Russia and you
know what they've done a good job with
energy and so has Saudi Arabia done a
good job with energy but we are now
bigger than Russia Wow
so he basically says Soviet Union
mistakenly and then tries to cover cover
for it as if it's part of his speech but
here's a little hand motion when he says
formerly to try to like go back and edit
himself we're now the largest energy
producer in the entire world
bigger than Soviet Union formerly I mean
you can you can explain 90% of what he
does just by remembering that he has not
formed any new memory since 1991 right
just got to update it nothing has
penetrated his head something today we
go for Japan it's I you know it's nuts
it's absolutely nuts and of course last
night at the rally they did not chant
send her back they just did the more
benign lock her up yeah
it's unclear now to me who I don't know
it was about yeah I don't know who we're
locking up anymore just women right as
long as we say her it's valid as long
it's a her do we have the one about
Poland do we have that clip okay we got
to play this one lastly the
yesterday I think it was yesterday maybe
it was two days ago was he yesterday I
have lost sense of time yesterday was
the anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto
Uprising in Poland for those people who
don't who aren't familiar with it
Jews were basically put into a section
of Warsaw gated locked in very little
provisions food was running out and it's
one of the most renowned in and fairly
rare times during the Holocaust
where there was an armed basically
resistance by the Jews now of course
they were just you know they were they
were it was sort of like a Masada
quality to the whole thing and they were
you know gonna be starved out the
anniversary took place yesterday and
Donald Trump was asked about it
apparently has not been read into this
very much he's asked a question do you
have any comments on the anniversary of
the uprising in in Poland I have a lot
of respect for Poland as you know the
people of Poland like me and I like them
and I'm gonna
going to Poland fairly fairly soon and I
know they're building an installation
that and they're putting in all of the
money a hundred percent of the money so
they're building something very nice for
the United States he had no idea I mean
I imagine he had no idea that it was the
anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising when
the guy said the Warsaw Uprising it
didn't occur to him as to what it was no
trumpet present yeah we not the most
egregious of situations because it would
have been more egregious if someone said
no the Warsaw Uprising mm-hmm do you
know what that away that is yeah those
are better questions for trumpet like I
know I get not a lot of people get time
to sort of sit down and with him as
opposed to these sort of situations but
yeah sometimes you just like let's have
a follow-up where you just ask him basic
factual question here I don't think that
matters really Voter he doesn't matter
with voters but it would be illuminating
it would it would be illuminating and
I'm not sure exactly to what end
but maybe just for posterity just say
that the world knows in the in history
the future knows just like how bad it
was and you know maybe it will explain
some problems in the future
mm-hmm you know when they win this when
the aliens land on this sort of desolate
planet and they're like what went wrong
here oh I see oh I see this huge empire
which was sort of chewing up everything
fell apart yeah
and so bad that it got to this
essentially
