[Music]
joining me right now is the host of the
Dean Obeidallah show on the Sirius
satellite network
Dean welcome to the program Sam great to
see you once a year we see each other at
Netroots I think that's that's basically
it although I think next year it'll be
too because I'll probably see you at the
the DNC as well perhaps if they allow me
to go to DNC it's at the Sirius XM but
hopefully I would they will I think I
will
why wouldn't they do that it works with
just budgetary it's a big company it's a
lot of budget issues but I have my
choice is our bid a DNC and I think I
will be yeah I think you should be I'm
gonna be a ridiculous who didn't but
that aside
why would budgets matter I'm looking
here at a news story let's see wait a
second let me just go back in here
because I read something the other day
Dean you've been on radio now for I
don't know what five years no no well
Sirius XM I've been full time for two
years and a month doing three hours a
night before there was doing one hour a
day okay and you're also a daily beast
contributors alright so I noticed this
about a month ago and everybody the
office started making plans Daily Beast
contributor wins 4.1 million dollars
from a neo-nazi that's right that's what
you're gonna now that's the best way to
make money as far as I'm concerned and
let me just ask you right now let's just
get this let's just clear the air can I
have a loan let me talk butler slash
valet he chose rounding our Rolls Royce
now that's made of Nazi money that it's
really funny they sent me obviously it
Sam knows here winning a judgement
against individual and collecting a
judgment of 4.1 million dollars is a lot
more challenging two different things
and vastly different things and that's
the world as a lawyer that that's what
happens but the whole idea the lawsuit
was a send a message to these neo-nazis
that
they can't just smear right we'll wait
wait tell tell the story tell the story
what happens in May of 2017 three months
before Charlottesville I wrote an
article with daily be saying why will
Donald Trump not say why won't Trump say
the words white supremacist terrorism
and what happened was they were already
have three or four incidences in the
first four or five months of his
presidency were white self-professed
white supremacist had killed Americans
and my whole point was Trump you
demanded we say radical Islamic era
that's all you kept saying if you don't
say you can't solve it at home yes right
so my simply use his argument why won't
you say the words white supremacist
terrorism I didn't attack the daily
stormer or Andrew England runs nearly
storming that article I talked about
Trump and white supremacy and the
involvement of it under Trump before
this before Sharla's Ville going dude
there's something percolating here and
Trump you gotta do something about it
well the people that daily stormer were
so incensed and Andrew England
specifically who runs a daily storm if
you don't know the daily storm or you're
lucky but its name at the dare stormer
which is one of Hitler's favorite
tabloids right it's a way of reaching
out to the masses it's been around for
years of daily a storm or it is the go
to number one website these are the time
of neo-nazis white supremacist they go
there they exchange ideas Groupon
Groupon coupons whatever they do you
know great deals on artwork whatever
they're all until you know that's what
they're all about so they were so
outraged and I wrote this article
attacking Donald Trump and that's their
beloved they fabricated tweets saying I
was involved in a bombing in Manchester
England at the area on a grand concert
when they fabricate fabricated tweets it
look like real tweets they were my
tweets they wiped out the words they
even added more retweets and likes than
I usually get which is kind of nice it's
kind of weird they did that and they put
things like I I'm the mastermind of the
bombing an area of the area on a grand
concert and 22 are dead and I did this
for Allah and thank all of your day that
I'm now with my Omar or the Muslims in
the Brotherhood in Syria and this kind
of stuff so they wrote all the stuff so
first I see it I'm like is this on my
Twitter feed but it was just in an
article they had written
and so I went and looked at the in the
article made it look like they had
really I had really treated this stuff
and they wrote an article seriously
about these tweets saying Dean is a
terrorist self professed terrorist he
killed these people
go confront him but they also talked
about my article saying and look what a
traitor he is and all this stuff he's
attacking white people cuz I think they
thought I was white I'm not really sure
they know he's Muslim so they were kind
of confused by the whole thing so that's
what led to death threats against and
that led to the lawsuit me fiying hiring
lawyers who did it pro bono but big law
firm Latham and Watkins in a law firm in
Chicago in Ohio were injuring lives
based the challenge' law firm and we
sued them over a year and a half and at
this judgment wow that's pretty cool you
know it's 2019 I'm fighting Nazis
alright Sam this is who we are in
America so alright so what happens with
that like does this guy you have to send
you ten percent of his income I get a
cut I get Nazi money coming out of the
Union right are you now are you now like
I'm in business are you know how
basically over at the daily storm we're
going like we've got a you said guys
we've got to pick this up in terms of
getting advertising for this stuff used
to do live reads for my show do you buy
that Muslim that we despise and Sirius
XM listened to his show and curse him
out every day get 10% off difference
come hammers it off right now so no we
had an expert who testified in the queer
proof hearing he didn't show up his
father we subpoenaed his father's we
suppose his father about his father was
involved giving the money and all this
stuff so tracing the assets we had an
expert testify about the injuring
Islands Bitcoin accounts these the
experts can actually find when you have
Bitcoin accounts and what's in it and
stuff like that
oh like a bank account so we're trying
to see if we can seize that and whatever
money again I'm not keeping the Nazi
money I'm gonna give it the groups that
fight Nazis like SP else in the ADL and
Muslim advocates who represented me in
this case and you know group said they
hate you know a lot of people they hate
I'm gonna give the money to thank you
you gotta keep coming we're gonna get a
to day if I got four million dollars may
be able to kept a little
it's $2,000 so they feel it personally
right and also maybe the terrorist
contributor is going this dino be dog is
Muslim guys taking all the money we give
to him let's not give him any money so
we try to strangle his money supply
because he's right so you can garnish
anything late judgment in a corporate
judgment Wow so he can file for
bankruptcy of course and get a discharge
but that's up to him good for you is
this company and was it scary while you
were going through this I mean whether
it was ever a time where you're like I'm
all nervous about this in the beginning
I was because the daily swimmers on a
run in the mill website it's not
armchair neo-nazis Dylan roof was a
reader right a guy who came to Newark
game James Jackson who killed a black
man to start a race war in March 2017
who I wrote about that article was a
reader there's a guy who killed a member
of parliament England you might recall
it but where the brexit vote was a
reader so these are really extreme I'm
not gonna say mentally ill people
because Dylan roof was not mentally
incompetent they are sane white
supremacist or dangerous so I was
concerned I mean I had immediately had
to contact Sirius XM security and The
Daily Beast security right there because
finding me is harder but finding where I
I might go into work is much easier than
I worried that some crazy person I
shouldn't say crazy they're not there
they're sane white supremacist they're
Nazis and would come to my workplace so
I had a light security there it gets we
get a hit death threats and hate mail
and you start worrying about I get a few
letters that were no return address you
don't open them right if you start
getting worried about that concept so it
changes your daily life on a certain
level interesting
well that is uh quite the drama the
story of today or in the day I imagine
you've been telling that story quite a
bit I did tell it a lot and I'm happy to
share it because I'm hoping that it
inspires people to keep standing up to
these neo-nazis because I could have
just forgotten about it or or don't
mention it hope they don't come after me
or something but I would rather you
stand up my whole point is stand up and
go to court we use the courses we sue
them we get a judgement we take their
money that's the most American thing we
do you can do I think I'm celebrating
America at its finest I'm getting
lawyers suing you're taking your money
so I'm hoping we
the tariff fundraising for daily Strama
for the future well good for you
all right well let's talk a little bit
about Netroots nation sure you've been
coming to this for quite no actions my
first year oh that's only my second year
I came because Sirius XM sent us here I
was very happy to come here to cover
this and meet a lot of progressive
activists some who were two heads him to
talk I'm trying to do man-on-the-street
thing it took like five people only one
would talk to me on radio Mike you're an
activist you're here but you wanna talk
about the issue have concern to you so
it's kind of weird but it's a lot of
energy here yeah there is it seems like
a lot even more maybe than there was
land of course we've got half a dozen
candidates that are going to be here I
think on the Elizabeth Warren is going
to be here Kristin Gillibrand Julian
Castro jay Inslee then share Browns
gonna be here jeff merkley barbara lee
famila jeyapaul will be here Jana
Presley Alana Omar Rasheeda Talib Deb
halland Eleanor Holmes Norton out
Padilla then there's some Secretary of
State's Keith I like the actor I mean to
me I really more interested in talking
the activists the elected officials you
know you you you interview them I
interview and that's sort of normal they
call Elaine but I want to talk to the
grassroots people and see about there is
often a disconnect between this
grassroots and I don't want to say elite
dismissive proactively but the elite our
party and I think on impeachment you're
seeing it completely oh my god
so clearly where Nancy Pelosi is
building a more higher when people call
my show and they're angry at her as much
of they're angry at any Republican at
this point
yeah it's remarkable what's going on
yeah it's nothing what's your sense I
mean why I mean I think that's you know
I sort of feel like that's going to be
the theme of most of my conversations
today because it there really does seem
to be not just a reluctance to impeach
which I can understand the rationale for
that argument it
not an irrational argument I think it's
a bad one at this point and it gets
worse every day but there also seems to
be just like a complete allergy to
finding anything out that's wrong with
the trumpets race it's like why don't
you go for his taxes
why aren't you denouncing acosta I mean
what what what's it gonna take like well
the Trump's Timon when they're doing
traditional oversight the service apena
after first cordially trying to invite
them over which I guess I get the way
they do that but legally they lay the
groundwork for a lawsuit no Trump says
no to everything everything stone no you
can't even talk to be testimony earlier
this week that they had over 200
objections to the assistant of Don Magan
you're getting nothing decent an
impeachment hearing if they did that
that would be on national TV and all of
America would see the Trump lawyers
objecting 200 times people what do you
make of Nancy Pelosi now wanting to do
any of this
this is ridiculous to me do the
impeachment inquiry it's simply that the
Judiciary Committee is formally votes
and you have the hearings and you
haven't over six or eight months America
would focus on that they'd be calling on
Pietschmann inquiry at the end you know
chairman Adler and others can say here's
our foundings we have to do articles in
Pietschmann or here's our findings and
you know what it doesn't rise that but
not doing the Pietschmann inquiry to me
is unforgivable
and she's essentially putting her
speakership on the line for this because
if he were to win in 2020 and we don't
do she's got she's got to go
oh you gotta go you gotta go I gotta go
anyway yes I mean come on this is
ridiculous what else anything else
you've been a health care thing I just
wrote about it for the beast and we
covered it yesterday that you know that
you have trumpet lying at his June
kickoff in Orlando last month saying I'm
going to protect pieces and conditions
meanwhile since March his administration
he's been a federal appeals court
arguing and they wrote a brief in May
which I went through arguing to strike
down the entire ec3 part of it including
copies your praises and conditions don't
no joke everything AC preconditions no
more coverage gone we just and we always
just mentioned that I know it was a case
of the Fifth Circuit that it appears
they're going to rule in a way that
everyone thought would be
sane right there's a rule and then you
go to Supreme Court and you hope for the
best up there there's Chief Justice
Roberts and you know there's two or
three appointees in that the Court of
Appeals or GOP appointees and the
reporting is they were very very
questioning and not at all on board with
the idea of taking away this mandate and
not jeopardizing the rest of the law
because that regulation severability
right I mean that's really what it would
centers around the ability to sever the
mandate from the rest and they're
arguing that it's not was not not
intended to be severed even though
Congress specifically had a crack at
taking out the whole law they didn't
want to and the only thing that they
were wanted to do in terms of voting for
it was the get rid of the penalty for
the mandate and to remind people again
this was all a trump GOP contrived
crisis because in December 2017 when
they voted for that tax cut this was
embedded in that and there are articles
we could look back at the time and I
covered on my show people warning them
if you get away you get rid of the
mandate you're going to destabilize the
ACA and it might destroy the whole
scheme they didn't care it's about tax
up for the donor base so they didn't
care they took that away so they created
this crisis and now for GOP appoint the
judges are the one-two punch is 20 AG's
and a governor who a Republican fighting
to bring it down and now the judges are
the third punch you look like they're
gonna do the job of getting rid of the
ACA for us are they completely nuts
alright well Dean Abydos I know you got
to go get your share together all right
beautiful
all right thanks all right folks we're
going to take a quick break and play an
interview that I did with David
