I have never been somebody who has you
know I like Robert DeNiro he's great
I think when he says F Trump okay
doesn't do anything for me the last time
he did it at the Tonys what did do
something for me was that these guys in
Staten Island took down like their
Goodfellas posters in their houses like
beat them with baseball bats now that
was awesome that I loved but you know
look it's cool I have you know I'm also
not judging anybody you know if that's
your thing if it's cathartic for you
great obviously F Trump
I also if it personally upset Trump
that's terrific
but you know I don't care about this
sort of stuff it doesn't do anything for
me this did do something for me this was
Robert DeNiro on reliable sources of
brian Stelter now there's actually a
kind of serious point to be made here
for what it's worth I mean it's a
serious point we've made plenty of times
but it's worth revisiting and brian
Stelter getting upset or I should say
uptight is funny check this out mmm this
guy is should not be president period
and when you say that folks on Fox come
after you
I remember the county line I have to say
that that I like that's just like Oh
intra Oaks on Fox like whatever dude
like I like do we really even have time
for this
stop it I thought you're gonna say the
contrast in demeanors the contrast and
then well I mean this is already this is
this is like a it's not exactly heat I
mean this isn't the this is a new boovie
I mean this is a beginning of a trailer
of like he was a neurotic newscaster who
followed boring media stories he was an
ex-con somehow they're like basically De
Niro needs that somehow it's like the
Niro has gotten out of jail and somehow
has been like allowed to leave the Mafia
because he's like such a boss that
they're just like hey Bobby you know
whatever is care
as you can leave it's no problem he is
somehow scored an internship on CNN
probably through his son his son is
clean his son is legit and wants his dad
to get legit in the last phase of his
career he's interning on reliable
sources stealth errs a total whoops bag
and like can't get the girl he wants or
something
so stealth er needs to teach DeNiro the
news business to meet his parole
requirements and DeNiro needs to teach
stealth or how to be a man I just gave
you the script alright let's watch the
hell out of that that sounds like a
great movie alright let's watch this mmm
this guy is should not be president
period and when you say that folks on
Fox come after you I remember the Tonys
when you got up there and cursed a lot
of fun some of you them okay well
you know so it's not an FCC violation
but it is still a Sunday morning well I
used to go that way hey say something
why we are at a moment in our life in
this country where this guy is like a
gangster he's come along and he's said
things done things we say over and over
again this is terrible that we're in a
terrible situation we're in a terrible
situation and this guy just keeps going
on and on and on without being stopped
hmm well it's been in a break let's
squeeze in a commercial more with Robert
De Niro in just a moment I love De
Niro's just like yeah whatever dude but
you know it's it's it's funny because
like I thought the De Niro did something
I think was before the election that a
bunch of people like I remember the most
embarrassing thing one of the more
embarrassing things I've ever seen in my
life was David Axelrod quote tweeting it
and being like he's in New York ooh you
got a problem with that it was just like
it was so embarrassing that he needed to
like put your phone down and go outside
take a walk and try to forget that you
saw that but in that interview I
actually think that's very revealing
because you know what for what it's
worth whatever else you want to say
about Robert De Niro he's that that's
coming from the right place we have a
disgusting dangerous president he hasn't
been held in check he's grotesque he
just keeps going and going going all of
this is a hundred percent true
and you're uptight because I used the
booboo word whatever dude do we know who
DeNiro does support I kind of colors it
for me a little bit that would color it
from me - but my guess would be is that
he's probably my guess is he's like a
guy who's probably not he's like to kind
of Taylor Swift it he probably won't
even endorse until after the primaries
of dinner with Katy Perry yes
DeNiro joined the SA that would be
awesome ow oh I feel like Danny DeVito
is closer to doing that but maybe he
could get him on board
I feel like Danny isn't Danny DeVito in
the essay Oh what I mean I could be I'm
not I'm not trying to spray I just know
that Danny DeVito he should join Danny
DeVito's a legit Danny DeVito is more
close to like Danny Glover like these
are like serious like and uh yeah
