[Music]
the stick with Jake Tapper who I think
really must have taken his disingenuous
pills this morning is there a pill that
makes you disingenuous you must get them
at a discount from those from those
pharmaceutical exact right and help
people I don't know that that's it I
don't know that it's just money with him
and here's a case in point folks as Jake
Tapper engages in this line of
questioning I want you to ask yourself
and I don't have the data in front of me
but maybe a Brendon you can during this
clip you can you can find the data how
many times you think how many minutes do
you think are spent in a given year on
reporting on Israeli politics on CNN
versus Egyptian politics or Saudi
Arabian politics I mean I think we would
probably see much more reporting from
Israel then we would from from Egypt but
maybe I'm wrong
well it would have gone up with mb/s but
I think in general I mean you also yeah
put aside put aside the killing of a the
ordering of a killing of I would just be
curious just in general when when
there's no particular you know scandal
and just keep that in mind as to when
Jake Tapper asked this line of
questioning because it's so disingenuous
you talk about the hate agenda and you
know you have heard there's there been
criticisms of you from even your fellow
Democrats especially for your support
for the BDS movement which stands for
boycott divest and it's an anti-israel
movement it's it's it's criticizing the
racist policies of Israel and it's a
boycott right I mean I think folks don't
know when you say BBS especially in
around the country when you say be this
they don't they're not sure what it
means boycott divest sanction I want to
get
action to something the Senator Schumer
said about BDS which is a movement you
support yes he said quote when there is
such a double standard when the world
treats everybody one way and the Jew or
the Jewish state another way there's
only one word for it anti-semitism
let us call out the BDS movement for
what it is and I think one of the
questions that Senator Schumer and other
supporters of Israel might have is why
focus on just Israel why not also call
for sanctions against other countries
where you might have issues such as
Egypt or Pakistan or Saudi Arabia and I
think if there was an economic boycott
movement around Saudi Arabia I'll be the
first to sign up for it
I can tell you they're all around
college campuses there are Jews Muslims
Hindus all different kinds of
backgrounds who are pushing back against
racist policies in Israel because they
see that the human rights violations of
children being detained the fact that my
grandmother who lives in the West Bank
right now does not have equality she
doesn't have freedom of travel she is
someone that right now under occupation
is feeling less than and I grew up in
the most blackest beautiful city in the
country where every corner in Detroit
here you will see a reminiscence of the
civil rights movement the labor rights
movement and we did it through economic
boycott it is a form of freedom of
speech but people want to dismiss it
because they're trying to say it's
anti-semitism that's the way to try to
discredit the fact that we all know
under Netanyahu's regime human rights
violations have gotten worse and we need
to be why not see why not boycott Egypt
they oh but there right now there is not
a bill or resolution on the floor that
is saying stop boycotting Egypt you
could of course and I would absolutely
oppose any sort of oppression of freedom
of speech of First Amendment right in
this country it's a slippery slope Jake
because tomorrow if folks want to
approach you know boycott Saudi Arabian
there's a movement and it's got a name
they're gonna go ahead and pass a
resolution saying you don't have freedom
of speech you don't have a right to
First Amendment you can't be double
standard but of course I would oppose
any kind of oppression of that sort of
freedom of dismissing somebody's right
First Amendment right and we have cases
around the country from teachers who
don't even know what's going on Israel
who do not be
like they should wipe away their First
Amendment right to be able to speak out
through economic boycott I know you want
to talk about Michigan so just let's the
last question on this do you think the
Jewish people have the right to a state
in the area where Israel exists now look
I truly believe the State of Israel is
it exists correct but understand does it
exist in the detriment of inequality for
the Palestinian people detriment of not
really moving forward in a peaceful
resolution we're never going to have
peace I truly believe it's
separate-but-equal is the way they want
to go and I can tell you I learned that
from my african-american teachers in
Detroit Public Schools who showed me
what the pain of oppression looks like
we're not going to have peace if we
don't understand that we are
dehumanizing Palestinians every single
day when we choose Israel over their
rights but yes or no does Israel have a
right to exist of course okay but just
like Palestinians have a right to exist
Palestinians also have a right to human
rights we can't say one or the other we
have to say it in the same breath or
we're not going to actually have a
priest does he go on to Detroiters he's
still hang on to these questions now I
will say this Jake is a little bit
younger than me year two so maybe he
missed the entire thing we're in college
we did a lot of protesting in South
Africa and I will tell you that not only
was there widespread protests on college
campuses against South Africa as Donald
as as Ronald Reagan was arguing that we
should have constructive engagement
there were protests there were
divestment protests i sat in front of a
roomful of trustees at Connecticut
College who made an argument as to why
we had to divest CEO Pfizer sat on our
board he resigned because they had a lot
of work there I heard every single
argument that one could imagine as to
why we should not continue to protest
particularly divest from South Africa
never ever ever once
did I hear you are anti Afrikaner does
you not hear why not I am Bob lair
motivator ever once did I hear wives in
Bob way Mozambique Saudi Arabia Egypt
why aren't you talking about the war and
Eritrea and and Ethiopia why aren't you
talking about what's going on the Ivory
Coast watch - what about what about
what's happening in Latin America
why aren't you talking about that never
once did I ever ever hear that argument
from people whose entire careers were
based upon doing investment in South
Africa I sat this far from the CEO of
Pfizer at the time and they had a big in
for the details of it but I can
guarantee you went around a room not one
person made any argument to that effect
and we were doing the exact same thing
now obviously Antiochus Emmett ISM
exists in the world of course it does
but the idea that Ronald Reagan would
have attempted to introduce a bill in
the Senate or the house that if you want
to do business with the American
government where you are or you are a
private contractor won't do business
with a state and you need to sign a
pledge that you will not support
divestiture from South Africa is so far
outside of the realm of possibility but
yet Jake Tapper's up there defending
that because that understand that's why
this issue is alive right now the issue
is getting attention on national
television
not because BDS exists but because
people are arguing against having to
sign a pledge that if I do business with
the federal government then I have to
refrain from engaging in any type of
divestiture or protest
against Israel Jake asked a lot of
questions but hid that he hid that from
his audience it's reprehensible I also
just want to say more broadly she said
to him if there was a movement to
boycott Egypt or Saudi Arabia had
supported and there's a couple of
obvious distinctions right so one part
of the context for the relationship with
Israel is that there is the rhetoric of
Israel being the only democracy in the
Middle East and so on and that's also
created a compl
higher threshold it's a higher threat
precisely that's number one higher
threshold for behavior number two in
fact if you get into DC and you look at
the types of policy people or
politicians that are willing to slightly
challenge Israel on the fact that it's
an apartheid state and that is what it
is
they are inevitably the ones who
criticized the Gulf monarchies and Egypt
and the people who defend Israel no
matter what are very supportive of the
Gulf monarchies right now because Israel
and the Gulf monarchies and Saudi are
getting along pretty well you don't
really need to peel that much back to
see how synchronized their interests are
in the Middle East they're obsessed with
Iran they are focused on Yemen and
nobody cares about the Palestinians
living as second-class citizens
so it's disingenuous upon disingenuous
upon this ingenuity I mean can you
imagine just anybody saying like you're
complaining about Maduro but how come
you didn't talk about Baltimore and
Solomon ro well I mean why would you go
back to Saudi Arabia like you're
complaining about Maduro
but I mean you don't say anything about
Saudi Arabia like it's just sort of you
don't you only see that construction in
the context of Israel and we I mean we
just have a different relationship with
Israel in this country we do and it's an
it and again it's precisely that analogy
as with South Africa because no policies
working the United States is never gonna
put pressure on it precisely
because of the dynamic we just saw there
you get a congressperson cannot say a
national television that I support equal
civil rights for all in the Middle East
as someone a Palestinian descent without
Jake Tapper trying to insinuate all
these bizarre sinister things yes the
only thing that's gonna happen is a
non-violent boycott divestment sanction
I only have 12 questions for you on this
and none of them will actually relate to
the topic that created this dynamic
all right or even by the way acknowledge
the super narrow oh I shouldn't say
narrow but even just like a Congress
version should be able to say I have
every atrocious AIPAC position
imaginable but I voted against it
because it's an infringement on speech
that should be done right in and of
itself right yeah I I think I encourage
everyone to check out the Twitter thread
where David Cleon spill some tea on Jake
Tapper's Islamophobia that he got from
somebody who used to work for him oh is
that right yeah it's quite it's quite
spicy and also believable let's go
