[Music]
so folks first off let me just start by
saying I attempted to livestream from
the Bernie rally in Brooklyn this
weekend to very very little success in
fact zero success although I was able to
get out on Instagram and so if you do
not have an Instagram or you haven't
signed up to follow us on Instagram
listen to grandpa talk about it this way
whatever you do to go on Instagram log
on to Instagram log on to Instagram and
do the thing where you can see our stuff
at majority report dot F M that's our
Instagram handle now of course I have a
couple of fences but I just have those
so that so the majority reporter fans
can't find me just in case I'm looking
at stuff that's lurid so but the
majority report Instagram has at least
you know some footage from just where we
were at the beginning it was super cold
and I don't think that you can
overestimate how much this cold I mean
it was a very enthusiastic crowd and it
was a big crowd I don't I haven't seen
any specific numbers I have a feeling
probably around 10,000 but I'm gonna
show 13,000 30 yeah okay that makes
sense to me and but I think you know if
it had been 5 or 10 degrees warmer I
think people would have gone would have
been nuts but for I know for myself I
was like spending a lot of time going
like doing this and it was cold and it
got colder as the rally went on the wind
was coming in the Sun got covered up
because of the storm that is you know
that came through last night I guess
maybe I'm not sure where it where that
was but but it was very exciting
some great speakers right before Bernie
Sanders and then here is one clip from
that that speech
today we say to the 1% and the large
profitable corporations that emit in
America listen up because this applies
to you we say to the 1% in large
corporations that under a Bernie Sanders
administration you're not going to be
getting more tax breaks quite the
contrary
we're going to end your tax breaks and
your loopholes you are going to start
paying your fair share of taxes
[Applause]
we will no longer we will no longer
accept the absurd situation where large
multibillion-dollar corporations like
Amazon Netflix and General Motors pay
nothing in federal income taxes
and when I could allow these
corporations and the billionaires to
stash their money in the Cayman Islands
and in other tax havens yes the wealthy
and multinational corporations will
start paying their fair share of taxes
we're gonna end austerity for working
families and bring a little austerity
[Applause]
that's a nice twist on the the the
program of austerity it was about a
35-minute speech and really ranged
across the board we'll talk more about
it later in the program but it was super
exciting to be at the the launch of that
campaign and and let me just say this
you know in terms of the primary like
you know III don't think we're gonna do
our best around here not to get too
heavy into the primary too early but
obviously as people join in the race
there's going to be end up being about
another 50 I mean not another 15 but I
have a feeling we're gonna have about 15
candidates probably before this is over
maybe more and but the first debates are
in June and you know until then for the
most part I'm hoping that we're gonna be
able to just sort of talk about
different proposals that are brought up
by different candidates you know at this
point we've heard stuff from like Cory
Booker the baby bonds proposal which i
think is a pretty good proposal
Elizabeth Warren I think to be honest so
far has introduced the most interesting
and dynamic proposals when you think
about Universal childcare and when you
think about prescription drugs being
manufactured by the US government
talking about generics
and then of course I think khlo Bashar
had said something about tax advantaged
savings the tax advantaged and oh we're
incidentally we're gonna spend time
making fun of proposals like that when
John Hickenlooper or says that what I'm
going to be able to sit down with Mitch
McConnell and work things out I'm gonna
make fun of that because that is that's
like Brandon Straka level of delusion
and anybody who can actually go on
television say that is necessarily
either completely out of it or just
totally lying and so some of that stuff
is we're not going to get treated but I
will say this we have lost some members
because they don't appreciate the fact
that we are to Bernie friendly here it's
not that many but whatever but and
that's fine if people you know I think
you know at least Michael and I have
made it clear like there's a plenty of
candidates that we could get with on the
Democratic side in the general election
I am you know between Bernie and Warren
I think I would be equally happy and
maybe there's other candidates to jump
it I don't know but here's one thing
that and I don't mind you don't want to
be a member
don't be a member but if you email and
threaten me with your membership to to
you know change the programming and this
hasn't been a problem as much in the
past couple years but there was a
problem with this you know at other
times I will tell you that I will
develop a technology to keep you from
listening to even the free show I will
spend my time I will fire you
you will not fire me I will fire you so
just don't
don't try and leverage that is why we
have this system here that is why I
never wanted to be sponsored by a you
know some type of organization or
whatnot I mean sure I will make I would
be open to partnerships and whatnot but
because I do not take well to people
trying to leverage money I mean that's
just I mean that it may be a personality
defect and it may be a little bit more
extreme that it probably should be but
so don't email that way you can email
and say like I'm sorry I gotta take a
break from the show because I just I'm
too supportive of blankety-blank and I
get uncomfortable with it totally get it
but if you email and you go like if you
guys don't stop blankety-blank
I'm gonna quit you're fired I will fire
you and if I'm in a good mood I'll tell
you but otherwise you're just not going
to have access to the show so
