so Michael when we broke you it
basically walked us through and I
appreciate it I don't have the greatest
of financial literacy I think a lot of
people listening get mystified by some
of this stuff a couple years back UBS
was issuing or underwriting I should say
bonds a wide variance of bonds on the
island of Puerto Rico ranging from
municipal bonds and pension backed
payment's bonds and and something went
wrong with these bonds people expected
them to be safe investments why was it
just simply when their clients bought
these bonds that they just assumed that
they were gonna be safe investments I
mean what what what happened yeah no it
wasn't the clients didn't and we
represent and we have represented
hundreds of people who were in the same
boat were clients of UBS and actually
there's other banks in the island who
did the exact same type of a thing
particularly Santander securities on the
island operated a very similar business
model but this was not something that
was assumed this is these were marketed
these were marketed aggressively and
marketed specifically in a certain
manner and that was that these were
preservation of capital investments that
was that was the goal if you opened up
the first page of the prospectus and I
know no one's gonna be excited about
reading the prospectus but it's right
there on the first page it says this is
an income investment that's gonna act
consistent with the preservation of
capital and that's how you saw the
financial advisors that's how they were
trained by management is to sell these
things is this is the conservative way
of doing it and and told to market it
these things as as safe so this wasn't
an idea that all the clients and the
customers just got together and assumed
this this was intentional this is how
these things were sold this is how the
investments were sold and how the client
base ended up so concentrated we
regularly see in these accounts sixty
seventy eighty nine
up to a hundred percent concentration in
these types of investments not at all
unusual to see 8090 a hundred percent
because that's just what was recommended
to these folks by their financial
advisors and it's not just one or two
bad financial advisors this really was
the result of a conscious decision to
have a business model that was built and
revolved around these securities so when
you say there's a hundred percent
concentration or any 90 percent
concentration you're saying that it is
typical particularly of well I mean
typical of of people who are buying
their financial products from an advisor
to have a diversified portfolio I may
have some stocks I may have some bonds I
may have some I don't know real estate
investments I may have a couple of CDs a
varied type of investments in the event
that one goes belly-up the rest are
there but you're saying that these
clients for some reason had all of their
eggs in one basket and it was clearly
because they were advised to do so by
people that they trusted where had their
best interest in mind but it turns out
that they had a different set of
interests in mind is that right that's
exactly right and and you hit the nail
on the head Sam because if you go around
and read any book finance 101 it's don't
put all your eggs in one basket it's
diversify look to asset allocation
diversification that's that's the way to
go and you want to have a financial
advisors who's going to be able to
advise you exactly how to position that
and then unfortunately these investments
were sold in a way that described them
oftentimes and they were often seen by
the firm and marketed as a firm as
diversified investments so a lot of
people had these thinking that they had
a well allocated portfolio or a
diversified portfolio when in fact they
were they were extremely concentrated
and exposed themselves to unnecessary
risks as the risks increased especially
before the market crashed in 2013 in
2012 and throughout 2013 UBS in
particular became increase
aware of the risks so they've gained
more and more knowledge of risks
increasing and they had the opportunity
to do right they had the opportunity to
tell their clients to warn their clients
that they were coming up over a cliff
and they chose not to all right so what
is behind that because they they collect
fees like what is the at what point okay
so they they saw that at one point like
oh this we have been pushing a specific
product and we have been overloading the
portfolio's of our clients with these
products what what what could they have
done at that point just say hey maybe
you should offload some of these and and
this is actually one of the points that
will be made and has been made by a
former employee of theirs he said there
was nothing they could do at that point
it was to a level because there's one
other thing that I apologize I didn't
mention about these but those closed-in
funds that I mentioned they were only
able to be sold to Puerto Rican
residents so they couldn't be sold
anywhere outside of Puerto Rico so the
accounts had been loaded up to these to
that to such an extent that there was
nowhere for them to go and actually
that's what one of the gentlemen who's
somewhat of a whistleblower who used to
work for UBS has said he said there was
nowhere to go everyone was trapped if
you told the clients the truth it would
be like yelling fire in a burning
building and some people would get out
but a lot of people would get burned and
so ultimately who came to you as
plaintiffs or came to in what was the
involvement of finra in this situation
like what how does this case what's the
genesis of this case yes and it's it's
once once this manifested itself and
once people began to understand what had
happened we've gotten many clients and
we continue to represent clients salmon
cases and we have ongoing cases still
with UBS but we've tried this this case
that we just tried is our third case
that we tried through a final
arbitration hearing which is just
offering the exhibits just like you
would see in a regular trial so we had
testimony from
different different witnesses over three
full weeks 35 arbitration hearing
sessions and our clients are just those
people who went in entrusted their
financial advisor they went ask their
financial advisor what to do got
recommendations from them these are
people from all walks of life these are
some are lawyers some are doctors some
are people who worked blue-collar jobs
and save money their entire lives we we
represent people across the gamut of all
from every all different places on the
island from different backgrounds people
who were born in Puerto Rico people who
were born in Cuba and came to Puerto
Rico in in the 60s and anything and
everything you name it from from young
people from people in their 20s and 30s
people who are in their 80s and 90s so
we've seen this literally affect
everyone on the island because it really
did permeate what the biggest brokerage
firms on the island were doing in the
business model that they operated and so
when you as an investor if you have a
401k if you have an investment account
you would have signed on to a account
opening agreement and in that account
opening agreement there is an
arbitration agreement which says if you
ever have a complaint if you ever have
something that you need to litigate with
us about you can't go to court you can't
go to state court or federal court
anything like that you have to go to
arbitration and you have to go to FINRA
arbitration and FINRA is the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority and and
based on case law around the country
that's where we file our claims that's
where we file the cases that we bring
because of those arbitration agreements
that clients are essentially forced to
sign and we litigate the claims there
and and there's a lot of things about
the process that I could make complaints
about and there's a lot to be done to
make that a more fair process but really
we feel like we stand as the people who
represent the client as the way to
protect these people against receiving a
second injustice after they've already
received that advice after they've
already lost some money what we do is we
try to fight with them to give them a
fair shake to have their story be told
and have the truth be told and in this
particular case that
we tried that's what we did and the
arbitrator's they awarded us full
damages they awarded every penny that we
asked for the full content compensatory
damages they warded attorneys fees and
they awarded costs and it was just a
little bit over 19 million dollars that
was awarded in this case against UBS
that UBS was ordered to pay amazing
story
Michael Bixby thanks so much for your
time today I really appreciate it
