[Music]
I'm from a four seven eight area code
who's this where you calling from four
seven eight good afternoon
Jeff my bigger phone was on here can you
hear me now I can hear you what's
happening Jeff from Georgia uh not much
Sam I appreciate you taking my call I
actually wanted to fill John and Sonya
John from San Antonio slot today won't
talk about you know boring old electoral
primary stuff man because some of the
gardens me the other day that what was
really going on in the Democratic
primary for some people is something
called a Keynesian beauty contest do you
know what that is Sam a Keynesian beauty
contest yeah it was something that uh
you know not my favorite economist
obviously a more of a Marx guy right but
a John Maynard Keynes keno with his idea
about how he thought the market worked
in terms of how they bought stock so he
imagined that you would have a beauty
contest in the newspaper but instead of
picking the person that you thought was
the prettiest or most attractive you
instead picked the person that you
thought everyone else was going to think
was the most attractive but the problem
is is that everyone else is also playing
that game so they are also all trying to
pick not who they think is the most
attractive who they think everyone else
thinks is the most attractive and you
can see that by drilling down to this
sort of like you know endless Hall of
Mirrors right trying to figure out
what's inside of people's heads you can
come up with some really up like
non rational decisions in the
marketplace right I think this also
applies to politics there are a ton of
people who have convinced themselves
that they know what the working-class
people this country wants and what they
won't vote for and they tend to be you
know multi-millionaire pundits on cable
news and some of the bigger radio and
podcast and online media platforms but
they don't know anything
our guessing just like everyone else is
guest night it is bizarre to me the most
all see conservative choice to win back
the presidency for the Democrats is
Bernie Sanders yeah I don't see how
anyone else can see it differently he is
absolutely the safest choice to get the
presidency bang
anyway that's all I got yeah I
appreciate that and I will say this
folks should check out dissident peasant
podcast available on itunes or wherever
your podcast but i but i would say this
that um there's the I mean you're you're
right I mean the the the the polling
bears this out that I guess for 50
percent of the voters in the Democratic
primary
that's the polling electability is the
first choice is that is is their first
sort of like criteria and Joe Biden by
maybe twice the numbers you know of
Bernie Sanders and a little bit more
than Elizabeth Warren people think is
electable the the the danger of this it
seems to me is I think Sanders obviously
but Warren I think even Harris I think
even Booker to a certain extent have at
least a contingency of people who are
like I desperately want them to wait and
I just don't write you know I don't
think that there's anyone who feels that
way about Biden I think there are people
who are casually like yeah I like Biden
better but the problem is and I think we
saw this with Clinton's campaign I mean
look so much of what we focus on in the
2016 is like why she lost and I've said
a million times I think there's a
literally a dozen but four is that had
we had
changed she would have won had she
changed them had had the outside force
has changed but then the question is you
know why was it so so tight and we have
a very polarized country
Al Gore lost George W Bush by 500 votes
in Florida supposedly but the
differential between Al Gore and George
Bush at that moment it's not hard to see
how they could be there could be you
know equivocation amongst some people
but to a large wooden plate to a large
extent I would say they there was
there's a lot of people who critiqued
the Clinton ground game and part of it
was a strategic decision that they made
by modeling you know who was going to
come out to vote and getting that wrong
they got it wrong I mean I remember the
call that we got from Mike from PA the
day after the election and he said you
know we saw this in Pennsylvania we sent
people out to get out the vote and they
were knocking on the door one quarter of
the time and they were finding that they
were knocking on the door of a Trump
voter now the reason why that happened
is because Hillary Clinton modeled used
models tech to determine who those
people were rather than sending
Canvassers out to go out and find out
what was happening on the ground and so
they thought they had this amazing
ground game when in fact it was this
amazing tech game now the story we've
always heard is that this was a
conscious decision on their part and it
may have been a situation where they
pushed you know volunteers away right
but it also could have very well been a
way of them not acknowledging or not
having to deal with the fact that there
just wasn't the level of enthusiasm that
you need in a modern campaign and I
might add this feel about Joe Bono my
biggest fear about Joe Biden is I think
there's not going to be the enthusiasm
that's gonna get people people will vote
for them but it's not going to be the
soozee azzam that drives people out to
get the marginal people to come vote cuz
what I want is a narrow coalition right
like Joe Biden and Clinton both in 2015
and in 2020 hypothetically they want a
narrow coalition of suburban
semi-professional and professional class
people they like that that is the
coalition the thing like I am convinced
that they are more concerned with
winning a certain way than they are with
winning because if they win with the
votes of an energized working class I
think that that terrifies I totally
agree with you Jeff I was making this
argument that Clinton and Chuck Schumer
were protecting Paul Ryan and they that
is why you have that quote from I think
it was Chuck Schumer who said for every
two or three Steel Workers we lose we're
gonna gain four in the suburbs and you
know you had Chuck Schumer bragging in
October of 2016
I've got and people can look for this
quote I know it's out there
I've got Schumer I've got Ryan I've got
Clinton and we're gonna make a deal to
get they were gonna they were gonna
bring in all that offshore money right
that the corporation's have been hiding
there since Judge George Bush's last
moratorium because they don't want to
pay those repatriate that money and pay
taxes on it they were gonna keep it
offshore and they were gonna bring it
back in and I think the deal that
Schumer was talking about is like we're
gonna get back we're gonna give them a
discount it's gonna be 15 percent 12
percent instead of the 20 or 30 that
they should pay and then we're gonna use
that money for infrastructure and they
wanted to protect Paul Ryan through that
election which is why they never went
after Paul Ryan in my estimation they
were thinking they were gonna do well in
the suburbs which is why they never went
after Paul Ryan right because Paul
Ryan's like okay of course we're gonna
lose with Donald Trump but they're
protecting me and Schumer was bragging I
got all three of them
and I'm gonna make this deal which
incidentally is a bullcrap deal for a
Democratic president at that point
make them pay their taxes how about you
rescind this free gift that that Truman
gave them so that we could build markets
all around the world they're built
incidentally and now it's time to end
that largesse that we're giving
corporations but with all that said I
agree I mean I don't know I don't know
how I don't know if they look at it in
the way that you and I would describe it
but they get to the same place maybe
through a different mechanism right like
they are the future of this party is
here as opposed to there because things
have died out or whatnot I mean in many
respects it's no different than the
decisions that were made in the 70s in
the 80s and frankly into the 90s of the
party that you could see that decision
made over and over again and we've
talked about that
don't blame me they're Democrat would
the there's an author from from
Massachusetts who had done it about a
look at Massachusetts and how that
changed in Massachusetts particularly
around 128 actually the the tech world
and so yeah we did when do we do that
and well you don't know you weren't even
here I don't think but we did that in
2015 or say I'll look for that but but
but you're right
appreciate the call Jeff thanks man you
guys have a great week you too dissident
peasant folks man I know you don't like
electability arguments but I feel like
if that's what so many people care about
and there's a good electability argument
to be made for Bernie Sanders why not go
to there well I mean I think at this
point the you know that ship has sailed
the the I mean I agree with you I think
you got to make that argument now I mean
I you know at one point that ship sailed
and I didn't you know the the ship to
make that argument you're saying the
ship to avoid making that argument
sailed right like you know
at the start of the the primary campaign
I was concerned that frankly well a I
felt I still feel the vast majority of
the candidates that have a viable chance
of winning the nomination can win I am
most concerned about Joe Biden and
because of the reasons I've just
mentioned I mean and I every day goes
out there and not only you know there's
there's two halves of this right it's
the candidate its ability to candidate
well and to campaign well and there's
the like you know what's gonna happen on
the ground
Joe Biden has neither his my two things
I mean one I will say I was completely
of the school that if the numbers line
up anybody from you know the great
choice to the worst choice could be
Trump I'm increasingly uncertain of that
part just because I'm watching them
perform and to me it's not I'm seeing a
lot of question marks and not just Biden
but it strikes me that um the best way
the ship has sailed on the electability
argument in a way we could maybe make it
more beneficial to our advantages is
using as an example to debunk broader
myths about the electorate like mike
from PA does a really good job on this
in terms of you know and I've talked
about on this show these like the voters
surveys from 2016 that again I mean the
really simplified version is that the
middle of the country is socially
moderate to maybe even center-right and
pretty economically progressive right
and that shows us that our you know
there's a couple of different jobs to do
but that's a part of the reason that
there can be such a default that Sanders
is not obviously quite electable
particularly in the Rust Belt is because
of this zombie idea that never goes away
that normal voters in the middle of the
country are like waiting for a Joe
Scarborough candidate well and we can we
really need I mean it's abundantly
empirically inaccurate that like like he
knows like some guys sitting at some
place in Wisconsin it's like I really
wish someone would just come along
with like a moderate tax credit scheme I
feel like in this day and age it would
be to the benefit of the country if
there were people who were as engaged
who are like I just don't agree with his
policy proposals in his ideology I just
I don't think there's that many people
think about it that way well I I don't
but I do think again you can't measure
some of it and I think also that policy
especially uncertain like part of the
reason that people trust Bernie so much
you can't look if Bernie I agree that
it's not all ideological but if Bernie
was going across the country and he was
the same guy with the same stick and the
same grandpa charisma but he was saying
we need to get serious about the deficit
and cutting spending he would be a 2% in
the polls so corner so of course yeah so
I mean because he'd be also running
against well happened does another lane
you know and also to be fair the broader
argument he wouldn't be activating deep
you know millions of PDS he's speaking
to their real interests we're gonna have
to redraw the map I think Trump's gonna
be a lot harder to beat than a lot of
people think that he is because none of
the conditions that led to Trump have
really changed if anything they've
intensified all the people who are upset
about Trump voted against him the first
time around and it didn't work and
Bernie's the only one with a chance of
redrawing the map and the way he's going
to do that is not by appealing to the
small number of white working-class
swing voters who have economic anxiety
right he's gonna do it by appealing to
all of the people who don't normally
vote and I've said it before and I'm
gonna say it again and that group of
people is disproportionately poor it's
disproportionately people of color and
weed I don't know if it's gonna work but
he's the only one that it might work for
I think a huge amount of Swing
quote-unquote in the Rust Belt but you
need to win some of them flip the Trump
some of them didn't vote some of them
are white some of them are people of
color and that's the path it's all of
the above I suspect that Donald Trump
has proved himself to be much more
aggressive on his
diatribe that I think we're gonna see I
think we're gonna see people who may
have not seen sufficient difference
between Clinton and Trump in 2016
come out and realize like III don't I
think there were people who sat on the
sidelines last time for a myriad of
different reasons but I think Trump has
disproven at least a set of the subset
of those reasons like he is going to
deport people he is going to kick out a
lot of immigrants legal and otherwise
and he's not gonna do anything about
income inequality or reindustrialize
right and and I think there's a certain
amount of people who service left the
things blank because they're like I
don't like this candidate she's gonna
win but I can afford to not vote for her
and I don't know what that percentage is
it doesn't have to be very much again so
who knows but I just worry that I mean
if Joe Biden had the same support in the
electorate as he does now but was you
know more like present as a candidate
I'm trying to be delicate here like I'm
worried just like we're a year away from
that election no I I totally agree and I
actually again I actually think like
settings apart where I do set ideology
aside and just look at performance and
style I think Frank like 2015 Joe Biden
would have a quite easy time beating
Donald Trump and including because he
would be able to lie and evade and mix
up the differences on all sorts of trade
issues just like Trump has and be
playing with the advantage that trumps
already debunked his own rhetoric but
watching by - now it's like oh I mean
somebody was joking that like I think
like is he saving is he saying
right support for crop and I mean
forgive me is a little crass but it was
just such a funny lie this friend of I
was like you know if they're both like
going senile to use it we don't blunt
literally Trump will just power through
it right oh good see - well because
problem negotiate knows it like I made
sense to begin with non look non adept
Trump is not terribly different it's
then a depa strike oh wow I'm stringing
together random words an incoherent way
what an incredible innovation nobody's
heard from me before yeah it's like
supporting a bands early material versus
their later stuff it's a matter of
preference for their fans let's I just
find it hard to believe that there's
that many people who weren't bothered by
Trump's racism four years ago but are
now I think a lot of people probably
didn't pick up on it or not say the same
thing I I think a lot of people didn't
pick up on it in the same degree I think
a lot of people thought that he wasn't
going to win and that it wouldn't be a
problem
I think there's I mean I think I think
it's very possible I mean I don't know
like my take it seriously sometimes when
you see people putting cages and kids
being kidnapped from their parents that
may motivate you more there might be
some people who are just as delusional
as elite media types I mean I remember
listening to I'll say specifically in
this case David Axelrod and Alex Wagner
a couple of weeks before Trump got
inaugurated seriously talking about the
possibility and say it was a certainty
but just the possibility that like well
you know now he's president so he might
really grow up and get it hey I think a
lot if I had actually heard they
actually thought that was positive which
is incredibly delusional I also there's
also a set of people who are like okay
Trump's bad but it's not like the
Republicans are gonna let him have his
way right Mitch McConnell of Paul Ryan
will really hold that in check there was
a lot of people I remember that a lot of
people who thought that in fact that was
not just the sort of like people who are
inserted the mushy Center saying that I
remember one a youtuber who is also
making that point that was going to save
us
the Republicans are never gonna go along
with Donald Trump and then they'll be a
filibuster right and then by the time
you get to 2020 there's a revolution do
you remember what he said was the
revolution was gonna look like that was
the most okay I don't know maybe
Elizabeth Warren right exactly exactly
that was what I really got livid because
I was like I was already singer like my
god in 2020 it has to be Bernie Sanders
what are you doing that was that was
like her gonna get from bone shard but
if we do I mean believe me my my big
fear to at that time was that we would
get I specifically said like after Bush
we got Obama and I don't know that we
had better options in that election
frankly but we just you know people
people want to get it over with
they want to get them out I understand
the impetus they may be wrong in their
assessments we may be wrong in our
assessments as to who's gonna win who
can win easily or not but the it's not
surprising at the end of the day that
you have 50% of them we're like I'm
going to choose electability and then
just everybody assumes that they can
determine what electability is and maybe
they can I don't know another Obama
would be the most depressing outcome
because four years later you're gonna
get someone worse than Trump Wow another
white podcast host to be an even more
depressing outcome Wow your Brooklyn
your socialist
