[Music]
all right let's let's get into the fun
half in a fun manner the the brexit vote
obviously it's been a little bit
problematic for Great Britain and it is
a lot of the motivation of brexit I
think was problematic and you know you
have conversations like we did yesterday
where you realize like you know it's
also problematic in terms of like the
greater implications for the EU in terms
of multinational organizations even if
they are problematic the organisation's
in and of themselves in the way in the
policies that they come up with because
of the power dynamics within those
organizations but much of this is a
process to get to the more benevolent
multinational organizations you may have
to work through some of the less
benevolent ones but here is a rather
hilarious exchange and you know we've
tried to make the point on this program
that it's not just Trump is the problem
in this country it's all the people who
support Trump and really even that may
be too narrow because it's just the
problem is a lot of times is just
largely people just in general and here
is a here is I guess Exhibit A that I
would offer to the court here is blaming
the electorate hero political global
addition this is apparently I'm not
quite clear one of these MPs is David
Davies I'm not going to tell you
anything else about him and he wears a
camera on his chest like an iPhone
contraption or something presumably to
protect himself from people who come at
him with cameras and
there is a brexit supporter who
approaches him who has a an accessory
which is basically a wearable microphone
that broadcasts her voice as she it
looks like films near helm this is like
it looks like a beer helmet no
understand and he's cultured he's Pro
breads oh nothing like tip in the joke
I'm sorry
understand this country there's a lot of
pressure going on here because they
can't they can't quite figure out a plan
to exit the EU and they can't figure out
whether they're going to do a redo on
the vote there's a lot of I can't even
follow it frankly and here's part of the
reason why here here is that MP and is
run-in with a brexit ear how does he
make you feel well obviously what I
would do is recall it so I'm actually
gonna turn my camera on now recalled
this lady so somebody's asking a news
person's asking like well how did it
feel to be attacked all the time and
he's like well I'm I record with this
camera on my chest and then I
immediately put it to Twitter so this is
very 2019 like technological warfare
conversation this is this is the version
of two bald men fighting over a comb
well I don't know so we've done
something to be a huge step say anyway
that's it that's the time funny enough I
think this lady's actually on the brexit
side which is my side of the argument
but basically say you know I'd like a
brexit you know honestly if you are a
break City then this is how this is the
brexit where were you where were you
people when I was out campaigning for
breasts you in nowhere you behind your
keyboards and now you've come out right
how's it for attacking so understand
this MP is waiting for remain errs to
come around and harass him but he gets
harassed by a brexit er who when she
realizes that he voted for brexit then
she stuck needing a reason to be
antagonistic towards him so she just
basically asked well is there something
that I should be accusing you of have
you done something wrong and Billy
she's wearing a baked Alaska hat isn't
it or no but says based Amy o face
doesn't all right term that basically I
guess it's just essentially is that who
she is basically and maybe that's her
but it means that your your red pilled
so it's just do bake delasco she's a lot
more entertain now right yeah baby Baked
Alaska was like hey I was just being a
show business I'm not sure I'm
totally into it see her also she calls
him he's a browser but not brexit her
enough for her like because he voted for
something to like w-well that was
without yeah whatever Theresa Mays delay
where were you where were you people
when I was a campaign to press you in
nowhere you behind your keyboards and
now you've come out right
you would not a brexit I I actually was
campaign of a brexit have been for years
I devote for the deal yeah I've read the
did it means not to know how many of em
people right that means we don't know
mean so you are a liar you did not vote
to leave
people I have you know you want to join
the BCI with taurima unlike this man
who's an MP and shame was your name that
if you're a never mind what my name is
I'm not talking but I guess I'll find
out when I watch the beauties of I'm for
the deal in this guy's pretending like
he's a flavor
what a liar you're a liar shame on you
you're a traitor you sign that document
there is nothing it's not even that's
what you put up with when you're out
here all the time
I mean this guy I think you'd pick the
wrong job if you cope with some people
feel like oh man I can sit here all day
to be honest you should feel comfortable
you betrayed seventeen point four
million feet of you're gonna go I spent
ten years in uniform to my keyboard as
well
he owes either lets me
so what position did you get so this man
there's a total betrayal of friendship
it's a total no well how much how much
is BBC been paid to promote the European
I mean this is wow I hate to see it well
no I feel like this is it literally is
like Twitter in real life like it just
the these two people who ostensibly are
both like what they're doing is about
politics and
clearly has nothing to do about politics
it's just they're just searching
desperately for a reason to get into a
fight with each other or to avoid it's
just so a extremely emotionally
disturbed but in different ways
exactly I don't be pedantic but I'm
pretty sure that predates Twitter well
no it does predate Witter but it it is I
think it is basically three-quarters of
what Twitter is yes Twitter let's right
but but and I don't think there was
nearly as much of this type of stuff
frankly pre-twitter yeah my vibe from
it's very money yes except for it wasn't
a comedy show it was literally just two
people on the street like inclusive
being an MP no this is the future with a
body like that's what I'm saying this is
the future of the info war he's got like
his rig he's got a he's got like a
camera to his chest and I can't had a
camera and then she's got like some sort
of voice everyone this is how mech suits
started with this until they're both
wearing jetpacks and so that they can
just fly up and then just sort of like
yes from the sky smites them both I
don't even want to hit my jetpack on for
you it's like transformers but
everything instead of like tremors like
can he do technology even turn on his
jet pack but I think it would be so
interesting to me is like disaggregating
like the difference between people who
vote for things like Briggs and I think
Briggs it was more so than Trump of
people that are really just disgusted
and fed up and like the people are
disgusted and fed up or the opposite in
the ecosystem like they don't want to
talk to an MP I think they want to be
like left alone and have things change
and then like the actual like Trump
brexit ear voters I mean I'm guessing
that that woman is not
that's not the and I think it's real I
don't mean it sarcastically but she is
not in the misdirected populist anger or
economic anger I would she's very
interested to hear so the boss on the
Romanian question the Jewish Question
the Pakistani question the Nigerian
question I think she probably was into
the category of misdirected anger but
just based Amy is who she is and she is
a free speech and anti Sharia activist
right of course
Yeah right free speech and anti Sharia
we have yeah we have another angle of
this this is hers what a great camera
they're on and God what's that there is
my phone when you're talking I was quiet
you see I stopped talking when I can't
we are truly living in the spectacle oh
my god but you know what this is the
other this is this is the most
compelling argument against socialism
because even after all of the Tory cuts
the the you case those things like the
NHS which allow this woman to be a pest
yeah all of her basic needs are taken
care of
quiet yeah that voice projection
technology could be some type of like
advanced speaking capacity thing that
labour introduced or it could be people
with soft voices need have this lady
Congrats on the street about Sharia um
she call him a ROM owner yeah I love the
fact that it's just like oh you you're
on my side politically well then why is
such a snowflake
well that's the part that is Twitter
like we played that thing where a Gordon
Brown talked about that woman that was
complaining about Polish workers in like
2008 and she didn't have any sort of
vocabulary like that this woman had like
an entire set of talking points that
were like oh so you're a moaner you know
like a smell that was actually
fascinating can we take a detour on this
for just one second it was fascinating
conversation we had because in 2009 to
Gordon Brown was caught on a hot mic he
was out campaigning and a woman who and
I and I she's an old lady and maybe
today she wouldn't I don't know how bad
she was I feel kind of bad trashing her
but she did give him like she said why
are there so many Romanians here right
this is 2009 so maybe today she would be
really awful and brexit or maybe she
would have pulled back from that
trajectory who knows but she said that
she didn't have any of this other
rhetoric that was as far as it went and
he kind of was like all right like well
first he actually tried he said well
there's a million Britons in the
eurozone too so that's not exactly true
that they're just flooding us we go back
and forth and then you know he wrapped
it up and basically like I hope you vote
Labour then he goes in his car and he's
on a hike my hot mic and he's like who
left me with that woman and they're like
what what and she's like oh just this
awful bigoted woman she was just awful
we're complaining about Romanians just
just a bigot the whole thing was
ridiculous
and what I wondered today though it was
like on one side that woman could have
the whole brexit Lane for her if that's
where she was and she could get
amplified in her bigotry but conversely
Gordon Brown it was a disaster at that
time but I think today there would be
shows like ours though fair enough buddy
right it might have worked really well
for him right well I mean we didn't have
me I mean we had memes but they were
very far and few between like they were
like where's the beef or lies I got milk
god you're getting Adele yeah stop me
right all ads it's all or you know not
that's still pretty good
oh god my Sacha Baron Cohen was so good
now wives a laugh about wife
[Music]
