[Music]
we should say do we have that image here
is what we got out of the debate not
terribly surprising I mean I think this
is consistent with what we were saying
I thought frankly that Pete Buddha judge
had done a little bit better than this
but it does not maybe people saw his
like he was a little sweaty he just he's
teased he's like he's the body I mean
whatever the word is that people use to
describe like an empty suit now this is
a YouGov poll and I don't know if
they're considered to be as good as the
morning consult but the morning consult
my understanding is had Biden dropping
five or ten points in the poll that's a
big difference but I'm pretty sure here
that Joe Biden this is let's see
Politico is saying okay Politico is
saying that Harris was raising record
sums of money for a campaign following
debates Warren drew one of her largest
crowds yet Harris announced Saturday she
had raised two million for more than 63
thousand people in the 24 hours
following our debate best single
fundraising day the campaign she shot up
six percentage points in the morning
console poll tying Warren at 12% Biden
and Sanders camp uneasy according to
Politico and this morning consult Joe
Biden lost five points in the first post
debate survey still leads with 33
percent Sanders had a slight drop in
favorability but not necessarily in his
polling here is some more of the
electability and again this is really
problematic for Biden for everybody else
there's room for them to make the case
and whatnot and
to attract voters because I think
they're electable but I love their
policies or and you know electability
obviously goes into everybody's
perspective in a primary the problem is
is if it's all electability come time
for the general it's hard to find
volunteers right in part because if
there's no Delta between them getting
elected in their electability you feel
like well what do I have to do I chose
the electable one definitionally their
electable I don't have to do anything I
think that that I think certainly hurt
Hillary Clinton without a doubt it also
was compounded by the fact that
everybody including this program was
saying Donald Trump has you know
anywhere from 85 to 99 percent chance of
losing it just turns out that in if it's
99 percent one in a hundred comes up and
it doesn't nationally have to be a
hundred times before that one comes up I
was surprised myself
so here are the elect abilities Joe
Biden dropped 13 points in the
perception that he's electable in the
general election now he's still ahead
he's still ahead but again my theory is
is that as that drops the rate in which
it drops is going to increase the
velocity right the velocity of the
electability electability with the rate
of decrease Elizabeth Warren she gained
11 points in electability and that for
her is pretty well not only is that a
big number to jump but again I think
there's a lot of people out there who
are supportive of Warren but are not
sure that she can win and as more people
get convinced that she win it has I
don't think quite the same velocity
effect as Joe Biden's fall but our
centage points they're just like
candy from a pinata indeed Kamala Harris
up by 10% Bernie Sanders more or less
the same slow and stood in terms of
electability
I guess one point but this is that's
well within the margin of error so
that's just noise cory booker jumped a
couple of points again not big enough
necessarily say it's with the outside
the margin of error p buddha judge
dropped two points again margin of error
but julian castro went from nine to
twenty one percent that's a pretty
significant jump that's a that's a real
job oh that was a real job amy klobuchar
went up by three points only because
people probably didn't even know she was
in the race that must be just pure
though de Gillibrand get the same
Gillibrand got two points okay so
Gillibrand close the show yeah but the
big story is basically the do P two to
two of the three bees actually all three
bees went down they were the only ones
not bado bado drop myself today he's
gonna be so sad though well here's the
sad part you got did well he's good the
sad part is he can't even say like he
gets an A in terms of drop because his
was only 12 points and Joe Biden's with
13 percent so he's really came in how
are we defining drop here I came in
second like humans came in so he's those
who dropped and that is why I am so
excited to keep making a total ass of
myself and burning up the money you're
giving me like lighting a cigar or a
spliff with a hundred dollar bill I hope
he doesn't post any sad videos I bet you
he drops out if he's in another debate
with Julian Castro there yeah he really
should well you know what turns out
should drop out Julian Castro does not
speak Spanish he does not speak Spanish
he his Spanish apparently is is actually
piss-poor I mean he's he's he's trying
to bone up but he does not speak Spanish
you know he's not it's not it's not a
first language let's put it that way or
second language
you say so oh there it is I mean look I
try not to spend too much time on the
horse race stuff but we have talked
about these policies odd nauseam and you
know we'll talk more about them as as we
go on as they're introduced at this
point in the race in 2008 if I remember
correctly all three or maybe at least
two of them Edwards and maybe Obama
maybe Clinton didn't come out with hers
until later had released fully
articulated plans now Bernie Sanders has
put legislation in others have have
offered legislation and have signed on
to different legislations but as
candidates putting out a plan really
locks you into very specific things and
none of them have done that
up to this point there have been other
plans that have been put out that have
been very specific things like the the
college debt proposals or the free
college etc etc criminal justice reform
so we will we will get to that when we
get to that
