let's just hear this last one because
the right-wing it's fun to watch them
try and find anything and their dream is
hell it's that ring worth while she's
bringing up ringworm why would why would
such an ugly term come out of such a
pretty mouth and she never experienced
socialism well this is the thing is that
you do get the sense that the right is
just not sure what to do like like this
guy Ryan asseverated now I I saw that
huge
yeah he's blocked me for whatever reason
I'm not sure why he's quick on the block
let's quick on the block I I don't I've
never heard of him in my entire life I
was using a creative visualization
exercise for his career arc and he hit a
couple of metrics and he's like oh
this is what I have to dodge debate
exactly once more it's a 1-point theater
may come after me so I'm going to this
is just like pre what is that the pre
car I had a pre pre pre pre block in pre
block prea pre-emptive I I don't want to
look like a totally here weakling like
steven crowder a dave rubin here is the
problem that they have and i imagine
that they probably sit around the office
and go is just a good idea this makes
sense like are we doing are we doing are
we doing more harm than good
i mean at one point they have to ask
themselves because they're so desperate
to find something that is going to stick
and it's not and and every time they do
there's almost that's like cell phone
where it's like oh wait a second that's
an interesting thing i should look into
socialist rep alexandria Acacio cortez
claims that algorithms which are driven
by math a racist hmm does she really
let's here you know IBM was creating
facial recognition technology to target
to do kind of crime profiling where you
see over and over again what space time
they always have these racial inequities
that get translated because algorithms
are still made by human being and those
algorithms are
Peg's to those two basic human
assumptions they're just automated and
automated assumptions it's like you're
autumn if you don't fix the bias then
you're automating the bias and that gets
even more dangerous so really what this
guy should be saying is Socialists here
it turned out socialist it I'll fix this
socialist Rep Alexandre Acacio Cortez
explains to me the very basic principle
that your outputs are a function of your
inputs in math and thus if you start
with some racially biased inputs into an
algorithm your output is necessarily
going to be racist I'm and here is a Oh
si de nuevo I think you pronounce it um
he has fun some old tweets but Ryan Oh
algorithms and algorithms that's funny
tech companies tend to be liberal and
something is off with their algorithms
because they won't show a lot of content
I find by manual search Wow breaking
Facebook algorithm is targeting Trump's
page significantly more than Democratic
politicians most people get their news
on Facebook which allows advertisers to
target their customers and certain zip
codes
who's to say Facebook isn't altering
what news people see in specific voting
districts there needs to be open
oversight of Facebook's algorithms
operations and news distribution it's
just math room yeah they're literally
driven by math that's which is totally
different
Brian uh I don't want to burden you and
I'm sure if I haven't been blocked or
word he'll be blocked for this but a
couple years ago on this show we
interviewed an author called Cathy
O'Neil who wrote one of the best books I
think one of the most important books
kind of under the radar I'm a
mathematician goes by math babe on
Twitter and it's called weapons of mass
destruction and she explains how it's
not only race it's poverty and it
affects everything from policing
employment home loans insurance
advertising that actually all of these
algorithms are driven by
essentially social hierarchy and a
historical bigoted and class structured
inputs which leads to really bad
outcomes even worse than uh you know
stories about how bad Donald Trump's
skin tone looks on Facebook but anybody
know I would check it out
anybody who knows math knows that your
outputs are a function of your input I
don't know math because I stick to the
core brand of the show it's better just
to say math is on your side than to
actually know man exactly think the math
backs me up on this one
