let's just do Donald Trump here Donald
Trump trying to be the tough guy
apparently he was not in the what do
they call it the what is that room the
woods it he was not in the Situation
Room my understanding is he was that is
that true
it appeared well at least the previously
Obama's photographer said that the
metadata suggest that they staged that
photo a different time the metadata
suggests that they staged the photo that
he was in the really important of more
than likely that he was yeah that he was
on the golf course and the reports from
New York Times suggest that the timing
and the of this killing of Baghdadi was
was had to be had to deal with the the
American pull out we got the information
from the Kurds of course as to where
Baghdadi was and but Donald Trump he
knows I've got to project like I'm a
tough guy I just watched the Seagal
movie and I'm gonna go out and talk
about this now last night was a great
night for the United States and for the
world a brutal killer one who has caused
so much hardship and death has violently
been eliminated he will never again harm
another innocent man woman or child he
died like a dog he died like a coward
the world is now a much safer place I
ripped his legs out there he is Donald
Trump reminding everybody that we killed
him in a violent way as opposed to the
way that we kill other people in battle
you should see in the way Obama he just
was like oh I'm sorry can a for you to
room a therapy bath that isn't it
so your experience is nice and then II
apologize for doing it that's what Obama
did I didn't I did it violently like a
dog it made on buck make him bleed and
make him bleed like a dog actually I was
asleep was happening so ahead of himself
and I think he's got to be pissed that
he's not getting enough credit in fact
here's my prediction if it hasn't
already happened today within a couple
of days he's gonna be complaining about
we got no credit oh I was so great audit
suite out of one of my text threads what
was we some would put in the back daddy
figure watch just from like lol nobody
care about terrorism anymore dude is
really trying so hard to be like Obama
here is Donald Trump talking about how
brilliant Isis is now the Kurds have
done a very good job as a tough show
it's a very I won yes all the
intelligences do to the Kurds or most of
it for this whole thing here in sorry
about the killing of al-baghdadi from
the first day I came to office and now
we're getting close to three years I
would say where's L beg daddy I want
al-baghdadi and we would kill terrorist
leaders but there were names I never
heard of there were names that weren't
recognizable and they weren't the big
names some good ones some important ones
but they weren't the big names I kept
saying where's L bag daddy and a couple
of weeks ago being were able to scope
him out you know these people's very
smart they're not into the use of
cellphones anymore they're not they're
very technically brilliant you know they
use the internet better than almost
anybody in the world perhaps other than
Donald Trump but they use the Internet
incredibly well and when they've done
with the internet through recruiting and
everything and that's why he died like a
dog he died like a coward he was
whimpering screaming and crying and
frankly I think it's something that
should be brought out so that his
followers and all of these
young kids that want to leave the
various countries including the United
States they should see how he died he
didn't die a hero he died a coward
crying whimpering screaming and bringing
three kids with him to die certain death
and he knew the tunnel had no end I mean
it was a it was a closed closed ended a
quarter closed to end tunnel they got a
good place to be
classic closed antenna it's a military
term speaking of military general miley
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
told reporters this according to Natasha
but ran at the Atlantic he doesn't know
where Trump got his information that
Baghdadi was whimpering and crying when
he died I don't know what the source of
that was yeah well I have different
service I got extra many people of
source sources what you don't know
general is they call it a closed tunnel
close the classic closed tunnel it was a
closed closed ended a quarter closed end
tunnel not a good place to be but nobody
uses the internet better than nobody
they used the Internet they were
geniuses the Internet that I don't
disagree with him about that he
recognizes his own game recognize game
yeah yeah Isis uses encryption software
to the lure kids into fighting for mass
killing from the Netherlands and I give
my personal cell phone to fine it's a
state unbelievable
