so Branco in the last segment we were
talking about the sanctions that were
imposed on Venezuela starting in mid
2017 I guess it was by the US and the
what they encompass and presumably these
sanctions were in response to human
rights violations by the Maduro
government and and also I guess
mechanisms in which Maduro was using
extra constitutional mechanisms or
mechanism that were of dubious
constitutionality to increase his power
and the I I guess I mean I don't know
what the US government says these
sanctions are there in retaliate has
articulated supposed to happen from
these sanctions its supposed to punish
the government of Venezuela but this
report that you write about suggests
that it does not punish the government
of Venezuela and in fact punishes the
people yeah which you know as a pattern
among pretty much every other case of
sanctions at least you know that we can
think of in the last two decades but it
is well I mean you know the the stats in
this reporter are really when you read
them a horrifying you know one of our
striking is that the August 2017
sanctions had sent oil falling the oil
production falling in the country by
more than three times the rate of the
the previous 12 20 months so they lost
around six billion dollars with the
revenue from that and you know the
author's came up with perspective so
they they point out that to to get food
and medicine and 2018 cost about two
point something billion so you know I
mean to lose six billion dollars just in
sort of one year you can you can already
shows you how devastating that is it one
of the most striking statistics that
they kind of talk about is they look at
this the study that's connected yearly
by universities of as well
and they looked at the mortality rate
the change in mortality rate and they
found that if you know if these stats
are accurate there's no reason to you
know assume that they aren't there were
40,000 extra deaths between 2017 and
2018 which you know I mean it's very
clear that as links to the sanctions and
it sort of it goes on on like this I
mean they talk about how oil revenues
for this year expected to drop by 67
percent from last year so you know it's
it will be going from was an already
pretty catastrophic drop to you know
there's not even really a superlative to
describe you know how where that's going
to go and then not only that but they
talk about how the sanctions and and the
tribal administration has basically
worked to basically make it impossible
for the Venezuelan government to
actually rectify this situation so you
know we obviously we can't no
counterfactuals perhaps.perhaps if this
these things hadn't been in place the
the Maduro government would have
continued to you know fairly diversify
the economy and and engage corruption
and and you know to just simply not do
what needed to be done to stabilize the
economy and perhaps it would have gone
off the cliff anyway but we know that
you know without that counterfactual we
do know that the term administration has
basically made it impossible for them to
do anything they've convinced other
countries not to buy their oil which
actually sent production dropping by a
hundred thirty thousand barrels per day
and previously had been dropping I think
in the six months of the year before it
had been dropping by about 20,000 or
25,000 barrels per day I mean you know
it's it's pretty stark stuff they
they've frozen their assets or you know
any sort of for example the gold
reserves that Venezuela has they can't
draw on those either so they can't use
those two to purchase medicine
there's not even there's there's a
program
a preferential payment for oil that
Venezuela has with Caribbean countries
they can't receive payment from those
countries for that so basically there's
almost no Avenue thought for Venezuela
to take - to try and rectify this and
this is why the UN Special Rapporteur
that visited the country he said that
this is basic this was illegal these
sanctions and sanctions like these
amounted to what was what was basically
the equivalent of a modern-day siege you
know basically just warning a population
and and and making it impossible for
anything to get in and out I mean what
is a you know I mean the the bizarre
thing about this is that you don't hear
and and and there's undoubtedly been
human rights violations under the Maduro
government I mean and I think there has
undoubtedly been a restriction on on on
democracy and mistreatment of prisoners
but all of those words could be said
about Saudi Arabia and any other
countries that we are we are supportive
of I mean the irony is it seems like the
big story that we're told is -
justifying US intervention in Venezuela
and is the suffering of the Venezuelan
people but in fact we are not doing
anything to alleviate the the the
suffering the Venezuelan people and some
level it's just a it's a it's an
ultimatum it's again get a new
government or continue to suffer yeah
absolutely I mean as you as you point
out the idea that the Trump
administration is in any way concerned
about human rights is a joke
I mean that's the you know no one can
take that seriously especially when when
the Trump administration is very happy
to support a wide variety of repressive
regimes that are Venezuela also I mean
you know would you appoint Elliott
Abrams to be the head of your business
policy if you care deeply about the
human rights of Venezuelan people I
would say probably not and you know oh
aprons for example has described himself
as as a counterrevolutionary and that
was what his goal would his goal and
what his job was in the 80s and the
regular administration which was to
basically roll back the the left-wing
tide in in Central and South America and
this is basically just a continuation of
that I mean it's the same thing with
John John Bolton that said similar
things to that so you know of course
yeah this has nothing to do with with
human rights and I think yeah you're
right it's it's an ultimatum for one I
think secondly it helps to feed that
narrative well this is you know this is
what happens when you have a socialist
government that's it just leads to an
inherent mismanagement of the economy
which leads to widespread starvation
lack of medicine yada yada yada and a
lot of the media has been very helpful
for the Trump administration in the
stage they've pretty much broadcast and
repeated this message everywhere you go
I mean a lot of reporting whether it's
TV or print does not even bother to
mention the sanctions or if they do
they'll say well yeah sanctions are
definitely contribute but you know
ultimately the the problem here is the
Maduro regime exists the the economic
policies so you know I mean this is kind
of a great illustration of the way that
you know media that is ostensibly it's
not state media of course there's no
state media in the US but that's always
one of those well how those very
peculiar things where a media that is
entirely not controlled by the
government
voluntarily kind of repeats it's talking
points for it without a doubt and if you
know the Maduro government was in that
bad of shape you wouldn't need sanctions
to have it implode the but of course the
the argument in some level is
self-defeating well prank of March
detect thank you so much for your time
today really appreciate it
