so Trina we have spoken a couple of
times over the past several months as we
are watching it's it feels like in slow
motion a-and maybe it's not been that
slow but uh it feels like we are
watching a concerted deliberate campaign
to inch closer to some type of war armed
conflict with Iran and let me just get
your opinion of this before we even sort
of recount how this sort of the steps
have been taken and what has happened
this week which you know moves us even
closer but when we talk about this
conflict with Iran it seems to me
there's really I mean there's nothing
that we that the people who clearly want
some type of conflict with Iran could
gain by some limited bombing campaign
right I mean the people who are
agitating for some type of kinetic
action if you will the it seems to me
that the only thing they could be
agitating would be for an all-out war is
that I mean do I have that wrong no you
have it quite right but what's happening
is that they know that today mindful
aware the American public stands mindful
of their own lack of credibility the
only way to sell a big war is to pretend
and package it as a small war because
that's much more digestible that's
something that perhaps even Trump would
be able to agree to I don't think he
would agree to a big war
so they're packaging it add a small war
perhaps even as strikes that the
Iranians won't dare to respond to and if
you notice if you look carefully you
will see that some of these Hawks the
only criticism they're putting out
against Trump is to say you know the
Iranians are talking about Trump as a
paper tiger that he's a Twitter fighter
but he actually really doesn't dare to
go to war because you know they tried to
appeal to his ego and to his very
the sensitive skin that if you don't do
this they're not going to look at you as
a worse so clearly they're looking for a
big war but they're smart enough to know
that they have to package it as a small
world I mean I you know I raised that
just because it is it's a it's a
stunning it's it's a stunning aspiration
I mean because you know as as horrific
as the Iraq war was the a war with Iran
would be I think you know really I mean
it's really hard to wrap your your one's
head around because Iran is certainly no
Iraq and the what they are trying to get
us into and I'm just I mean on some
level I'm just trying to set the stakes
here because there is no version of like
a one-off you know bombing campaign or
some type of notion of like you know
will topple Muammar Gaddafi which is not
to imply in any ways that we haven't
basically created some type of sort of
like you know a chaotic hell in Libya
but this is there there is no sort of
one-off quality to getting involved in
an armed conflict with Iran so with that
said you have four months basically at
least in the context of our
conversations been arguing that what you
were seeing develop was a portion of the
Trump administration agitating for war
and a semi reluctant Trump driving with
the brakes on to a certain extent but
what what we have seen that that
contingent in the Trump administration
do is to basically try and put us in
close proximity so that like some type
of friction is created in a spark we'll
just set it off
just explain that dynamic to folks
because it fits on some level it's we're
backing into war but we're not really
backing in there's somebody thinking of
pressing on the gas a bit Charlie and I
think part of the reason I have a bit of
a problem with some analysts and even
some world leaders going out there
warning about an accidental war that
presumes that neither side wants a war
but they may accidentally get into it
that's not the situation were faced with
because Bolton certainly wants a warn it
wouldn't be an accident if it was up to
him they would be precisely because he
has insured the things I've escalated to
that point so I think we have to be very
clear died about the fact that there are
very influential people in the Trump
administration that probably are not on
the same page as Trump when it comes to
this issue because they do want four and
they've been pushing forward for a very
long time they have hardly said no to
any war I mean both and had an op-ed in
The New York Times in 2015 that said
bombi Ron so we we have to recognize
that they were faced with a situation in
which almost every actor has a
credibility problem and there are plenty
of actors that actually have strong
stated and established incentives and
motives for further escalation so when
we hear that the Iranians maybe have
been behind the attack on the tankers
that may very well be true we don't have
any evidence but they're not the only
ones that have a potential motive the
Saudis the you eat the Israelis all have
strong well-established motives to drag
the United States into war John Bolton
has a very strong motive and a track
record of fabricating intelligence in
order to get Wars and that I think means
that we have to be extremely cautious
and be very very hesitant towards
rushing into any judgement because this
is literally about war and peace at this
point and and I wonder I mean and and we
will talk about the sort of the the
potential fabrications after the break
but I but I wonder like you know to what
what we're also managing not to have a
conversation about is what exactly
should rise to the level even if what
they're saying is true like what you
know at what point is it crucial for the
United States to engage in a war I mean
there's the what's what strikes me it's
sort of fascinating about the these
questions of the you know the supposed
evidence that Iran had in some way tried
to sabotage some of these tankers is I
mean the America there's been no effort
it seems to me to create the predicate
that what happens to two tankers in the
the Strait of Hormuz is crucial to
American security I mean they seem to
have a like a predicate problem -
absolutely I mean even if it was Iran it
does not mean that the United States now
AHA is that is obligated first of all
well they actually really still even
have the interest of going to war over
this issue it's just not that simple we
cannot have such an undefined
definition of our national interest so
that john bolton literally can make the
case that an attack on a soundy tanker
is an attack on every American alright
well let's take a break here and we'll
talk about the the likelihood or not
that Iran has attempted to sabotage some
of these tankers and to the extent that
it might be possible or what elements
within the Iranian government may have
done so and then let's talk about the
other story of this week and that is
that our acting Secretary of Defense is
no longer acting and he's also no longer
Secretary of Defense we're gonna take a
quick break I'm talking to tree to Parsi
we'll be right back
ring of fire radio
