[Music]
geo geopolitical politics okay that's a
good transition cuz we'll get to her in
a second has it the United States
cooperated with al Qaeda more than Iran
has you know informally yes in fact I
mean look the truth of the matter and
again I don't you know there was a
democratic organic and a lot of left
opposition to Assad which was absolutely
viciously crushed by that government
that's the truth and there's also no
doubt that the CIA and the United States
cooperated with an outsourced opposition
strategy to Saudi Arabia and the UAE
we have that been Salman I believe or a
prominent Saudi leader telling the
rebels to light the city up money flew
flowed to far-right religious groups
that have committed their own
brutalities and atrocities and
absolutely some of them are affiliated
with al Qaeda not all of them again
there's a huge amount of real opposition
to Assad and Assad it's strategically
selected some of his own opposition but
yes in a Syrian context the Iranians are
fighting al Qaeda every day and we to
say the least
are not
