majority report on the phone it is a
pleasure to welcome to the program
producer with fork films and author of
it was all a dream a new generation
confronts the broken promise to black
America Renea Allen welcome to the
program
good to be here Pam so let's start with
with with why what like what why did you
set out to write this book which was I
guess basically an examination in many
respects of of the Millennials black
Millennials response to I think well you
you'll tell us from your perspective but
you know a a perpetual frustration that
black people have in this country
absolutely I saw stories the millennial
generation which as you may know is not
doing too well overall you know there
are lots of stories particularly about
kind of these urban elite over educated
you know entitled folks but what I felt
was missing from the conversation was
actually a story about people of color
and particularly young black people like
myself I saw my story feeling a little
bit different yeah absolutely like kind
of a millennial story but in race makes
everything look a little bit different I
felt like things like you know
discrimination and racism and the
burdens at that time was being missed on
the story of the Millennial so I wanted
to change that and talk to people and
not just myself I get tired of listening
to myself but I wanted to talk to other
people and hear what they were going
through too and the things that they
were experienced so that's why I started
to write the book and you ended up
interviewing about 75 people across the
country telling tell us how you found
them yeah range of ways you know some of
the stories about Millennials are out
there um so there were a few that I were
interested in but I kind of looked at
what
the traditional notions of success for
an America what opportunity looks like
and and then started kind of in other
things are pretty common housing
education student debt in reached out to
some organizations as I talked more to
people about this book some people
contacted me with friends or family some
stories I found in newspaper articles so
really a range of ways that I reached
out to people and decided who I wanted
to profile and the the the title of the
book it was all a dream comes from a
biggie smalls song what what why that
title I mean well at what point did that
title come in for you I guess I think
that kind of was actually where I
started I mean I didn't wanted to talk
about opportunity in in black America
and I wanted to talk about opportunity
and young black America and somehow you
know initially the conversations were
about the American dream and what that
meant and I think I was just listening
to the music I've listened to a lot of
music and the title of a song juicy came
up and this idea this notion of dreams
was really in my mind and it kind of
came from they're pretty organically but
I mean I was also interested in how the
notion of the dream in the black
community obviously thinking about
Martin Luther King's dream and how that
has kind of changed and more for
different generations and how you know I
think biggie song is actually a play on
MLK's where a young lyric ml MLK's
speech and how even jay-z even after
biggie died kind of said you know what
was it all a dream and how we were kind
of I think as a black community
constantly thinking about dreams and and
promises and and really systematically I
think being denied and that is
systematically but culturally as well
being
these dreams and promises and and what
that meant to us has that I mean the
because juicy is is is optimistic I
think as it's on right I mean and and so
has the perspective or I guess let me
let me ask you this from from and and
then I want to get into maybe some of
the the individuals but I'm curious as
to what let's start with overall what
your experience is of black Millennials
what their response what their
perspective is on the American Dream how
you you know might imagine it's
different from white Millennials in
terms of what they experience and and
then we'll I want to talk about maybe
what that how that relationship to the
American Dream has changed or if it has
changed at all in in some earlier from
earlier black generations yeah so I
think I mean one of the most surprising
statistics I found pretty early on when
it relates to the American Dream was
that black Millennials
more than anyone in this generational
cohort actually believe in the American
Dream the most now when you look at the
study that's actually young white people
who say that they've achieved it the
most was the young black people actually
believes in it they're optimistic I
think we are optimistic as a people and
I think that partially because we have
like no other choice to be but
optimistic I think you know America's
been pretty crappy to to black people to
be young in black America it doesn't
always feel safe I mean there's a group
of young women in New York State that um
that just was searched you know for
their clothes we see countless video
after video of young black men and women
being brutalized terrorized and even
killed by law enforcement we know that
you know it's it's not
only safe place to be America's not
always a safe place to be however I say
that with a caveat because I do think
there's a lot of joy there's a lotta
optimist optimism there was you know
high political rates of participation of
a political participation in the black
community so I think did like these are
all really wonderful things and I say
that but also I think that there's still
a desire to be seen as human to be not
seen as you know a burden or a problem
and I think that you know every single
black melina I talk to
despite his sexuality or political
affiliation or you know class physicians
that race their race impacted their
lives I think that that matters and I
think when you look at white Millennials
for example and and I should say black
and Millennials of color doesn't
necessarily mean they have equal
experiences but particularly you look at
white Millennials I think that sometimes
they don't have to worry about those
things they don't have to worry about
things like am I gonna get home safely
now they're worried and equally is
burdened I think by some of the things
that the Millennial Generation overall
faces like you know student debt for
example um or you know home ownership
but I think that because they don't have
to contend with some of the other forces
like racism and discrimination their
dreams are you know a little bit
different I think that for black
Millennials you know they still want to
not be they want to be visible um
you know they want you were the only
group that has had to say our lives
matters and that's a pretty significant
thing for me what that does to a person
you know having a black president people
don't necessarily think cured issues
around race or racism so it's a unique
space to be but at the same time I think
a lot of our dreams
um the fundamental dreams you know still
Sonora
you know homeownership housing but we
also want to be free and I think that we
don't necessarily think that I did white
millenials don't have to worry about
that where do you think it lies I mean
and I think like the the you know you
write about buying a house and I guess
and 2005 and subsequent to that finding
that you were eligible for participation
at a class action because the mortgage
your lender was involved in predatory
practices and and I think you know the
the idea that black Americans were
targeted more with these predatory
practices is is a function of their
being in addition to their being sort of
broadly speaking less wealth in the in
the black community because the less
opportunity to develop wealth over time
but also less opportunities to to borrow
and so going in in in in getting a
suppose it's a subprime loan or at least
those type of terms when you maybe you
didn't need to actually it had you been
had you been white or had not been sort
of cajoled into this I'm not saying you
specifically I'm talking about the
community but well I wonder like what
what to the extent that well you know
we're talking about you know black lives
matter and to what extent is is the the
relationship between is the these fears
are they being as the difference is the
difference for Millennials that there is
a theoretically a greater awareness you
know broad-based awareness of of what
black Americans go through in terms of
particularly in the context of police
and and and in this concept because of
just like video cameras I mean within
the black community right I am and
correct me if I'm wrong but I imagine
there's been you know Gen X baby boomers
they were all you know those generations
were all aware that like look you're
gonna get treated differently you know
you're telling your kids you're gonna
get treated differently you got to be
careful out there I imagine that's you
know that's not new the the the newness
is that there's almost you know there's
an ability to show it to a broader
audience
ya know I think that's absolutely true
however I'll say that I think that for
in the millennial generation really and
I'm in the next generation Jen's II will
see it too we had to do this with the
understanding that we were in the kind
of shadow of the civil rights movement
right Jesse Jackson had run for
president we saw Barack Obama most
Millennials came of age is Barack Obama
was was elected you know to the White
House I think and we are the most
diverse adult generation now Jonesy just
took us over I think being the most
diverse population that we are the most
adult our diverse adult population I
think that so many of us or a lot of us
you know grew up even seeing you know
with with white or partners of other
colors oh you know schools are largely
segregated now but you know a lot of us
have had friends of other colors and
other races we there are lots of black
representation on television I Oprah was
coming up coming to dominate as as we
were growing up so I think that there is
this message that well if you Surrey can
do it so can you if Barack Obama can do
it you know you guys just work harder
but but there aren't you know there
aren't limitations I mean even Donald
something this was I think the 90s you
know said that he'd want to be a
well-educated black because they have
lots of opportunities so there's this
language of opportunity is out there and
in in race doesn't matter i won right
when obama was um after he was elected
you know there's all this talk of like a
post-racial America
so there was you know there's not and
even and I should say even I'm not sure
if you've read it but even as recently
as you know last week or two weeks ago
there was an article and how doesn't
Boston outlet beside MLK scream of
racism it'll of race is largely you know
then achieved which is like what so I
think that you know we we have it a bit
it's a different place it's essentially
the same story but I think we grew up in
a different place than Gen X and
definitely the baby boomer so that makes
it even that makes our experience is
unique I don't want to say better or
worse but unique I mean I just want to
tease that out a little bit more like
what what is it is it more is it more
complicated in some ways in that it's
not as you know that I you know if
you're fighting for the right to vote
you're fighting for the right to not be
discriminated when you go into a
restaurant if you're fighting for the
right to not be discriminated when
housing you know it's a fairly binary
straightforward thing but if you're you
know if you ostensibly have those rights
but the the options are are limited and
in the context of a generation like the
Millennials where they don't have the
same opportunities that we did in Gen X
and those people who are who have the
least political power broadly speaking
who are subject to racism are going to
be even more impacted by the the
dynamics that are impacting the
Millennials broadly speaking is that in
some ways I mean I don't I don't know
you know it's not a competition but it's
and I can tell that it's you know
obviously it's unique but I'm curious as
to that dynamic that is sort of the the
problems are more subtle in some
respects than you know somebody turning
a fire hose on you okay yeah that and
that's like I find the frustration
of this generation now there are lots of
things that aren't so subtle right like
you know um we are seeing black and
brown men gunned down on cellphones
right that that is that is it that is
not subtle we we see the language that's
used even around well you know sometimes
the language can be there dog whistles
right sometimes that can be subtle and
not-so-subtle um but I absolutely think
that and from the Millennials that I
spoke with said that that was the most
frustrating part about this generation
about feeling less than but having to
prove that you experience some kind of
racism in a way that you know people
want you to say well there's someone
call you the n-word because that's you
know that that fact to people proves
that racism still exists but what I
think is harder for people is for
someone to say oh here's this mediocre
woman who just got promoted over me and
I think it's raised but I can't quite
tell I'm not sure or I don't or
something saying you know a friend of
mine has this e student you know has a
great job her dad is you know a VP of a
company um you know that's why you know
she she had this network but you know I
didn't have that and in people seeing
that as you know a problem of race and
things like affirmative action not being
advocated for as much someone you know
being asked for the ID at a polling
place is it race isn't not like you know
I feel like a lot of young videos are
kind of playing this game and don't
always know how to deal with that but
still ultimately feeling that they are
less than that their lives actually are
you know worth less that they aren't
being as equal and that's a phosphate in
place to be in to what extent in your
experience are our black Millennials
sensitive to race I mean excuse me to to
to class oh yeah because I mean it's
it's interesting dynamic and I think
we're gonna see it you know play out
you know more and more in these
elections because the the the
african-american vote was the older vote
seemed to go at least in within the
context of like the Democratic primary
anyways seem to go with with Clinton
younger votes seem to go with Sanders
we're gonna get another opportunity I
think in some respects during this
primary to see how that shakes out I'm
curious what was there what where does
class figure in with black Millennials
that's a great question
um I think class is absolutely a it's
it's huge I have two chapters one
specifically focus on black
professionals and one focused on
working-class Millennials um and it
plays a huge role in their lives I
actually found that much like I Ellis
coasted a study on black middle-class
folks and in the 90s and he said that
black it was a rage of a privileged
class and I found the most actually
frustration I think with middle class or
upper income black Millennials and I
think it's because and this is kind of
the same conclusion that Coast came to
earlier on that they have more of a
proximity to like people they are in
corporate spaces more they feel like
they're tested by the system
quote-unquote even more so and they were
frustrated you know by all means every
single person I spoke with in this for
this chapter in this group had made it
they were professional but they felt
like they were always questioned and
they felt like twice as hard with a very
very real thing for them that they
experienced every single day and it was
a real I would say even burden on their
lives and it also impacted their lives
in other ways that were interesting to
me like
I started a lot of reporting for this
book during the height of the black
lives matter movement and they felt that
as black professionals they sometimes
couldn't even protest or speak out in
the ways of some of their counterparts
could so that impacted the way in their
decision on how to be vocal um so that
was also interesting and they a lot of
them thought of The Clash survive
because they thought that they had more
on the line but so that was that was
really interesting and yes I good know
I'm curious I mean if I if I understand
what you're saying that there was the
that the the the wealthier and I guess
in terms of you know compensation or in
terms of making money the more
successful folks you spoke to they more
acutely felt their the impact of their
race is that what you're saying I think
they felt that in I think they felt it
in in the context of the workplace more
because often these are folks who were
the only one or one of a few they felt
directly that they had a kind of deal
with this microaggressions every day and
I think more than any other group they
struggled with kind of as you mentioned
earlier is what is this subtle racial
innuendo how do I deal with that and
what are the consequences and
repercussions for that that's
interesting and why and why why is that
just simply because they're in a their
the world in which they work in is just
more white and yeah and they're being
judged constantly by white people
absolutely absolutely I mean it's you
know it kind of goes across the industry
right largely
white folks are the ones in power
whatever you're you're generally talking
about but particularly in in these
corporate spaces
in these professional environment they
didn't feel like you know even even the
ones with good positions but you know a
lot of power still didn't feel like they
had autonomy they still didn't feel like
they had the freedom so to speak as
there won't white counterparts to just
kind of be
