despite the fact that the Democrats
control only one of three elements of
the legislative process in Washington
there is there is a renewed sense of
possibility it seems to me not just in
the well in really the - I think biggest
areas frankly I mean if we look at it
from a dollar a perspective right
the two biggest areas that government
impacts people people's lives every day
and that of course is social security
and in terms of health insurance and or
you know the ability to access health
and so let's start with will save the
social security for the for the the
second half but there are we you know
we've just launched basically 2020
presidential campaign and health care
and drug prices essentially it seems to
me are prepared to dominate the
Democratic primary and at the very least
seem to be sort of a it to the extent
that there's a litmus test to test this
year it seems like that's it welcome to
the program Alex I agree with you I
think and I don't think that litmus
tests are bad you know I think that
they're a double hit missed test is dumb
but you know a litmus test that says do
you support this thing that the vast
majority of the American people support
or are you on the side of private equity
Wall Street pharma grows in robbing us
all the time now it's a good litmus test
to have for politicians to be on the
side of the people and we're seeing
actually some really exciting
developments on the front of lowering
drug prices now let me just tell you a
little bit you go anywhere in this
country
and I had the privilege to do so
sometimes to talk with rooms full of
people about why we need to expand
Social Security benefits to increase
benefits and I'll tell you every time
people come up afterwards and what they
talk about is their prescription drug
prices you know what's the benefit or
what good is it going to do me if my
benefits go up by $60 a month but my
drug prices go up by $300 a month or you
know I can't explain why this drug go is
paying $7 for forever all of a sudden
now I'm paying $80 for and it's not a
democratic issue it's it's Republican
Democrat independent everywhere in this
country people are just at the end of
their ability to get robbed by Pharma
and we're at that point where
something's got to happen I can I am
just incredibly positive that something
is going to happen and the only debate
now is whether Pharma can bribe and own
enough politicians that is something as
small ball window-dressing stuff that
you know that and then they'll be like
we did drug prices but no one's going to
feel it or if it's actually the big
transformational policies that we are
seeing Sanders Khanna came out with a
bill that was massive
senator Warren came out with a bill with
with represent of Schakowsky also
transformative representative Doggett
and Senator Brown came out with a
Medicare negotiation bill that under the
hood is also transformative so I mean
there are big ideas that are getting
pushed right now and you know I'm happy
to be a part of it
well all right let's you know I'm struck
by two things one of course is that in
those bills each of those bills you
mentioned you know Elizabeth Warren I
guess is the only Kember of the Senate
in what you just mentioned
has announced her candidacy but you know
I think there's a very good chance we're
gonna see sherrod Brown and we're gonna
see Bernie Sanders running for president
so it it strikes me as no coincidence
maybe that these folks are leading with
that and so let's go through those three
bills that you mentioned because it's
important to get people familiar with
them and if you know Warren's already in
the race if Sanders and sherrod Brown
get into the race presumably right
that's going to put pressure on people
in the race already to come out with
either their version of a of a bill to
deal with prescription drugs or to sign
on to to one of those plans so so let's
let's walk through it let's start with
Elizabeth Warren and representative
gentian cows keys bill this is this is a
a pretty it seems to me a pretty radical
idea to some extent yes and the usage of
the word radical it does get to the root
of the problem it is a very elegant and
actually I'm a total nerd and along so
it's a beautiful piece of policy what it
is is it's a public manufacturing bill
so this bill actually takes aim at a
market failure that happens on the
generic size of the market we'll talk
more about the branded side but there's
someone and most of the generic
marketplace actually does work pretty
well and you have actual companies who
are you know producing medicines at very
reasonable prices but there are
instances where in the generic market
there's no competitor so there's just
one generic company and they act exactly
like the branded companies right they
charge ludicrous prices and one of the
ones that I think is easiest to talk
about and to see just how
the system is is the EpiPen everyone is
familiar with that one
EpiPen was manufactured by my land it's
a generic product and it was priced so
high that people couldn't afford it and
you're talking about you're talking
about kids who you know have a poorly
labeled cookie that has peanuts in and
they could die and Milan is selling this
for hundreds of dollars and it became a
huge you know thing everyone's like this
is outrageous we need to lower the
prices so in comes this other company
Kiva and they're like don't worry we're
gonna bring in our version of the EpiPen
we're gonna ride in and save the day you
know how much they charge for theirs the
exact same price as EpiPen the exact
same they didn't even lower it one
dollar right I mean that is absolutely
ridiculous and that is what too many
companies actually do they they collude
together to rip people off so the
warrant Schakowsky bill says that there
are instances of market failure and in
those instances the government can be a
manufacturer of last resort and that
could be the government actually
produces drugs themselves it's actually
not rocket science and we won't have
done rocket science in the past or they
can just contract with the manufacturer
to make sure that a drug is produced and
available to the public at a reasonable
price now Alex III said this is a
radical idea and like most radical ideas
that we talk about in this country it's
already happening you know as well as I
do that the VA in fact steps in in these
very instances where you have some type
of market failure in terms of generic
drugs and actually manufacturers these
generic drugs for folks who are you know
our patients of the VA now of course
that's only available to two vets in
this country and essentially we'd have
this program and it would expand it into
the civilian population and it's my
understanding is it's very effective in
the context of the VA no reason why it
wouldn't be in the civilian population
all right well listen we're gonna take a
quick break I want to come back and when
we come back I want to talk about the
idea that Center sherrod Brown has
suggested and also the legislation
proposed by senator Sanders and
representative roe Kahana regarding
prescription drugs as well and then
touch on some very encouraging news in
terms of folks who like a social safety
net or I should say social insurance
that will keep them from being worried
about living in poverty when they get
older we're gonna take a quick break
I'll be right back with Alex Lawson
after this
