let's play this footage so in Oakland
the school board has voted to close down
several schools and this is obviously a
vocht a huge community response um it's
a sit and put a quote now from IDI
source the board recently approved a
citywide plan which found the district
could close or consolidate up to 24 of
its more than 80 schools that still
serve up to 37,000 students the plan is
to redirect funds to remaining schools
to improve their quality now of course
there's no structural answers to this in
terms of property taxes and education
the broader issues that we need to do
the tackle I was of a mixed feeling I
mean I think in a city like Oakland
there probably is some genuine like
structural things that limit the city's
resources right uh so I don't know like
some of the rage at this should be
directed statewide and federally for
sure and always at Silicon Valley which
hovers over this whole area just sucking
resources out of the whole bay and
destroying its history and legacy but
these are some of the protests have been
taking place and the police are
literally I mean the ruthlessness that
they're responding to even teachers is
disgusting and should be highlighted I
mean you remember Oakland during occupy
were really brutal they have a PI mean
if you look at I think if you Oakland is
an example of a very I mean like
everywhere else but an extremely
racialized police force that gets
deployed on protesters so the power
military approach that they take to
policing that city in a very race
specific way gets mobilized when there's
a protest and I think that overlaps also
with the fact that Oakland has such a
powerful political history to
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
oh Jesus Christ
so got a couple more here around the way
[Applause]
you see my shop like on steroids or
something yeah
first guys gonna step in a fish trap we
got a closer angle of that to here sky
he does look right it up angry that's
what happens when you eat the meat diet
guys Jordan Peters yeah he's ready to
use that baton already it's like yeah
he's it's like he just entered a
football game or something yeah you can
see like that's what everyone's reacting
to here just ran right up and shoved her
I think I mean if you google Oakland
Police Department the recent history
there is extremely corrupt like the
point of like I don't want to decide off
to up a ham but people can look it up I
mean not for nothing I think we all know
this that the US government has a long
history of using law enforcement to put
down labor struggles to put down labor
struggles and to put on anarchists and
communists and to put down anyone who's
fighting for the rights in an extremely
racialized way as well so like I have to
laugh when people like Elizabeth Warren
say that you know for all of our history
up until very recently capitalism works
great for everyone because it very
clearly didn't
