[Music]
ah stephen moore is having some problems
folks aside from being a deadbeat dad
and Steve Moore and asides from being a
deadbeat dad and also not being able to
keep not seemingly
knowing much about the implications of
all the policies he's pushed he had no
idea that I could get this ugly look I
have more I was just about it's good
qualifications I think as anyone to be
in the Federal Reserve Board but they
don't want to talk about my economic
ideas they want to assassinate my
character and as you said Laura that's
what the left does consider the source
Steve Moore at it we I'm not backing
down on this one I wouldn't if I were
you
we'll be right back yeah I've got just
about a good of qualifications as
anybody turns out is he not an economist
now is that right is that is that what
Iran is he's not did he get disbarred by
I don't know I'm not clear that he he
was sort of like an autodidact
it's very strange talking to friends of
mine who care about like the
independence of the fed and how I know I
often have always sort of been cynical
about that but then this trump happens
it's like we're gonna put these quacks
well let's be fair to Stephen Maul in a
room full of and smear artists
when I was initially sentenced to Robben
Island it was because god dam when he
wanted more child support and I refused
I was going my own way it really does
bring a lot of people together though
saying that the more will be a disaster
when you have like straight reporters
basically going on going oh I've had
multiple conversations with him on TV
where you got like five factual things
wrong in a 60 second hit you know you
have a problem let's go to the phones
calling from an 8
