this is speaking of no speaking of the
right-wing creating conspiracies and the
that this comes not only in this
relationship between the producers and
the audience and these like sort of
smaller producers and Fox here you have
a politician promoting this garbage and
then also being allowed to present it on
non bat-crap crazy station simply bought
because of their status right like oh
he's a senator so we're gonna let him
say whatever he wants we saw this on
MSNBC to Chuck Todd had this guy on he
said the same bullcrap and was not
essentially laughed off the the this is
this is the functional equivalent was
that guy's name Jeffery Lord like this
is you know this is you know if Jeffery
Lord said this you you would see some
pushback there is zero evidence for what
we're about to hear Cory Gardner say I
mean this guy's already trying to I
don't know protect his reelect or I
don't know when is this guy up for did
he just win election Cory Gardner he did
not it sounds like a guy who's afraid of
a primary challenge that's what it
sounds like her note the Pape is here is
Cory Gardner senator from Colorado
correct on CNN's State of the Union
because you know a vote that's cast in
in Yuma it shouldn't be disqualified
under the same provision that qualifies
a vote in Maricopa a legally cast vote
wherever it is legally cast should count
the same not with differing standards
amongst the offices I know but your
organization accused an election
official of cooking the books
and I don't see any evidence of any
illegality there are questions about
their if you want to get technical here
about what emergency voting is in
Maricopa County the law is very vague
Maricopa County setup for emergency
voting stations before Election Day two
of them by the way in Republican areas
Mesa and Scottsdale and different
counties interpret that vague law
different ways that's not cooking the
books and I just I keep hearing you know
the organization UTair accuse people of
breaking the law and I don't see
evidence of it yeah if you're a voter in
Arizona and you're you cast a vote in
Yuma and you cast a vote in Phoenix
legally you did it the same and your
vote in Yuma is disqualified your vote
in Maricopa is not disqualified is that
fair I heard to this I'd prefer to the
governor and the Secretary of State of
Arizona
they're both Republicans and they say
everything is going according to how it
should be going now if you have issues
with county by county election processes
whether it's in Florida or Arizona then
you know I don't want to stand in the
way of you introducing legislation
saying every state has to do it the
exact same way but if the Republican
governor that's not talking about
federalizing elections I'm talking about
the state of Arizona oh I bet your
nomination I think federalizing the
elections would be a bad idea I think
making sure that as if you're in Arizona
the deposit let's be clear on what's
going on here and this is the same thing
that they argued in Florida in 2002
which was you can't recount these
ballots that got screwed up in this in
West Palm Beach because what about the
guys in the Panhandle how come they
don't get a recount
this is sheer BS and good for Jake
Tapper of calling him out sheer BS and
we're gonna keep playing it but but the
idea of of not of of avoiding the
solution to this if you really think
it's a problem remember the elections
controlled by Republicans in Florida and
in Arizona and if you really think it's
a problem why not federalize it you just
made a good case if
true with someone in Zuma and Maricopa
why shouldn't it be true with someone in
Maricopa and Albany or in I don't know
Chattanooga continue and I think
federalizing the elections would be a
bad idea I think making sure that as if
you're in Arizona that the vote you cast
legally counts I think that's what we're
trying to do that's what was reached
that's the agreement that was reached in
Arizona and I think that's a good
outcome but where's the evidence that
anybody was cooking the books well we
had evidence that people were treating
ballots differently and again this is
about the integrity of when you go and
cast a ballot you don't expect to yours
to be disqualified under a provision
that would allow a ballot to be counted
somewhere else that's exactly what we're
trying to do
whose ballots were being disqualified my
understanding of the situation is that
what happened was in Maricopa County
they had for emergency voting stations
set up in the county by the way it's a
County that Joe Arpaio won I mean it's a
it's a mixed county and Republicans and
Democrats both can win in that County
and that's what happened it's not like
people in Yuma County were not allowed
to vote it's just that that this
elections official set up for emergency
voting stations throughout the county
including in Scottsdale and Mesa which
are republican-leaning
well I think I've answered the question
we just want to make sure that every
vote counts and that every vote the
legally cast is counted what cooking the
books exactly
that's exactly what I'm saying cooking
the books is another way of saying count
all the ballots make sure everybody's
vote is for make sure everybody's votes
fairly counted in a sense that's fraud
against people who lose elections if all
votes are counted so if you think about
it it's basically doubly unfair whoa
whoa whoa federalize election making
right I mean Cory Gardner is making a
great argument as to why we need to
federalize elections and I'll tell you
why he doesn't want to do that you just
want to do that for the same reason why
the Republicans were adamant about
destroying the Voting Rights Act because
once you actually federalize elections
once you say that we're going to
maintain a certain bottom of standards
as to what
what practical ways that people can vote
what are the laws so that they're not
confusing you do not you do not you
basically disallow all of the
suppression tactics that Republicans use
in states by states by states and so of
course they don't want to federalize
this because if they federalize it I
mean can anybody come up with any reason
from a practical standpoint even from a
theoretical standpoint if you believe
that somebody in Zuma or Yuma or
wherever in Arizona or in any given
state has the same right to vote as
somebody else within that state why
wouldn't you say that from state to
state competition would start kicking in
competition would start yeah because
then there would be an incentive to
produce the best voting systems possible
and then the states would compete
against each other and then we would
have the most efficient system and
people have you locked it down with the
federal bureaucracy then innovation
would be stifled boom
suck it right Wow and also I mean
friggin used to be a libertarian pundit
yeah but it's so easy to get
efficiencies from scale right like you
have to recreate this I don't know
things just get big and stuff and that
just concerns me see you in reason oh my
god Michael where'd you get that new
those new leather shoes exactly where
did you get those Italian loafers did
you get that Armani suit all right well
those even shipped to these days
