one of the things that has gotten the
Republicans very concerned is that
Democrats are running on providing some
type of material benefit to voters that
being Medicare for all now they are
desperate to try and figure out a way to
make Medicare for all seem like a bad
thing and it's very difficult it's very
difficult for them because one quarter
of Americans give or take maybe a little
bit more are already on Medicare and
they like it they like it a lot and the
idea of in Bernie's Medicare for all
planned for instance you know others it
varies a little bit paying nothing for
health insurance and at the very least
not having to deal with all the forms
and haggle every time you go to the
doctor and have it being basically like
an accounting course is highly
preferable to the system that we have
now and so they're trying to figure out
how they can sell that Medicare for all
is bad and the only way they can do it
is to say that Medicare for all is in
fact not Medicare for all
as it in Trump has been committed to
making health care more affordable and
bring more choice more transparent keep
the patient in the driver's seat people
who are who are promising Medicare for
all that's one of the big ideas now
people keep talking about Medicare for
all is Medicare for none at you know
these are the same people who brought
you Obamacare but this time they're not
even making the promise that you can
keep your health plan ha didn't keep
Medicare first of all Obamacare is at
its height of popularity and which is
not to say that I think a broad base of
people don't realize that it needs to be
improved but understand
Medicare what what what Obamacare is
there are less than 10% of the public
who buys insurance through the Obamacare
exchange far less than 10% of the public
the number of people who are getting
health insurance through expanded
Medicaid is probably around the same in
terms of sheer numbers of people the
only thing that impacts people broadly
from Obamacare are the patient
protections remember it was the ACA PPI
bill the patient protections like you
can't be denied because of pre-existing
conditions you can't be subject to
rescission you get a certain number of
basic amenities to qualify insurance as
actually being insurance you're allowed
to stay on your parents plan until
you're age 26 these patient protections
are under threat by a Republican lawsuit
20 states have joined the state of Texas
from 19 states have joined the state of
Texas and Trump's own DOJ is not
defending this case so it's a little bit
difficult to win they will have those
all taken away from you so Obamacare is
at its height of popularity yet
Democrats know that it's not enough and
are going out and offering Medicare for
all so who brought it to you is a
irrelevant but it's being brought by a
slightly different group of people some
of whom have signed on you know others
but continue your doctor because they
know that's not the case the hundred and
seventy eight million of us who've got
employer insurance that would go away
under some of these proposals your
doctor you wouldn't get to keep your
doctor because your doctor would flee
these Medicare lower rates and we'd have
a two-tier system of health care deposit
I want you to contemplate this now 178
people move on to Medicare 178 million
plus
what is it 40 million that are on
Medicare now maybe 45 so the vast
majority of the country is on Medicare
these doctors are going to flee
providing service to the 90% of people
in this country who will be on Medicare
right ten percent maybe they'll be
eligible for Medicare they'll get
Medicare but they're also gonna get
private supplementary insurance maybe
ten percent right the super wealthy
maybe it's up five percent so I don't
know where like all these doctors are
gonna move to one neighborhood Chevy
Chase Maryland and they're all going to
certain like every one of these wealthy
people are going to have their own
personal doctor the doctor is only gonna
work for them bringing back house calls
exact okay you know you have to have
because they're just going to live in
the in the driveway and service each
individual person that is the only way
your doctor will not be available the
only possible way it doesn't make any
sense
like it's not possible what he's saying
to happen is not possible to happen
certainly there's gonna be supplemental
insurance certainly it's gonna be
private insurance that may pay doctors a
premium over their Medicare but they're
simply not going to be enough of those
customers for doctors to say I'm going
to leave the Medicare system that's the
whole point of Medicare for all that's
why it will control costs that's why it
will be cheaper for the country that's
why you have Medicare for all lower
rates and we'd have a two-tier system of
health care where they move into a cash
system outside of this Medicare so
America's seniors would lose their
doctors they could lose their hospitals
why wouldn't merican seniors who are
getting their doctors through Medicare
now lose their doctors under a system of
Medicare when three-quarters of the
country already is in a private system
why would they lose their doctors it
doesn't make any sense
is there anymore is that it that's it
he's grasped in there oh yeah the thing
people don't like about Obamacare is the
part where they still have to pay for
health insurance
exactly I mean that goes without saying
the Patient Protection part actually
delivered the mo it was the Affordable
Care part that didn't the most popular
medic health care program in the country
right now is probably Medicare and
Medicaid
I believe the VA is probably the most
popular and then I would say Medicare
and it's 75% of Americans approve of
Medicaid Medicaid expansion so they see
the writing on the wall so and they're
going to their base which is going to be
they're going back to senior citizens on
Medicare who are saying hey the Death
boards are this is this is this has been
you know relatively successful for them
in the past so I'm not surprised they're
doing and he talks about choice in
insurance plans like that's a good thing
like do you know anyone who enjoys
trying to choose from the many confusing
options absolutely I want to choose the
one that I don't have to pay anything
for that's right all right we'll turn on
Iams just for a second
