[Music]
Greta Sundberg toon Berg is that the
United Nations and it was nice she
crapped all over these people on some
level and I think they're more of this
is necessary this is like a nun Jude
artists at Davos but right better how
old is she 16
I think it's nuts I like how everybody
laughs at first and then she just like
drives drives a stake through their
hearts essentially my message is that
we'll be watching you oh so cute cute
little girl so cute this is all wrong I
shouldn't be up here I should be back in
school on the other side of the ocean
yet you all come to us young people for
hope how dare you you have stolen my
dreams in my childhood with your empty
words yet I'm one of the lucky ones
people are suffering
people are dying entire ecosystems are
collapsing we are in the beginning of a
mass extinction and all you can talk
about is money and fairytales of eternal
economic growth how dare you
[Applause]
for more than 30 years the science has
been crystal-clear how dare you continue
to look away and come here saying that
you're doing enough when the politics
and solutions needed are still nowhere
in sight you say you hear us and that
you understand the urgency but no matter
how sad and angry I am I do not want to
believe that because if you really
understood the situation and still kept
on failing to act then you would be evil
and that I refuse to believe she came
back here's another segment from that
same same talk with today's emissions
levels that remaining co2 budgets will
be entirely gone within less than eight
and a half years there will not be any
solutions or plans presented in line
with these figures here today because
these numbers are too uncomfortable and
you are still not mature enough to tell
it like it is you are failing us
but the young people are starting to
understand your betrayal the ice of all
future generations are upon you and if
you choose to fail us I say we will
never forgive you I don't know how you
can go in front of those people and do
better than that in terms of inspiring
them I don't know what it will take to
get societies to respond to this type of
thing I really don't know but at the
very least history's gonna look back and
say like just about every possible means
in which to communicate this to the
world
was employed it's a question of whether
politicians and people just broadly
speaking answered the call of course on
one hand where you have this sixteen
year old young woman Greta tunberg who
is addressing the United Nations in the
world in a way that you would imagine
would would inspire people and scare
people and shame them there's also a
whole cohort of people in the world who
not only can't get motivated to do
something about it
actively profit on the idea that it's
all a hoax
I don't know how dark your soul has to
be to be one of the four people sitting
on this couch this morning it's Fox and
Friends every day we laugh at Steve
Doocy and Brian Kilmeade about how
stupid they are and then sort of get
amazed at how stupid at what Ainsley
Earhardt is this guy Marc Morano who's
the executive editor of climate depot
calm which of course is literally set up
and financed to deny reality now maybe
the guy is really really stupid or maybe
he's just incredibly Craven but he's so
stupid that it reaches a level of Craven
as' here he is talking about how
dangerous
Greta toom Berg is because of what she's
doing to the children did those
interviews what is it about her that has
interested so many young people well she
sells
fear dread effenberg started in Sweden
every Friday outside the Swedish
parliament and it spread to skip school
in order to have a future in other words
she's actually said - and she's
addressed the EU the United States
Congress testified that why should kids
go to school if they have a future that
will be no more unless government passes
laws like the green new deal more UN
treaties etc so this message is working
in Sweden it worked in Sweden it's
working in Europe and now it's come to
the US the message of fear sells there's
reports now in Europe where kids are
getting anti-anxiety medication they
believe they're gonna die she is the
Greta effect she's causing and
instilling fear in millions of kids
around the world
it actually has them believing that
government can legislate our climate in
other words if we pass the green New
Deal in America these kids can all go
back to school mark a lot you know like
when I watch a clip like this I I'm I I
spend the entire time not just during
the clip but after the clip and
anticipation of playing the clip on the
show thinking should I really like
address this on like an argumentative
terms like should I try and refute the
idea that kids all around the world are
taking anti-anxiety medication because
of Greta Thornburg I should I should I
try and just pick apart this guy from
climate Depot his argument that she is
just like trying to exploit fear I guess
presumably so she doesn't have to go to
school like this tremendous amount of
effort to play hooky but she's engaged
in or is it more interesting and
valuable just to go like what how just
empty and decrepit do you have to be
inside of you like I feel like if we
were to cut that guy open it would just
be like dust inside do you want some
biographical information I was gonna say
so he previously was the environmental
communications director for a guess
which Senator James Inhofe nailed it
and climate Depot calm is a website for
the comitia for a constructive tomorrow
which is taking Exxon and Scafe II money
they better than that top donors or
donors trust from dark money of with
over eight million dollars in donations
Charles J Koch foundation donors capital
fund and a bunch of Charles Koch
Institute so we're all the buyers so
many things that you could do for money
if you had absolutely no scruples or
morals whatsoever and this one still
seems like it would be like at the
bottom of that list like everything else
like everything else on that list can I
be in charge of putting the lead in the
candy cuz that feels a little bit at
least not I don't have to show my face
yeah if it pays well to go out there and
sell this stuff on television does he
have is he like a see like an orphan did
he grow up with knowing no human beings
was he raised in the woods and he
doesn't have any contact with any human
beings and therefore he doesn't feel any
shame whatsoever that's the thing like I
could I don't even know what to argue
with this guy the idea that that that
she's selling fear who's what woo what
it was how is she profiting off of this
what did she selling it's stunning it
really is stunning my friend Marco so
worked for uh Rush Limbaugh in the 90s I
mean it all makes it much more clear I'm
very proud Wow
he has been going in about Greta thun
thun Berg's
autism apparently called her an autistic
prophet so that's the kind of scumbag
we're doing with you there you go he's
raising the bar Wow yeah and at George
Mason University graduate we should
point out Oh does he gone on tour with
uh dave rubin didn't didn't didn't
Reuben get some funding from George
Mason's like Liberty project or
something like that
that's all Koch money alright
lastly credit in Berg was in front
