[Music]
but let's move from the full fallacious
economic arguments and data arguments
about the minimum wage to the moral ones
let us find the most moral amongst us to
tell us why people don't need a minimum
wage who do we have that is the most
moral amongst us yet also has the
ability to sound like the oldest junior
high student in the country why of
course it's Matt Walsh on The Daily wire
I I do support a minimum wage but the
minimum wage that I support is zero
I think zero is the baseline zero should
be the minimum wage I definitely don't
think the minimum wage it shouldn't go
below that okay so there shouldn't be a
negative
pause nobody should breaking news where
is my breaking news thing
[Music]
daily wire podcast host denounces
slavery there you go that's pretty big
good be charged money to work so I'll
say that but zero is the cutoff zero is
the baseline should be the baseline wage
for work because that's the baseline
amount of effort you can put in it's
possible for someone to do zero work
which means that they have earned zero
dollars do some work it I would offer
this this that we're watching assuming
he's paid is disproving his very Theory
there because I feel like we're watching
someone who's put in zero effort or
minimal effort but getting paid far more
for it I mean I feel like he should be
paying us to watch him on some level
we're getting paid to watch it so it's
actually happening dollars I think that
makes a lot of sense but when you skip
from zero and you go all the way up to
say $8 an hour minimum wage $10 now or
$15 an hour 20 to 25 I mean there's
there's no limit to it once you do that
it doesn't really make any sense because
what you're what you're suggesting is
it's basically impossible for someone to
do less than that amount of work in an
hour you're saying that if the minimum
wage is $15 now you're saying that it's
impossible that anyone in America could
do work for an hour and the work they
perform could be worth less than $15
you're saying that's impossible
posit the guy just found out what the
minimum wage means but he doesn't
understand it's the minimum wage so it
means the least amount of money that you
can get for working for an hour for
having your labor reserved for that hour
right exactly
because you can still fire people I mean
I wonder what I mean
Matt Walsh thinks about wage theft this
is the opposite of the dynamic he's
talking about let's
to this because this is fascinating it
really is like I feel like I understand
my my teenage daughter a little bit
better when I watched this guy work
through you have to warn her against
guys like this and owed I'd believe me
she knows she knows that I'm just
watching like them like work through
sort of concepts that they don't seem to
be terribly familiar with that's
interesting to me all the work that's
being done across the country in any
given hour all of it is worth at least
fifteen dollars now I just I don't think
that's true I'll give one example we
could all point out examples but just
one example I went to McDonald's the
other day as I have the unfortunate
habit of doing on occasion and
McDonald's now most of McDonald's I go
and now have those automated things
where you can order the touchscreen
things but I usually avoid those because
they're touchscreen and so you can see
the finger smudges on them and it's I
don't want to touch that thing I mean
how often are those things washed it
looks like they're never washed I don't
want to posit Hannah I think I wonder
how much it would be worth it to him to
have that washed mmm question okay
avoid those because they're touchscreen
and so you can see the finger smudges on
them and it's I don't want to touch that
thing I mean how often are those things
washed it looks like they're never
washed I don't want to put my hand I'll
think of a hundred other people have
touched
yeah we're getting about to eat it's
gross when I can see their gross greasy
disgusting hand marks on it so then I
went to the to the cashier and so here's
how that interaction work that that
interaction went verbatim and as I said
we've all had interactions like this so
I walk up the cashier he goes
did I help you yes I'll have the large
number one please thank you Big Mac that
it yes that's 657 actually sorry can you
can you change that to a medium okay
posit I want to remind you he's being
paid for this this is being paid money
for this isn't this a good but here's
thing now now let's just stop here
because this this would also blow his
mind that that meal number one for 657
that means that that meal according to
Matt Walsh you can't find that meal at a
different price anywhere else in the
country right because prices are fixed
there has to be let there has to be more
or less value on that it's just this
concept that he's saying that his
service is not worth $15 an hour or is
not worth the person who gave him
service the one who treated him nicely
it's at McDonald's I mean give me a
break the idea that this guy could make
$1 more than zero or any more than like
half the people that we watch this stuff
even stuff that we disagree with this is
bad they're just from an entertainment
perspective it's bad it's bad it's I
know I'm making money mocking it and
it's still painful
that was my mind that he would think
that he doesn't come off like the worst
person in the world in this the the
point is is that he is proving maybe
maybe it's some type of art project but
he's proving that the value of labor is
completely subjective and sometimes you
get super lucky and sometimes you don't
get lucky and setting a minimum so that
people can eat and not be exploited is
the same theory behind why we say
children cannot work we have child labor
laws or why we have 40-hour work weeks
because we don't want people to be
exploited simply because as a human
being you need to eat and need to have a
place to sleep you need food and shelter
maybe you want to provide some other
amenities for your kids or your
family and so that's what we've decided
as a society the more they talk about
how people don't deserve a living wage
the more they insulate themselves they
will gain no new voters from this and
they will just remind people that the
Democratic Party is the one who is
ensuring that at the very least there is
a minimum wage that the idea that you
set aside an hour to work and go work
and create value beyond your wages for
other people and it's true we there will
be some job loss because of this in some
it has to be some but the revenue
generated will create other jobs
velocity of money exactly well look all
labor under capitalism is technically
exploitation that's not a value judgment
that's just our business would go out of
bias yes exactly that's how it functions
but you know there are certainly matters
of degree there's exploitation and then
there's the kind of hyper exploitation
that we see with these kinds of jobs
that don't pay enough for people to keep
on living or reproduce themselves as a
class you know and that that's one of
the contradictions that we talked about
this week with um with tea Thea Cinzia
the the tendency of capitalism to on the
one hand in order to keep functioning it
needs human beings right it needs
workers to continue being alive so they
can work and on the other hand its
tendency to try to squeeze the
conditions for social reproduction so so
much that people cannot reproduce
themselves or stay alive anymore right
limit their bargaining power much less
serious point but there's I'm I'm not
the biggest Jerry Seinfeld fan in the
world but he is an actual comedian who
did actual structure to his jokes and
all of these idiots have grown up
watching it and they think that somehow
like just complaining about the smudges
or the fingerprints on the computer on
the terminal that you use the fast a
like bit
and kvetching about that is sufficient
for a bit without any structure around
it and also undercuts it also undercuts
his entire point which shows that you
need human beings I would argue I
actually worked at McDonald's in high
school I'd argue that that worker has
probably put in as much effort relative
to the amount that he's compensated for
the cost of that number one meal that he
got there he's probably doing his part
um
I mean honestly really interest I I
would be it would be fascinating to find
out like you sir what the rate of pay
that Matt Walsh is getting for this
relative to the quality to a little
interesting to see if this reaction to
him was different than anybody else he
interacts with him exactly yes what else
wonder why is all the clerk's I go to
all seem to be really annoyed
why does my mommy me know and that's how
what now let me ask you somebody like
that someone who that's all they do that
is the amount they can't even be
troubled to enunciate their words that
they can barely even put in the effort
to speak they are these are Marilyn's
sentient there there you go you're
almost watching them melt in front of
you into this just lump of matter like
they they're barely even there deserves
just how dis how utterly disinterested
they are and it not only disinterested
I'll just skip a little bit ahead cuz he
does this for another minute we get home
it's just like how much can I argue that
this person is not worthy of $15 an hour
they can do this is what they're getting
paid to do you might as well they don't
want to put any effort in so with
someone like that are they worth are
they worth fifth automatically worth is
doing that
sighing rolling your eyes is that
automatically worth $15 an hour you know
you know what I noticed this guy
couldn't even be bothered to put his
frickin his microphone on his shirt
properly look at the way it's pinched
there's a proper way to put on your
lavel ear mic instead of thrown away
let's discuss why does he have a love
mic end of that mic in front of him I
have one is that's a good
questions sometimes you do that they get
both I don't know that's stupid though
I'd also ask Matt who determines whether
work has been done or not because if I
wasn't sauce I'd be like you're gonna go
back and rerecord that but it look
you're going to you're gonna put on a
show how about doing some with your
backdrop that doesn't look like you're
just sitting in the band you know you're
sloppy ass corner I mean those what kind
of what kind of braces does he have on
that shelfing but it's embarrassing
those are outdoor braces god it's
disgusting I would like to personally
shake the hand of whichever fast-food
worker was rude to Matt Walsh because
you're doing the Lord's work that's
unbelievable
can I make a recommendation as well this
week on the trill Billy workers party
podcast which is super super excellent
they had Emily gondolas burger on who
wrote a book called on the clock
what low-wage work did to me and how it
drives America insane I heard about that
I think if she's in our list to uh last
assault
I mean nickeled and dimed yeah it
definitely is in that lineage really
brutal book really important I mean
that's it that's the I guess the clear
point about this is the amount of wage
theft that these sensor companies do
have on their boys by making new extra
work and not fully compensating them and
the way that people treat you like
you're less than human like my gosh like
you're their sleeve like you're just
gonna melt away and like yeah like like
the psychological toll that that takes
on people I think is very apparent from
watching that clip just now and I can
tell you this too the the there's such a
tremendous amount of emotional myopia
involved in that because I I spent I
don't know probably three years waiting
tables and there is no doubt that my
disposition in perspective on what I was
doing was much easier to deal with the
work itself was much easier to deal with
because I knew like this is not what I'm
going to be doing for the rest of my
I have like I have I am I've been given
you know sort of an elite education I
have access to I have access I have
access to just about every possible
resource and you know I'm not I'm not
you know it was in a Rockefeller but
certainly I have access resource and I
know people who are electricians and I
just I know a lot of different I have
access to a lot of different resources I
know people who are you know mortgage
brokers or whatever it is and and I knew
this was a way station for me but the
idea that you could say like well I
don't have an education there's not a
lot of jobs around I can either wait
tables here or I can go and I don't know
dig ditches or whatever it is the I'm
not saying that people should be so on
on every job that they should have but
at the very least their job should
provide them enough resources so that
they can live a decent life and you know
maybe explore other avenues but have the
resources to be able to do that to some
extent I'm able to take a day off where
I don't have to go for that time and a
half so that I can pay my rent if I want
if I'm super ambitious I can afford to
not pick up the extra weekend hours and
go investigate something else
I mean resources beget resources and to
not be aware of that
I think is both an intellectual and
emotional deficit particularly by
someone like
you know I don't know what Matt Walsh
his background is maybe he maybe he was
just working at a McDonald's and every
time he would come up you know he would
get someone to come up at the counter he
would be so effervescent that somebody
said hey you seem like a great guy I'm
gonna tell this other restaurant about
you and you're gonna work your way up
through the restaurants and then he got
a job at like a you know more of like an
Outback Steakhouse type of situation and
he was there and he was serving somebody
and someone said hey we've got an
opening at The Daily Caller
he was bringing up would you ever been
would you like to do a podcast for us
and that's the way I got discovered by
just being outgoing at my restaurant job
give me a break
