I'm a 9:06 area code who's this where
you come from hello hello this is Nick
from Michigan Nick from Michigan what's
on your mind
well first off I just wanted to you know
I wanted to call in and thank you guys
for you know helping to expand my
knowledge of left-wing and socialist
politics I happen to be a socialist
myself and I actually ran for local
office this year during election I lost
but I got 23 percent of the vote in my
village so that's actually a pretty big
win considering it's a very red district
down good good for you now Jack
Bergman's district oh wow yeah yeah well
anyway
the other day i was listening to
Michaels show and he had on Professor
Richard wolf who was talking about al
qussair and you know the impact of
ideology on our on our capitalist system
and that got me that got me thinking so
I was wondering do you guys see the
right wing's focus on their defense of
cultural norms such as gender race
religion or their demands for political
civility as a natural reaction on the
part of our capitalist system to
maintain conditions for the replication
of its social institutions because the
left represents a change in or a
reinterpretation of American social
ideology and therefore a change in the
conditions under which these
institutions exist and is this another
contradiction within capitalism in that
in order to maintain these social
institutions it must maintain public
trust and control over the ideology yet
it undermines that trust in its pursuit
of profit and expose it exposes its own
ideological hypocrisy
for example private private prison
corporations profiting from the media's
fear-mongering by using it as an excuse
to build what are essentially
concentration camps well at the same
time you know that that sort of thing
contradicts the American social ideology
of being a nation of immigrants and
causes cognitive dissonance within our
population well yeah i mean i the the
quick answer is yeah i think so for the
most part you know look the i don't know
i I mean maybe at one level it is there
are you know yeah I mean maybe at the
top level when you get to talk about the
think tanks they fundamentally
understand that the emancipation of
people across across our society and in
making our society more egalitarian in
terms of you know putting aside
economics but just in terms of like
cultural values and the the merit
associated with with with skill sets and
predispositions of different people and
life experiences of different people
fundamentally undermines the existing
power structure it's not clear to me
that you couldn't still maintain
capitalism and you know with with that
with those older institutions falling
but there's certainly more of a threat
to it right because you're bringing your
you're bringing in a different set of
values and in you one would be correct
in in in being worried about it and it
may look right I don't know if it's a
coincidence that Medicare you know gets
passed around the same time in our
history as the Civil Rights Act I mean I
don't I've never you know
anybody who's who's like theorized that
but I but but one it's not hard to
imagine that as more people get invited
into you know the the power structure as
it as the power structure becomes more
diverse that other ideas and
expectations of what government should
do you know change although those
weren't I think right I think that
balances like I think it's like how
specifically do you define it as like
counterculture or not counterculture or
like I'm I'm of the of the school that
you take these these movements for
essentially civil rights across the
board and you like assert them inside
and are like counter hegemonic to them
versus trying to say you're like trying
to completely uproot and disregard them
so like you know if you look at things
like civil rights and even like Michael
Harrington writing about the other
America at that time that came out in
the early sixties right wasn't that part
of the impetus behind like the war on
poverty and things like that the
rhetoric and the politics of it was we
need this country and it's discourses
and it's hegemonic ideas about democracy
and about opportunity which we all know
are hypocritical and didn't live it in
any way up to its verbage but we
actually need it to we're gonna like
force it to and so those movements were
not like they were positing like an
enlargement and a redefinition not like
a sort of disregarding of those things
and I think that that's a good all men
are created equal things yeah okay so
really let's do that and I think that's
where you know right and that's where
like the Gramsci and ideas to me are a
little bit more interesting than Altis
there but if you make all men created
equal and regardless of what the
rhetoric has been if you actually do
that all people are created equal you
it's I hate to say it zero-sum and
someone is going to be losing power and
even if they're just losing it in a
cultural sense put aside for a moment
economics even if they're just loose
in a cultural sense once you sit in a
cultural see this is really values right
because the statement like all people
are created equal
could be used to support something very
conservative and meritocratic and say
well you know some people have more than
others because everyone's created equal
and some people work harder than other
people do right originally was I guess
popular democracy affects how we
interpret these things right and I guess
also I guess if I understand your
question correctly which I don't know if
I am which I'm I'm trying to speak to I
think those are good points trying it I
think
the point I'd have for you is I think
that there are some things that are and
by the way I think there are things of
capitalism facilitates that are
desirable in certain instances right
like for sure but I don't think that
some movements of social come
patreon.com slash TPMS desirable aspect
of capitalism I think though that like
there are definitely some like social
means of social progress that come along
with capitalism that are good things but
they don't pose any type of fundamental
threat to capitalism in any way shape or
form yeah I think that so I think that's
like no like like like marriage equality
do I support it is it absolutely
essential absolutely no question is that
something that's gonna threaten the
market system not at all well here's the
thing when you when you sever class
politics from what we now know is
quote-unquote identity politics you can
have a progressive identity politics
without having a progressive class
politics now everyone in this room knows
that you cannot actually help the
majority of women minorities etc without
redistributed programs economically but
I mean I think is the question about the
difference between the right and left
wing approaches to these issues because
the questions the question was as far as
I know was our conservatives right to be
afraid of social change as a threat to
capitalism and I think you know like let
me put this way
depends what kind yes but I also think
but I think it certainly also doesn't
care if you're gay like know it well
well and it certainly it's it seems to
be to be more of a defense of social
institutions which are themselves a part
of our capitalist system say for example
the war on Christmas sort of thing or
the the war on religion and I guess in a
broader sense if you want to include the
struggles of you know homosexual people
and and LGBTQ and all that I don't think
in today's phase of capitalism that's
true for the ruling class honestly I
look in valley Wall Street in a way to
capitalism doesn't care about those no
well I can probably have no use for
overt racism anymore and overt sexism as
long as they can still benefit from the
fact that we have a permanently
racialized underclass women get paid
less than men those things are still
enshrined so why would they care about
I'm not convinced that marriage equality
doesn't in some way erode some of the
the underpinnings of of capitalism how
insofar as it's going to have an impact
it's going to weaken the power of other
institutions that I think maintain
capitalism in our society anything it
opens up way more opportunities for
capitalism and markets well that may be
the case in terms of like you know short
term but I think in terms of like the
the idea of religion becoming weekend I
think is is you think religion probably
change yeah capitalism is totally
junking religion across the globe
capitalism in the hospital is so often
yeah but in late-stage capitalism right
now as it's common it's done a very good
job I mean the religious people I know
are capitalists though but me not into
it's not a driver
global capitalism it dissolve bonds I
mean I think you know the III think you
know Donald Trump got into office in the
context of this country because of
refill religious affiliations right I
mean that is the case I mean and I I I
mean I think that it's I I don't think
that there is that that capitalism helps
religion necessarily at all but I think
religion is definitely when you have a
structure in a system that has a a
specific hierarchy and can be called
upon to support it's called upon to
support it seems to me far more
effectively capitalism well then they
rival most powerful religious
institution in the world like if you
just have to pick one as an institution
not a religion what's the most powerful
probably the Catholic Church right
listen to what the Pope says about
capitalism and market policies and how
that is nothing to do with anything that
happens even in Catholic majority
countries it's totally disregarded yeah
but I don't know it's not what I'm I'm
not that that doesn't I mean I don't
know these people disregard the story of
Jesus and the money changers yeah
exactly
that doesn't that doesn't mean it's a
question of like a lot as capitalism use
what does capitalism you know use to
promulgate ourselves but I mean by that
same token I mean Liberation Theology
religion can be used for anything
far more successfully used by
capitalists not necessarily I mean we
would not have passion see in this
country if it weren't for white
Catholics that's true but in today's
world the Catholic Church even
conservative religious institutions are
opposed to and sometimes we would be
aligned with capitalist I'm aligned with
capitalists who want Saudi Arabia to
move out of gender apartheid
Catholicism isn't the most most powerful
institution of religion in this country
I think it miss cooperating globally I'm
just saying I don't I there are plenty
in today's moment there's a huge amount
of conflict where a religious
sensibility you could run up against
market logic and market logic is always
going to win and I that's not about
social progress right and whether or not
social it the social insofar as it can
be divorced from the economic is a kind
of progress that's going to undermine
the capitalist system I think it's a bit
like the tail wagging the dog like I'm
not a 100% materialist reductionist like
some Marxists out there I think it's
more of a dialectic than that there is
some give-and-take between the two but
it generally speaking it's stuff like
religion and the social sphere is the
second-order thing that follows based
upon who's got the material power in the
world you know right uh-uh yeah but
that's not necessarily I think really
positive of the idea that that the more
egalitarian our institutions become the
the more it weakens capitalism those are
not I mean that's that's the the point
I mean libertarians sure thought the
expansion of voting rights was going to
spell troubles for capitalism like this
is what we're talking about what does
right to capture the the political
sphere I think there's a difference it's
because of the spread of democracy yeah
yeah I think he's trying to fake to
reckon with the with why certain
formations of capitalism or neoliberal
capitalism like I don't know Obama
centrism can deal with equality for gay
people trans people women etc you know
nominal equality within the system and
why more
right-wing formations can't write a
candid full kingdom what Obama's exactly
can Obama's brand fully deal with it or
can it just appear to deal with those
and address those issues I I don't think
I don't think like Obama's capitalism
could do like persist under a world
where you leveled well we're trying to
make a distinction between I guess what
I'm saying is I think cuz I would put
things like voting rights in the
democracy category which to me
automatically implicates the things
you're talking about Matt but I would
say like as an example like I don't know
that like but people getting the right
to vote in the south and voting for a
completely different economic agenda has
a as a much more one-to-one relationship
than people getting marriage equality
right very what about but no but very I
don't think I think no I think they're
indicative of that I'm not saying
they're they're indicative of
emancipatory
getting a place within the existing
system exactly a seat at the table
you know implications of certain social
like what we there's variance and accept
on television could be as an example a
great form of social and cultural
progress does not have the same at all
implications for how we design an
economy as I mean in the South getting
notice in its it may be the case I mean
that's of a stretch to I think that when
we look back on if we're in a position
in 30 years or 40 years of a far more
socialist anxiety in America okay
because I don't know the I can't track
the emancipatory politics in other
countries but in America we will see
marriage equality as part of a decline
of existing institutions that supported
that were the pillars of capitalism in
this country and and I think this toric
Lee yes and and I think voting rights
are certainly that's exactly that's how
we started off by saying that Medicare
or isolators another care in the Civil
Rights Act
you know took place you know around the
same time because as you bring more
people into the system and give them
more power and more rights which is what
marriage equality is right it's a
radical queer activists who were opposed
to anyone doing activism around marriage
equality because that was just going to
bring this historically marginalized
class of people like some certain
representatives like the most well-to-do
among them into a system that supports
in 2004 it was a massive massive tool
for for the bush to get reelected and
that tool is gone and it was replaced in
some respects by not something terribly
different an open seat on the Supreme
Court and you know that brought trumpet
I mean so well the left and right wings
of neoliberalism weaponized identity in
different ways I agree and but I'm
saying that the I'm addressing the
question of does social change and
emancipatory politics putting aside for
a moment economics threaten capitalism
our conservatives right to feel it and I
think the answer is yes I mean I think
it always don't you think I mean just
the last you do it okay well you
shouldn't always be worried you're gonna
get hit by a bus if you run across the
street but in general yes it's a fear
you should have and like I think one
really important thing that needs to
happen is these struggles need to be
connected back to one another you know
class politics identity politics to the
to the you know root cause of the
inequalities in our system I appreciate
the call next Street
don't worry about buses like we do in
Flatbush like I think there's I think
there's actually you should worry about
pasta I think there's something to when
like reactionaries throughout time have
been like called people agitating for
like women's liberation or like black
civil rights to call them communists I
think they're I don't think they're
completely mistaken about that I think
they actually do send something very
deep about
attack on the welfare state was
completely racial I know the difference
between like just like and this is
something Adolph read writes about just
but again this is where it's like we
can't equate all of these things like in
the like last couple of decades there
being some very necessary and positive
and usually important like cultural
advances in terms of what's on some of
them I could even sip okay like marriage
equality set that aside maybe but like
at the same time that there has been
some major broadening of cultural
agreements around rights for certain
groups of people and even just like what
is civically acceptable which is course
been blown up by Trump there's still a
massive increase in inequality including
some very racialized inequality so even
by the time you get to Reagan like you
look at the literature schools are
getting right back into like resegregate
levels of pre-civil rights and on a
policy level it's actually moving in all
the wrong directions even as on a
cultural level there's a broader like
you know what we do need to have more
like black sitcom actors we do need to
and which by the way those things are
super important I'm not saying it helps
social reproduction absolutely it's not
an either/or but it's very important to
not falsely a great that just because
those trends are moving the right
direction that they're working on the
core economic levels that's the point
yeah I'm I the way I view it is like you
get those things out of the way because
they need to be dealt with and then it
frees you up to focus on more than a
certain focus I don't say you're strange
but I think they're I think it's a
little bit of a bank shot but to to go
through I I mean I agree with what man
is saying in terms of you do those
things because they're the right thing
to do I
they would not be the first we all are
oh you pull out of a quiver - you know
undermine capitalism in some way
although I think it's it's probably
somewhat essential I mean you're not
going to get I mean well I maybe that's
not true basically though socialistic
that we had do I think
is where I do agree with Jamie though
there is absolutely a politics that says
you do not have to deal with those core
issues as long as certain areas of
cultural replication and reproduction
are represented and produced as an
example a friend of mine who works in
AIDS and activism related to LGBT teens
he did say he said after we accomplished
marriage equality there was a massive
drop-off in terms of donor support and
interest and those issues specifically
of homelessness in that community right
that's what I'm pointing to I mean two
things the enemy of our enemy is not
necessarily a friend right just because
Republicans oppose marriage equality
doesn't mean that marriage equality is
going to be an economically progressive
force in the world and two there's
there's not a one-to-one comparison with
most of these things they are connected
but like it's not a straight line like
we can't just assume that social
progress is going to continue because
that's the way it happens I mean we saw
why Mar Germany was extremely socially
progressive people were able to be queer
in public and then you know you saw what
happened with the rise of Hitler not
that much long not that long later and
it's not exclusive to capitalist
formations either like unfortunately the
early Soviet Union was also very
socially progressive Alexandra : tie was
in charge of basically the entire social
sphere women and gay people had rights
in the early 1900s that they don't even
have in some places now and then
startled back with his regressive
version of communism so I guess what I'm
trying to say is they are connected but
not it's not given you know right
