[Music]
talk about the debates we had two
debates you might start with the first
of the first debates or the second of
the first debates or should we look
together look at the whole thing you
know that let's I mean I think you know
it's it's I mean we can do however you
want it yeah I mean let's look at the
whole thing but let's just start with
this before we get to sort of the horse
racing stuff which is sort of inevitable
when you have 20 some-odd people running
in this race and before we we talk about
you know marianne williamson or whatever
i don't know well from a policy
perspective right like just from the you
know like how much because people like
you and i are always looking for for the
policies to be discussed for there to be
a vigorous debate about the policies i
feel like there was too many people
involved to achieve like a an
opportunity for people to learn things
but my sense is is that I'm also super
excited because I feel like every single
almost every single person on the stage
would have been to the left of at least
the major candidates in 2008 there's no
doubt about it I mean there's just no
doubt about it I mean I had exactly the
same feeling you're right you can't
really get deep in to to policy and even
then you know debate you and I want to
see that but I'm not sure that the rest
of America wants you know deep you know
in-depth discussions of details of
policy beyond what you would find in a
normal town hall say you know I mean so
I don't I don't know if we're not going
to get the lincoln-douglas debates let's
just put it that way
but I do think that these things and are
generally they're sort of a they give
you a sense of where the party is where
even especially with this big group in
the beginning you're sort of looking at
it I mean I found that when I was
watching the Republican debates - and in
2016 that you know you get a sense of
where the party is what their what their
general sort of you know where the the
center of gravity is at any given time
and for many years you and I watched
this we watched them tack more and more
and more to the right in fact there was
an interesting article in New York Times
this week where they had mapped it it's
called a manifesto project if anybody
hasn't had a chance to look at it and
you can map how the write went right
over the last 20 years and how the
Democrats chase them right you can get
it's all it's mapped you can see it's
got its you know its scientifically
designed in the study and then in 2008
it halted the the move to the right and
it started tacking left and of course
it's since then has has picked up speed
now what is interesting here and
important to note is that when they when
they mapped out where the public was on
any number of issues and various you
know data points that they used the
Democrats are still you know they're
left and they're center-left they're not
way left they're not you know so far I
mean they compared them to other parties
in Europe for instance you know the left
wing and the right wing party the right
is still way off you know on the edge
the Democrats are still you know they're
very much within the mainstream I guess
that's what I'm saying but what made
what what we can sense and 2008 is the
right period to be looking at the 2008
until now that the party has been
tacking back rather than chasing the
Republicans and trying to you know just
sort of fudge the differences and you
know shave off a few points on on either
end or whatever and in the old days you
could see where that the party was
trying to do that that they're not
trying to do that as much as they were
and it kind of goes back to our earlier
conversation and I think maybe the
leadership of the house is kind of still
in that mode yeah and not recognizing
that center of gravity of the party and
the mainstream of America which by the
way the mainstream stayed pretty pretty
static it's not really it's always been
this circus but you know it's just been
that the right was so dominant in their
you know in their in their rhetoric and
in their intensity dominated the media I
mean in the intensity right I mean this
has always been a big story of American
politics as far as I can tell it is that
the right is far more engaged and it's
not you know it's
you know people talk about like there is
80% desire for gun control but the
intensity of the ad 80% is low and the
intensity of the you know small
percentage you don't want any gun
control is super high and so I mean I
just point that out only because so many
people have a mistaken perspective on
what drives politics and you know to the
extent that people like you and I in
particular are accused of preaching to
the choir here's the dirty secret it's
the choir that that moves stuff in this
country and it just so happens that the
Republican choir is bigger it's not that
they're you know getting the disengaged
it's just that there's just more of them
who are more engaged well and that's
true and I think that there's a chicken
or the egg kind of question on this too
because they have a leadership that you
know actively seeks to you know give
them what they want
whereas the Democrats for you know the
last 25 years spent most of their energy
trying to you know separate themselves
from their own base and saying hey
everybody don't pay any attention those
crazy people out there you know people
like you and me and you know that does
tend to disillusion your your boat I
mean it's it certainly doesn't speed
their intensity if that's what you're
looking for so you know so in any case I
think you're getting back to the debate
I certainly feel that the center of
gravity and the Democratic Party is much
further can say much for your left it is
substantially left of where it was in
2008 and it's there are certain people
within the party who are running big
names with a lot of active followers you
know the Sanders and Harris and Sanders
and Warren for instance who you know
have a very strong you know they're
holding down the left end of the dial
there that you know this is you can tell
that something has has happened to the
Democratic Party now you still see all
these voices a lot of the nevertrump
errs and various other you know moderate
voices or say no no
you know this is terrible look there
they're gonna blow it and Donald Trump's
gonna win well you know I don't know
about you but I think it's time to have
this contest I really do
you know I think it's time to actually
put the ideas that the Democrats
actually believe in put them on the
table let's see what happens I mean this
is you know I there's no there is no
guarantee that tacking to the right or
being you know very overly concerned
with whether or not you appear to be to
left is going to beat Donald Trump
nobody knows what's going to beat Donald
Trump he he is an alien from outer space
in the political world and all these
people including the nevertrump are
looking I've won a lot of races let me
tell you how to win yeah well you know
we saw what happened in 2016 in their
party I'm not listening to them and the
Democrats you know look we are in a
different we're in a different place
than we've been with Donald Trump Donald
Trump is something unique and and and
I'm not talking about their ideology or
anything I'm just talking about him as a
candidate so Democrats you know there's
nothing to go on here other than just
you know let's just let's just go out
there and tell the people what we
believe in we'll tell them what we think
about Donald Trump will it you know put
it put it all out there on display and
and and try to win I don't think there's
any other way to do it because nobody
knows you can't strategize this and try
and you know be too tactical and you
know trying to figure out where we can
pick up a couple of votes over here and
let's just you know pick off these they
can try it I don't think it works from
the age of Donald Trump well maybe it
will I don't think it's I I don't know
when it has worked
welco yeah I mean like when was the last
time a Democratic nominee who was
perceived to be the the right person to
win but that was why they were nominated
won like like like you know there was
genuine enthusiasm for all his
limitations but there was genuine
enthusiasm for Barack Obama it wasn't
like this is the guy who can win in fact
if you were to sit down and and do the
the calculation on paper you would say
this is not the guy who could win
you would you would have picked Joe
Biden maybe or or John Kerry or you know
I mean Michael Dukakis I mean the III
don't know that that strategy ever works
and there's no reason and like you say
in an era of Trump I think it it's even
less workable I mean there needs to be I
think just a sense of confidence since a
compact and that that you are not
running from anything that you're not
equivocating what you're offering is
what you believe in rather than what you
think because half those people who walk
off that stage I'm thinking like the
Hickenlooper x' or the Bennets
or the Delaney's their argument against
half of the things that are talked about
is like you can't get that done and all
right I think it II blank place but of
course they don't know that but it's
also just sort of a lame way of backing
into something it's real right and and
there's no evidence that that is
effective you know you got Claire
McCaskill on MSNBC you know telling the
Democrats how to win newsflash she lost
she lost and you know so like this is
how you run in the state really well
then why didn't you do it you know like
I why did you fail and I don't know III
but I I think that I mean I watched this
thing and I'm impressed in safaris um
where the party has come and I think
that is you know largely a function of
Bernie Sanders frankly and you know I
think there's a lot of other factors he
was the one who just sort of stepped
into that role I think Elizabeth Warren
could have stepped into that role in
2016 and I think in many respects
Sanders was waiting for her to do that
and and on some level I think he is in
some ways it is hurting his his bed on
some level because it is not as easy to
look at those you know two debates and
English between him and the other people
I mean I think that if you are more
sensitive to the policies it's you you
can see it more clearly you know in most
circumstances but for a relatively
casual observer or even not even that
casual I think it's sort of hard to say
like there's huge amounts of daylight
here I don't think I don't think there
is and I think that that Sanders and
you're right of course he deserves
tremendous credit for that you know he
was the standard bearer and we're
talking about going way back you know
not just even before 2016 and you know
just to add to it I think there are a
couple of other factors to that that
should be given a little credit one is I
think that Occupy Wall Street what I
need there you know I mean that was a
gigantic especially on the generational
level I think if you if you were growing
up during the the mid-2000s to the late
2000s and that's you know you saw that
that was it that was a spontaneous
movement that was global and you know
I'm not sure that they accomplished
anything too specific but what they did
was it was an awakening you know an
epiphany a collective epiphany put in
coming into the to the lexicon into the
into the national discourse I mean
there's no doubt the Bernie Sanders was
in many ways inherited something he had
always been calling for it but he
inherited that you know and I think it's
a function of Occupy Wall Street I think
it's a function of frankly having a you
know a generational thing where you have
roots in the net roots I mean I think
there's a lot of things that conspired
to this but he just happened to be the
one who became the national figure
talking about these things at that time
and and and I think there's also sort of
some some marginal differences that you
know are more or less important to
different people in terms of like where
he stands and in terms of a critique of
capitalism but but but in terms of just
basically you know the broad strokes
which is I think how most people digest
a debate like this
it's harder for him to stick out so
let's let's talk about you know with
that said and I you know there I would
have liked to have seen more talk about
free college and climate change during
these debates and sort of having an
opportunity to sort of for people to
have like laid out a bigger vision like
everything got very small very quick it
felt like in both those debates and
maybe that is the sort of the danger of
having well I mean it's part of it as
having that many people on stage at the
same time but if you had had Fox let's
say do that debate instead of MSNBC they
woulda just come out and like how can
you justify government and then people
would have had an opportunity to sort of
like start with these sort of broader
proclamations of well you know why
arguing you know why government's good
but there's gonna be plenty more debates
so let's let's just get a sense of what
you think how the race is going to
change following these two first debates
give me your sense of what sort of I
guess the headlines are in that respect
I was a little surprised at how at how
poorly Joe Biden did in the second
debate I had expected him to be a little
bit I mean he's you know really really
surprised I did well I was I thought
that he would be I didn't think he'd get
he'd get you know nailed quite as hard
as he did I think it was a very bad
showing for him but I'm not sure it'll
make that much difference I don't know
you know he's still the front-runner and
and we'll see but I think you exposed on
some level something about him which is
number one is he you know he's just not
he he's he hasn't kept up let's just be
be kind about it and put it that way
he's just kind of not of the moment and
I think that that it showed really you
know for the first time I think maybe
the whole country could see that wow you
know he said he's lost a step here and I
don't mean that in the age of sense I
just mean that he has clearly not taken
the time
to you know fully assess and understand
where the party is right now what you
know what the the you know the the
morals and mores are of the Democratic
Party and he said he had just had
assumed that he was going to be crowned
here I think right because he's an
arrogant a-hole right I mean that's what
come but it this fits into the narrative
where you starts to see like you know
the more than anything else that
bragging about being friends with the
segregationist was just sort of like
completely the arrogance and the sort of
like shocking lack of empathy and the
shocking lack of awareness I understand
why he may have done that in the moment
like even if he didn't have some issues
you know problems in terms of race I can
understand why any politician in that
era would have done that but to look
back on it in retrospect and not go I
you know to express some like
ambivalence about it too you know but to
use it you know like I can see saying
like you know thirty years ago I had to
cavort with people who today I don't
even think I could even shake their
hands like to say something like that
you know even if it was insincere even
if he didn't believe it would at least
have an awareness of like hey things in
terms of race have progressed and it's
no longer even remotely accessible you
know acceptable to celebrated it right I
was the vice president to the first
black president and let me tell you when
I started out I had to hang around with
some people and work with them that you
wouldn't even believe they were in the
Democratic Party even you know and and
this is what we had to do just to make
the slightest amount of progress and
look how far we've come with that
doesn't even exist in our party anymore
I mean it could he could have turned it
into a positive for himself and instead
you know he's proud of this and you know
this what this speaks to is this
delusion on his part and I think he
truly believes it that way if he becomes
president he can you know he can go in
and control Mitch McConnell and
you know whoever into doing his bidding
because you know they'll all be buddies
they've known each other for years and
this is just the worst fallacy I mean I
thought the Obama administration
believed that in the beginning and they
were schooled hardcore over the first
term and they they washed up the second
term they understood what they were
dealing with where was Joe did he not
see any of that I mean did he just think
that that was just I mean what what
happened there was he asleep I don't get
Ryan Grimm has a great piece in the
interceptor I think his excerpted from
his book or at least based upon the
research he did from his book about
about the the fiscal cliff and how yeah
Biden went around Harry Reid Harry Reid
had wanted to go over the cliff because
I know you remember this but people may
not remember that the Bush tax cuts had
to sunset within ten years because they
were passed through at reconciliation so
this fiscal cliff basically was like if
the Democrats do nothing if they
basically went home for vacation at the
end of the year then all of the Bush tax
cuts would have been rescinded it would
have obviously given the Democrats all
the power they could come back if they
wanted to get you know gives you know re
Institute middle-class tax cuts they
could have done that they could have
owned that and the the the power
position like you couldn't possibly want
ask for a better situation in terms of
like where you getting because you
didn't have to do anything it was a
runaway train and you could just sit
there and say like if the Republicans
don't want to stop this train that's
fine because it's gonna stop it's just
gonna stop at the spot we want it to
spot a stop and then we're gonna
leverage that you can get what we want
and the repose I have to go around and
Joe Biden stepped in it and I don't know
if it's ideological or just sort of like
some type of ego thing or just some type
of notion like I'm gonna own this I'm
gonna give them I mean it's like
literally like somebody comes up that
goes like I want to buy that bicycle of
yours and you say okay $80 and they go
mom I don't know and Joe Biden goes I'll
resolved
I'm a good I'm a good negotiator you
could have the bike for $40 and they go
great and he goes yeah it's called
deal-making I mean who does that remind
you of I mean it I hate to say this
because it's not really fair to Joe
Biden because he's not like Donald Trump
but I gotta say that I see way too many
parallels there is an arrogance and
there is a mindset that I think is
anachronistic now and and I think that's
the the idea is that we can we can you
know beat Donald Trump with Donald Trump
light yeah
yeah well again we're say we're talking
about that idea that oh we just need to
you know we need to appeal to some of
those Trump voters you know and look
there are Trump voters you can appeal to
in fact I wrote a piece this week about
the never Trump errs and I've been
really I'm not a never Trump basher you
know I never Trump or basher I tend to
sort of enjoy some of them they know
they're very you know clever and often
have a lot of great insults for Donald
Trump so you know I'm not one to say you
know hey don't join us because of all
the horrible stuff you did before like
man my feeling is well I know but my
feeling is bring him on board we'll work
with them you know this is this is us
you know we're gonna get an ally with
stallin here and then after it's all
over we'll it will we'll go back to our
to our yeah and we'll revisit all this
but in any case that's beside the point
what what what they've been saying you
know is you know you just can't you know
you can't be all left-wing or whatever
I'm going look you you you people don't
understand there is one group that maybe
gettable for the Democrats and and
they're only get a bow on one level
which is that you know they they are
appalled by Donald Trump's assault on
the Constitution and in political norms
they're not get a ball on policy come on
they're Republican
they're gettable on that and the never
Trump errs have an argument to make to
those people that Donald Trump is you
know a soui generous right he's somebody
who is doing this in a way that nobody
has done before but many will do after
him if they're allowed to get away with
it this goes to impeachment and various
investigations oversight all that stuff
they have that argument
that's where the those people are and
those people are those you know suburban
white women and college-educated
Republicans who are get a bowl they're
not get a bowl on policy so you know you
can you can talk about all this that you
know they've got their own issues there
with the you know they love those tax
cuts they love all that crap that Trump
does but if they think he's destroying
the Constitution they maybe get a ball
but that's not an argument that can that
is going to be easily made by Democrats
that's something these never Trump
people can make and you know maybe they
could put their their talents to better
use let's say than giving Democrats
advice on what policies they should have
right to appeal to Republicans you know
and this is sort of you know this is
again you're shaving up on the edges
this idea that oh you know we can just
if we just do a little bit of tweaking
here with our with this policy and let's
not go too far left because that'll
offend the Republicans you know that's
not how this is going to work I don't
think I think they're there you know
that we're just in a whole new world and
you know let it the politicians with the
best instincts will win and I'm telling
you I don't think that Joe Biden has
them no I don't think they're there and
I know there were some others who came
came out you know I think that shown in
in the debates that kind of gave
themselves an opportunity for a second
look like obviously Harris did very well
last night she was very aggressive with
with Biden which I think sort of showed
people yeah these are all kind of beauty
contests right there Lisa it's too many
people so what you want to see is sort
of a sign of character or cleverness or
some ability to sort of seize the
spotlight or whatever there it's it's
theater right more than politics and she
was very very good at the theater and
showed I think which is something that a
lot of people are longing to see is
somebody who is has has it the political
ability perhaps to go up against Donald
Trump and and in this kind of situation
I think that she did show that she
showed that she has a talent for it and
we've seen it before she did it in the
hearings yeah
with with Bill Barr you know I mean so
she's good at that and that will that
will stand her in good stead going
forward I thought I thought she was
really effective and of course you know
I mean I personally my own
and I'm saying this to everybody just
you know you my biases are right out
here on my sleeve I am you know I adore
Elizabeth Warren I have something so I
was you know very happy to see her do
well in the first debate yeah I thought
she did well what else so Harris and
Warren I think Bernie did okay I don't
know that he won any new converts I
don't know that he I suspect that it
doesn't impact him much either way but
he probably gains on some level to the
extent that Joe Biden loses and who else
anybody else that you think is going to
be that that that that did well that is
going to get any more attention
surprisingly I thought that kirsten
gillibrand did well I mean she's been a
cipher in this race so far but you know
last night she sort of pushed her way
into the debate and she it wasn't so
much her delivery or the theater of her
but I thought she said some things that
were that were pretty effective I don't
know if anybody heard it because you
know no one was really paying attention
sure I thought I thought she she was
pretty good and I you know I I thought
that that you know people judge he's not
you know someone on policy and I'm
particularly attracted to at the moment
but he's a gifted you know rhetorical
speaker I mean he's really really good
and I expect that we're going to see
more of him yeah sort of scares me a
little bit yeah me too but I'm say I'm
just saying he's challenged yes I think
that's I think that is yes the the the
reality is you cannot deny this guy has
skills yeah and that's what's so scary
about him and some respect but all right
well Heather
