[Music]
all right let's get into this first
about a week ago the gavin newsom
california governor signed the fair pay
bill which is going to allow college
athletes and I'm not sure exactly what
the specific parameters are but the it
will allow college athletes to get
endorsement pay to profit from
endorsements and I don't know if it
requires anything else but the NCAA is
saying that the law is unconstitutional
I'm not exactly sure why that would be
the case but maybe they're talking about
their own constitution
but the bill has been signed and here's
a moment on FOX News live with what's
the the woman's name Sandra Smith and
Bill hammered here with Charles Payne
and Charles Payne this is fascinating
because Charles Payne is really really
emotionally invested in this issue which
is great I'm glad he is the funny thing
is what he attributes it to is not
exactly he charged peen who has a show
on fox business may not be a hundred
percent clear on what a capitalist is
its story this was an interesting
perspective from that coach there yeah
you know I think he says though that he
does support the athletes even being
paid he thinks that governor shouldn't
be involved I don't know about this
thing Yelena I that's a red flag for me
when anyone tells somebody else to stay
in their Lane I'm not sure if he thinks
the governor shouldn't be looking out
for everyone who lives in his state
including the homeless including the
underprivileged and including kids who
are going to college there so I don't
know that that's outside the lane his
point is why are you focusing here well
we've got a
I probably could do more than one thing
right now I think you can deal with
almost a sensei by the way you know
these kids who are at schools where the
coach is making 5 million dollars a year
from wearing a you know Nike shoes maybe
they should get paid a lot of them don't
even eat yeah well I'm a capitalist and
I believe you know when I hear when I
hear people defend the status quo that I
think is unfair whether you know the
people who came out and said they hate a
president from straight tariffs battles
China although China's ripping us off
they hate this house it for one second I
just can't let that slide by you can be
a capitalist and want people to get paid
who are working for you but it is not
that is not your being a capitalist does
not require you to demand fair wages in
fact one could make the absolute
argument the absolute opposite argument
that in fact it is the capitalist ethos
that says if we can get these folks to
play for us for free and we can make
money off of them that's capitalism that
is capitalism that's a structural
imperative it is you need that dynamic
yes indeed yeah the capitalist storms
into the room and says I'm shocked
shocked too defined that exploitation of
labor is occurring in here right exactly
now you don't necessarily have to have
slave labor to be a capitalist but you
need a delta between what you make off
them and what they're making that is
capitalism so to say that you're a
capitalist and that's why you want them
to get fair pay makes absolutely no
sense you can be a capitalist you can
say I happen to be a capitalist who
wants these players to get paid at least
somewhat what they're worth not totally
what they're worth but somewhat but you
cannot say the reason why I want them to
be paid is because I'm a capitalist how
many Charles Payne doesn't know exactly
what a capitalist is a Finn the status
quo that I think is unfair whether you
know the people who came
said they hated presidents from straight
tariffs battles China although China is
ripping us off it's not the right way to
go they hate this idea although I do
think players to get paid it reminds me
of the abolitionist movement it's
country I've studied it I continue to
study it and so many quotient could good
people say yeah I'm against slavery but
now it's not the time to fight it you
know and if we why is this a full-ride
not enough Charles can I also just
comment on Bill hammered yeah there's
something very odd about his behavior
and I can't quite put my finger on it
but he has that thing let's just when
when you've got to do this thing where
it's like you your your expressions just
listening are so studied that you need
to freeze after you say something like
that
it suggested me something's up I'm a
little bit concerned but mr. hammer we
why is a full-ride not enough Charles
because if I bring in ten million and
you get me a hundred thousand dollars of
value for it it's unfair I'm 18 what a
great American in this version another
chance you can't make five million
dollars off of me and tell me Oh in
return I'm going to give you a $50,000
education it's not there it's just not
there you're ripping these people off
they are being used and abused okay give
them something because you are making
millions off of them so what's this
usury
what do you pay him BAM something more
than zero pay him something more than
zero you were making millions off of
them Millions
it's an unbalanced relationship nobody
in this building what worked for Langley
thought they when I was 18 years old if
you came to me with a full-ride for a
scholarship I being your coach Mary five
million dollars a year because you could
do that I go
and I'm achy before money but I'm
talking about bottom line is I think
people should get paid for what they're
worth
we you major there you go you know
there's nothing like I this is where I
feel like I what I should do is just
quit this job and spend my entire time
to develop a mechanism that can tell me
what those Fox hosts are thinking as
they keep their mouths quiet and watch
watch something like that
because they're you know they're going
like this is getting uncomfortable he
seems really passionate about making
sure they feel like I paid weird super
weird and a hammered is just trying to
you know maintain but there it is good I
mean III wish that someone like Charles
Payne had the ability maybe he does and
maybe this is you know maybe this is one
of those inciting invent events like
Shep Smith Shep Smith basically inciting
event was Katrina who's on a bridge in
Katrina I remember this
Bill O'Reilly was saying like they don't
appreciate what's going on there and
chefs it's like you're no you don't get
what's happening here you don't
understand it and I think that's
basically when Shep Smith decided like I
can't do this anymore maybe there'll be
a moment where Payne realizes like maybe
I'm not so much of a capitalist or maybe
like there's something wrong with
capitalism because it was structured
under a specifically a capitalistic
principle and it will be structured
under a capitalistic principle when
these guys get chicken feed for what
they're doing and the idea that Bell
hammered thinks that these guys you know
a small percentage of them will go into
the NBA and the rest of them will have
bodies that have been beat up by playing
college bass parts some instances you
know debilitating injuries for the rest
of their lives they will have had their
studies largely largely not all college
athletes but their studies largely
ignored because
job is to go and play on that team and
so it is so overdue it's unbelievable
like this this pretending that they're
anything but professional athletes it's
a similar thing with grad students who
teach classes right grad students that
teach classes and frankly adjuncts too
for that matter but I mean there's a
whole series of of these questions and
and I think frankly you know for grad
students and adjuncts it's gotten worse
it's been this bad for athletes you know
forever and each time they renew a TV
contract it just looks worse it looks
worse and worse well welcome to the left
comrade pain there you go who knows he
could be sitting right next to you seems
like he's got a connector for liberalism
let's throw to our economics report
folks
