[Music]
you'll recall that back in the day I
went to the 912 rally or something like
that some Glenn Beck and one of the
things that I was struck by was not just
how white the crowd was but there was a
moment where I saw a black guy there and
he was with a friend of his who had a
t-shirt that had an arrow on it you know
like I'm with dummy type of shirts
except for this one says do I look
racist and they would he was walking
around with his arm around him and
people were all taking photos of this
guy raising a lot of questions answered
by my shirt exactly on the back it says
now ask me if I know what yeah here it
is
that was back from the days I was doing
that that's thing can we can
use that a screengrab or can you yeah
just do a run this video we added the
yeah this is I was doing a tally of how
many black people were at the the the
rally you're just pull it back a little
bit and we'll watch just a little bit of
this see he was telling me there was
black people on the train coming I just
wish it was more consistent on the one
issue when it comes to Van Jones and
needed on Barack Obama who shows promise
salvation is very well he demonstrates
that he gives the truth when it comes to
Martin Luther King he feels the need
I'd love to see more and more blanks of
tea party usually when a black person
does come to a tea party event they're
treating the celebrity because they're
so glad to have them on the other side I
wish more there are some yeah I think
that's true I think that's true look at
all the people coming over with the
cameras oh it's upside and it's a good
signs you said do we look racist people
can go check that out on our page but
III the reason why we play that is
because this moment was reminiscent of
this and understand that all those
people who have taken those pictures are
white yeah the entire audience for those
signs are white people yes trying to
prove to other white people like we're
not racist yeah as opposed to sort of
like talking or assessing their racism
yeah
with black people right right and that's
what I believe this stunt was all about
- as president Trump is in Ohio and the
biggest beneficiary is the
african-american community biggest
beneficiary that's the economy
and they don't show them but you can see
everyone looking Torrell my god I've
been pointing and looking they're like
oh my god
standing up and looking over at the
group of Trump supporting black people
now they don't shell it no they don't
cut to it do we have a picture of some
image there was about a dozen I think
men and women black people who had
shirts that said blacks for Trump or
something like that or what did the
shirts say oh yeah I don't know it was
just a concentration of black people in
the audience hello see if we can find an
image but yeah okay we'll play this I
mean it it reminds me of and maybe
there's a good sign of the 2004
Democratic incontinent Square Garden and
a guy waved me over and said I think
there's one in California oh yeah here
we go so there's a about a dozen people
Trump and Republicans are not racists
there you have it folks
there it is proof positive I would they
say that if it was there sitting in the
black section and there there with the
signs like I want other black people to
wear bright white t-shirts so I can
identify them yeah we're gonna seat them
separately from all the white people
that's but the second guy from the left
is at every single rally they must fly
there was a group yeah there was a
greater civic group yeah yeah and but it
was like onerous or something like or
some connor cult
yeah like maybe cult connection yeah
