so David before the break we we talked
about we introduced this idea that that
senator Elizabeth Warren is going to or
is introduced legislation that would
call for the US government to
manufacture generic drugs when there is
a determined market failure now my
understanding is there are three
potential
I guess thresholds or criteria right
which if any one are fulfilled would
constitute that market failure what what
are those three situations generally
speaking it is the this office of drug
manufacturing that will be created
within the Department of Health and
Human Services will be able to
manufacture these generic versions when
in one of three ways we know there's
little or no competition within that
generic market like one competitor or
maybe two in some circumstances critical
shortages of a drug which we're seeing
more and more which is almost
unthinkable in a market economy that you
would have shortages a product that
there is demand for but that's what
we're seeing or exorbitant prices that
restrict patient access in other words
the prices that are unaffordable to the
average patient so any one of those
three conditions would constitute a
market failure and then it would
basically trigger a response by this
government agency that would produce
these drugs and provide them what why
why do we have a situation what we're
okay there's a generic drug that is
needed but why nobody's stepping up and
producing it why would the ad that even
happened or why would there only be one
or two competitors in a market there are
a couple schools of thought on this
there's a very interesting theory
proposed by an organization called
patience against drug shortages which
says this is all about Hospital the
waste hospitals purchase drugs
where they do it in bulk through these
things called group purchasing
organizations that if you don't get that
contract it becomes unaffordable for you
to actually manufacture the drug and so
this creates bottlenecks where only one
entry one entrant is in a space of a
generic drug market and then that makes
it fragile right the perfect example of
this and it's not necessarily a drug but
is IV bags with with saline solution
that are used you know every day in
every hospital in the country this had a
sole source contract the company called
Baxter and they mass manufactured their
stuff their IV bags in one place Puerto
Rico now what happened in Puerto Rico
there's a giant hurricane that knocked
out practically all the resources on the
island and it left these hospitals
scrambling for IV bags now think about
how insane that is we're talking about
salt and water in a bad and there was a
shortage of it where where where
hospitals thought they wouldn't be able
to get salt and water in a bag that is
the the problem that comes with sort of
a monopolized or oligopoly of
manufacturers for a particular drug or
medical device or what have you so one
school of thought says it's these group
purchasing organizations that are a
problem the other is collusion like we
like great investigation that's going on
where where the drug manufacturers are
saying okay you take the cancer drugs
and I'll take the leukemia drugs and
that creates its own set of implication
I mean I know there are obviously
thousands of maybe there's thousands of
generic drugs but when we're talking
about three hundred drugs out of 16
companies and everybody's just basically
I mean this is right this is like the
old-style mafia turf right like you get
up town I get down town yeah we avoid a
war you just sell in those areas and
that's it that's the deal we'll make
we're all guaranteed a big income with
our little regions here in this case
it's not an actual physical region it is
a it is simply a market for a specific
drug and this collusion is taking place
and there is and the problem that we
have is not only do we not have the
proper antitrust enforcement in this
country for years but even if we did it
is the effort involved in trying to make
sure and to prove that this type of
collusion takes place is just very
difficult it's very difficult when we
can just have a simple fix that the VA
has been doing at least does this the
beginning of this year right and and and
the reason that this had that has the
potential of working is that within the
legislation explicitly it says that
these generic drugs must be offered at a
fair price but something that just
covers costs and and and and insures
that the the actual drug is affordable
now the drug would be perpetually the
generic drug would be perpetually for
sale to a manufacturer who wanted to do
it but they would have to adhere to
these fair price standards so you could
see a situation where there actually
isn't a government factory making these
drugs but they partner with some generic
company private sector company who is a
contractor essentially but they have to
adhere to these fair price standards so
if you don't have the situation like
defense contractors where they plus up
all the contracts and sell them to the
government of very unaffordable rates
this would be something that ensures
that the consumer can get it at a fair
price alright David let me let me ask
you to put your your reporter hat to the
side put on your your analyst hat for a
moment and how much it is there you go
how much no we the VA right
theoretically could serve as a proof of
concept in terms of successful delivery
of medical care non medical insurance
but medical care
because it does so with generally
speaking very high favorability ratings
from its client base it does so in
providing a incredibly wide range of
very very sophisticated and unique
services to a very specific client base
one who has gone through war and
suffered all sorts of injuries that we
just simply don't see in civilian life
the VA doesn't serve as a very good
because it's it's sort of sequestered
within the military has not served as a
marketing tool as a proof of concept in
the way that maybe some of us who want
to see something like that function and
we only have about 45 seconds here do
you think if this law passes it will
serve as a proof of concept for the
government to do more stuff like this we
just do it I think it could I think that
it again this is a hard problem with
drug prices we've set up a system that's
almost designed for failure and one any
one bill is not going to be the Silver
Bullet to stop it but if you put in a
new system and one that includes this
sort of public option well that's
broadly applicable to banking to health
insurance to virtually anything so yes
this is something that you can take and
and run with you where that analysts hat
very well as well as your reporting
David day and always a pleasure
