[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex
the majority report with sam cedar it is
Wednesday January 9th 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
professor of political science from the
University of Maryland Chris Miller her
book poor representation Congress in the
politics of poverty in the United States
meanwhile Trump did nothing again last
night and everybody seems to know it as
polls turn on the GOP and Republican
senators begin to fold in the Senate
where is Mitch McConnell also on the
program today TSA quitting over the shut
down affordable housing contract set to
expire housing and transit projects
brought to a screeching halt we're not
even at the longest shutdown ever yet
still a day there two days away
and Paul Manafort either got the worst
lawyers in America or is trying to
signal to Donald Trump that he lied to
robert muller about sharing polling data
with Russian intelligence agents CBO is
set to score single-payer I think this
is for the first time ever and as dem
mayors and governors push local
single-payer plans public options ich
Trump on Twitter tells FEMA to end
funding to fight California forest fires
got to change the subject a little bit
action and rake it the Dems stopped a
vote in the Senate attacking people's
right to boycott Israeli products Oh
one point for ex-felons now allowed to
vote in Florida and LA teachers set to
strike lastly feel proud America our CIA
director may have actually run two
different black sites but she's a woman
gasps clean Rachel Maddow in in
Guantanamo story the one to animal story
a lot of people thought that woman
couldn't attach electrodes to people's
genitals well she proved them wrong all
this and more on today's program ladies
and gentlemen what was Brendon what was
the show when I went to Pittsburgh for
the AFT conference do you have the date
on that find that out here let me see if
I yeah still working on that folks well
the point being in 1881 it was in 1881
what
well that was 1881 so that was over a
hundred and twenty episodes ago
oh I was gonna I was gonna do this like
the show was back in 1881 what was the
clear
I'm tired greatly from my traveling
construction not going with
reconstructions not doing well but he's
did thing what was the date of that it
was over the summer right July 13th in
2018 folks too to get a sense of at the
very least what the mood that and and
what the attitude towards strikes are
particularly in a post Janus world and
in a post strikes in West Virginia and
Oklahoma and Arizona there was one or
two other states over the course of the
summer where we saw teachers strikes by
unions that were far less organized
maybe that's the wrong word but
institutionalized some of them weren't
even unions officially right I mean
that's the right to work states they
don't they they just didn't have the
same internal apparatus the UT LA I
think is the second largest maybe the
first largest teachers union local in
the country obviously and it is the same
folks from the aft it's a local chapter
of the aft I don't know if they quite
organized that way but worth going back
listening to some of those those union
leaders and or a teacher leaders talk
about what they learned during that know
that the leaders of the UT LA we're at
that same conference these were things
that they were all talking about and as
teachers as these folks feel more
empowered we're gonna see hopefully more
labor action and
it's gonna start with the teachers and
then and then we'll see from there so
keep an eye on this and the real bottom
up thing not top-down importantly yeah I
think very much so and that I think you
get a sense of that when you hear those
folks talking and I think to a certain
extent it has brought the leadership of
the Union it's moved them what the theme
that I got from from coming out of there
was whether it was from Randi Weingarten
and I think we ran the Randi Weingarten
interview afterwards I don't know if it
was actually while we were there the
thing I got from my conversation with
her and from these other local union
leaders were that they had forgotten or
underestimated the power and the value
of a work action of a labor action and
that they were they to the extent that
they had regret was that they hadn't
used it earlier and so I think to the
extent at going forward we're gonna see
anybody err it's gonna be erring on the
side of actually more action rather than
less which is I suspect a there's a much
greater margin for error
on that side particularly long term and
and look when you're talking about
teachers they have the best opportunity
of social social action unionization
insofar as they have a a more organic
relationship with the community than
most workers because teachers are in
demand parents want to talk to them they
have relationships with people outside
of of the schools and outside of their
union that are not necessarily they
don't have to go out and look for these
people the people look for them
and so it provides the model and then
just figuring out how to deepen those
ties I think it's going to be the
challenge so keep an eye on this will
see they are you know not clear if
they're going to strike yet but it is
not just over pay and I think we
reported the other day that because of
low pay around the country
municipalities counties are having
trouble recruiting new teachers and the
experience of race to the top and No
Child Left Behind also I think was very
demoralizing for teachers in terms of
the narrowness in which they had in
[Music]
executing and developing curriculum and
so being a teacher has become a harder
job and even if you can imagine a less
thankful one in many respects and so
it's not just a question to pay they
want smaller class sizes and they want
more support in the the schools more
nurses more counselors more librarians
these are the support staff type of
folks are the first cut when there are
major cutbacks to education and
education has been under assault across
the country short of some very wealthy
areas of the country where because of
the way that we fund schools they can
fund their schools much better than in
other areas of the country but
apparently over 98% of the voting
members of the UT LA that's the United
Teachers of Los Angeles
there's 31,000 teachers 98% of them
voted to strike to authorize the strike
that's
that's pretty much unanimity Wow and if
any politically aware informed and
active young people are listening to
this right now and trying to figure out
you know a career for yourself being a
teacher might be pretty great you can
make a difference on so many fronts
including labor there you go and if
you're if you're a student out in LA I
imagine there's opportunity for you to
do some organizing in anticipation of
supporting your teachers don't get
yourself kicked out of school you know
be careful you don't have the same sort
of organized protections but there's
there's a whole host of things you can
do without getting in trouble you want
to get in trouble
listen to the anti Fattah and they'll
explain to how to do that but I'm not
going to take that meanwhile last
night.they if you want to know why the
republicans are so relentlessly obsessed
with aoc and frankly the media is too
it's because she there i mean you could
see this set out last night Donald Trump
goes on he gives a five-minute speech it
appears and I haven't seen reporting
specifically to this effect but it
appears that they they must have
chickened out about declaring a state of
emergency because if there was a time to
do it it was last night like you can't
go up on a month on them on a Tuesday
and say things are really bad at the
border and then expect to come back on
Friday linked in fact it's a state of
emergency you can't do that right like
if it's not a state of emergency last
night there's no way it can be a state
of emergency on Friday now look they can
do whatever they want and they're going
to but that doesn't explain why they
didn't do it last night
because the only thing is going to
happen going forward
that and you have now already I think
it's three or four Republican senators
who are already starting to wave the
white flag and Donald Trump last night
could have said it's a state of
emergency I'm gonna take money from the
military and I'm gonna build the wall
somebody along that process and I
suspect it was either the military
themselves or members of the Senate who
represent the military or the somewhere
along that line somebody said something
serious enough like you can't do this
and so they didn't and they were left
with this hollow shell of a just
jibber-jabber nobody cared nobody cares
I mean if Donald Trump's not off the
teleprompter it's not fun and if he's
not doing anything what's the point just
to prove that he could read a
five-minute speech get everyone's
attention I proved it I mean the was
there anybody in the country who was
like wow I've never seen him so
emotionally invested he was really upset
about that like at one point he said
some like I held the hands of I can't
remember who he said he held the hands
others of mothers and nobody believes
that know what who would want to hold
his hand
germs he's never held a hand in his life
horse and I actually touched the cadaver
once and so he went on there now Pelosi
and Schumer did exactly what you would
anticipate they would do anyone in here
could have written what they were going
to say and they delivered it you know
about his inspiringly as you could
expect I did have people who texted me
we're like Chuck Schumer really hit it
out of the park I was like seriously
okay but the bottom line is they did
they just they basically did what you
need to do in those rebuttals not
embarrass yourself and you know just
show up so that there's some semblance
of like and and from a polling
standpoint
it's working slowly working I suspect
that Mitch McConnell is afraid of
bucking Donald Trump right now because
he's got a run in 2020 and this is
exactly the time that somebody would say
hey I'm gonna run against Mitch
McConnell people forget in 2016
Mitch McConnell was the enemy in the
Republican Party and if he was to cross
Donald Trump right now and capitulate at
this point to those Republican senators
and actually bring a bill up on the
floor continuing resolution I think he's
afraid of Donald Trump calling saying
mean things about him and inspiring a a
challenge to him but in Mitch in the
absence of that this is why what al seed
does is so important because Chuck
Schumer and Nancy Pelosi are going to
play four corners they're just going to
make no mistakes because that is
generally been the Democratic recipe for
attempting to do something really stake
out almost no position and wait until
you know the Republicans overstep their
bounds now it has not been a terribly
successful long term it might be in the
short-term moment but here is a Oh see
on Rachel Maddow and I don't get the
sense this was terribly scripted because
at one point she just sort of she just
goes off and this is frankly this clip
is probably going to be the one of the
three address addresses to the what's
going on at the border which really is
relative to at any other time
nothing this is going to be the one
that's going to travel the most and has
the most poignant
and really is most on point
and no one should feel unsafe in the
United States of America and that
includes our amazing and beautiful and
productive immigrant community and
moreover the one thing that the
president has not talked about is the
fact that he has systematically engaged
in the violation of international human
rights borders on human rights on our
border
he has separated children from their
families he talked about what happened
the day after Christmas on the day of
Christmas
a child died in ice custody the
president should not be asking for more
money to an agency that has
systematically violated Human Rights the
president should be really defending why
we are funding such an agency at all
because right now what we are seeing is
death right now what we are seeing is
the violation of Human Rights
these children and these families are
being held in what are called yel eras
which are basically freezing boxes that
no person should be maintained in for
any amount of time let alone the amount
of time that they are being kept on and
moreover even if you are anti immigrants
in this country the majority of
immigrant overstays the majority of the
reason that people are undocumented is
visa overstay it's not because people
are crossing a border illegally it is it
is because of visa overstay which mind
you he's talking about legal immigration
he's trying to restrict every form of
legal immigration there is in the United
States he's fighting against family
reunification he's fighting against the
diversity Visa Lottery he's fighting
against almost every way that people can
actually legally enter this country
forcing them to become undocumented and
then he's trying to attack their
undocumented status this is systemic it
is wrong and it is anti-american and
again those women and children trying to
come here with nothing but the shirts on
their back to create an opportunity and
to provide for this nation are acting
more in an American tradition than this
president is right now I mean it's sort
of amazing she's driving the new cycle
for like three days in a row and it's
not hard to do that when you're the only
person on the mainstream media whose
acting like a human being right well I
mean I it I I haven't seen it I mean it
doesn't happen too often I mean I think
you know Bernie got to prominence after
running for president prior to that he
would never ever get on the news he also
had of his response to was also very
effective in his own you know also
direct kind of no BS way I don't exactly
I picture um Schumer sort of like if
this was a if they were on a basketball
court
like AOC is just out sinking threes and
then Schumer sidles up he's like take a
look at this then proceed I my my guess
not be able to single my guess is that
they're happy with this at least on this
topic on this topic definitely they're
happy what she's doing because they get
to have their they get to you know be
the reasonable middle honestly I watched
what they said and I the only thing I
can remember about what Pelosi and
Schumer said was nothing the only thing
I remember was Schumer looking like he
is like he wouldn't even acknowledge
that Pelosi was next to him as she was
talking he was just looking very
straightforward then I noticed like he
moved a little bit like he was like I
could I've been in that situation we're
gonna take how much I can how am I
supposed to acknowledge about what she's
saying and it just looked very all
American Gothic
you don't understand how the camera
works missed the Sex in the City I had a
credit in the 90s and I go on and on
about it you stare into space and you
let us speak he I'll see you in 2022 you
prick I'm sure he's quite I'm sure he's
quite happy that she is it's pushing one
end of this argument I mean the she's
they're calling for the abolishment of
ice this is the good this is where the
center-left thing works for everybody
yeah in that and what the Democratic
Party is which is really a coalition of
part of parties that's what it would be
in Europe and this is an example of you
know how that actually works in concert
together because right now of course the
longer term goals are abolished ice and
so on but the short term goal right
now is crush Trump and do anything you
can on things like temporary protective
status for Haitians and daca and they're
actually in concert on this right now no
doubt there's certainly a coalition on
this but you know like aoc herself said
not all Democrats are the same and when
you are coming at something from such
different like he harped for probably as
long about how the wall is ineffective
and inexpensive as he did about children
being separated from their parents in
like dying in cages like let's let's
prioritize what's inform here right okay
all right we got to take a break and and
we'll be right back with Chris Miller
[Music]
you
back Sam cedar on the majority report on
the phone it's a pleasure to welcome to
the program professor of political
science at University of Maryland Chris
Miller on her book poor representation
Congress and the politics of poverty in
the United States professor welcome to
the program thanks so much for having me
all right well let's let's start with I
guess the what the two questions that
you seem to focus on in the book are one
is are the poor represented at all in
Congress and to the extent that they are
how does that happen
let's let's start with the the first
question are they represented at all
that is the good good question to start
with
yes so this first question I guess the
to give away the punch right at the
beginning is not really all that well so
the place that I start with is just
trying to get a sense of you know what
does Congress do overall is Congress
talking about the poor and so I really
start off by kind of picking up this
myth about the invisible poor and I
debunk it at the beginning so we have
this notion sometimes that the poor are
politically invisible and that's simply
not true and I think that's an important
place to start and where I begin kind of
in my book because if they were
invisible then legislators and
politicians not acting for them could
just be thought of as kind of benign
neglect and if only we could make our
legislators more aware of the poor and
of poverty then problems would be solved
right so the solution then would be kind
of awareness one but I don't think
that's what's really going on and so
when I go and I look going back to the
1960s at State of the Union addresses
from presidents of both parties I look
at the party platforms from the
Republican and the Democratic parties
and I look at what constituents what
groups they're talking about and across
the board the poor are mentioned quite
frequently
and they're mentioned more than the
middle class they're mentioned more than
farmers and seniors and veterans so the
first answer was okay is this realistic
to even be asking my first question are
the poor represented in Congress because
some folks would say well that's that's
not a really good question because you
know people don't think about the poor
and so first I had to start off and say
well you know what actually they are
they are politically visible and so then
you know the question becomes so what's
happening and I think about it first
it's like Congress overall so just
thinking like how many bills are
introduced
how many hearings are held how many laws
are passed and I find that overall it's
a really low number so we're talking
less than three percent of the overall
Congressional agenda meaning you know
about 1% of laws passed about three
percent of bills even introduced and
this is going back again decades so
Congress is not taking up a lot
interestingly when poverty increases in
society you might think Congress would
do more that doesn't seem to be the case
you might think as poverty kind of
spreads geographically for more
congressional districts would be
affected maybe then Congress does more
and it doesn't seem to be the case so
it's not really responsive and it's
generally pretty low now that said three
percent of the agenda if you want to be
glasses hassle still means that
something is going on and so as you said
that's kind of the second part of the
book okay all right so let's I mean I
just want to tease some of this out so
when we talk about invisibility what
we're really talking about is to the
extent that it enters the rhetoric of
the body politic right because I mean as
we get to the second part if you divide
if you defined invisibility as actually
sort of like I guess present you know
like you know like in close proximity to
those in power it might be something
different
does that does that make sense I mean
I'm just going off it because like there
was a report I mean it would the this
that sort of I guess
perspective just there was a report yeah
I think it was a piece that was written
up in the Washington Post and it was a
paper from someone at the Columbia and
the University of California that said
that Congress thinks that the the public
is more conservative than it is because
they're so exposed to lobbyists I would
imagine that and the report doesn't say
anything about this but I would also
imagine the Congress probably thinks the
American public like their there they
don't have a sense of poor people except
our as a sort of like as a rhetoric
right like I can talk about a ghost um
that may very well be invisible and I
could talk about that ghost all the time
but it does really implicate me because
I you know you can put your hand through
them and they're not around or whatever
I mean no I think that's right and I
mean I think it gets at to parts of it
which is one is there there has been at
least going back to the nineteen fifties
and sixties this sense that you know we
just don't see the poor particularly
political elites are not aware of them
because they don't you know live in the
same neighborhoods they don't attend the
same educational institution things like
that and so that there's a lack of
awareness that makes it easy to neglect
issues that would affect the poor and
poverty more generally and so by
focusing on the political rhetoric and
particularly something like the State of
the Union which is televised which is
the president speaking to the nation and
speaking to all the members of Congress
you know when you see repeatedly that
the poor getting mentioned in that
really high-profile venue more often
than middle-class more often than
seniors definitely more often than the
rich but when they're so prominent in
those types of speeches it's really hard
to say that people are not the political
elites are not aware of them now I think
you raise a really important question
which is you know rhetoric and awareness
in that sense is not the same thing as
having a kind of intuitive understanding
of what poverty means of what the
problems that the poor face in their
everyday lives are really about and I
think that's still a dimension on even
when you have political speech and
rhetoric
you don't necessarily
that understanding and so I think one
type of diversity that Congress could
use more of is certainly kind of an
economic or class-based diversity and
having people from different backgrounds
with different life experiences simply
because those personal experiences
matter so much in how we understand
other people's lives and how we
understand what government is doing well
what it could be doing and so I think
that question of kind of economic
diversity in the body Congress itself is
a huge issue and it's really important
now obviously that would be kind of one
thing to solve I realized I couldn't do
this in the book so you know I I do
think that even politicians who don't
have personal experience with poverty or
maybe don't have a working-class
background themselves they could still
be aware of it they can still raise it
you know and that type of representation
traditionally is part of how we think
about things and you know you see people
like the former Speaker of the House
Paul Ryan who would often talk about
poverty and he put forth a blueprint
about addressing poverty and and gave
speeches about it but if you look at the
legislative actions right you don't see
actions there and so there is this gap
between rhetoric and what Congress does
I I want to I want to I want to get back
to that sort of that gap and why there's
no you know what why why that gap is
sustainable right on both ends and why
it exists right because it because if
there's no price to be paid for the
false promises why make them in the
first place I mean and maybe that that's
outside of of your portfolio but just in
terms of representation when we when we
measure that and then when you say the
legislation is only you know a three
percent like what how do you before we
move on to question two how do you
quantify that I mean is it are you
looking at sort of dollars that are
earmarked towards
poor or time spent investigating
questions of people living in poverty
what what just give us us just a brief
understanding of how we assess the lack
you know what representation means in
and of itself yeah absolutely um so you
know with the concept as big as
representation there's lots of ways to
come at this but the way that I do it in
the book of it I think makes a lot of
sense obviously is I'm really looking at
the the substantive legislation and so
that could be the bills that are
introduced regardless of how far they
move in a process that's a primary focus
but also maybe looking at which bills
make it to a hearing which bills make it
to a vote and whether they pass or not
and the reason I focus on the actual
legislation is because I'm really
interested in what Congress is doing
right that's kind of the the focus
although I look at some of the rhetoric
and I look at some of the other aspects
my interest is really is Congress doing
this part of its job and we tend to
think in representation that you know
the output that we're looking for
generally is the substance of the
legislation so that's what I focus on
and they're what I do is I look at all
the bills that are introduced into the
House of Representatives which is my
focus here going back to the early
nineteen eighty so about 30 31 years of
legislation and not two totally you know
dork out into academics but there's this
great resource called the policy agendas
project that catalogs all of this it
makes you you know more user friendly
and and through that what I did was I
went through and I coded by topic so
they have major topics and over 200
subtopics and what I look for things
that are relevant to poverty and so of
course some of that is going to be
things like social welfare programs food
assistance but I also look at other
areas including things like education
programs targeted to underprivileged
students so things like Head Start
education for rural education
initiatives disadvantaged students more
generally I will get job training I look
at
tax breaks economic opportunity acts
things of that sort
also things related to housing so some
of the assistance that goes for heating
and energy in low income households rent
control programs and rent assistance
incentives for developers to build
affordable housing so all of these
different types of programs
i classify as being poverty relevant or
poverty related and it was really
important to me to make this
specifically about poverty so for that
reason I don't include things like
social security because I think the
legislature acting on Social Security
doesn't necessarily have representing
poor people in mind even if some benefit
of spillover but I focus on more
targeted programs that single out low
income and poor recipients and I try to
do it across a pretty inclusive range of
substantive areas so like I said
education and housing and jobs and
economic and also I include things like
tax incentives programs so that this
isn't solely about creating new federal
programs which we might think would lean
towards Democrats being more active so I
wanted to be really careful to also
include the types of proposals that
Republicans might be more likely to
include and so that's part of why I look
at anti-poverty efforts like tax based
tools the end or income tax credit and
things of that sort as well so that's
how I'm thinking about it okay and so
let's move on to the the question of how
does that representation occur one would
I think first guess would be that
representation and the the activity that
you see whether it's hearings or
introduction of legislation would be a
function of Representatives who come
from districts that are there's a higher
incidence of poverty in those in those
districts and that's not necessarily the
case is it no and and I totally agree
that's where I was coming from to my
clear expectation here was that even if
the overall of
weren't very high what you would expect
to find is that those people who those
legislators representing them the
districts with higher poverty would be
the ones doing more maybe it's not a ton
but it's more than the others right and
this makes sense it's like we expect
representatives from rural districts
with a lot of farmers to be more active
on agriculture so this is kind of a both
a conventional wisdom and academically
holds up that you expect to see this
type of relationship between who's in
the district and what their member does
and for the most shocking thing to me
when I was working on this project and
kind of remains the thing that that I
always um you know come back to is that
that's not what I find and so there's
really not evidence at this at all and
this is this is really striking so
poverty across congressional districts
can range from 2% to more than 35% and
so there's non finding basically is
saying that knowing the percent of
poverty in the district does not help us
predict or understand what a legislature
does a legislature with 2 percent
poverty or 20 percent poverty is equally
likely or unlikely to sponsor bills
related to poverty and if you stop and
think about it that's really weird when
we think about congressional
representation it just goes against what
we think representation ought to look
like and you know like I said overall
the levels are low but it was this
disconnect between members and who's in
their district that that I found really
to be both surprising but also really
important to know about now that said
you know some bills are getting passed
which then brought on the second or I
guess maybe third question of who are
the legislators who are doing stuff so
there's not that many of them right
about 77% of Congress members of
Congress never sponsor any bills related
to poverty so but of those that do my
first thought was it should be those
from poor districts that turns out to
not be true so then I start looking more
closely at those who are they are more
likely to be Democrats they are more
likely to be african-american
and legislators and they're more likely
to be women so those were the patterns
that I did find and again they're not
more likely to come from poor districts
so this was really kind of been turned
to this this last part of how does the
representation occur and I start
focusing on these legislators who act
for the court even though the poor are
not particularly connected to their
district and in political science we
call this surrogate representation in my
book I talk about them as being
champions of the poor as legislators who
consistently are active on poverty
issues and kind of what drive that and
what are they bringing to the table so
what is it so and when we say surrogate
we should just be clear that the
implication is that the you're not
necessarily representing a significant
or a I guess statistically significant
in terms of comparison number of people
living in poverty in your district so
what is it aside from that correlation
with Democrats people of color women
what else is there is there a through
line beyond that or is it just like oh
these are the you know X number of
people who actually are you know decent
human beings well we don't want to go
that far No so I think you know this
notion of surrogate representation
sounds funny but it's basically like
like you were saying it's this idea like
when we think there's a female elected
from a certain state she may not be your
representative at the idea she kind of
speaks for women more broadly so that's
the basic idea um and there aren't even
with these correlates of being more
likely to be Democrats of
african-americans of women it still is
not to say that all Democrats are
african-americans or women are
particularly active on poverty issues
you know using some standards or
thinking about are they consistently
active we're talking about just a few
dozen legislators that are reliably
introducing legislation related to
poverty and that's out of more than you
know close to 1400 legislators over
three decades so this still is a pretty
small
percentage to be quite honest and I
think you know in terms of through lines
of what unifies and I think some of them
really do come to the issue just out of
a pure conviction of policy interest and
and their own interest in the policy
area because it's not elect orally
motivated it's not based in the district
I'm one of the most striking things that
I find when I look at these surrogate
representatives or these champions is
that the substance of the type of
poverty legislation that they introduce
is very much related to who it is so one
kind of cluster of the surrogate
representatives the bills that they're
introducing go ahead no I'm sorry we
just had a little glitch but go ahead oh
so I just no say when you look at what
they introduce they're more likely to
think about things like okay let's
introduce legislation to pick up the
slack of for a woman who's receiving us
a food assistance for herself and her
family loses a job due to sexual
harassment right how do we bridge that
work requirement that might be tied to
her benefit so they're coming at some of
these poverty issues through a more
gendered lens and I find that that
exists for the other kind of clusters of
types of surrogate representatives so
who is active really also matters for
the substance of the policy that's put
on the table in Congress so so what is I
mean is it is it is it is it possible
that the question is being asked from I
mean to sort of like determine why there
is why there is this big Delta right
between the amount that poverty is
referenced in the context of rhetoric
versus the action it seems to me is a
function of there is no price to be paid
like you can make false promises about
poverty and there's no accountability
and is that a function of the lack of
political power of of people living in
poverty is it a function that they don't
vote as much I mean I I mean I think
this is I think there's data to support
that
people on Medicaid simply don't vote at
rates like a wealthier people now
there's there's all sorts of reasons
maybe behind that but the the the reason
the the implication of that is that you
can make all these promises and you can
write all these checks and they never
get cashed mm-hmm yeah no I mean I think
that's right and fundamentally that
that's a problem in politics right it's
maybe more acute on issues with poverty
but kind of politicians making promises
but they don't fulfill is is something
that we see more often than we would
like
and I think you're right and pointing
out kind of two primary explanations for
those let me take up one of them first
which is kind of do they have political
power do the poor and I think one
important thing to point out here is
that there really is a scarcity of
institutional voices advocating for the
poor and here I'm thinking about things
like interest groups right I mean
whether you like it or not the interest
group community is an important part of
the policy community in Washington DC
and there are far more interest groups
and organized interests advocating for
other issues than there are for the poor
and that matters that matters because
it's not able to raise the salience and
off offices it means that the
constituents back in the district are
losing kind of one of the primary
megaphones of democracy again like it or
not but is organized interest right they
give a voice to people and so as there
are fewer interest groups advocating for
the poor that puts support a relative
disadvantage and attracting the
attention of the legislators and that's
something that's important to think
about because legislators have a lot of
people trying to catch their attention
they have limited time and those limited
policy space and so you need to make
yourself known and you need to put
yourself right there in front of them
and say this is something you need to
take up and by having fewer advocates
that's harder for the poor so I think
that's a significant part of the story I
think the other part you mentioned which
is about kind of the electoral
consequences is really interesting it is
true that the poor vote
lower rates but it's not as much lower
as we might think
especially when you're looking at
federal elections of congressional and
presidential races the poor vote a
little bit less than the next income
group but it's not that big of a
drop-off and so I think that there could
be electoral consequences there is also
the possibility that people who
themselves aren't poor still want their
representatives to be responsive to this
to take up these issues and to try to
alleviate poverty so I think that
poverty issues are not just appealing to
poor voters right that's something that
many middle-income and upper income
people would like to see addressed to
you know we'll see where this goes I
think the 2016 election brought about
you know more populist rhetoric both on
the right and the left that we had seen
but we don't see a lot of policy
implications to that you know whether or
not there's an electoral payback for
that you know we can think about 2018
and certainly thinking ahead you know
the question is our voters going to say
hey you talk a lot about helping out the
little guy about helping the poor about
helping the working class and we're not
seeing it how much did the the attack
and subsequent dissolution of an
organization like ACORN
how much could you could you see that in
the data I couldn't see that in the data
particularly cuz I didn't and I didn't
have incorporated straight interest
group data but I do think that interest
groups you know it's not that big of a
of a universe in terms of these types of
either progressive or groups working for
the poor specifically and so anytime one
is lost or kind of has headwinds it is a
significant blow to the overall cause
and so I think that that that really
does matter how much I mean would the
idea of universal programs you know sort
of if we saw this as a deficiency as I
do I think you probably do too but I
mean as a society
we saw this as a deficiency and we see
these structural problems - addressing
questions of people living in poverty
specifically and we should say right
like when we talk about people living in
poverty the at any given time that's a
very fluid group of people right they
move in and out of poverty P if people
do and so it's not necessarily a static
group of people and correct me if I'm
wrong about that but I guess what I'm
saying is that the is there a is one way
to deal with this as a bit of a bank
shot in making more universal programs
that deal with people who may be living
in poverty but not exclusively so like
we you know you you sequester Social
Security but the reality is we would
have a lot more poverty where it not for
Social Security but it's a universal
program so it's not one perceived to
deal directly with poverty no that's
absolutely right and when we think about
I mean a couple things in terms of
poverty there are kind of different
groups within it so there is this group
that you talked about that kind of comes
in and out of poverty usually when
they're out of poverty there and what we
call near poverty right so instead of
meeting the exact limit of twenty four
twenty five thousand dollars a year for
a family they may cross over you know
into the upper 20 thousand it's not that
that families usually fluctuate grossly
up and down the economic ladder but
people do come in and out of technically
qualifying this poverty but you also
have pockets of real persistent poverty
where it's multi generous
intergenerational and for communities
it's kind of a long-standing community
problem so I think that that we you know
and part of this is recognizing that of
course poverty is a very complex and
multifaceted issue and so some of the
programs we need to think about both
parts and it might not be that the same
programs help equally do the kind of
folks who are just on the cusp of
poverty and kind of are extremely
vulnerable and kind of precarious on
that line but do
go back and forth between it and those
who are you know in persistent poverty
and we may need some of the same
solutions and also some tailored
solutions to that but more generally
this idea about universal programs is
one that when we think about the impact
of policy and how to attract support for
Paulo certain program this is an
argument that is made by many out there
and I think you're right certainly if
you bring up you know say healthcare or
some of the proposals medicare-for-all
or thinking about tuition free tuition
for colleges or things of this sort are
intended to kind of bring everybody up
and there's no doubt that those would
improve the life of the poor and I think
politically are a savvy way to think
about building that support and that
coalition that said for the purposes
that I was looking at more narrowly
which was really about representation
about who gets heard and who doesn't and
so there I was looking specifically for
places where the poor have a distinct
interest and a distinct voice and is
somebody bringing their issues and their
perspective to the conversation as being
unique from thinking about kind of the
policy impact in which case these types
of Universal programs are important part
of the solution Chris Miller the book is
poor representation Congress and the
politics of poverty in the United States
thanks so much really appreciate your
time today thanks so much for having me
it was a pleasure all right folks
gonna head into the fun half of the
program I mean I guess the bottom line
is if you want people to if you want
lawmakers who are going to support
people who are living in poverty look
for a lawmaker who says they're gonna
support people living in poverty I mean
that's basically I think what it comes
down to you're more likely to find those
in the Democratic Party and as people of
color and women or look for a Democrat
who says that no one should be poor like
our girl AOC right
indeed also I just reminder this program
relies on your support you can become a
member at join the majority report calm
you have I know Michaels going to talk
about this briefly but you have I think
two more days to get your matching your
funds matched to know Mikey cons if you
were a New York City voter in her run
for Public Advocate Michael talk about
that more she was on TM BS last night I
want to step on any any you blew it but
uh you can support this program by going
to join the majority report calm when
you do we give you extra content every
day and also just coffee co-op fire
trade coffee tea or chocolate use the
coupon code majority get 10% off we're
probably I mean I don't know what we're
gonna do with the live show we're gonna
use that as a as a as a Monday show I
don't know we should talk about that
could be used it as Monday show Monday
off Monday
what's that we have a guest on Monday
maybe we use it on Tuesday show I don't
know
but or maybe it just end up as a member
show not really sure but we just got
t-shirts that we're gonna be selling at
the live show yeah bring a lot of cash
folks the t-shirts are gonna be tickets
are only 15 bucks
t-shirts gonna cost you 75 dollars per
t-shirt and we're also getting some
sweet posters made I think I'm not sure
but what else do we have stickers
oh yes we have some of the the
limited-edition tote bags
those are retro code back where those
limited the last time we had a public
show - they were the same ones okay yeah
same ones that's a good one
these are throwback tote bags I think we
got about five of them left as opposed
to those newfangled topi and I'm
actually thinking about like one of the
ways I was thinking about cleaning out
the office here was to give away some of
the Air America paraphernalia like I get
that Air America
windbreaker in the closet which I was
thinking of maybe maybe will I don't
know what we'll do with that just give
it away or like maybe do like a an
auction to benefit a charity or
something that's a collector's item
yeah for a collector but I'm not going
to be a collector
don't forget just coffee co-op for a
coffee tea or chocolate using coupon
code majority get 10% off and our
members also get a ad-free version of
the show I didn't have any ads today but
some days we do so Michael last night
was Tuesday indeed and my understanding
is you had a show we I can tell by all
the bottles of beer that are still
sitting in their wastebasket oh really
yeah oh I'm glad you enjoyed it
no I didn't like be a beautiful bottle
of bourbon that you got as a gift wait
did I didn't mention you fool I didn't
know that was for me that was for you
specifically you ungrateful but who gave
it to me
our guest in the studio brought you a
bottle of bourbon that's why I asked you
about it this morning oh I didn't listen
to Matt brother Matt and rot you digger
for us which we had a few of our parents
sorry that some what's a good bottle of
bourbon that we evolved that's more like
it
alright well I didn't realize thank you
more like didn't I didn't know I thought
that was your bourbon you must be
wearing orthotics because you stand
corrected
that's my favorite a hacky voice fell
joke uh mobs well thank you listener
Matt yes thank listener Matt I didn't
realize that okay actually I was legit
confused you and not thanked him before
cuz I thought he left you a little note
on it but anyways I saw card but I
didn't know what it was for you I didn't
know I didn't look at it because he just
told me I just saw that I mean I walked
in I was like what's that bottle of
bourbon and Matt's
I mean Brendan said no I just moved it
so Brendan go this type move by Brendan
and Miss info from you Oh drink up I
will yeah it's not just anybody that's
all needs a communal Wow so there you go
you're welcome
oh and he sells custom orthotics you
know welcome on behalf of TM is that
where you got that joke did he tell oh I
think that's a I feel like did you know
that he he was no I actually really
didn't know that that's hilarious
that's his thing he'd say yeah he'd say
wow that's that's synchronous that was
when Sam was bitching and then things
turned when the Bourbon was discovered
there was an orthotic shop but what was
actually going on something that emerged
from the ether no Mikey Const was on we
talked about her agenda for New York
City public advocate which is actually
it seems to me like the type of position
that should exist in any I don't even
just any city but really any town like
anywhere that requires any type of sort
of additional oversight it's a really
interesting office I feel like in some
towns if you had a position like that
that person would end up in a ditch I
think that that's super possible and I
yeah I don't want to put any bad energy
out but she's refusing to take any real
estate money we talked about Amazon we
talked about the housing crisis black
lives matter agenda in New York City
plus we touched on the LA teacher
strikes and we did a bunch more in the
main show and then we have an unlocked
post game where we did live coverage of
Trump the Sanders response we talked
about Boo Boo's scenario and Busoni REO
Dave Reubens new demo Dave Reubens new
demographic material
there any gay people here it's are there
any incest here
anyone who wants to shoot a Pilates
studio here so some new Dave Rubin
material patreon.com slash T MVS get the
whole thing this Sunday elicit history
of Shabbos and Bulevar with his former
legal adviser and I want to say tomorrow
night
there's an event in Chelsea at 7:00 p.m.
and it's the final fundraiser before the
cycle closes for know Mikey's campaign
it's at the Chelsea Music Hall at 7:00
p.m. there's gonna be a lot of great
musicians and performers
I'm giving like a little bit of a spiel
there too and it's like the type of
thing that you know if you give the
suggested bottom donation is 27 bucks
and I think that becomes 250 bucks with
the city matching fund so come see us
and support that campaign yeah we'll put
a link to that on the on the blog today
and in the 'post I'll send it listen you
want Jamie Intifada yeah so this week we
are back in a big way with our friend
Sophie Weiner who is an editor at
Splinter as well as a romantic refugee
an American expat living in Australia we
talked about the hell oh my gosh it's
too bad because Barry Weiss just came
out with her piece about it like we
might need to record a special addendum
that thing was bad I haven't read it yet
we do have a special hate on for her
that's anti photos wait was that the one
where of like Australians are super
happy Canada and a thong
stop that one oh the Canada thong came
from Sedaris but she's I don't mind that
joke well we're well let Jamie say the
thing and then we'll do the yeah I
encourage anyone who wants to know about
Australia to not read the Barry Weiss
piece and listen to our episode instead
because we talk about all kinds of
things who's more racist indigenous
rights anti-shah in Australia the
senator who used taxpayer money to go
hang out with Nazis it's crazy we also
end with a strong stand of Donald
Trump's adoption of the Brezhnev
Doctrine with regard to proletarian
intern
nationalism in the face of
counter-revolution with in 1970s to 80s
Afghanistan tanki's for Trump and Matt
two books coming up probably the next
one is gonna be the house of the seven
gables by Nathaniel Hawthorne and then
Adam to sz's book that we talked about
I'm actually spacing on the name but we
had him on this show for it let's talk
about the economic crisis and I'm
talking with two guys who know more
about economics than I do
and so literary hangover check it out
how the did that happen bro the
funny thing about yeah she said she made
some like observations of Australia that
are fairly banal that I think we're
accurate people essentially are not you
know obsessed with what they do for work
that largely speaking and this was true
when I was there for an extended period
of time
25 years ago it was probably a little
less so now but definitely you know
something that was obvious they worked
to live as opposed to I think in this
country where we live to work on some
level and and then she makes that
observation and then she makes the what
she perceives as the completely
unrelated observation in fact deficit
that economically though the that that
the country is like that hot girl in
this is the analogy she uses the hot
girl in freshmen class who doesn't
realize how pretty she is
oh my god and there's something to that
effect it's tight and the analogy is
that they're great but they don't they
don't have the economic ambition that
they should have as a country and right
fascinating things like she doesn't
realize like on one hand people live
their life and enjoy themselves so much
and they're not obsessed with what they
do but on the other hand they're not
striving enough as they want
economically and she doesn't realize
that these two things are actually
related that the reason why you have a
country full of people who enjoy their
lives and put that first is because
there isn't the relentless will to power
and a desire to you know not leave
anything on the table in terms of
economic advantage and to you know in
some respects provide for people broadly
and not make it necessary that you work
relentlessly I mean IIIi don't know if
it's still the case but certainly twenty
five years ago almost every and now it's
more popular I think in this country but
almost every Australian when they would
graduate the equipment of high school
here not every but a significant number
of them would then travel for like a
year but she's right yeah he's also just
I mean she's so like Alex Perrine has
this tweet where he says I know like
four hundred left of center writers and
editors who had never turned anything
something dis incipit and I feel like
even people who quote unquote like her
have to know this in their bones and
it's like it's so dumb on so many levels
but it's also essentially plagiarism
right not literally but like Thomas
Friedman would write this in like the
late 90s about France when he made his
globalization arguments they have a
great lifestyle but they actually less
coherent because he at least drew the
connection he's drew the connection he
come for the cringe-worthy analogy the
connection day for the total lack of
synthesis of two right bases but now at
least Thomas Freeman did the bad
synthesis which is they have a nice
lifestyle but they have to give it up
for the horrifying model of
globalization I propagandize for she's
too dense to even understand now you
said how those things intersect I don't
know she's kind of that there is some
type of weird nepotism thing yeah she's
so and I'm talking totally I mean of
course it's somewhat of course I don't
like her ideology but there it's it's a
Reuben principle there's also just like
the guys stupid right she's bad she's
not a good writer she's not
eight what's going on here her dad's
like at AIPAC neocon and her mom's like
Hillary neo lip so that's not like I'm
talking like probably a ton of those
yeah right yeah I'm talking like the
nepotism of like who made a phone call
like what's going on that's what I'm
talking about I'm not just talking about
the standard issue mediocrity that
people like respond from I learn about
that
it appears that um our friend and guest
Sophie Weiner actually just published a
blog post today on splinter titled Barry
Weiss knows nothing about Australia so
maybe check it out folks all right folks
gonna take a quick break and head into
the fun half where and we will take your
phone calls and your I am I am turning
on the I am machine so just take it easy
everybody take it easy okay see you
there see you there
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the I am Adam coke head your
fun half song is essentially Aziz
Ansari's theme song let's go Jim the two
six six number on the phone you call
from a two six six number who's this
where you come from
hello hello this may sorry yes it is you
I take it you're abroad yes sorry I've
been trying to get through for a few
days on the Skype and her yeah and maybe
what to call up to wish you guys a happy
New Year and all that but also I'm sorry
yeah give them a shot your name and
where are you calling from sounds like
I'm from New Jersey accent I'm Greg I'm
from the UK but I'm living in Berlin at
the moment
okay well Greg welcome to the program
happy New Year to you yeah thank you
um yeah I mainly would call up distance
Aida from an abroad perspective you guys
have been really useful for me kind of
like articulating a lot of my thoughts
and even like in a European context and
I've got a younger brother who it's just
the ID University doing his media and
you got a friend who he was really
worried about who was falling in with a
bunch of uh Jordan Pierson sam Harris
tied YouTube videos down that rabbit
hole and he didn't quite know what to do
with it so I sort of said to him you
should check out this guy Sam cedar the
libertarian videos all that kind of
stuff and I saw him over the Christmas
period and he said oh yeah you know my
mate I said yeah and he goes he's
completely off that train because pretty
much I think there's a really strange
thing that happens with a lot of those
guys where I mean we know this about
Harris and I'm Pearson and all those
guys they invite each other all on to
their own programs and this kind of like
little echo chamber so anyone who kind
of lives in that ecosystem on YouTube
just sees these guys hanging out with
each other and telling each other how
intelligent and how great they are and
I think like obviously debate and
discussion and stuff like that it's a
really important thing but I don't think
it can be understood understated the
value of I think if the thing was just
English God watching videos and seeing
you guys just laughing at him and
ridiculing him and just be like I don't
think he was used to seeing that and
then literally yeah my brother was just
like yeah he's just calling you up
they've been sharing videos all that
kind of stuff very hard to do that you
know I don't know that I've quite I mean
I think that's an excellent point the
the the amount of validation that comes
when you see all these guys to sort of
keep going on their own on their own
shows with each other and nodding their
head and agreement I mean I think look
the it is there there are a lot of shows
that I think insulate themselves and
that's the way that they protect
themselves from criticism and these guys
sort of just expand the insulation a
little bit bigger and make it look like
they're actually open to conversations
but yeah that's interesting to me that
why we call it the jerk and circle a
jerk encirclement that's right okay I'm
moving back to Britain hopefully in the
next few months to do a master's and
stuff I think there's so many parallels
between what happened in the u.s. post
2016 election and what we've experienced
in the UK with it brexit and I wrote I
did an interview with a guy who wrote a
book zero books Brian Cole King called
the meaning of Trump and he writes a lot
about how sort of you know neoliberalism
has sort of brought along this collapse
and stuff and um same as you've seen in
the US I think a lot of left meaning
left-leaning people I kind of like just
floating they're very you know they
don't know what's happening and that
idea is still a stability and debate and
things like that obviously they're
useful things but also the idea that you
know like the fight has gotten beyond a
point where you can just focus on
civility and stuff sometimes it can be
effective to dunk on people sometimes it
is effect
to say no we draw the line here focus
our energy where we actually need it to
be in stuff I think um yeah I don't know
even what you guys are saying with the
gentleman calling from Vietnam yesterday
and Michael you were saying you know
over the next few years that we don't
know what's happened but something very
serious and quite like significant is
happening with the left and liberalism
right now and we kind of need to be
ready to have the next step forward from
that as opposed to continuing to try and
fight these battles on the rules of a
game that clearly have changed by this
point that's right yeah and I you know I
I think um I'm still waiting for someone
to you know either to point my attention
to or for someone out there to write a
more in-depth perspective on this stuff
from a generational standpoint because
you know look the baby boom
obviously it was a post-war phenomena
and I imagine and I don't know this but
I imagine the you had a similar dynamic
in the UK right I mean people come home
from the war and then you get this sort
of burst of of new families and I would
imagine that the generational dynamics
are not terribly different around the
world I mean you know because it's all a
function of the of World War two but I
just yeah I'm sorry just one other quick
plug on a related note I'm glad that
your brother's friend is already done
but uh Ben Burgess has really good
videos for zero books where he actually
more so than us he's a logic professor
so he's actually using oh right skews
very much so he had a great debate with
a with with some some Jordan Peterson
cultist and what was great was they were
debating the viability of worker
cooperatives because these guys always
like oh logically oh the best person
needs to make the decision for a
business to succeed I think that's
pretty basic and then in addition is
sort of explaining why that's a logical
fallacy which isn't is interesting to me
to be honest he also was like well you
know we can talk about things like majah
gone and the workers cooperatives of
Cleveland the stuff that they're so good
we're getting two of the weeds I think
we gotta get back for it suppose here
exactly ideas not beginning I think
anybody who says the words first
principles I think generally yeah
immediately suspect now that's just
that's basically yeah I mean like
training wheels to its also starts to
become like when you argue with a
creationist and then you say like the
fossil record and they're like well
Satan put that there so I don't accept
that exactly my point you might as well
say like when you say when you hear our
first principles what you might as well
hear is someone say well the Torah says
something that's different so anyways I
don't have Yahweh would appreciate you
appreciate the concept religious people
are usually quickly regarding what you
just said they're about the boomers I
always get very frustrated speaking to
English people or British people who say
oh yeah no at least we're not as bad as
America because I've seen something very
insidious happening now where at the
very least there was some element of
class consciousness in the UK over the
past 40 years and in conversations I've
had with all the people now on 26 until
people in their mid-thirties and even my
parents I'm seeing that sort of
disappearing and I had a conversation
with a cab driver taking me to the
airport over Christmas and when we were
talking about all these things he said
well you know people talk about class
and I don't really see myself as any of
that really anymore I'm just too tried
guy trying to get on and I understood it
but it made me think about that line you
know you might not be interested in
politics that politics is interested in
you really want to say to him you know
you might not see yourself as a class
but I can guarantee you Jacob Riis MOG
or as Thompson these people in power who
and acting it they know what your class
is and you know what there is and I know
what their interests are and it's
worrying populism does that's what
fascism does it convinces people in the
working class that they have interests
in common with people in the ruling
class and defines people based on nation
and tribe and race and ethnicity rather
than you know they're clear interests
maybe he's just trying to get up there's
a guy with interesting ideas calling
from a far
zero 9 area code who might this be
I don't know my area code is this is me
it is you and and who might you be
hey this is Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan
how are you sir
oh I forgot even think to thank you for
the wine in fact I haven't even opened
that box I had that underneath the stuff
and there's something in there
apparently Wow ungrateful liquor gift
you know I see one empty beer bottle and
missed the whole bottle of bourbon one
empty beer all those all of those soft
drinks are not us sir you get your facts
straight we mean those you mad from of
course yeah there's also more than one
beer bottle in there anyway how are you
please Matt Ron Reagan fly it down we
got to settle something you started
Ronald Reagan what's on what's it what's
up well I call about that by cuz there's
a gift in there specifically for Matt
and I told you that I know DM Matt on
Twitter the other day and he had no idea
what think Sam see two blue things have
been I've been been piling up a little
bit on my end but yes as that was that
it yeah things tend to pile up on my end
too and I've taken two weeks off really
closer to a week ago oh good okay I just
wanted to say real quick I thought Chuck
in Nancy really nailed it yesterday
they just got right to the point
you know they looked very serious and
and you know professional and the
presentation was amazing and didn't
imagine somebody doing a better job
you know I'm glad they went with the
cream of the crop there and lots of
talked about so that was my sarcastic
joke but lots of talk about the optics
which were awful I but I also think the
content was awful because they right out
of the gate they said we agree that we
need border securities like they're
agreeing with the underlying premise of
the whole argument about the wall being
a long-term problem with the Democratic
Party is it for the life of me I can't
tell you really what is the Democratic
Party's immigration policy like right I
can tell you what the Republicans are
it's much easier don't like them don't
want them well there are different
versions of the same thing right
well I don't know what the Democratic
immigration policy is I mean they say we
want border security
I think border security is okay like I
don't want I don't want you know people
showing up at the border with you know a
with a with a you know an anti-tank
missile like but but you know I don't
mind having customs officials at the
border I just think that they should be
waving people think you ever go if you
have the experience of going to the
eurozone in a Schengen country that like
that's a very good example of what
you're talking about working in the real
world they clearly have a very highly
specialized process if something
actually driving here but I know but I
mean I'm talking yeah right or drive
through Canada but I mean a shame but
there is literally I'm thinking of just
that wave through you're talking about
for most people are like where you going
why are you here I'm gonna go spend two
weeks in Germany good Haitians visit
front great calm well yeah the
distinction is that the Democratic Party
upholds the criminalization of migration
which you know you can have border
security without that migration used to
be seen as primarily
a labor issue and then after 9/11 they
don't they won't say that but it's it's
it's sad it's essential that they do
though cuz that's like part of
neoliberalism when you have something
like NAFTA that basically recolonize is
Mexico and makes it easier to exploit
workers over there and causes a wave of
migration then you have to trap workers
on the other side of the wall otherwise
US companies aren't going to be able to
exploit them as much III mean I think
that that that Express is a level of
contemplation that goes beyond what I
think most Democrats with it that's it
that's exactly my point
that's exactly my point I think it's an
essential part of the whole neoliberal
project I I know I don't I don't
disagree with you I just think the
reality is for them they're governing
from a position of fear yeah they're
afraid to say anything you know this is
like bold and plus it's complicated and
so it's easier to just say we agree or
agree I totally agree I mean because if
they really wanted to if they really
wanted to weaponize what you're talking
about
in an intelligent way you know there
would be a whole guest worker program
that is far more sophisticated and they
would set up more means in which to
exploit as opposed to just simply saying
border security it reminds me their
position on immigration reminds me of
like the Democrats in the war on terror
where it's just sort of like we've got
two mouths ease words and I don't know
if we believe them or not but we don't
have time to really think about it and
and that's it there there there is a
fear and on some level I also think
which is you know sort of so hopeful
about having someone like AOC and Bernie
Sanders say these things that are more
direct is that I think there's more of a
vacuum there in that in that policy
position then appears like everything
you may be saying about you know you
know what it does for corporations it
may be true
and I think it's true I mean obviously
you get a you know cheaper labor and but
I don't think that there is a cohesion
within the Democratic Party and I think
to the extent that policies that help
the agenda you're talking about which I
think is largely like the was the
Republican agenda for a long time is
gets there because you're simply a
vacuum like there's no there's just
simply no strong policy when it comes to
immigration their their interest that
that are served by the status quo to be
sure but they're you know major
corporate interests are also heavily
lobbying for immigration reform dipped
for different reasons and then I want
them but when immigration reform was
supposed to pass in 2013 there was
Microsoft and Boeing and all of these
corporations putting you know huge
amounts of money into into the same bill
and so it's also true that corporate
interest could be served with a with a
robust and profound immigration reform I
just think that they it's too confusing
and they're not willing to put the time
is it it's all major it's four corners
just basically trying to draw at the
clock on exactly and the real problem
with last night is they failed to draw
any real distinction between what
they're so you know we want to open the
government so we can debate this well
you just said you want border security
but maybe with nuanced differences with
drones or other technology and so you're
agreeing on the the faulty premise which
is that the problem with the immigration
system is our porous border which just
is you know fundamentally not true and
it's a shame that there have been these
stories of brave undocumented workers
who work at Trump properties who've
spoken out there there was just a story
about how they're literally handing out
fake green cards at one of his golf
courses in New Jersey and
they failed to capitalize on any of
those stories you know hypocrisy is
boring as you always say but you know
they could point out this is a president
who doesn't really have a problem with
with the illegal immigration look at the
way he operates his own businesses yeah
I mean I guess I mean I think they
should come out with some type of
affirmative actual policy yeah right I
mean yeah and I think like forcing the
Democrats to do that would force them to
make a you know some like some choices
on this rather than just sort of like
this mealy-mouthed it's completely four
corners type of situation and you know I
maybe they just found it like there's no
other option right now because when we
push for some type of comprehensive
immigration reform that's what they used
to say right which in that in and of
itself like the details of that proposal
there was some of those things I liked
and some of the things I didn't like but
at the very least you know go on and say
daca or Doppel they just from a
political standpoint they're not doing
anything you know on top of like from a
like a pure policy standpoint they don't
seem to be advocating anything anyways
but I think there's I think we are
headed at one point to a reckoning on
this issue in the Democratic Party the
Democratic Party ultimately has to make
a decision and that is you know what is
the immigration policy gonna be can't
just be this sort of like you know yeah
sorta but just not so harsh exactly
that's it well you know sort of just not
so harsh is the new Senate Democratic
policy it's a shame the European Union
isn't doing it we do it and do it can we
do it into a hash tag as my daughter is
telling me that sass been so hush I wish
you right the EU would be are you trying
to say Matt that the EU would be a more
helpful sort of example if it was
performing better yeah that could be
exactly yeah because I remember when I
was in in London like going to France or
Amsterdam was incredibly easy yeah is
incredible and then and no and there's
no evidence whatsoever like there's a
backlash to open importer
his policy in Europe because xenophobia
has always been an issue there period
because of austerity because of the
economic crisis but there's no
correlation with security issues on that
and that's actually in a place where
like as an example like refugees coming
from Syria United States anybody who
says that they aren't vetted is a liar
period full stop in Europe there
actually was some examples of like Oh
like a huge amount of people are coming
here that are you know it's just a huge
mass and they should come but we
actually need to have some new
procedures for vetting them that was
actually a real clear security at the
airport no that was actually but I'm
saying that's a real thing no but in
terms just like literal volume of people
that was an actual thing in Europe it
wasn't all total lie and it could easily
be dealt with and handled my point is
that none of that led to any increased
security problems at all period full
stop so even if the EU is having a lot
of problems because of austerity and the
rise of fascist parties the case study
still works for us there it the the most
robust example of open borders we had
have been nothing but cultural economic
enhancement on the intentionality tip
though I I have to disagree a little bit
a few episodes back we unanticipated in
labor unions and in the labor movement
and they wanted to neutralize that
threat
basically to their interests and after
migration was criminalized
yeah they lost a lot of power immigrant
workers lost a lot of power to to drive
up wages and it actually drove down
wages for everyone I have no doubt that
there have there aren't there aren't
specific interests that are conscious of
it I'm talking about the Democratic
Party yes so in in in the year 2018 I
mean if you walked in and sat down with
Chuck Schumer and said like what is the
policy on immigration I honestly think
that he would say not its conscious and
intentional in there
right now the outcomes are they're
saying but also they're operating within
a economic and political framework that
was created by these interests in the
70s whether or not they're aware of it I
also think the the framework that
they're operating in is that they are
afraid of a decent amount of bigotry and
misinformation and Chuck Schumer is just
weak and they don't want to take a
position on this I mean that's we're
talking about intentionality but Ronald
Reagan the whole you know you want to
look tough and you want to be strong and
it's the same thing with the crime right
you know you got to be tough on crime
except for the fact that crime is down
in historical levels across the country
and every single measure except for
probably financial crimes I would again
point to the economic base though like
why did people spread negative
stereotypes about immigrants in the
first place they were afraid that they
were gonna hurt their their jobs their
labor
are you not disagreeing with that but
we're talking about something much more
limited which is what is the Democratic
Party's immigration position do you know
what it is no right that's all I'm
saying
that's exactly what I'm saying I mean
yeah all of these things to be true I'm
just pointing to Ronald Reagan now
Patapon I'm corny back oh my god I
always want to get to the root you know
I understand all right let's go to well
let's go to a great thinker on this in
terms of the Wong's
of course I'm talking about dave rubin
who showed up on some too boots radio
what is it who I
what two-way radio show Julie two-way
radio show and dave rubin has dug deep
into this and this issue and has picked
up the talking points that where did we
see this it was Trump Trump yeah Trump
in the kracken about the imaginary walls
around the Obama house I guess maybe
there are walls around Obama's house
he's former president there's some
reason to believe that he might be
afraid but the premise well let's listen
to
Dave Rubin so do you think they're not
making that argument they're making an
argument about morality and the simple
fact is every one of these people making
an argument about morality has a wall or
fence around the house and most of them
are walking from the security and have
cameras and all sorts of things so you
can't only a wall doesn't work because
you've got one or is it a moral Act
because you've got one around your house
so run you're gonna take down your wall
and take away your guns and your
security and then talk about morality I
guess you could do that but that just
shows you how silly this argument yeah
I'm positive for one second now look in
Dave's mind imaginarily the the people
who are talking about the immorality of
wall all have guns and video cameras and
walls against around their fence I don't
know how he would know that my apartment
has walls though that you do have walls
it also sometimes the walls hold up the
ceiling but the absurdity of of Dave's
point of course is that to argue we need
walls on the border you would also be
arguing that we need walls on the
northern border like why do we not what
how is it that we have this Mike and
I'll remind you the northern border of
this country is more than I think it's
two and a half times the length of the
southern border I don't really know and
if Beth didn't I'm gonna clean but Reid
boy maybe we just put balls around other
states maybe there should be a wall
around a state but I don't need to look
into that movie now
he also doesn't understand the
difference between an argument about
morality and an argument about efficacy
well he sort of shifted back and forth a
little bit but three winners and he
doesn't also seem to recognize that just
like a wall is just the fact that it's a
wall does not mean that it serves the
same purpose in different context people
on the Left just hate was just as a
structure it's unbelievable in you know
and kudos to Dave because I know they
will not he will not see this or hear
this because but the funny part is he
will block on Twitter just about anybody
who critiques him except for me it feels
like he hasn't blocked me either so far
now I'm quite sure he must have me muted
because I don't want to use it is what
I'm right but he won't block me because
he doesn't want to be seen as shutting
down I mean this is the the thing that
sort of really really in some ways I
find this the most despicable about him
he won't block me because he knows I
have a loud enough platform to talk
about how he blocked me and that it
would hurt his brand to block me because
he's open to dialogue you never give
your enemy's content right real said but
he will do it he will block everybody
else because because they can't make
enough of a story of it but he's afraid
of blocking me because he knows that
will show up in the next profile that
he's done by somebody and that's why he
doesn't do it he figured out in 2 main
has been a night lung a strategy said
she done this and came up with the mute
strategy here you go
so last ik this is a classic like this
is a classic conservative argue this is
definitely something take psych you
serious Eric's wall well writes my
favorite part of the conservative
outrage responses to this tweet is but
the Berlin Wall was to keep people in
argument missing entirely that a wall is
a wall no matter what side of it you're
on its medieval it's a symbol of us not
us and not us and that is not the US
right so the idea is that a wall is sort
of like the antithetical to say the
Statute of Liberty that the Statue of
Liberty says we welcome immigrants and a
wall is really a memorial to saying we
don't welcome immigrants that we are
hostile that we feel we're under siege
and of course by all possible measures
we are not under siege I mean the
you remember the recall the the rhetoric
of the invaders and whatnot but so this
guy baseball crank who is this guy Dan
mcLaughlin I think he's like a lawyer
okay so the Vietnam Memorial Wall is
also a wall
so as the Wailing Wall so is the Green
Monster if you're against all walls
regardless of purpose or function you're
against houses churches and hospitals I
have a friend who got blocked by a
baseball crank and who because he
tweeted in him your law firms clients
should demand a billing rate discount
based off of your tweets well I will
also say this incidentally the what the
Vietnam Memorial Wall is there as a way
of you know as a memorial not to keep
people in or out no needs to keep the VA
hung you actually walk around the wall
but don't walk around Wow so if it's
there they don't walk it on the Wailing
Wall was in fact a wall to keep people
out it was part of the the the original
temple and it was a way to keep people
out but now it's a wall for please let
my son get into Harvard and the Green
Monster of course is for baseball
purposes I mean then that destroy Fenway
for us though is lefties in
Massachusetts because we're so upset by
walls that we just came anyway a leftist
leftist oh yeah yeah yeah yeah because I
was like no because there is a right
exact wrong wrong scenario but as we're
making fun really messes with your head
we're making fun of a baseball crank
back to the tab yeah I was ready to have
some picky issues with the first tweet
but the second one really just blew it
away
let's hear Bernie Sanders his response I
mean the idea that there's a crisis at
the southern border is just simply
absurd and by any stretch of the
imagination I would say it
to crisis if you're one of those 14,000
children who are being warehoused by the
US government its crisis if you're one
of their family members yeah Republicans
created indeed but the idea that US
national security is in any way
implicated by this is just simply absurd
and and if it is then Donald Trump is
being incredibly negligent president
Trump you want to talk about crises at a
time of massive income and wealth
inequality tens of millions of our
workers are earning starvation wages and
are unable to adequately provide for
their families that's a crisis you want
to talk about a national emergency 30
million Americans have no health
insurance and many more are underinsured
thousands die each year because they
don't go to a doctor when they should
and our life expectancy in this country
is actually in decline while the
pharmaceutical industry makes tens of
billions of dollars a year in profit one
in five Americans can't afford the
medicine they need now that is a crisis
we should be working on right now and
here's another crisis too many of our
seniors are living in desperate poverty
and about half of older Americans have
no retirement savings hundreds of
thousands of young people cannot afford
to go to college in this country and
over 40 million are trying to deal with
the outrageous levels of student debt
they are experiencing what are we going
to do about those crises so there's
Bernie Sanders responding and he had the
perfect response he's so good in a sense
that you know and obviously he literally
say this but the way he did he didn't do
like any of I talked about this last
night like just like grandstanding like
oh how dare he and Bob Loblaw he just
basically said like this guy's an
 here's what's actually going on
first we'll deal with with regards to
the crisis he's creating with regards to
immigration because of his obscene
policies and now here's everything else
like let alone the fake crisis that the
demagogue is creating here's poverty
here's climate here's healthcare here's
inequality and let's just like get to it
no
he's actually a very effective
communicator yeah as opposed to sort of
like trying to sell people on outrage
I mean more often than not you have to
sell outrage then it's not outrageous
and when you're overselling outrage like
you know when you're selling it then
you're sort of like you know you're
you're you're telling the the listener
on some level that that they don't get
it and when you know look the easiest
thing in the world to get in this
instance is that Donald Trump is a flirt
yeah well that's the easiest thing in
the world to get yes but when that's all
you have and you have no real structural
ideas to make people's lives better of
course you're gonna harp on the outrage
- you can also have non-structural ideas
to make people's life better and you
just you should go directly towards them
they don't necessarily have to be
structural responses you don't you don't
even have to have anything if we're just
talking from the standpoint of rhetoric
it's just that there's good rhetoric and
there's bad rhetoric and to the extent
that you know Bernie Sanders practices
just better rhetoric it's just we're
just talking in terms of like
communication skill but he's also got
this stuff to back it up you know he's
not just a lot of hot air Negro
spiritual in voice of Mandy Patinkin
from The Princess Bride
Latin Rush Limbaugh my name is Alexandra
Cascio Cortese you killed my father
prepared to die what was interesting
about last night let me just do a couple
more Jonathan Armstead Sam fantastic
interview today I'm gonna get some going
to get this book for my library soon as
someone who attended headstart I've
always realized that certain programs
our poverty our poverty that are super
important and to this point I'd like to
point out that trumps government
shutdown means the USDA only has about a
month's worth of funding to provide food
stamps to people yeah we talked about
this
yeah I think you know like the first
week of February is when things become a
problem
after that the government will have no
money which makes Trump's threat to keep
the government shutdown going a
terrorist demand if you're interested in
doing something you can Google DailyKos
food stamps shut down cuts and send a
form letter to your representative
Winnipeg Craig that Canada in a thong
line is a subtitle of Berry's piece yeah
it's also from David Sedaris I think it
is also please don't let her talk about
us like that we have our own thongs
thank you very much president Trump
thank you for so many nice comments
regarding my oval office speech a very
interesting experience name's Darwin Sam
is a fellow Jew I thought I'd share my
discovery of recent conspiracy among our
people to rival those involving the
banks in the media apparently a decade
ago a group of powerful Jews met in a
room and decided to dose the drinking
water of the editors of major
publications so they believed that Barry
Weiss can write her way out of a paper
bag
I think it worked that that's the first
saya saya an Oryx conspiracy that I'm
pretty open to train boy Virginia
Governor Ralph Northam has introduced a
bill to repeal voter ID laws and
Institute's no excuse absentee voting
nice Mary Li Jiang TNT hosting a
fundraiser for New Mickey in Astoria
next Wednesday 1 6 maybe min 116 JB
please call your two senators and
representatives today and tell them you
want the end to shut down and that you
don't want a wall even though polling
supports us on these positions folks at
the Senate office says calls were about
50/50 on this you know if you go to the
majority dot F M site at the bottom it
will show you who your Congress people
are and I think you can click it and get
their info Ryan from Ohio what do you
guys think about Brian singer winning a
Golden Globe despite being allegedly
being guilty of the same crimes as Kevin
Spacey I did not know that he is
allegedly guilty of the same crimes as
Kevin Spacey
I did not know that he won a Golden
Globe so I do not think much about it
but maybe maybe unlikely I will look
into it
Wisconsinite
hello from the IM machine we're gonna
have a border wall in canada is gonna
pay for it a square well guess the Trump
show needs higher ratings now that he's
staging these performances in keeping
the shutdown or is it reelection or the
madness I suspect that the reason why
Trump wrote that thing about the forest
fires in California was specifically I
gotta change that to like that is the
most naked obvious use of that attempt
but hundred percent alright here's what
here's what's interesting last night and
generally look I think Shep Smith and
Chris Wallace are let me put this I
don't want to say useless but of very
little loose Italy use big leaps yeah
yeah but last night interestingly they
were on the anchor desk during the Trump
speech and you know like that caller who
told us you know one of the things the
the intellectual dumb web does is they
all go on each other shows nod and and
sort of self they they're they're sort
of like a self licking ice cream cone in
terms of their own intelligence and
their deep thoughts we're all yes I'm
calm calm confirming that you're very
intelligent based upon your confirmation
that I'm very intelligent and of course
I must be intelligent because you're
intelligent and if you think I'm
intelligent then definitely we're both
intelligent and I'm here too and I'm
doing the debate I present on some level
that's what happens at Fox but in a
moment where you have the more skeptical
and the guys who their brand is to
pretend like they're journalists at Fox
News I imagine there was a little bit of
dissonance with the Fox audience after
Donald Trump got done with his speech
here's Shep Smith President Trump
speaking from the Oval Office in a short
time there will be a response from the
Democrats he
made a number of claims there speaking
specifically about murder rates among
those who are undocumented immigrants
the government statistics show that
there is less violent crime by the
undocumented immigrant population than
by the general population he called it a
crisis of the heart and soul he talked
about drug crossings for the border but
government statistics show much of the
heroin actually comes not over the
unguarded border but through ports of
call he talked about undocumented
crossings over the past the past months
in fact the number of undocumented
crossings over the southern border has
been steadily down over the last ten
years and the government reports that
there is more outward traffic than
inward traffic as for the trade deal he
mentioned with Mexico which he said
would pay for the wall that trade deal
is not yet complete and the president
said that law enforcement professionals
have requested the five point seven
billion dollars its he who requested it
and it's he who said he would own the
shutdown nevertheless he's making the
case to keep his base together on this
matter Chris Wallace is live with us in
Washington does that make the case Chris
for his base well it certainly does make
the case for his base the question is
that whether the base is enough and the
answer is it isn't because the Democrats
in an election in which the border wall
was a major issue took control of the
house and they have enough votes in the
Senate also to block any legislation
there you know in the movie the Dodd
father they talked about making an offer
that you can't refuse the president
tonight was making an offer the
Democrats can't accept one thing he
talked about was the shutdown and he
kept saying it that there's a shutdown
because the Democrats refused to fund
the wall the Democrats have just passed
a bill to fund every agency in the
government including the Department of
Homeland Security it's the President and
the Republicans in the Senate who have
refused to pass that so there you have
it I mean just some of the I guess the
the Fox News viewer is getting just a
slight bit of joy now I don't imagine
there's going to be some type of mass
exodus but you got a wonder like it's
got to get into the bloodstream a little
bit right I mean they have to hear to
hear that and go they can go it well
Fox is what's going on with Fox these
days I think they actually have built a
certain immunity because they've they've
always I don't know know less about
Wallace but certainly Shep has always
been a pressure valve but they don't see
that's the thing is that Shep is on it
like what like 2:00 in the afternoon
like a prime time ship is like six times
what it is that's true in the afternoon
for Hannity and they're there waiting
for you they're like the opening act
before the Rolling Stones come out get
the off me now but I mean that's I
mean that's what I wonder if if
something like that actually actually
impacts a certain number of their
viewers because you know Shep being on
in in primetime
you got to imagine that's pissing Sean
Hannity I'm sure it's pissing Sean
Hannity off right like maybe some
lawyers have told them that's Fox is
actually susceptible to some type of
mass class-action suit for like
prematurely eight right dumb old people
and they're like wait a second we need
to actually bring their cortisol levels
down we should have like a low live
broadcast
low lie one tonight there's some like
CTE type effect on just Fox News viewers
now before you start to think that
somehow Fox News viewers are getting the
truth because Shep Smith and Chris
Wallace were fact-checking I guess if
you could call it president Trump's oval
office address last night the next
morning as these Fox viewers wake up and
they can just tell themselves oh it all
must have been a bad dream because here
is what's your name Ainsley Earhardt
Ashley Ainsley her name is Ashley
Anthony is it Ashley angel that is how I
prefer to think of her their heart I
like how there's seams here error are
your heart
she basically convinces those Fox
viewers like what you heard last night
contrary to that in any way refuted what
President Trump said was just a bad
dream let me tell you the the real not
so much truth
oh sure these things really hit home
when you think about how hard you work
your waking up this morning you're
trying to put food on the table you're
going to work
many people go to jobs that they don't
like and then you look at the numbers
you're spending about $80,000 a little
more than $80,000 over the course of one
of those illegals lifetime to keep them
here in the United States you're paying
for them and you're working hard to pay
for them
then you look at the numbers of people
doing stuff that's not true
first of all those numbers not true
80,000 per undocumented immigrant that
is just simply not true and the the
number the number to you as an
individual that it would even cost you
even if that was true $80,000 would be
pennies and the billions of dollars
actually that you're spending on things
like ice and a would be wall would dwarf
that number
remember undocumented immigrants if
they're here the way that they're
feeding themselves is by working and if
they're working they're kicking in to
Social Security unless their employers
are ripping them off but it's very
possible if they're if they're posing is
as citizens they're kicking into Social
Security but guess what they're never
gonna get the money back
can you guess what organization that
$80,000 number comes from and and and
I'm sure it's been debunked but it's
just a they've just picked up a number I
mean that's basically I put good thanked
for them and you're working hard to pay
for them then you look at the numbers of
people that are doing illegal drugs here
a lot of the illegal drugs are coming
from the southern border and the
president highlighted that and then to
the extent that there are any drugs
coming from the southern border they are
coming through ports of entry every
single organization that works in terms
of drugs says that the vast majority
eighty to ninety percent of drugs that
are smuggled into this country enter in
at a legal port of entry they just can't
find them in the cars or they're built
into or they're you know in the the
cargo of the plane or somebody's wearing
the drugs or what
ever it is that's the way they come in
they don't come in like in this big
Caravan in the middle of the desert
that's a little bit more explicit but
these are sophisticated operations
little drugs are coming from the
southern border and the president
highlighted that last night and then
you'd hear him talk about he said
something he said imagine if this were
your child that were killed by an
illegal alien because we hear Kate
Steinle parents we heard the parents of
the fire chief parents that were in
Knoxville Tennessee their young son was
killed by the Steinle family is said to
stop mentioning us and hairstyling
repeatedly repeatedly that were in
Knoxville Tennessee their young son was
killed by a suspected illegal immigrant
you we heard about officer sting in
California this week or last week and
talked to his family and many of you
contributed to pay off his mortgage he
will never be there to see his little
boy grow up the president highlighted
the Air Force veteran in California that
was raped and murdered and beaten to
death with a hammer by an illegal alien
he talked about the the Georgia illegal
alien that killed his neighbor beheaded
him and dismembered him he talked about
the ms-13 gang members in Maryland that
are unaccompanied minors that were
arrested and charged with stabbing and
beating a 16 year old girl you hear all
of that and you wonder why Nancy Pelosi
and Chuck Schumer are calling this
they're not they're saying it's immoral
to build a wall they're saying it's not
a crisis look at the video listen to the
numbers it was amazing
oh sorry was it was Molly Tibbets who I
was thinking of that said like hey stop
mentioning us every time you want to
fear monger about immigrants I mean it's
you know that's basically there's your
your healthy dose of Fox News trying to
scare you about immigrants in the
morning and this is the fight but
they're losing they're losing this
battle and that's just the reality of it
they're the the the Cato Institute found
that the arrest rate for undocumented
immigrants in Texas for example was 40%
that a below that of native-born
Americans I mean you could go on there
and you could spend the in
hire two hours of whatever it is Fox and
Friends in the morning just listening
off horrific acts by native-born
Americans in terms of killing in fact
they make shows and shows and shows of
these on Discovery ID check out jewel
facts dog the tools are always doing if
you ever have to hold hands Siddartha
it's dot-gov now it's dark cough and
auntie juice if you talk to a mother
whose son is in a hurry and
wants blood no matter what
no it seriously it's a really fascist
 pure fascism and it's and it is
what's astonishing is like yes they lie
about the numbers but everything else is
exactly what you said it's as simple as
repeating random horrific acts that
happen to be committed by undocumented
people right Bart business their whole
website of course I mean going back to
even like that war on Christmas video
like do you know there's a there's an
elementary school in Wisconsin where
they took the words Jesus out of silent
night yeah you know we make the
comparison to Nazi Germany but actually
if you look at publication history in
this country in like the 1830s and 40s a
lot of newspapers were sold off of like
escaped slave stuff and then that also
that morphed into criminalizing based on
race that was a very like when this was
their the slaves are escaped do you
think rate in Germany that's what I'm
trying to say like we we can kind of I
guess is it Edward say like oriental
eyes to Nazi Germany a little bit like
no not us but this is we also we help
set the Nazi Germany playbook it's just
fun to do well the fact is is that
Americans are innovators is what you're
saying
we've always been a disruptor 's and
innovators and we fascism vertical we've
always been on the forefront of this
type of stuff yeah and to a lot of talk
about Germany or apartheid South Africa
like they did it without American
ingenuity you know people say things
like this is not America like mmm what
America have you been living in I think
there's a double-edged
or to that because it's also important
to recognize that there's been more than
just white populations in this country
from like the the founding of any of the
colonies so like you don't want to
forget about those people too but as far
as like their ruin structure definitely
meanwhile as a Jewish constituent of
Chuck Schumer's hello this is Chuck
Schumer finally borsch Epstein speaks to
me I am ready to hear this as you know
the Democrats in the Senate have said we
will move no legislation until the
government shutdown is over one of those
pieces of legislation is a larger
package of aid and this and that for
Israel and other Middle Eastern
countries but buried in that is the
Marco Rubio plea to some of the elderly
and wealthy Jews in West Palm Beach
basically saying that
is a criminalizing if you are an entity
that participates in the boycott divest
movement of Israel I mean this is I mean
look you can disagree with the idea of a
boycott but the concept of criminalizing
a boycott in this instance I mean I
don't know if it's unprecedented but
it's shocking how do you even enforce
that I think it has to do with federal
contracts in a federal contract I mean
so it's you're not I don't know that
you're actually criminalizing it per se
but you're basically saying you're not
eligible like you're blocking their free
speech I didn't say variance yes
destroying their free speech yes legally
it is unconstitutional I would argue it
but they're not criminalizing the speech
but they're the government is acting in
an unconstitutional way but you can't
even I think the the Trump
administration has rolled back the
regulations that the Obama
administration
and put in that you would rescind
government contracts for employers that
have stolen their employees wages so you
can literally steal the wages of your
employees but if you avoid buying
israeli-made products then you're
ineligible for it that's that was that's
legislation toys we really use the
savings to invest in a settlements
perfect but I want to hear boorish
Epstein on this before I really make my
mind out here's the bottom line I do
wonder for example how the Jewish
constituents of Chuck Schumer in New
York or of Nancy Pelosi in California
feel about the direction that the
Democratic Party is taking honestly it
is disgusting to me that this is not the
first time I've had to say this on-air
anti-semitism has no place in our
country period well speaking as a
constituent of Chuck Schumer's and as
Jew I would say FeO borscht in fact I
think if you find I don't know if they
allow you to Google anything outside of
the Sinclair studios there but I think
if you did rent alone you would find
that about 75% of us Jews actually
support a a more skeptical look at
Israel and I don't know what the support
for BDS is but I think it's probably I
don't think anyone majority of Jews who
are the most reliable democratic voting
bloc or maybe number two I think it is
don't have a problem with the direction
I think most of them would also want the
Democratic Party to capitulate less to
right-wing Israelis which you know sadly
is increasingly it describes
increasingly a larger portion of the of
the of the body politic in Israel to be
more humane and stop imposing a
an apartheid regime in regards to the
Palestinians so like some real
internalized anti-semitism you got going
on there well I guess so but here it is
line bought the Porsche asked and so I
wanted to answer here is line bottom Sam
Caesar hate Jew self
Donald Trump has different approach
strong Israel President does
unconventional approach which many find
controversy but Israel will be strong
that's the way it is you meant lack
you do nothing on Twitter I hate you
there's portion how much does he get
paid do we find that out 300 300
thousand dollars a year Jesus Christ how
do you think he writes his own stuff yes
do you think so yes all right well in
that case it's like almost the league
minimum so I didn't realize I didn't
realize he was actually writing his own
material I thought he was just a talking
head well in that case ya know you
should be getting four and a quarter got
you it was too good it was too erudite
for him to have written it himself and
it's quality stuff Donald Trump makes
decisions that heart liberals don't like
but hard decisions will be made that's
the bottom line
all right we got time for a couple of oh
this is a good story let's just I just
play this one more clip of Bill DeBlasio
here this is good I mean this is a
function what we're seeing right now
across the country you get in California
Gavin Newsom has introduced a a public
option or proposal in Washington State
was it we have jay Inslee proposed a
public option for his state I mean this
was something that people are
before in the affordable care act Newsom
has rolled out a single-payer plan I
should say for California it's very
difficult for a state to to do this on
their own it really needs to be
something that's federal but the the
idea of these proposals coming out and
de Blasio has come out with a public
option that basically fills a gap that
Medicaid where Medicaid does not cover
undocumented immigrants and others here
is de Blasio making that announcement
here it is good to see mayors and
governors stepping up although all of
these things should be instituted on a
federal level there should be no need
for this but from a political standpoint
it's good to exert this pressure
everyone is guaranteed the right to
health care everyone for two main New
Yorkers they live in fear they live in
fear of getting sick they don't know
where to turn they don't know how
they're going to afford health care
about 600,000 New Yorkers do not have
any health care coverage at all 600,000
people with nowhere to turn except the
emergency room which is exactly the last
place we want to see people go today we
take a huge step forward when this plan
is fully implemented every New Yorker
who needs a doctor will have an actual
doctor with a name and a place they're
going to have a card that will empower
them to go to that doctor whenever they
need and the specialty services that
will make all the difference we take the
public option that is Metro plus we
build it out we strengthen it we get it
to more and more people NYC care is
going to make a difference for those who
can afford something they'll pay on a
sliding scale for those who can't afford
anything care will be for free no one
will be turned away I can safely say
guaranteeing health care for all New
Yorkers is one of the big steps to
becoming the fairest big city in America
we're going to do it that's good stuff
and
anslee announced yesterday that they're
going to propose a publicly run health
insurance option for state residents and
these like there's gonna be available to
a limited number of people there's only
ten million people in the country who
get their health insurance through the
the Obamacare exchanges the difference
in Washington will be and I don't know
what the figure is in Washington but
let's presume it's several hundred
thousand people they will have a public
option that will enter into the
marketplace it will be able to deliver
the health insurance at a cheaper price
point because there's no profit they're
not looking to make a profit and it will
have obviously the minimum standards set
by the Obamacare may go further than
that I'm not sure this is something that
we should be able to see in every in
every state the it's expensive obviously
it should be a federal thing but the the
concept of this it just simply gets
cheaper the more people you bring into
it and and which is why what we really
should be doing is just expanding
Medicare to cover everybody and
hopefully that's where we're headed the
the Budget Committee Chairman John
Yarmuth Democrat from Kentucky basically
requested from the CBO a basically a
score if you will request a report on
the design and policy considerations
lawmakers would face in developing a
single-payer health system proposal so
it's basically looking like give us your
projection of costs for various things
and this is what you need to do to start
to build at an actual real construction
of policy so that you can actually see
like what what's gonna save us money
what's gonna cost us money what's going
to provide better care what's going to
provide worse care
and this is what this is exactly what
they should be doing it's very
encouraging they're doing it on day you
know five or whatever it is obviously
nothing can happen until Democrats
control both houses and the presidency
but this is where you start so this is
this is all good as they say all right
we got time for one more phone call
we barely and then I'll do a couple I am
so we'll get out here come from a seven
five seven area code who's this where
you come from
yes this is great Krieger from Virginia
Beach I was just trying to make two
quick points about Elizabeth Warren and
the Native American heritage also just
continuing the defense of it and
continuing to talk about it there there
is there is something in this country
like the history of this country the
Native American princess myth I don't
know if you are familiar with it or not
but I've actually been reading about it
and on this book yeah
Indian manifesto and it's just it
basically just talks about how its it
was initially something to hold over
from the colonies sort of passed down
through family heritage since then in
base of the sort of a Indus imeem a
terrible premise to be honest but um
more to the point it sorry
two quick points you said the native
yeah yeah the Native American when yeah
basically it's I'm just saying that it's
it's uh she she can't defend it and she
knows she should know better to know
that there is that his an entire
hereditary history of people they just
want to have a blood tie to the land and
sort of the man that they're sort of
believing the manifest destiny today or
sort of invest in this land to and
that's the same time sort of I think I
Livius topic she's oblivious to all that
she's not good on that wandering Dolezal
everybody reshape the wandering goal is
all true folks it's really true
Bernie Tron I think you know from a
political standpoint I think you know
she had she just was could not figure
out how to deal with the because people
don't read Adolph Reid and their
essentialists and she missed the point
but we've already caught us a million
times yeah it's largely irrelevant
except for just you know how do the
political machinations play out I think
you know she could have gotten by
without reading Adolph Reid and just
simply gone to you know various
stakeholders she would say what's yours
she read a tough read it's my point or
she could have just gone to them if she
was smart about politics either way and
and and that was even how smart about
politics if she read Adolph Reid I need
that sound yes everyone should read
maybe it's more recent work I disagree
with a lot of it but his his classics
are indispensable yeah thanks for the
quick points buddy all right we're gonna
do a couple items then get out of here
bender dad thank you Sam much pre
appreciate it left its best we'll see
you at the show bingo mosquito
Washington governor jay Inslee yes
cascade care correction public option
yes indeed mighty max what's a brief but
effective way to respond to people how
old Democrats pay for the ambitious
policies people like AOC wants to pass
let's be honest she didn't really answer
it when Anderson Cooper asked her yes
you could roll back it I mean there's a
very easy way to do this roll back the
the the Trump tax cuts Don and a story
skull and Boehner's trying not to be
negative person in 2019 but I keep
hoping Trump was gonna pull a prime-time
Budd Dwyer Lee oh my god that's not nice
I remember that what was that that's not
what the guy who yeah that's pretty
Gregory from Oklahoma friend of Mines
from my hometown messaged me today say
she was watching the show and heard
someone named Gregory from Oklahoma call
into the show and she wants to know if
it was me
I had no idea that I wasn't the only
person in my hometown it was a listener
of the show she told me that she's
trying to turn her little brother into a
fan of the show cuz she caught him
watching Jordan Peterson the other day
where the antidote shut out to Lara here
you go
[Music]
jerry bear couldn't the democrats get
anybody with more life in their eyes to
give response last night it was debating
whether Trump or Chuck or Nancy look
more ridiculous I'm not quite sure what
they based on what are they thinking
this makes more sense for them to go
there I don't know Sepp Korca as
business card a new pickup line girl
you're so fine but you don't realize it
you're the Australia of people Adam Koch
head your fun half song is that yeah
that Mitch from Houston am I the only
person who knows former Republicans have
become disillusioned with the GOP since
the election Trump I feel like there
should be a few more people out there in
the same boat you're not the only one
but there's just not that many AJ court
questioned I have an uncle it's Democrat
says it because Cory Booker votes and
Bernie Sanders and 91% of the time that
Booker is a progressive how does one
argue against this point similarly he
thinks that the media is not biased
against Sanders what can i point him to
prove that he's wrong thanks for the
show and Mark crew well I don't know
I mean first off you could it depends on
what you wanted to find as a progressive
but Cory Booker has pushed charter
schools dramatically back in the day he
also took a lot of money from Wall
Street
he's been fortunate in terms of the time
that he's been in the Senate he hasn't
had to take votes that have been
dramatically difficult and I would also
look at that 9% of those votes
we won't wonder what those are he get to
be pushed like health support Obama's
Iran deal I'll tell you that
and on this Israel boycott I don't think
he was on the right side of that and he
humiliated himself and flipped on
pharmaceuticals from Canada so his first
instincts are bad he's smart enough to
be pushed which is a good thing in a
politician but not in a leader
I don't know how biased against Sanders
the media is I think you know there's a
I think there's a structural issue with
the media on anything that is to the
left of like I mean really you know I
don't know Chuck Grassley frankly which
leads to a bias against Social Democrats
okay you see - did you see how Anderson
Cooper was treating her like she was a
the child did a video on it yes yeah I
just feel like it's not the most
important argument to be having if
you're gonna talk about somebody about
Bernie Sanders talk about his policies
and stuff and not you know unfairly he's
being I just I think you know like look
you know he's he's had more
opportunities than the vast majority of
non Senate Leader Democrats to go on
television than any other Democrat in
the past three years I mean that's just
you know and so he has the opportunity
to go out there and speak to the public
which i think is really you know about
as good as you can ask for dr. chaos MD
the Exodus the TSA officers continue
their staffing levels are decimated do
you think they'll be able to preform
that institution so it's less oppressive
I don't know that the TSA is really that
oppressive you may be conflating them
with the custom and borders basically
though you go and they're just like dude
keep your shoes and belt on right okay
enjoy your flight
is there is there oppression and
harassment of the general public
necessary to keep the power structure
for keeping i I think this must be I'm
really tired to take I think that's good
in profile and maybe is what they're
talking about but generally it's just
theater street legal how do you think
about boiling down the answer how do you
pay for it to just you put it in the
budget
like we pay for everything else yes but
I think look the easy thing to do is
just if you're talking about you know
mass consumption personally I
I think it's not the most accurate
answer and it's not really sort of the
the best answer you know I don't think
that we need to pay for it in the way
that we're talking about we can print
money if we want it to but the easiest
thing to do from a rhetorical standpoint
to say roll back the 1.5 trillion
dollars in tax cuts to corporations
end of story meg what a terrible
watching the shutdown stretch on here in
Canada if Parliament couldn't pass a
budget it triggers a new election if
only indeed Hogan in fan boy solid
stuart varney
segment on Fox & Friends this morning
where he sarcastically chats a sizes
Ainsley airhead after she claimed
taxpayers shouldn't have to pay for
illegals pretty sure that sarcasm was
lost on her and she actually thought she
was getting scolded and the final I am
of the day Rand Paul voted for
boycotting Israel making boycotting
Israel illegal free speech and small
donors Constitution constitutional see
you tomorrow
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice was made
the option
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
