[Music]
so it's not enough to try to instigate a
global catastrophe like a war with Iran
of course Mike Pompeo along with John
Bolton is still trying to Institute
instigate a coup in Venezuela I watched
a great interview recently with a
Venezuelan sociologist in Caracas who
was very much I'm forgetting his name
unfortunately he was on which Sharmini
Paris and the real news I like her work
he had a strong critique of the
Bolivarian government and very much a
left critic of Maduro and Chavez and if
you want to watch some example of I
would say in his case more of a social
democratic critique but someone on the
left someone who absolutely opposes US
intervention but is totally dissatisfied
and disgusted with that government go
ahead and it's worth watching
he still is warning himself this
sociologist that this action could lead
to a civil war in Venezuela
and while he doesn't he was criticizing
some of the US for in his view
whitewashing Maduro he still said of
course your primary obligation is to
oppose US imperialism and intervention
so again without opening all of that up
it's important to just reaffirm that
there is no credible person speaking
from Venezuela including ones who might
absolutely loathe that government or be
critical supporters of it or supporters
of it they absolutely exist who want a
US intervention an invasion Jeremy
Corbyn opposes it because he opposes
these types of actions pretty forcefully
and in the last couple of days Bernie
Sanders has strongly shortened his
position on this as well and again
always I absolutely will always give
props to Tulsi Gabbard on her venezuela
stance here's Mike Pompeo trying to
demonize Jeremy Corbyn and Bernie
Sanders for trying to avert yet another
catastrophe that he's attempting to
engineer it's disgusting to see leaders
continue to support the murderous
dictator dictator Maduro and it is not
in either of our country's best
interests for those leaders that you
need to advocate on the may have debate
as well people are smoking pot yes they
have they have smokin
they have opposed every single coup
action that this government has
attempted since 2002 they are not even
supporting this why do not sense at a
time of unprecedented pressure on them
and if you want to relieve their
suffering lift the sanctions and stop
economic and military terrorism and the
notion of Mike Pompeo using the word
disgusting to describe anyone else is
mind-boggling
he's talking about people who have not
said a word in support of Maduro at
least in Bernie's case opposing a coup
this guy works every day to support a
cholera outbreak and bombing school
buses and nursing homes and weddings in
Yemen
I know that's even beyond pointing out
hypocrisy that's pointing out that
you're a despicable grotesque
less than human thing but let's finish
the clip
we continue to provide support and
comfort to regime that has created so
much density so much destruction I was
in I was in Colombia I saw those
families who had to make choices about
whether to feed their children on even
days or odd days that is a direct result
of Nicolas Maduro and earlier in a
country - under democratic values office
and behind them there lift the sanctions
it's a direct result of you this
government has put pressure on two banks
- not releasing funds that are the
Venezuelan government's funds they've
economically terrorized the place
release the sanctions period that is so
I mean you know it's one thing to do the
usual typical where the United
States obviously always picks and
chooses its supported death squads and
dictators across the planet and then it
condemns other people for their human
rights record we all know this there's
nothing new about this but the
juxtaposition of by the way trying to
set off I mean don't forget Elliott
Abrams the you know PR man of all of the
butchers of the Reagan era is the point
man for this he's talking about anybody
is anything while he is backing the war
on Yemen I would use the word genocide
again it's not even hypocrisy there
there has to be a new word because you
know hypocrisy that first of all doesn't
mean anything and hypocrisy is like a
human trait we all have hypocrisy we all
should like we shouldn't be more or less
with each other but that's that is
another like that is a that is just a
fundamental disconnect that's just being
completely divorced from any sense of
self or any moral scope of the world and
it's be it's next level I don't know if
what I'm saying makes any sense but yeah
it's grotesque he's yeah he's not
talking about the poor Venezuela when he
says the Venezuelan people ever to say
the least he's talking about the ruling
class talking about the middle class
about anybody he said I don't even know
he's talking about any actual
Venezuelans
I mean a handful of pliant right-wing
Hunta people that will do whatever the
United States directs them because there
is on some level you know I think on the
Left we can't just support governments
just because they find themselves in
opposition to United States right at the
same time there's no doubt that Iran and
Venezuela also just represent ideas that
there are places that aren't first world
countries that don't acquiesce the
United States and therefore in the
mindset of people like Mike Pompeo they
need to be destroyed there is something
that is so raw and imperialist about it
that's undeniable and of course their
strategic calculations and so on but
some that is as simple as that
