here is this I found a little bit
disturbing in terms of what we're seeing
from Donald Trump here's a Morning Joe
now this is not from the 2016 election
right this isn't from 2015 this is from
today November 5th 2018 I would put this
in the the file information we probably
should have known earlier if you were in
a position to have it as a reporter and
you know if that's what's so interesting
again not talking about the economy but
talking about imaginary walls and
imaginary caravans is that Donald Trump
already had those bolt cutters locked
down if you like Donald Trump because he
was racially insensitive and he said
these outrageous thing she already had
those people positive one says swing the
plaza one second there's racially
insensitive I think it's soft-pedaling
things just a little bit with Donald
Trump and aside from from from that
there's a lot of evidence to suggest
that Donald Trump may have had those
people but Donald Trump talking about it
and reaching those people drives them to
the polls more right I mean we see it in
terms of the the rise in hate incidents
in the Trump era and we see it in the
polling frankly that the more he talks
about this the more people are inspired
to go to the polls so that analysis is
wrong on the part of scarborough it's
not like he had
in Scarborough is gonna go under stay
like he could have pivoted he could have
pivoted and done the good things that
Republic that a Republican can do but
the fact is is no I don't think so
I think Trump has got a strategy and
this is the strategy and you can't can't
convolute it every time he's talking
about fiscal discipline or whatever BS
that Scarborough is gonna say it's a
time where he's not reminding people
that there are hoards Brown people
coming to to attack them
to monkey don't be too wonky exactly but
so continue those people it's the swing
voters and the suburbs that might have
been persuaded if this entire campaign
had been about hey you know what my
taxes have been cut and regulations are
being cut the economy is still growing
well we're still in the middle of the
Obama recovery not as big is the Obama
recovery but it's still Donald Trump is
not completely destroyed the Obama
recovery and they would think that and
did get a lot more votes but Donald
Trump has reminded them of
Charlottesville
every day over the last couple weeks and
what does that do that inspires
Democrats independents moderate
Republicans suburban Republicans to vote
Democratic well in may but I also just
say we confronted him about the
birtherism we said it's bad it's wrong
and he said in a low voice I know it's
bad but it works racism in his mind
works well one second that's what we
call in in journalism was burying the
lede I would say in fact they buried the
lead by at least two years I mean when
Donald Trump was talking about
birtherism my guess is it was during the
presidency of Barack Obama and you'll
recall these two guys with all due
respect spent a lot of time supportive
of Donald Trump early on until they
found out what a bad guy he was but I
wonder if it was around the time that he
said yeah I know but it works I get the
feeling that that probably preceded that
time
so maybe you know you recall when Joe
Scarborough at one point it said like he
seemed like he was in on the joke and
now he doesn't the joke being uh stoking
racial animus incidentally we thought it
was like Dice Clay
and it was a character he was doing
which people could appreciate on a
certain ironic level writers uh but then
he became the character I just really
want dices material went down I just
hope the millions of people who watch
our show were in on the joke as well
that's why you've got to buy a
membership to actually get all the joke
material the seamy can die in West
Hempstead next week I mean do I really
make clear that this is ironic I really
do think that if you're a reporter and
you've had that conversation and you
feel comfortable saying it at any time
on television you probably should have
said it on television right around the
time you heard it no but that he would
have said stuff to us anymore
half the record yeah didn't want to burn
I mean that's my point
it's is it off the record well then you
probably shouldn't have said it today
hmm and I don't know that she needed to
qualify it with in his mind it works at
this point in time pretty sure you know
moving that it were it's interesting
because she was disagreeing with Joe
kind of the point we make is Joe's like
the suburban Republicans are being
turned off no that's like a lot of
racism they're like they're liking this
stuff I I don't I I mean yeah I had to
check the year on that clip right I mean
I think there's evidence that it's
turning off some suburban Republican
voters like a little brown guy right but
the bottom line is you don't know I mean
like how do they not have to how do they
not make that part of their coverage
when it was relevant because it was fun
right it was ironic it was it was pain
that was really rhetorical I was right I
know exactly how they did it
they wanted to maintain access and they
were willing to like man whatever it's
not I don't know
he'll be great when he wins remember the
LeBron guy they lose the CNN focus group
and he's like
he's racist he's a guy who voted for
Trump in 2016 and whoever camerado or
one of those peoples hosting she's like
what makes you say that now kind of with
a little subtext of like dude what where
have you been
and he goes he goes well he called the
bronze stupid
