[Music]
five one six area code who are you where
you calling from this is Mike from my
wall now hey Mike what's going on talk
about I want to talk about the gun
conversation that's been going on lately
now it seems like but it seems like a
talking point for like mainstream media
how so what you mean well it just seems
like there's some things that they're
just you know we talked about a you know
foreign policy and you know economics
but like the gun rights thing is like
something that they're just allowed to
talk about they're not really I mean I
think I'll give you just my two second
snapshot on guns and one is I liked what
Jamie said yesterday that if you have a
conversation that because because
there's a big problem right because a
lot of gun control conversations don't
take on the gun industry as an industry
as a as a capital I industry that is a
danger to us public health and global
public health actually the global small
arms industry is one of the greatest
threats on the planet and then you do
get into this liberal stuff which I do
think is just frankly counterproductive
look when I see some you know dumb
schmuck walking into a Starbucks with
like you know paramilitary gear on of
course make fun of them he's an idiot
but the broader sort of like guns I do
think that that is liberal snobbery that
is incredibly counterproductive and dumb
and I have no interest in playing that
kind of cultural politics I do have an
interest in going after the NRA and the
gun industry as a pernicious dangerous
corrupted industry right
and then the second thing I would say
the other two quick things is that it's
very difficult because if you really
want to take care of guns you got to do
something extremely radical um which I'm
not sure that's where I'd want to spend
political capital frankly and number
three exactly the way
a lot of gun measures are implemented uh
and I'm not talking about really basics
of course you can do background check
there's all sorts of stuff you can do
that's a no-brainer and I'm not arguing
against you can stop the manufacture of
these that's the issue is the
manufacture but on the other hand I
don't want to take I think a rhetoric of
taking away you know people's shotguns
or whatever it is ridiculous and I also
would say that a lot it that is not a
myth the origins of stop and frisk in
New York City is a anti-gun program
which by the way had some efficacy I
mean New York is I mean there's a lot of
guns but it's it's but that is a the
origin that is a completely racist and
racialized policy so people need to be
extremely thoughtful about what they're
actually advocating for and who's gonna
get police does a result I I just worry
about like you said the political
capital that you're wasting you know it
because you may a lien eight some people
that are leaning left I mean and the
right one is they're not gonna vote for
a Democrat anyway so you know you're
just it seems like you're pushing some
people away that might have came to your
party well I think that this is the the
nuance that I would make and I'm glad
you say the the real lunatic
you know gun whatever people are gonna
vote for the Republicans I I think
there's some people that this wouldn't
be their primary issue and they could be
persuaded in any ways but I do think
that there is there's ways of signifying
to people that you have some basic
respect for them and I think that that
is almost nothing to do a policy frankly
like I think that you know and that's it
like look people want to you know
demonize them for it and you know maybe
they cast some votes that we disagree
with but like it's good that that's an
advantage that Bernie Sanders you know
was around a lot of like farmers and
stuff and those farmers were extremely
happy to vote for him it's just a
question of like signifying basic
respect actually I think Obama really
understood that
as a politician as well as a campaign we
really stepped in it on guns though cool
Obama yeah Oh with that statement that
he made yeah that was well that was
quintessential because that wasn't
supposed to be public he was literally
saying that to a fundraiser I think like
in in the Bay Area mmm oops
yeah that way yeah but Obama actually
implemented West gun control policies
when prompted
I don't are you talking about the bomb
stop is yeah I don't know about that I
don't I don't do be honest with you I
don't know all of Obama's gun
controllers these are you a prey of
paintball gun are you a pain caller
sorry
now I'm getting suspicious II okay are
you a paid caller sir now I'm just
kidding no I'm not paid call all right
who you voting for I'm a bird all right
cool actually yeah all right respect god
I've got no problem here all right
thanks seen as something of a moderate
on this issue okay there is a lot of I
mean for the small but electorally
significant slice of working-class
people who are swing voters who could
swing from Trump to a Bernie type this
is an issue and the kind of cultural
snobbery towards guns that we hear from
liberals is never gonna be helpful well
this was Sam what was the thing that I'm
sorry to interrupt you but you were
making a really smart distinction the
other day Matt between like you know the
ridiculous weekend or yeah it's and
people who actually have guns for
they're not lying when they say it's
hunting or whatever like it actually is
part of a life yeah a lot of people a
lot of people have like hand-me-down
shotguns and rifles and stuff like that
and they and that's like this sort of
like gun lineage and I come from right
like I pheasant hunt a number of times
it's basically a family tradition I've
killed a few deer and it's but those
people there's two different classes
there's those people and then you have
the weekend warrior types which the NRA
started I'm pretty sure majority report
we've maybe even talked about this with
a guest but they started marketing to
weekend warrior types that with like
special guns like
because debt right Desert Storm was the
TV war right and stuff like that we got
all this cool gadgetry that's a market
right and we should just not allow that
market to exist so like if people want
to have like a double-barrel shotgun or
something like that fine I don't care
and those are the freaks that you know
walk into Starbucks with like a ar-15
yeah
a barrel would and I would imagine that
you know cuz look it wasn't I certainly
like I think bro but nobody my family
has guns or anything but even just
growing up Frank it's so funny to me
that like I grew up mostly in like
basically rural Massachusetts and you
would have like hippies and college
people but there's plenty of farms and
you go to a lot of houses there were
guns it wasn't and and it both was a not
such a big deal and be it was not um
these were not people who would be super
excited for some you know lunatics who
were into Schwarzenegger movies and have
like their own insecurity issues
sublimating that through getting like
high-power artillery in in in public
places and I so I think a lot of it is
just a basic cultural thing and I think
on some level like like woz made this
great point we were talking about this
on woke bros and he's just like you know
I don't know why was like why is it like
yeah like you're into yoga and lattes
Darren's a target practice like why is
one and neatly better than the other you
know it's not it's not of course not and
getting into all of that stuff is is
always a bad call and speaks to people's
moralism instead of their actual
solidarity yeah it's a distraction and
it's classes identity was never
something that we should fall into we
need to unite the entire working class
if we're gonna win and that includes
people who like guns and people who like
lattes well and this isn't just like
we're not for anybody who's the success
of being like this because we support
Bernie Sanders like this is a consistent
with our approach as leftist which is
that you don't make this about
individual consumer decisions right you
go after the industry and I'm all and
I'll reiterate
I'm sure we all are very I mean I'm I'm
so I meant to go against the arms
industry as I say internationally yes I
like I'm the abolition yes precisely
and we also need to expand these
conversations to ramping down military
imperialism and serious talks about
disarming the police if we really want
less gun violence in the world
definitely and also I mean that's and
that's and I'm sure this is a surprise
to no one but I still see you know the
Buddha jej O'Rourke you know like do you
we shouldn't be should be in Afghanistan
okay I mean what the hell are you even I
mean you're talking about these weapons
should be in Afghanistan at the same
time there are reports on increasing
civilian casualties I mean it's just
like they shouldn't where people in
Chicago don't deserve to get shot and
people in Afghanistan don't deserve to
get shot it's really simple yeah like if
your brain goes from like oh look at how
many people were like ripped through
with in Las Vegas by this area 15 like
this should be you know like this should
be in a war zone
you mean this should be in a place that
we've invaded and we've already killed a
masked man yeah I mean it's not like
it's the trenches in World War one right
I'm sorry like there is a connection
between a an incredibly violent culture
whether we're talking about killing
people overseas or the cops murdering
people and the kinds of violence the
individual lone wolf gunman perpetrator
and frankly the culture follows the
actual implements of war right like all
of a sudden you have like armored tanks
in your community that the local cops
can drive talk about violent video games
I mean let's talk about the things that
they're based on which are actually
happening
