[Music]
marianne williamson broke my heart on
the first night i couldn't believe it
she was right up there as my number two
choice and then she had this word after
I mean masterful job with dummy Dave
Rubin and then she just botched it with
this very non visionary and very non
spiritually freeing answer on Medicare
for all and uh but what I love is that
she's adoptable and a good and smart way
and so here are her supporters in her
talking about Medicare for all after the
first debate this is actually pretty
cool so she listens to her people she
listens to her people again if we're not
just like getting down to the business
of electing Bernie which I absolutely
think we should 100% across the board
that includes every single candidate
then Marion Williams since putting in
some really good work she actually
articular her articulation on race and
reparations was excellent it's good
although what do you think about her
dismissal of HR forty like I think it's
one thing to dismiss it but like to
dismiss it and also say I have the
solution and it's this dollar amount
which we all know is if we're being real
insufficient like I just think like why
does she it's her anti planned stuff
again I am less triggered by anti
planned stuff than you but I do think
that I mean okay if I'm defending her I
could see that saying I'm looking into
HR forty is a bit of a dodge from
concretely saying what you're gonna do
right on the other hand you know to me
it's like yes she doesn't really know
what HR forty it's right like and so
clearly there's a lack of
you know preparation and so on but
honestly it's like you know there are
limits like even Andrew yang like Andrew
yang actually hundred yang had a really
good night last night
credit where credit's due except yet a
his answer of promoting his pro
gentrifying nonprofit as a way of
fighting racism I think should give
everybody a huge amount of pause if you
take those issues seriously but it's
like Andrew yang said something
ridiculous on Israel a couple weeks ago
I don't even remember what it was and it
was wrong and it and it frankly reflects
being a moderate New York City Democrat
right like it's not that shocking that
he would have a bad position on it and I
had a problem with it but it's like even
that it's like do I do we do we need to
do a full segment on Andrew yang who
will never be President no you know
being wrong at Israel so it's like I
don't know yeah marianne williamson yes
she shouldn't be dismissive of that bill
and so what yeah you know that's kind of
my view on it I mean I will just say one
final thing is that and this is not a
shot at reparations but I feel like if
the woman who is foremost like I feel
like reparations are the thing that sort
of sets her off Lee if she's I'm glad
she's done this medicare-for-all little
pivot because if she was the Pro
reparations candidate is saying Medicare
for all is unrealistic I think that
looks that's easy
propaganda for that's a tough read yeah
I mean look everybody should definitely
read Adolf reads critique of reparations
it's important regardless of where you
land on it
