it appears if you tell me if I'm
imagining this and as we've had you know
the rollout of several high-profile
Democratic presidential campaigns where
we see a lot of these candidates coming
out for Medicare for all and then start
of getting some pushback the next day
and they're getting a little bit of
pushback on things like what do you mean
eliminate private insurance and and
whatnot and and I want to talk about
that but there has been a significant
amount of it seems to me coordinated
effort to push back on this idea of
Medicare for all
which you know indicates to me that
there there's some powerful interests
who are very afraid about that oh yeah
they're very afraid and I think we've
just seen the tip of the iceberg of the
pushback you and I are and a few people
are detecting it but it's going to be
said that they were about to see the
mother of all propaganda campaigns being
unleashed against this idea this
proposal because insurance companies and
drug companies and big hospital systems
they know that this is a this is going
to be given serious consideration never
has before they've always been able to
one way or another keep you from ever
getting a hearing on Capitol Hill and
certainly to keep presidential
candidates from campaigning on it so
they're scared and I know if I were my
own job I would be spending a lot of
time working with my colleagues to
figure out how to kill this thing well
now what do you make of of one of these
big talking points I mean you wrote
about about Michael Bennet from Colorado
he came out and he said you know he's
worried because he thinks Democrats are
saying if you like your if you like your
doctor your we're going to take it or if
you like your insurance we're going to
take it away from you it turns out that
this is motivated reasoning if I can be
polite about from Michael Bennett no
you're absolutely right and I wrote
about that after the onions say those
things
certainly hedging his bets and saying
first of all some nice things about
medicare-for-all and then saying but
wait people like their private insurance
companies and their Medicare Advantage
plans so and I decide just look a little
bit closer first of all I recognize
those talking points because they're the
same kind of talking points I just -
right and I'm sure that my former
colleagues and their PR people are
drafting and disseminating across
Capitol Hill as we speak but I check to
see you know he's gotten a boatload of
money over the years in his political
career from big insurance companies and
big pharmaceutical companies so he's you
know you know I have a world works if
you give someone a lot of money they're
going to be more receptive to listening
to you and paying attention to your
talking points and that's what we're
seeing we'll see more op that one of the
things I want to be doing is watching
that very closely letting people know
who certainly among the Democrats has
has and continues to take money from
industry groups and kind of match that
up with their talking points I recognize
them and we need to hold these folks
very accountable the truth is of course
that the insurance industry wants us to
be afraid of change and to persuade
policymakers that were terrified of
losing private insurance because we love
it so much and of course people who have
insurance they're grateful to have it
but it is increasingly less valuable
than it was last year or the year before
and that's another thing that I plan to
do and I think others will do as well -
of just reminding people of how
uncertain it is that we will have
employer sponsored coverage next year if
we have it this year or even tomorrow
and just how much it's diminishing in
value as employers shift more and more
of the cost of premiums and insurance
and and care to us how they're reducing
access to providers and how they're you
know making so many things subject to
prior authorization which means that
they're getting even more inserted
they being the insurance companies
between us and our doctors let so in and
one of the things I like about frankly
heading over to Tarbell is the is the
response you have to these talking
points one of the things that I keep
hearing about the why medicare-for-all
is such an impossibility is because
there are two million people who are
employed by the health insurance
industry in the country I don't know if
there that that figure is even remotely
correct but but you may have a better
sense of it but and they'll all lose
their job what's the what's the response
to that well it's it's nonsense but it
is a talking point that seems to scare
people and and understandably first of
all the big insurance companies they're
not even insurance companies largely
they've diversified significantly over
the years and a big part of what they do
is not even related to providing health
insurance so those all those jobs would
not go away first of all secondly a lot
of the people who work for these
companies are doctors and nurses they
have hired tens of thousands of nurses
not to be at bedside overworked in
doctors offices treating patients but in
many cases to be a barrier between you
and getting the care that you need these
are people who have skills and they can
go back into providing patient care
where they can provide in my view more
of a social being much more of a social
need and a lot of the other and I know
this room working in the industry as
long as I did most of people who work in
these companies have skills that are not
specific to health insurance by any
means another reason why there are so
many people who are involved in
healthcare in this country is because
doctors and hospitals have to find to
hire staff who do nothing more than deal
day in and day out with insurance
companies to make sure they're getting
paid appropriately
and that they're able to get their
patients the care that they need it's
it's providing a barrier creating a
barrier between people and they're there
health care and that's we just need to
educate the public to understand these
jobs will not go away and a lot of these
employees can be doing more socially
responsible work pretty soon and I would
imagine some percentage of these people
would have an opportunity to work in a
medicare-for-all program right I mean
you got hire people who still you're
still providing insurance it's just that
you have a single-payer exactly they
will there will be need for a lot of
people to make this work and they'll no
longer work for for-profit insurance
companies and have as their top goal of
enhancing shareholder value they'll be
working for for us
finally and helping us to hopefully be
able to make sure that we get the care
that we need when we need it
so absolutely these jobs can be moved
into working for the single-payer that
is good to know and we will we will keep
an eye out for those I guess naysayers
and give me a sense of we just with just
a minute left like what what do you make
of this notion of people being pushed
back on the idea of private insurance
going away totally is that a is it
necessary for private insurance go away
totally that seems to me to be a bit of
a red herring because it's conceivable
to have like sort of I guess
supplemental insurance in some way but
what do you make of that dynamic yeah
it's got a mini ring because yeah these
companies will not necessarily cease
writing policies they can offer several
mental policies for things that are not
covered under the basic benefit plan
then and you can buy coverage for
procedures that would not be covered
like cosmetic surgery for example or to
maybe get a private room in a hospital
rather than sharing a hospital room
maybe they're there there are things
that you can you can rest assure the
insurance companies would be creative
they do that in Canada in other
countries so there we no need for them
for basic
coverage but for supplemental things
that they absolutely staying again
interesting wendell potter it is always
a pleasure to talk to you because i feel
like I learned a lot more about this
topic every time we speak and we've
spoken a lot and so I appreciate it
