[Music]
winner of the 2014 MacArthur Genius
grant and author of biased uncovering
the hidden prejudice that shapes what we
see think and do Jennifer Eberhardt
welcome to the program thanks for having
me
so let's just start with the the notion
of implicit bias whoa what do you mean
by that well implicit bias or
unconscious bias is something that we're
all vulnerable to and in my book I'm
trying to really show the science behind
it and and it's it's it's basically our
beliefs and our feelings that we have
about social groups that can influence
our decision-making and our actions even
when we're not aware of it so when we
say someone has implicit bias against
black people how is that different in in
your sense than racism or is that a
specific type of racism I'm sorry can
you say that again well when we talk
about when we talk about implicit bias
well how is that different from racism
or is it simply a different type of
racism oh I see so yeah so I think when
people think about racism they're
thinking about know people who are
filled with hate and know people who are
kind of like old fashioned racist what
we call them and but here was with this
kind of implicit bias or unconscious
bias you don't really have to be a bigot
to be bias you can have bias that's
weird and you can have real you know
negative impact despite you know our
intentions and despite our desire to be
fair okay all right well let's I mean
let's talk about some of the the
the I guess the the impetus for some of
your work I mean both of it you
mentioned both your experience as a
child and your child's experience when
he was was quite young why don't we
start with with your child you start the
book when you were on a plane with I
think your son who was I think five at
that time tell us about that that event
yes so we were on an airplane flying
back to California together and he's
excited to be on the plane and he looks
all around and he's kind of checking the
people out and he sees a man and says
hey that guy looks like daddy and I look
at the guy and he doesn't look anything
at all that's my husband and so that
didn't start looking around on the plane
and I realized he was the only black man
on the plane and so I got to have a
conversation right with my son about how
that all black people look alike and
before I could have that conversation
though he looks up at me and he says I
hope he doesn't Rob the claim you know
and so I'm like what do you mean you
know daddy wouldn't rob a clean and he
says yeah I know and I said well why
would you say that and he said well I
don't know why I said that no I don't
know why I was thinking so this is a
good example of someone who was kind of
picking up you know things from the
world around him and picking up its
association basically between blackness
and crawling that he doesn't know where
he got it from but somehow who's been
exposed to it and he's acting on it what
is your sense of where your son could
have picked that up I mean as you know I
have a six-year-old and you know this
was I guess a decade or so more but
where where would that form I mean was
that a function of his association I
mean is it your sense that that was a
descent a sense of his association with
blackness or was it his
of I mean it or what well I mean I think
it's it's a function of kind of pain in
the world where you know you hear about
you know you kind of as a child you're
learning about people's position and
society and sort of you know what kinds
of beliefs that you have about certain
social groups and you know as a child
you're trying to figure out right what
correlates with what he's trying to to
think about how people maybe reacts to
african-american men in public spaces
and whether they give them a lot of room
whether they lock their car doors you
know all of those kinds of things you
know children kind of pick up some us
what we feel and how they should then
feel and think about other people and
that's one way I think the media is
another way I mean there's a lot of ways
but that that's one way and let's also
talk about since we're in sort of the
realm of of childhood is your your
experience in switching schools I guess
it was elementary school or junior high
and which you ultimately became I guess
maybe in some ways inspiration for some
of your work yes so I grew up in Ohio
and I can't announce one day that we're
going to move to the suburb of Cleveland
called Beachwood which at the time was
almost all-white
and so I was worried about making that
move and how I would be accepted and
whether I would have sense whether it's
you're like I keep the wrong man all
those things and like when I execute
moves I found that students were really
spend they were really welcoming they
you know want to show him around and all
of that but I still had problems making
friends and that had to do with the fact
that I could not tell their faces apart
I wasn't I wasn't exposed you know white
people very much then and I lived in
this neighborhood
that is entirely black so all of my the
most meaningful interactions and
relationships that I've only was with
who were with other black people and so
it was hard to meet and actually you
know to to be able to recognize that
their faces it was and it has shocked me
because I didn't anticipate you know
this at all I'd never had that kind of
problem before but now here I was know
trying to make fans and I couldn't tell
one person from the other and and it
actually took me some time to figure it
out over time I was able to figure it
out but my brain no needed time to
adjust to the new environment and to the
demands that I would know that were
placed on me and that new environment
and so all the time
I was I was able to develop that skill
but before then I didn't have it and and
so subsequent to that obviously you have
there is you've come across research and
partaken and research that suggests that
this is that that phenomena is
physiological yes oh we've done so I
collaborated with a number of
specialists at Stanford and we conducted
a neural imaging study to look at this
very issue what scientists call it is
the other race effect and it's basically
that people are much better at
recognizing faces of their own race and
faces of other races and we wanted to
understand the neural underpinnings of
that effect and so we put people in a
neural imaging scanner both black and
white study participants and we showed
them images of black and white faces and
we looked at what happened you know in
their brain as they were showing these
images and there's an area of the brain
called the CV form face area that's
highly implicated and face processing
and so we're really focused on that area
and we found that it was that area was
much more activated to faces of their
own race and to faces of other races now
is that strictly a
biological development and what what can
that be can that be impacted based upon
where someone like if we were to take an
image of your brain
prior to switching schools and an image
of your brain two years later would your
ability to react to faces of a different
race have changed or would that dynamics
they'll be there and you would have
developed other sort of mechanisms to
make up for the reduced brain activity
that's a great question so so I would
guess that my brain would have changed
over that time that that this area this
to do form face area would become more
responsive to faces outside of my own
relation we have some research on that
actually where we looked at this process
developmentally and we found that for
people who actually stay you know in you
know their own you know in these
neighborhoods that are racially
segregated they you know initially he's
showing you know some responsiveness to
all phases and then as you get older you
start to see it a differential response
to faces of your own race versus another
race and an adult that affects that's
even stronger so so it's not just a you
know the you know our vitality or you
know a brain wiring but a brain wiring
is a function of our social environment
so if we change our social
environmentally foods we change we were
exposed to then we can also change how
our brain is functioning that that's
that's that's pretty nuts in a way I
mean I mean it makes sense but I mean
that's like a me I think it's
theoretically right like you know just
to continue to use you as a child in
that scenario your brain could have
changed you know two years later and so
you you can recognize and differentiate
and your brain can register that you can
differentiate between white people but
theoretically right you could
then move to a different school where it
is
you know predominantly Asian and then go
through that process all over again yes
or or does so is it right okay so it's
it's it's it's tied to sort of
difference in races that in races in
particular as opposed to just like you
don't have a certain muscle for lack of
a better term in your brain like that
muscle is not generic it is it is
something that is learned and you can
see a change in your brain that is
specific to specific races right you can
see a change in your brain that actually
specifically specific races if if you're
not exposed to the phases of that other
race at all you get less activation in
that area of the CV front face area but
as you expose to those faces more and
more over time your brain adjusts so for
the sign was known about neuroplasticity
so just because we see you know a
difference and how the brain is
responding or what gets activated
doesn't mean that that's a permanent
difference that it's actually you know
the brain can kind of change based on
you know who we're interacting with what
our social environment is like and I
mean I don't want to get too stuck on
this but I find this this part really
fascinating is there also a a Coll like
a a coincident effect in terms of you
know I would imagine if you go into a
room and you can't differentiate people
in the same way that you could you know
in a different room let's say that that
would create a certain amount of anxiety
and the more stuff that's in there that
is not just foreign but foreign in the
sense that you don't even have a
capacity to process it in the same way I
would imagine that that creates all
sorts of sort of subsequent social
reactions
why I mean it does I mean so for example
you may not want to associate those
people as much because it's you know
leading to this anxiety and worry about
making a mistake in choosing one person
you know for the other and so yes it
could have all of these other downstream
consequences in my case I actually
needed to be able to you know to
differentiate among white faces because
you know that you know that was my new
community right so I needed to be able
to figure it out and over time I was
able to figure it out but but even like
I was super motivated right to do this
but I couldn't do that right away
it took my brain sort of time to enough
exposure to these phases over and over
again before I got the hang of it okay
and so let's talk about a couple other
examples of this implicit bias that you
have established through some of the
studies that you have done and and then
I just want to come back around to you
know questions that may be slightly
outside your portfolio but that your
work obviously has implications oh but
let's talk just a little bit about the
that you did one experiment with or I
should say study with with with
subliminal words that were flashed in
front of police officers and then
associated it with faces just well walk
us through that study and what the
implications were getting police
officers to think about violent crime
and we were interested in whether when
they thought about violent crime if that
would lead them to focus their attention
on black male faces so for the study we
had some students another computer and
we flashed words on the computer and we
flashed their words at such a rapid rate
that they couldn't consciously detect
them and their words were either words
that were associated as violent
or not so some of the participants got
words that were all associated with
violent crime like arrested apprehend
and capture and shoots in those kinds of
words and then we had a control that
didn't get any of those words and then
he showed two faces on us on the
computer screen simultaneously and once
for the black spinel face and the other
words of white male face and we were
interested in which face they would look
at and it turned out that those officers
been exposed to words that were you know
associated with violent crime like
capture and arrest and so forth they
they move their eyes away from the white
station or into the black space so it
was the black face that captures their
attention and for us this was a way of
almost looking at racial profiling and
we in a laboratory because I mean that's
what profiling is about light is when no
officers are on the lookout for violent
crime
you know just the racial category of the
person matter at also who they attend to
and who they may stop and who they may
search and so forth and so this is a I
don't know a version of that stripped
down version of that that we tried in a
laboratory with officers and that and
that almost establishes which I think
like you you know I feel like you could
you could take those same police
officers and take them out for a drink
and within a half an hour so you could
get a sense of what the results of that
test might be but that would that
establish sort of from a clinical
perspective
I mean tell us about this notion of
categorical knowledge because this is
basically like the brain I mean I get
the sense that it's just the description
is the brain just can't handle stuff as
my I mean chaos on some level and so it
has to divvy stuff up and this is the
way the chips fall yes that's exactly
right so categorization is the tool that
our brain uses to try to make the sense
of everything that were bombarded with
in the world and so we need a way we
can't cut
taken everything that wasn't so he me
later sort through it and to package it
and she you know you know to to
categorize it so they're able to
establish some kind of you know control
you know over the world but also some
coherence and so so this is one tool
that we use and we categorize you know
not just people but we categorize
everything right categorize furniture
and colors and you know we categorized
know flowers and you name dogs and cats
and so forth and so that helps us to
notice it establishes some kind of order
I guess over what we're seeing and
allows us to you know to be able to form
expectations and so forth but when we do
this with people when we categorize
people in those social groups then we
also might develop beliefs about the
people who are in that category and we
call those beliefs stereotypes and we
also may develop feelings about people
in that category and which we call
prejudice and stereotypes and Prejudice
together is what we call bias and the
concern is is that for people that bias
ten influence how we treat them it can
influence how we make decisions about
them and so I mean it sounds like and we
should say there was another study where
it was almost the reverse of the one you
just explained where you would see we
showed subjects images of black faces
and white faces and then had other
images sort of come into focus slowly
and and just explain that because then I
just want to make I want to go further
with this point of what sounds like we
have a physiological predisposition to
stereotyping but but let's but but
before you address that let me just tell
us about that other study yes so what
the other study of what we did is we had
people sit in front of a computer screen
and then we exposed them to a series of
faces
and when some of the participants got a
series of blackmail faces and others got
a series of white male faces now these
places were coming on the screen at such
a rapid rate that they couldn't
consciously precede them and so it
seemed like there was quick alert of
life that they were watching and then
after that we have them perform what we
call an object recognition task and for
that object recognition task they saw an
object appear on the screen and it was
really really early at first and then
slowly in 41 steps and 41 frames the
object became more clear in the
participants goal was to simply tell us
at what point they could recognize the
object and we found that if they've been
exposed to the black male faces for him
they were able to recognize the crying
relevant objects a lot faster don't they
you know if they saw a blurry image of a
gun say they were able to recognize that
gun really quickly whereas if they were
exposed to white male faces before him
they needed more information when North
claimed or who were clarity before they
could see that that was a gun it was
that was that was there a disparity
between the race of the subject at all
in terms of making those assessments no
not at all so this is one of the things
that make sure that it's not you know so
the bias isn't something that one holds
and the other doesn't
I mean science I think is something that
we're all you know you know we're kind
of vulnerable to because there's an
association between blackness and crime
that's out there in our society and it's
out there for a variety of reasons that
we're all picking up on it and the
argument here is that that association
between blackness and climb is so strong
that it can influence not only how we
see people but it can influence how we
see objects and in this case each for
these crime objects like guns and ID and
so forth how does that I mean like I get
so there is something in society right
and let's and maybe it's an amalgamation
of things right like television news
what you know culture whatever that that
associates black males with crime but in
but but if I'm living in a in and if I'm
living in like a white enclave and I'm
going and almost everyone I deal with is
white and I have no you know or limited
exposure to black people and so I have
no even like real world experiences that
push back on that one-to-one Association
as it were right versus I've I'm black
and my family is black and I know I I
have a lot of association with the idea
that black males are not criminals how
does that not implicate that
subconscious like what is it what is
there a is is there something out there
that has like precedents in terms of the
way that it influences our subconscious
that even overrides our own personal
experiences oh yeah that's a great
question and I think literature in
psychology suggesting that contact
really matters right so especially if
you have positive contact like the
contact that you just is like I think
that that matters you know in terms of
how people you know treat one another
you know how you know for lessons
discrimination basically and it can also
decrease to be negative racial attitudes
towards the other groups and so forth or
or even towards your own there's a
societal attitudes that's negative about
your own group right they could refer
you to some extent the receive studies
we were just looking at whether there
was an association there at all but and
and it's you know an association again
it's not it's not something that's
conscious but you couldn't decide okay
I'm going to override this thing because
I know it's not true and I know that I
had all of these you know other you know
interactions with people and these
positive things that tell me that it's
not true
it's hard to you know even if you have
that experience you also have this other
pretty powerful experience at least in
this country that associates blackness
with crime and so it's hard to just
completely undo the association even
though might be at a conference level
you know that that association is
triggered you might be able to stop it
from influencing you know what decisions
you make or what actions you take so so
even contact does not employ and because
it's because if there's no differential
between race as they they go through
that study that contact doesn't mitigate
your subconscious beliefs at all it just
it mitigates only how those subconscious
beliefs can be overridden in the context
of the way you behave but it's still
within your subconscious in the same way
yeah I mean I think sociation that are
really strong I think that that that is
the case but I don't want to suggest
that contact doesn't matter you know you
know at all I think you know sometimes
you know sometimes it does sometimes
pair that with all kinds of other things
that you can do to mitigate diets and I
think it's the combination of all these
things that can you know like that can
you know that can bias to some extent so
not only contacts for example but you
also need to be able to make you know
decisions where you're where you're not
making decisions really quickly and
where you have to fall back on
you know these automatic associations
that have built up over time but you
have time to think it through into you
know replace those associations with you
know you know with other things that you
fell about that that maybe contraries
right right to those associations
