so look as you know we we accidentally
got a recording of a phone conversation
that happened between me and someone
from a representative of a conference if
you will that was going to was planning
to host a little debate between Crowder
and I and and and of course also I read
the emails that my fake proxy producer
had with gab mcginnises fake proxy
producer and though how now we're just
now caution to the wind officially
confirmed this fake now what's that
the fake proxy producer oh no I said
that at the time okay it took people a
long time people a very long time figure
it out yeah all right well that's just
the way I roll I am always a little bit
obtuse and and of course the big
revelation was that steven crowder just
will go to great lengths even offend
some of his friends to avoid you know
allowing me to change his mind about
anything and we just saw a tweet that
was put out by this organization called
politican and and they said since
hashtag cold feet Crowder missed his
chance to debate sam cedar at politican
last year Shh should we host a rematch
at pol√≠tica on 2019 steven crowd are you
ready to step up and then they
photoshopped one of his change his mind
posters that he sets up for himself
let's settle this at politican changed
my mind I now I'm I'm coming back from
Las Vegas because I'll be there that
week but I will walk to Lawson from Las
Vegas to where is it in in NASH
- Nash in Nashville if they can arrange
this I'm periscoping my hitchhiking and
I'm here - I'm catching rides I'm here
to terrorize cold and and actually I was
just with the truck driving a
fascinating conversation about reject me
I always I had been wondering if
politican was gonna be mad at you for
making these private communications
public and I think now we have her
answer I don't know what you're talking
about Jamie but we also I I just want to
say that I know that I'm a little bit
jaded about conservative talkers and
this and that and I think that they all
just Aram one team but really the the
support that we've seen from folks like
Jesse Lee Peterson who who went out and
called for Steven to debate me
the Reverend Peterson in particular I
really appreciated that not only did he
support us in this but that he even
connected it to his mentoring work when
he told Steve like and let me know how
it goes yeah it was encouraging Steve to
be a better and a bigger man and to be a
man uh and then fact my understanding is
he tweeted out support again for me this
weekend
which I thought was was really
impressive he didn't need to do that he
did not have to do that and Peterson
came out fully supporting Steve and
crowding debating and I think if I did
if I'm you know read his tweet correctly
he was inviting me onto his show he said
these are the words and thinking of my
PR guy I have nothing personal I like
you both so I made my Pig our PR guy
take his words down and I never called
for a debate amazing but it but it
appears that he is now and so I I want
to appreciate the support that Jesse
Peterson has a you to be a great
interlocutor between you I think that
would be great I'm happy to do it with
Jesse Lee Peterson I think it would be
terrific and so but like I say little
jaded but this guy Ben Ferguson who is a
conservative commentator correct I have
no clue yes he's I believe he's a
conservative commentator I mean the
names he has the look of a whatsit on
CNN
this guy's me and and I just I really
kudos to him I gotta be honest I have
not seen this yet I have won this one
yet but let's let's see what he says all
right I gotta just tell you Steven you
need to not let your dad make all your
decisions for you I'm literally doing my
radio show right now and I just want to
give you a public service announcement
if you need to fight for what you
believe in Steven don't have cold feet
come on Steven man up in debate Sam you
got to stop relying on all your friends
or your fans to defend you it is time
for you to be a man
man up and don't let your dad do your
dirty work for you debate him okay you
got a you got a debate your friend you
got a debate Sam I don't know if you're
really fans or your friends or not but
you need to stop relying on all these
other people to defend you
I'm just saying so that's my public
service message be a real man man up
debate do your job do your research and
then see if your argument actually
stands up and I'll leave it right there
have a great day yeah I mean I don't
know why you had to make it so gendered
but I I appreciate I understand on the
right they tend to do that more and and
so but I I do appreciate the sport from
folks like Ben Ferguson scour Moochie
and and Jessica Peterson Asami Lauren
well tell me Lauren all these people on
the right who are you know who are
basically telling old cold feet to - you
know what's the free exchange of ideas
yeah let's do this
yeah but speaking of representing all
perspectives we also want to note in
fairness that et's mom encouraged cold
feet to not be bullied that's right it's
funny the conservative guys they all
jump in with the Sam side of it just
generically without knowing who the
politics are because they love the idea
of boisterously challenging someone to a
debate so whoever's doing that they're
gonna like be on that tee right right
they could have gotten it was the right
side of the Cold War if Castro just
harassed Pinochet with debate invitation
Olivia she thought it was an actual
child that she was talking to well yeah
what a 32 year old one alright let's
let's see this is a interest
