I mean look right now I mean you heard I
don't know if you heard John from San
Antonio Colleen yesterday we have a
situation where there are at least you
know anywhere between 15 and 20 races
across the country that the magic number
is 23 to take over the house 15 to 20
that seemed to be I don't want to say a
done deal
but pretty solid and then there you know
and I'm I'm painting with a broad brush
here then there's like another dozen to
two dozen where it's a toss-up and you
know if you were to take a dozen to two
dozen quarters and toss them up in the
air you would imagine that half more or
less would come down heads and half
would more or less come down tails maybe
someone who is a statistician it's gonna
call in and tell me that's wrong because
this disease but I'm saying you throw
them all at one time I don't know but
you have a dozen to half a dozen toss
ups you imagine like you know the odds
of winning nine let's say are pretty
good out of 24 and that would take the
Democrats over the 23 threshold it's
also possible in a wave scenario you win
90% of those toss ups and then the
Democrats walk away and win 45 seats so
tough to say the to the extent that
there are you know things in the balance
the Senate looks like it's going to be
tricky but for the Senate for the
Democrats to take the Senate it appears
that they have to win in Texas now I
keep hearing from people from Texas
whether it's reporters or listeners who
live there like things seem really
different this time we had a guy call
last night
who said Beto's definitely gonna win
honey and you know again it's it's all
energy but he did there was some number
like I'm sorry I said this I'm forgive
me but there was some number on voting
patterns that actually really was
indicative of new people getting to the
pole the if you look at like the early
polling now the thing is with early
polling it's tough to tell what's going
on there because you don't know if these
are people who normally vote during you
know an off-year election who normally
vote a regular but they're just because
of all the talk of disenfranchisement
and because maybe they're so heated
because you know Brett Kavanaugh loves
beer so much that they want to go in and
vote early so you don't know when you
see early voting strength in the
counties that are democratic leaning in
Texas again you don't know you don't
know if that's not people who are just
like I'm not waiting til Tuesday because
what if I get hit by a bus before then
or what if I you know I'm late to work
or whatever it is I'm gonna vote early
and you just don't know so it looks good
but it doesn't necessarily mean anything
but people are excited about Texas and a
big reason why people are excited is
because bado Rourke answers questions
like this there was a town hall on MSNBC
I imagine Ted Cruz was invited I imagine
he didn't want to go and bid O'Rourke
has asked this question err question hi
congressman O'Rourke it's a pleasure to
be here before you I'm asked one border
native to another I just like to ask you
how you're gonna address the issue of
militarizing the border yeah this idea
Andreea that we could send 5,000 US
service members to the border and
somehow stop migrants refugees asylum
seekers fleeing the most dangerous
countries in the hemisphere or that we
could build a 2,000 mile wall at a cost
of 30 million dollars where we have to
take someone's ranch or farm or property
through the use of eminent domain to
build something that we don't need at a
time of record security and safety for
border communities like mine and El Paso
perhaps yours wherever you are on the
border it's it's ridiculous and it's
again this idea we can be governed by
our fears and then we are very small
people where we can be known by our
image
remember the proud heritage of this
defining immigrant story state and
experience that is Texas that's that's
who we are we can share with our friends
and our colleagues in the Senate El Paso
is one of the safest cities in the
United States of America not in spite of
but because we are a city of immigrants
people left their hometown their family
their comfort their culture their
country to come here start anew as
strangers in a strange land
CK demos la ciudad West's comunidades no
necesitamos moodle's pretty impressive
and a verbal Obama going for it yeah I
mean you know in the event that this guy
wins the Senate race there I suspect
that we're gonna be I mean I either way
I think we're gonna be hearing a lot
more of him in the future but I think
we're gonna be hearing more of him in
the near future in the event that he
wins that race and it's an upgrading of
centrism I keep making the point I mean
a centrist candidate which he
undoubtedly is who supports single-payer
who's been so unequivocal not only on
that but also on police violence and
race issues that's a mean veto veto
becomes the center senator that was a
Democrat was Lloyd Bentsen I mean we're
talking about I think so um and Ann
Richards governor in the early 90s yeah
that's the early 90s Lloyd Bentsen ran
against tomato tomahto I can't he
remember his name now but the the vice
president wasn't terribly bright George
Herbert Walker survice President Dan
Quayle and I think that was the last
time we had a Democrat win in Texas and
so this is you know he's down in the
polls by I think the last poll I saw he
was down by nine points nine or ten
points there was one by CBS 11 Dixie
strategies I'm a less inclined to buy
that one versus Quinnipiac where he was
up by only five coming down by only five
but Cruz seems to seems to be above 50%
in both or is above 50% in both these
polls but you just don't know there was
one from The Texas Tribune that came out
a week ago Cruz's up by six
so it's possible going into election day
that Bidault is down by five it could be
down by five right now but closing four
or five points is not impossible if you
have a fundamentally different
electorate then one that you have seen
in the past and it's hard it's hard to
imagine that he's not gonna bring out
voters who haven't been voting in the
past and that really just Ted Cruz hate
won't bring out people pretty good
synthesis right there of a guy who
actually does have some charisma and
talent and might actually draw some
people combined with the most repulsive
figure in American life and you know in
terms of turnout we still have
Millennials was a NBC News generation
gen forward I don't know what that is at
the University of Chicago a survey that
came out early October maybe that has
changed to some degree there's only 31
percent of Millennials who say they
definitely will vote there's another 26
percent that say they probably will vote
will vote 23 percent uncertain it is you
know when it's hard for young people to
engage in in politics I mean there must
be something about age that has that
makes you more engaged as you get older
and I don't know what it is but older
people come out and vote doesn't make
more kind of just into it
since like the more you know about the
world the more you wouldn't show up to a
poll the older you get the more
vulnerable you feel the more you have
you know assets that could be in danger
that you have kids that I mean you are
more conscious of just like what you
rely upon from government and even if
government is not doing well
particularly if government is not doing
what you want but it's really just the
idea that you think government can
impact you I think we have to do a
balance because I agree with you and it
is on some ways it's mind-blowing that
even after a couple years of Trump there
isn't just a basic sort of response to
an emergency but that's my point like
you know I think I think the only reason
why you can have those things is that
there's a disconnect that they don't
think that it matters ultimately to
their lives well I think that that's
true and you're illustrating the point
where like they're just wrong right like
that's the blaming the electorate
argument and well right no no I'm joking
up don't get lost that I'm just joking
but you're right about that like it's
people not accurately assessing their
circumstances and then you know
conversely whether or not it works who
knows whether it works we also know that
young people have actually played in a
massive role in a lot of political and
social movements and of course you know
what the Democratic Party presents them
and the credibility of the Democratic
Party is gonna play a role as well so
well they're not public anxiety well no
exactly no no they're not voting right
now I'm saying in order to get them out
if maybe it won't work no matter what we
do but Democrats do need to more and
more push and sell the substantive idea
that like we'll get rid of your student
loans as an example I mean I clearly
they need to go out and push that and I
have a feeling that is you know that is
not low on the list of things that
Democratic candidates just from what
I've seen you know obviously health care
has been the the primary one and that's
going to resonate more with older people
though it should resonate more with
younger issues but I think the
juxtaposition frankly I think if you ran
a race that was I mean to make it really
narrow and boring say like you know what
healthcare I want everybody to have
health care and Republicans are gonna
kick twenty million people off of it and
for younger people I want a general
student loan amnesty because ridiculous
that we brought you into college so you
know and that's it I just hammered those
two things it's like I remember Tony
Blair and Gordon Brown one 2005 after
the Iraq invasion and they just won on
what they called the red lines and it
was literally just NHS spending and a
couple of other government areas they
were just like we're investing moratoria
cut we're investing more toys we'll cut
and they won big well also I think not
to sound like a broken record but the
single biggest determining factor and
whether or not somebody turns out to
vote is their income and young people
skew lower income than older people so
that's probably part of it that's tough
well yeah I guess that may be true I
mean older people may have more income
that maybe it would be tough it'd be
interesting to sort of assess on if you
could control for that I mean I haven't
seen studies obviously older people have
more money
broadly speaking because they've been
working longer and the poor ones die
earlier so the people who are still
alive are more likely to be conservative
right but that doesn't necessarily I
mean right but it's quite possible that
we don't know exactly I mean it'd be
interesting to look at youth vote and
see if the the Millennials who do vote
tend to be more wealthy than the
Millennials who don't I mean I imagine
it's probably the case I would say so
yeah
there have been some interesting
articles and polls lately that we should
probably take up also I just pulled up
this poll from the Pew Research Center
this is kind of interesting this isn't
just young people it's all registered
voters who didn't vote but in 2012 the
common reason for not voting was too
busy conflicting work or school schedule
right because Election Day is not a
national holiday in 2016 it shot up the
the reason did not like candidates or
campaign issues shot up way above that
as the number one reason people cited
for not voting I think do I mean both
candidates had the highest I think
between the two of them had the highest
dislikes of any two candidates present
the least popular I don't know if we can
draw anything from this but it's
interesting how there seems to be a
somewhat reversal between the white
youth vote and the black youth vote the
white youth I mean clearly voter
suppression and intimidation early on
the 60s right are it keeping the black
vote down but it seems like what the
white vote is sort of decrease you know
that's a good well we always want what
you're seeing between 2006 and 2010 was
the first african-american yes the first
president no but it happens earlier than
that 2002 does start maybe that's
backlash to Bush 86 it's weird that 2016
is a weld nuts congressional never mind
but there is a good article by Malaika
Jubilee in current affairs talking about
the decrease in voting among black
voters in 2016 and all the different
reasons why that is no use crying over
spilt mail
