an accidental conflict with Iran would
be like saying I purposely left this
fragile glass at the edge of a table
with you know people walking by and it
was just an accident when it fell I mean
the the there there is an attempt to set
up a scenario where in the natural
course of things a conflict could
escalate and you've suggested that
Donald Trump probably doesn't want this
and that seems to be the news reports
but it raises the question what are the
implications of Patrick Shanahan who was
until earlier this week the Acting
Secretary of Defense he had yet to have
a hearing and my understanding was part
of that was because the FBI was
investigating potential corruption
corporate corruption involving perhaps
some defense contractors but ultimately
we're told that it was some domestic
violence issues that took place about
ten years ago that they basically called
for the pulling of his nomination how
much of a coincidence is what's going on
with Iran right now and shanahan having
to depart how much of a coincidence is
that in your mind I I don't know it's
very speculative but I can tell you this
so much of the escalation that has taken
place have coincided with mattis leaving
that's not to say that matters in any
way shape or form was a softy on Iran he
certainly was not but he was also not
crazy enough to want to walk into a
confrontation right away and he was
quite resistant to and capable of
resisting the type of maneuvering that
Bolton was doing and then he could check
him
Chenin clearly did not have that
experience that expertise the gravitas
that matters had and as a result I don't
think it is a coincidence that as soon
as Matt is left we have seen almost
unrestrained escalation
Devere on because Bolton has been trying
to get a war with Iran for years and
this is his best shot yet to be able to
actualize that dream what is your sense
of where Shanahan was on the question of
war because we kept hearing reports over
the past couple weeks that Donald Trump
met with Pentagon officials and said I
don't want a war and you know in the
past I guess I'm just looking at Iraq
you know Donald Rumsfeld was out there
he was Secretary of Defense and he was
pushing for this war we didn't see that
with the secretary of defense obviously
sub mattis but we didn't see it with the
acting it's it's coming more from the
State Department with Mike Pompeo we
Shanahan do you think an obstacle to
what Pompeo and Bolden are are and we're
doing I'm reasonable to expect that he
probably wanted to be an obstacle but he
just didn't have the experience and and
the bureaucratic skillsets to be able to
be the type of an obstacle that is
needed right now
and as a result Bolton has been quite
effective in out maneuvering and so he's
moving everything and he's going to be
replaced with another person who also is
coming from that world but actually does
have a military background and arguably
has more government experience as well
and as a result may have a bit more of a
chance but we don't know where he stands
on these issues what is your sense in
terms of what how Iran is reacting to
this they have now said that they will
now up their uranium enrichment
essentially saying the u.s. unilaterally
ended this deal or at least walked away
from it the Europeans have yet to step
up and so they're going to take the next
step give me the perspective of what's
going on within Iran what the Iranians
are absolutely sick and tired of being
the only country that actually is
implementing the nucleo because as much
as the Europeans are talking a good game
and expressing how much they support the
deal they're not living up to the deal
they're not trading with Iran they are
much more respectful of Trump's
sanctions which they say they strong
disagree with than they are with the new
trick eel and that's obviously a big
problem because it's completely
unrealistic for anyone to expect that
the Iranians are going to continue to
implement the deal while getting none of
the benefits they were promised now the
good thing is this what they're doing is
not good in any way shape or form but it
is reversible meaning that and they are
really explicit about that as well which
is interesting essentially means that
the things that they're doing right now
are things that if the Europeans were to
finally start implementing the deal that
the Iranians can very quickly reverse
some of these steps and be in complete
compliance again within a couple of days
essentially if not even sooner and
that's good because it means that there
might be still some opportunity of
salvaging this to what extent do you
think the Iranians are also making an
overture to Trump in this way I mean it
seems to me right that Trump has been
signaling like that he would make
essentially the same deal that Obama did
but he just wants to call it the Trump
deal and it's you know in quotes a
better deal and that the Iranians maybe
are giving themselves some room in which
they can negotiate like they can return
like that you know they're actually able
to now go into a deal negotiation with
trumpet saying this is what we'll give
up we'll return to back to where we were
and in some ways everybody can perform
this Kabuki theater as if they have
renegotiated something but they
basically got back to where they were on
day one how much of that is possible
HD volumes end up negotiating with Trump
I think that's exactly how it's going to
be playing out they're not going to come
to the table with no leverage they're
going to be doing everything they can to
make sure that they build up their
leverage and it comes to the table with
something that they can trade away right
now they don't have much because they've
been abiding by the deal which actually
shows you how good the deal was the deal
was so good that it took away so much of
Iran's nuclear leverage
the United States but it's still you
know not a good situation it's it's very
risky because there's no guarantee that
it will end up working I mean look at
what's going on with North Korea yes
they came to the table they had all of
these different photo hogs and summits
but there's no deal and the North
Koreans are quickly going back to a lot
of the things that they were doing
before not surprisingly to what extent
do you think that the these sabotages of
these tankers is it in your mind is it
settled that Iran was involved in this
is it possible that I mean look it's
we've had the Gulf of Tonkin we've had
numerous examples in the past of we had
the the the babies in the incubators in
Kuwait we have numerous examples in the
past of lies of you know false flag
instances what what what what do you
think it's possible you know what are
the different scenarios as to what
happened this week there's plenty of
different scenarios and almost all of
them are extremely speculative because
yeah there's no hard evidence I mean the
videos that I have been floating around
actually don't show anything of
particular value it's show that some
boat may have been there they may have
taken something off the boat but that
doesn't mean that they are the same
people that took that put it on I mean
imagine if the Iranians actually let's
assume that they're not the ones behind
it they're there they're helping some of
the sailors get off the boat we know
that for a fact
and they see that there is an unexploded
mine there isn't it the responsible
thing to actually remove it and remove
the risk of it exploding and creating a
tremendous amount of damage including to
their own people that are there it seems
to me that if the US had been there and
saw an unexploded mine it too would have
removed it but that doesn't mean in any
way shape or form that the u.s. played
there
