let's let's check in on Lindsey Graham
as long as we're talking about people
who Paul Ryan got got tripped up by NPR
a when he was asked what's the
difference between Roy Moore that you
say shouldn't be a candidate and Donald
Trump who you don't seem to criticize
and of course Paul Ryan had his his it
took him a while to come around with it
like I don't but oh yeah
Congress caucus am associated with
Congress and so I don't judge anything
that's outside of Congress except for
when I do well here's another one
Lindsey Graham who apparently has
forgotten just about everything he said
about a year ago Jake Tapper take the
lead you know what concerns me about the
American press is this endless endless
an attempt to label the guy is some kind
of kook not fit to be President no I
have never said and I don't think
anybody here has ever said that the
president is a kook or that he's unfit
to be President but you know who has
take a look I think he's a kook
I think he's crazy I think he's unfit
for office there you go projection is a
real thing yeah that's a great line I
mean that's does anything sum this up
well I don't know that mr. Trump was
gonna threaten to annihilate North Korea
and give a whole bunch of money to the
Koch brothers and make people not be
able to get into detox programs right
well it's not just it is not just that
the guy is I mean I guess he hasn't gone
180 right he's gone 360 he's come around
and just about maybe 359 360 on Trump
100% on the issues those little yellow
bastard
give rich people money what part of this
aren't you understanding but the other
part too is attributing it to the to the
media right like I said it's the it's
it's not just that they are completely
lying it's that they're leveraging their
lies it's it's unbelievable let's go hi
folks Sam cedar here we still need your
help on our patreon page YouTube ABS
have come back but not nearly as much as
we had before so if you can help us out
any little bit helps head over to our
patreon page right at this URL and
you'll help us keep helping you by
making videos
