I want to talk about debate they just
sort of I don't mean like academic
debate where people write papers back
and forth I'm just talking about about
the idea of sort of the concept of live
debate and how much value it happens
okay um I so I was recently watching a
debate between Peter Hitchens and and
Judah okay everyone sorry
everyone has a pundit who they just hate
more than even else for you it's
probably Dave Rubin no I don't need to
give Rubin or all the Rubin brings me a
lot of joy I guess personally sorry but
anyway so who do you yes so so you tell
us who you hate but then let's let's try
to make it into a question all right
brother okay sorry
so I was wondering how much how many
value do you think live debate has
because I was watching a debate and I
was in computer Hitchin to make a point
which the the concept of it was
basically that if the Empire loses
territory it can't be expansionist and
it you don't have to worry about that
Empire okay well it's already dumb point
if your representative directly that's a
very dumb thing to say
in fact I've always thought Peter
Hitchens was a reactionary but a lot
more clever than that so it sounds yeah
yeah yep the gist of it was that since
the Russian Empire lost a huge amount of
territory after the Soviet Union
collapsed one can into that just what so
the question is do you think live
debates are valuable and I think that
live did well I think I think you know
because as an example I think gee Jack I
have watch more that debate I think he
did a great job with Peterson
even actually down to the fact that he
was polite and didn't go in for the kill
I think that actually was very smart
very well played so I kind of
you know I think it's like like anything
else I mean sometimes yes sometimes no I
mean but you know I mean I don't have a
strong particularly strong feeling about
it one way or another but it does seem
that it actually can still shine a light
in a good way at time yeah I appreciate
the call Thanks I'm a reformist when it
comes to live debates and not a not
abolitionist I think first of all the
crowd should not there shouldn't be a
crowd a live crowd to feed into anything
people say because then it just turns
into a demagoguery affair it should be
there should be a moderator that the
people involved in the debate and then
no one else I agree and that's how the
presidential debates should be - there
should not be crowds at presidential
debates at all I honestly like it would
have been amazing to see Trump debate
without a crowd in Wright 2016 Prime he
looked terrible exactly so I think that
from that perspective there there's non
logical stuff like that creeping into
these live debates and it's mainly about
rhetorical performance on the other hand
like I like I like a lot of these and
even without that they are about
rhetorical performance like I just also
think like you got to go in knowing like
what it is and you know unless it's you
know and I and actually think I have to
say I think said one of the reasons that
people also kind of enjoyed the gee Jack
Peterson thing was because it in a weird
way it was like even though it was this
like prime for what that is quote
unquote
entertainment event it was uh it was
actually kind of uh mutually respectful
in a way that actually sort of played
well and I think even again I think I
think the fact that Peterson the fact
that he couldn't pivot like Michael Eric
Dyson in my view just it just wasn't
like it just was like okay Michael Eric
Dyson made some lines that are
satisfying just you know our side to
some extent but Peterson could just go
like a mind meld into that and with this
case it was just literally like super
politely and super friendly but like
seriously dude you read the commies
manifest you read like a pamphlet in
preparation a debate like a world-system
philosophy like if I read like a young
op-ed from 19
forty-five and came to you and said I'm
ready to talk about young you would be
like what are you talking you're
supposed to be an expert on Marxist
totalitarianism and that's the first
time you picked up one of his easiest to
read publication and also a scientific
10th graders right that is not right
that in high school
philosophy and economics that's a that's
literally like that's a campaign man and
he didn't research any of the sort of
like details around the publication or
reproduction of the many of now
manifesto like he is a charlatan there
is no question about that like the idea
that wrote the Gulag Archipelago I mean
he doesn't have no idea was talking
about I mean I think I think search you
can be a good-faith charlatan like I
think his level of expertise for someone
who wrote the Gulag Archipelago
introduction for Penguin Classics it's
it's a joke and it's it's a it's gonna
be funnier one there's it becomes more
evidence yeah and and if you look like
I've waited a little bit into the
lobster boy subreddit and some of these
lobster boys recognize that their daddy
got owned and now they're taking a
second look at him he's taking a first
look there are new daddies Lavoie
Dziedzic and like I don't agree with
everything that she Jack has said uh I
do think sometimes he says things just
to get a rise out of people and he
speaks in these weird dialectics so if
you take one clip of him it sounds a lot
worse than it actually is but he has set
some really shitty things about trans
people and immigrants but like I
understand that this debate was not
necessarily for me and if he can get
Jordan Peterson's fans to abandon him
that's at least one step towards my kind
of politics and maybe I can scoop them
up after that yeah and I'm a big I'm a
GG I just wanted the only thing I'll say
about GJ I don't wanna open up this
whole debate but I do think it's like
important to note that and I guess where
my basic dividing line is is like
nothing he's ever written or said
actually implicates the rights or the
protect
of anybody and that's my bottom line
like that's you know so and his
critiques and things he's point to again
Dziedzic is somebody that you actually
you do literally need to put them on
content in context like this is not sam
harris this is somebody who really
actually does require highly attentive
reading and yeah he's written some dumb
political ah but oh that's brilliant all
that stuff aside to Jamie's point about
the people in the lobster that goes back
to what we're talking what about with
Ben Burgess and the whole give them an
argument so I think because we can we
can sit here and say you you bought into
Jordan Peterson well you're a hopeless
case get the out of here and that's
true for a lot of those people but
there's also a huge like hundreds of
thousands of those people who are just
neophytes and are dipping their toes
into sort of politics for the first time
in their and actually again another word
that's been destroyed but like ideas and
being interested in books interested in
thinking about the world and that's a
good thing and it can be harnessed for
good for great ideas and politics I I
could do with like fewer potshots
against the evil social justice warriors
but again that's like probably the only
reason Peterson agreed to talk with XI
Jack in the first place I will say this
though about G Jack's I agreed with what
critics this is what I'll say is cuz use
your a distinction between that and
Marxists and frankly I can appreciate
that a little bit no and they are
distinct and I think he also you know
again actually I think when he I mean
this is a this is actually something I'm
using in my book but I think the
difference between recognizing that a
lot of times that rhetoric is actually
still assuming that you're like the
universal subject who's bestowing like
look at how enlightened I am versus like
actually going into like a genuine
common global human effort that is not
from a place of moralism and
performativity he was a hundred percent
right about and I'd like to see a lot
more of that frankly so I actually liked
that critique I mean sometimes it feels
bit straw man II like the reason I mean
I've said this before the reason I
disagree with social justice warriors
quote-unquote is not because they care
too much about trans rights it's not
because they're shrill it's because they
are liberals without a material
critique oh thanks nobody yeah I know
and everybody's on the same page in
terms of rights i have interested in a
headline from the washington post this
comes from the washington post writing a
good headline see if you'll see what I'm
shocking Facebook bans far-right leaders
including Louis Farrakhan Alex Jones
Milan innopolis were being dangerous so
the Washington Post agree in that
Farrakhan is a right-wing well done
well bit done being able to disaggregate
there though I will be signing a protest
letter to get him back on Facebook
that's a travesty it's one of my heroes
right there it's it's my right-wing
bunker mate as we said in the LA live
show
