[Music]
with Sita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in
conference rooms of any of these have
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday July 24th 2019 I
was like that music yeah I do like yeah
I get it
this is a special report ladies and
gentlemen special version of the
majority report wherein we just watched
the three-hour testimony of Robert
Moloch to the Judiciary Committee the
Intelligence Committee hearing is
happening in about half an hour what
we're going to do now is in about 20-25
minutes more or less maybe a little less
basically go over the highlights of the
hearing Muller was even more reticent to
say anything than we thought the last
clip that we will play is I think one of
the most clear of this and he seemed
tired during it frankly and I don't even
know if we have any highlights we have
one highlight from a Republican where he
asked a question he didn't know an
answer to and did not get the response
that he wanted the rest of the
Republicans basically spoke about how
there were people in the DOJ who were
you know having an affair and and may
you know questioning Muller's
impartiality and whatnot so not terribly
relevant in that regard and really this
is what this hearing is going to end up
doing it's either going to do one of two
things is going to take the air out of
the city the the the air out of the
sails of impeachment or it's going to
there'll be a couple clips that will be
played over and over again one of them
will be one of the ones that we we
present and to you now let's just get
right into this robert muller here is a
short clip of
his testimony his opening statement on
his testimony here's our investigation
found that the Russian government
interfered in our election in sweeping
and systematic fashion second the
investigation did not establish that
members of the Trump campaign conspired
with the Russian government in its
election interference activities we did
not address collusion which is not a
legal term rather we focused on whether
the evidence was sufficient to charge
any member of the campaign with taking
part in a criminal conspiracy and it was
not third our investigation of efforts
to obstruct the investigation and lie to
investigators was of critical importance
obstruction of justice strikes at the
core of the government's effort to find
the truth and to hold wrongdoers
accountable finally as described in
volume 2 of our report we investigated a
series of actions by the president
towards the investigation based on
Justice Department policy and principles
of fairness we decided we would not make
a determination as to whether the
president committed a crime now is our
decision then and it remains our
decision today okay
now there's two things there that he
said at the end that are going to be
relevant the first did not get enough
attention it is based upon the OLC
opinion about whether a sitting
president can be charged with a crime
that was one of the reasons why we did
not make a determination as to whether
he committed a crime the second one was
fairness you have to ask yourself would
it be unfair to say that someone did not
commit a crime to that person no it
would not would it be unfair to say that
they did commit a crime if there was no
legal
proceeding in which they could defend
themselves yes it would so he's
basically said there in his opening
statement although you have to parse it
we would have charged him with a crime
if he was not the president United
States and there was an opportunity for
him to defend himself and there was no
OLC ruling as to whether he should be
charged here is Jerry Nadler who was the
who provided the opening questions for
Muller and this was one of the best
exchanges I think in terms of just being
simple and straightforward good a number
of challenges to our democracy among the
most serious completely claimed that
your report found there was no
obstruction and that had completely and
totally exonerated him but that is not
what your report said is it correct that
is not what the report says and our
reading from page two of volume two of
your report that's on the screen you
wrote quote if we had confidence after a
thorough investigation of the facts that
the president clearly did not commit
obstruction of justice we would so state
based on the facts and the applicable
legal standards however we are unable to
reach that judgment close quote now does
that say there was no obstruction no in
fact you were actually unable to
conclude the president did not commit
obstruction of justice is that correct
well we at the outset determined that we
when it came to the the president's
culpability we needed to we mean it and
we needed to go forward only after
taking into account the OLC opinion that
indicated that a president a sitting
president cannot be indicted so the
report did not conclude that he did not
commit obstruction of justice
is that correct that is correct and what
about total exoneration did you actually
totally exonerate the
No now in fact you reports expressly
states that it does not exonerate the
present that does and your investigation
actually found quote multiple acts by
the president that were capable of
exerting undue influence over law
enforcement investigations including the
Russian interference and obstruction
investigations is that correct correct
now director Muller can you explain in
plain terms what that finding means so
the American people can understand it
well the finding here indicates that the
president was not that the president was
not a scoping exculpated for the acts
that he allegedly committed in fact you
were talking about incidents quote in
which the president sought to use his
official power outside of usual channels
unquote to exert undue influence over
your investigations is that right that's
correct
now am I correct that on page seven of
volume two of your report you wrote
quote the president became aware that
his own conduct was being investigated
in an obstruction of justice inquiry at
that point the president engaged in the
second phase of conduct involving public
attacks on the investigation non public
efforts to control it and efforts in
both public and private to encourage
witnesses not to cooperate with the
investigation
close quote so president Trump's efforts
to exert undue influence over your
investigation intensified after the
president became aware that he
personally was being investigated I
stick with language that you have in
front of you which which came from page
seven volume two now is it correct that
if you concluded that the president
committed the crime of obstruction you
could not publicly state that in your
report or here today and you repeat the
question sir is it correct that if you
had concluded that the president
committed the crime of obstruction you
could not publicly state that in your
report or here today well I would say
you
I could the statement would be that you
would not indict and you would not
indict because under the OLC opinion a
sitting president
excuse me cannot be indicted be
unconstitutional so you could not state
that because of the OLC opinion if that
would have been your conclusion tell us
the opinion with some guide yes but
under DOJ you have justice policy the
president could be prosecuted for
obstruction of justice crimes after he
leaves offices correct row thank you did
any senior White House official refused
the request to be interviewed by you and
your team I don't believe so yeah let me
take that back I I would have to look at
if I'm not certain that that was the
case the president refused a request to
be interviewed by you and your team yes
yes and is it true that you tried for
more than a year to secure an interview
with the president yes and is it true
that you and your team advised the
president's lawyer that quote an
interview with the president is vital to
our investigation close yes and is it
true that you also state quote stated
that it is in the interest of the
presidency in the public for an
interview to take place close quote yes
but the president still refused to sit
for an interview by you or your team
true true and did you also ask him to
provide written answers to questions on
the ten possible episodes of obstruction
of justice crimes involving him yes did
he provide any answers to a single
question about whether he engaged in
obstruction of justice crimes I would
have to check on that I'm not certain
director Muller we are grateful that you
were here to explain your investigation
and findings having reviewed your work I
believe anyone else would engage okay
and so there you have it some key things
that Nadler brought out that Muller
if Muller believed that obstruction had
occurred he would not say it in the
report or in this hearing because of the
OLC because of the Oh L say it OSE
holding and the subsequent implications
it would be for fairness
after that but he did say and we're
gonna hear this a couple of times that
he can be charged the president can be
charged with obstruction of justice
after he's no longer the president here
is Zoe Lofgren
asking Muller she's a Democrat from
California about Paul Manafort and the
polling information that Paul Manafort
handed on to one of his clients I guess
are former clients here it is election
particularly what I came to computer
crimes and the like the government was
implicated so you wrote on in volume one
that the Russian government interfered
in the 2016 presidential election and
sweeping and systematic fashion you also
described in your report that the vent
from campaign chairman Paul Manafort
shared with a Russian operative clinic
the campaign strategy for winning
Democratic votes in Midwestern states an
internal polling data of the campaign
isn't that correct correct they they
also discussed the status of the Trump
campaign a man afford strategy for
winning Democratic votes in Midwestern
states months before that meeting mana
Ford had caused internal data to be
shared with clinic and the sharing
continued for some period of time after
their August meeting isn't that correct
accurate in fact your investigation
found that mana for brief colum nakhon
the state of the Trump campaign and mana
Ford's plan to win the election and that
briefing encompass the campaign's
messaging it's an internal polling data
it also include discussion of
battleground states which
mana Ford identified as Michigan
Wisconsin Pennsylvania and Minnesota
isn't that correct that's right did your
investigation determine who requested
the polling data to be shared with
clinic well I would direct you to the
report and that's what we have in the
report and with regard to that
particular issue we don't have the
redacted version this may be another
reason why we should get that for volume
one
based on your investigation how could
the Russian government have used this
campaign pausing for one second we don't
know who directed man afford to do that
it's weird that it would be redacted
wouldn't it that's weird but bill bar is
not here and so we can't ask him why he
redacted that go ahead reason why we
should get that for volume 1 based on
your investigation how could the Russian
government have used this campaign
polling data to further its sweeping and
systematic interference in the 2016 path
fair enough
did your investigation find that the
Russian government perceived it would
benefit from one of the candidates
winning yes and which candidate would
that be well it would be trimmed by a
trump correct
the Trump campaign wasn't exactly what
never looked into take Russian help you
wrote it expected it would benefit
electoral from information stolen and
released through Russian efforts isn't
that correct
correct now was the investigations
determination what was the
investigations determination regarding
the frequency with which the Trump
campaign made contact with the Russian
government well I would have to refer
you to the report on that well we went
through and we counted a hundred and
twenty six contacts between Russians or
their agents and Trump campaign
officials or their associates so would
that sound about right I can't say I
understand this statistic and I believe
it I understand the statistic mr. Mellor
I appreciate your being here a report
and so there you know this question is -
why why Manafort shared that information
maybe it was just that clinic was just
curious like how does it how does the
campaign work what do you guys do
I love data I mean it's and that's not
that's not impossible to imagine it's
weird that you would redact the person
who told man afford to do it that's
strange
particularly when it totally exonerates
me yeah it's a weird thing weird thing
but we don't know all right and here is
a Republican who is going to helpfully
ask a question that he apparently does
not know the answer to even though
Muller had said it in his questioning
with Nadler and his opening statement
but let's put a fine point on this the
Ken Buck here we go charge of conspiracy
with Russian and Ferris in the 2016
election is that fair fair was there
sufficient evidence to convict President
Trump or anyone else with obstruction of
justice we did not make that calculation
how could you not have made the
calculation is regular Elsi opinion the
OLC opinion Office of Legal Counsel
indicates that we cannot indict a
sitting president one of the tools that
a prosecutor would use is not there okay
but let me just stop you made the
decision on the Russian interference you
you couldn't have indited the President
on that and you made the decision on
that but when it came to obstruction you
threw a bunch of stuff up against the
wall to see what would stick and that is
I would not agree to that
characterization at all what we did is
provide to the Attorney General in the
form of a confidential memorandum our
understanding of the case those cases
that were brought those cases order
declined and the that one case where the
President cannot be charged with a crime
okay
but the could you charge the president
with a trim' after he left office yes
you believe that he committed you could
charge the president nine states with
obstruction of justice after he left
office yes oh okay now yes now look I'm
convinced that what Muller was saying is
there hypothetically you could however
what buck doesn't realize he's saying
it's like you told us we're in the first
instance that there was not sufficient
evidence that you found to charge the
president with conspiracy why didn't you
say that in the second instance well
because the oil see says he can't be
charged with a crime in other words we
found sufficient evidence to charge him
with a crime but it is impossible to
charge him with a crime so we just let
it hang there and he I wonder if he's
gonna come back and say I was not saying
that you you that you could charge the
president with a crime after he gets out
of office if he was saying this
president or just in general maybe he
meant to do that is like sort of well
it'll be interesting to see if that's
corrected but either way I think it's
also it's yes you could be I think it
has I think you conclude charge this
president with the crime of obstruction
after he gets out of office and one
could generally charge a president with
a crime once he gets out of office or
she gets out of office here is
Democratic congressman David chicolini
Cicilline Cicilline over here from Rhode
Island making a point again that refutes
those who said you can't charge a crime
of obstruction if it is not successful
here we go ski for Train General
Sessions and asked him to write it down
is that correct true and viewer did you
and your team see this handwritten
message I'm not gonna get into what
we may or may not have included in our
investigate the message directed
sessions to give and I'm quoting from
your report to give a public speech
saying that he planned to meet with the
special prosecutor to explain this is
very unfair and let the special
prosecutor move forward with
investigating election meddling for
future elections that's at page 91 is
that correct yes I see that thank you
yes it is in other words mr. Lewandowski
a private citizen was instructed by the
President of the United States to
deliver a message from the President to
the Attorney General that directed him
to limit your investigation correct
correct
and at this time mr. sessions was still
recused from oversight of your
investigation correct I'm sorry could
you see Sir John was recused from over
there the Attorney General would have
had to violate his own department's
rules in order to comply with the
president's order correct well I'm not
gonna get into the subsidiary details I
just refer you again to page 91 92 of
the report if the Attorney General had
followed through with the president's
request mr. Malla it would have
effectively ended your investigation
into the president and his campaign as
you note on page 97 correct thank you
you peg John is having you write I quote
taken together the president's
directives indicate that sessions was
being instructed to tell the special
counsel to end the existing
investigation into the president and his
campaign with the special counsel being
permitted to move forward with
investigating election meddling for
future elections is that correct
generally true yes sir and it's an
unsuccessful attempt to obstruct justice
is still a crime is that correct that is
correct and mr. Lewandowski I tried to
meet with the Attorney General is that
right that's that's all you need to know
that is one of the building blocks of
those people who deny that there was a
crime committed so let's just knock down
some of these things that we've heard in
the two weeks
not just from trump but in the two weeks
after the report was issued that it
totally exonerated Donald Trump Muller
says no that you cannot be charged with
obstruction if it's unsuccessful Muller
says that's not correct he also has as
far as I can tell explicitly said the
reason why
we did not charge him with obstruction
was because the OLC tells us that we
cannot the office of legal counsel in
the department of justice so we did
everything we could up to that line now
let's go to ted Lieu who will reaffirm
that in a very very explicit exchange
here this is a Democrat from California
on that very topic of the OLC Perez
statement the olace LLL hold indict
Donald Trump is because of OLC opinion
stating that you cannot indict a sitting
president correct that is correct the
fact that their order is by the
president were not carried out that is
not a dozens go back to the beginning of
that I want to I want to be very clear
what Muller said here now maybe again he
misspoke and did not mean to say that
the own the that but but that's
basically what he's saying in about four
different ways I could conclude that all
three elements of the crime of
assumption justice have been met and I'd
like to ask you the reason again that
you did not indict Donald Trump is
because of OLC opinion stating that you
cannot indict a sitting president
correct that is correct
the fact that their orders by the
president were not carried out that is
not a defense to obstruction justice
because a statute itself is quite broad
it says that as long as you endeavor or
attempt to obstruct justice that would
also constitute a crime I get into that
at this juncture posit he earlier he did
say it's interesting there was some
instances where he would say it I'm not
sure what made it the the that specific
thing that is something he wouldn't
respond to but there you have it here is
Cedric Richmond Democrat from Louisiana
another mechanism in which Donald Trump
obstructed justice as they go through
and and largely what happened after Lou
and and throughout where the Democrats
were just going through the different
counts of obstruction of justice that
took place and it got very mired and
none of it is relevant insofar as this
is a political this is all about
politics and it that stuff may make it
into an impeachment report but not if
there is not an impeachment inquiry so
but this took out in terms of of why one
might begin an impeachment inquiry
Cedric Richmond Democrat from Louisiana
so it's fair to say the president tried
to protect himself by asking staff to
falsify records relevant to an ongoing
investigation I would say that generally
in summary would you say that that
action the president tried to hamper the
investigation by asking staff to falsify
records relevant to your investor for
you to the report if I could for yeah
there you go so he doesn't want to go
that far in saying that except because
it's in the report
here is congresswoman Val Demmings of
Florida again making the point of why
obstruction is a crime and why again
multiple accounts of obstruction and how
it implicates
the investigation of the so called
underlying crime according to your
report page 9 volume 1 witnesses lied to
your office and to Congress those lies
materially impaired the investigation
Russia interference according to your
report other than the individuals who
pled guilty to crimes based on their
lying to you and your team did other
witnesses lie to you
I think and they're probably a spectrum
of witnesses in turn
sorry about that it's hanging there good
bear with us folks a little technical
issue he's saying there is a spectrum of
there we go plead guilty to crimes based
on they're lying to you and your team
did other witnesses lie to you I think
and they're probably a spectrum of
witnesses in terms of those who are not
telling the full truth and those are
outright liars thank you very much
outright liars it is fair to say then
that there were limits on what evidence
was available to your investigation of
both Russia election interference and
obstruction of justice that's true and
it usually in the case and that lies by
Trump campaign officials and
administration officials impede at your
investigation I would generally agree
with that thank you so much director
Muller you were or from me she's gonna
be back in the Intel committee but there
you go I mean he could not do the
investigation he could not find the
evidence he specifically said because of
the lies
all right lastly this is our last one
right this is a Veronica Escobar is that
right and this is super important
because and I would have spent more time
on this frankly I don't know how much
they coordinated that it seems like they
coordinated but this goes to the
question of of impeachment and if Muller
in his report by noting that there are
constitutional procedures to deal with
this to deal with this that this is sort
of a question mark right but he has said
in the report and in this hearing
the reason why they did not indict Trump
on obstruction is because of the OLC
ruling and he further said in the report
and there are constitutional procedures
in which to deal with this and here is
that point being brought out in the
hearing frankly it should have been
brought out they all went through the
obstruction charges and instead of doing
that each one of them should have had
this line of questioning it seems to me
director Muller you wrote in your report
that you quote determined not to make a
traditional prosecutorial judgment end
quote
was that in part because of an opinion
by the Department of Justice office of
legal counsel that a sitting president
can't be charged with a crime yes
director Muller at your May 29 29 teen
press conference you explained that
quote the opinion says that the
Constitution requires a process other
than the criminal justice system to
formally accuse a sitting president of
wrongdoing
end quote that process other than the
criminal justice system for accusing a
president of wrongdoing is that
impeachment I'm not going to comment on
that in your report you also wrote that
you did not want to quote potentially
preempt constitutional processes for
addressing presidential misconduct end
quote for the non lawyers in the room
what did you mean by quote potentially
preempt constitutional processes I'm not
going to try to explain that that
actually is coming from page one of
volume two in the footnote is the the
reference to this
what are those constitutional processes
I think I heard you mention at least one
impeachment correct I'm not going to
comment all right pause okay so here's
the bottom line all right here's the
bottom line
this is Robert Muller trying to protect
himself from being on television with
the word in
coming out of his mouth that's it bottom
line he said before he came to testify
he told the committee he will not read
from the report he was asked to on
multiple occasions he had already said I
will not do that and he did not want the
word impeachment to come out of his
mouth just as a principle as a directive
to himself but he did say like oh if you
put it up on the wall the word I will
point to it as long as we can't see
there's no camera shot of me pointing to
that word you just mentioned it I mean
it's it's childish and to a certain
extent this is this was his posture
throughout the whole thing and and
frankly this is cowardly it's cowardice
yeah like why is he doing this he's
doing this because he what he wanted to
protect himself throughout this thing he
didn't want to walk away from the job
and he wanted to protect himself and
that's it and he's able to do it because
the Democrats are very differential
exactly well what might imagine in the
long-term
it'll be protecting himself more if he
doesn't look like he sat on his hands in
the face of a rising authoritarian
threat I mean I think largely people
will forget his name down the road and
that's what he wants but that's it
that's the judiciary monarch notes cliff
Noakes
whatever you want to say to it and we
should drop this up in the front part of
the audio we can well folks as you
notice I'm shaving today a lot of guys
buy disposable razors when they travel
the summer you don't have to sacrifice
quality for price you can join the 10
million people who have tried Harry's
claim your special offer by going to
harrys.com slash majority report Harry's
delivers high-quality travel friendly
shave supplies at a great low price
two bucks per plate keep prices low they
cut out the middleman by purchasing a
world-class Blade Factory in Germany and
now they provide great quality at
factory direct prices Harry's has been
one of our longest term supporters
advertisers on this show I cannot tell
you how many times people say to me you
clean up nice
after I have shaven and then often I I
did it today with the anticipation that
maybe I will go on television I
generally don't like to shave that much
Harry's has made it a much more pleasant
experience for me ladies and gentlemen
the summer refresh your wallet and your
face with Harry's trial set it comes
with weighted organ amah candle for an
easy grip the five blade razor with a
lubricating strip and the Sam cedar
favorite trimmer blade for a close shave
and also works around my asymmetrical
nostrils rich lathering shave gel that
will leave you smelling great and a
travel blade cover to keep your razor
dry and easy on the go listeners of my
show can redeem their trial set at
harrys.com slash majority report make
sure you go to harrys.com slash majority
report to redeem your offer let them
know I sent you to support the show all
right folks we're going to be back in
moments to cover the Intel hearing with
Robert Muller we will be doing that live
thank you for watching this we'll be
back in about five or ten minutes once
we you know inject some of some food
into us and thank you for joining us and
bye
[Music]
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
