here is Kilmeade while we're on it and
then here is kilmeade with mark levin is
this mark levin no who's this Oh a small
business owner of course let's bring a
random small business owner he's the
owner of heartland brewery John
Bluestein this is gonna be disgusting
what Democrats are proposing I worked in
restaurants my entire life my family
owned bars go back forever so here's the
thing the entry-level wage is not
supposed to be a way you earn a living
it's supposed to be entry-level you get
another job you move to a better job
that's way it is positive wait a second
I just want to just I think we should
just focus on two things he just said
one my parents owned a bunch of bars so
when he went for the entry-level
position it was a guaranteed way for him
to move up if he wanted to he says
entry-level position is not supposed to
be to make a living what are you
supposed to be doing with that
entry-level position is it an internship
yes they want to intern eyes the economy
it's a bizarre thing to say go back to
I've heard that that's actually a very
common Republican very revealing
actually that's a very car I've heard
that talking point many times this is
your first job you're not supposed to
make a living yeah they're still
pretending the only teenagers have these
kinds of jobs yeah I don't know I was
gonna look up the percentage maybe I
will in a second but it's a very high
than amount of people who work
minimum-wage jobs who aren't teenagers
it's not supposed to be a way you earn a
living it's supposed to be entry-level
you get another job you move to a better
job that's the way it is you can't have
businesses that are giving people houses
thank you that's the way it's always
been and this you know the politicians
are effectively buying votes at our
expense
well they're buying votes as opposed to
those politicians who say stuff like
we're gonna give business owners like
heartland brewery a big tax cut they're
not buying votes that's every Enterprise
single Republican who votes for
Republican will talk about tax cuts
which presumably are money in their
pocket at least there that's what they
contemplate and they're buying their
votes that's that's what I mean that's
what everybody does that's what we want
politicians to do but it's different
whether you give it to black people as I
explained so adroitly after I was
defeated by Barack Obama and while we're
at it when you're being racist you
shouldn't be rude about it
it's my new column on ethical leadership
for the Washington Post and this is not
always the way it's been needless to say
the purchasing power of the minimum wage
has gone way down since the New Deal era
well in Justin well in terms of the
minimum wage as to where it should be it
should be around $21 based upon
inflation and living and productivity so
it's absurd all right we've got to take
a quick break
