so lastly here is a Fox right-wing
a-hole who I seems to think that he is
involved in some type of like wartime
reporting here I mean he's he's got the
whole thing I'm surprised he's not
wearing a flak jacket he does hushed
tones yes here we go this is that guy
Griff who usually they send out to
harass like you know actors or something
like that to get them to say like how
come you didn't how come you said you
know America love it or leave it or
something you know but here he is here
is these guys he's in the woods
folks down at the border with a nanny in
the bushes waiting to witness one of
these crossings let's go they're coming
right now
[Music]
see didn't see they've come and they've
got a family and a rest we tried to
cross into America illegally yeah there
they are there it is
six people family three or four kids
over by that one has a scimitar that was
paddling in the raft this is a an
attempt to illegally cross and they've
gone back over there we seem to have
fold this attempt but officials tell us
that he's probably just gonna look for
another spot
you know it's a legal crossing yes yes
but you came anyway why why did you come
is what I'm asking you can you tell me
why you came illegally the situation of
Laura you're in Honduras or Honduras yes
what are the conditions there you cannot
have work and Erika's the criminals
always will
got your money yeah I wonder if Griff
speak Spanish I mean what I like the
idea of like bringing me actually
sending somebody down I could actually
communicate to these people in some
fashion very fortunate for a Grif that
this Honduran speaks two languages and
because more languages and he does right
exactly it's crazy that he thinks that
he comes off well in this does for their
people for their people I think they do
they're not as we were completely
divorced from any type of basic human
empathy like you have to be pretty far
gone to watch that and listen to what
she said and think that these people are
like scary terrorists you have to be
pretty far gone could be the description
of the Fox News viewing base but I but
you know what there's another thing too
Tucker Carlson does that's intelligent
he'll say a lot and very manipulative he
says a lot conditions and many countries
are horrible and that's not a good thing
and you should feel bad about it and
maybe you should even do something about
it but it's not our political
responsibility that's how you offload a
ping of conscience right and I mean of
course it's not hard to make the
argument that it is it is in fact our
political response well well of course
that's the other conclusion you could
draw a map of I mean even ms-13 was
literally created in Latin America or in
LA migrated back to Latin America and a
lot to do with what Reagan was doing in
Central America in the 80s which was
absolutely vicious right and we
destabilized a lot of these countries
supported coos in these countries we our
drug policies have encouraged all sorts
of cartels so you it's easy to find a a
political responsibility you a clout
probably yeah every single place that
has an immigration crisis you could link
whether it's World Bank IMF policies or
the coos things are talking about you
could probably draw linear relationships
between US foreign policy and certainly
anywhere in the Caribbean and Latin
America
and one thing that did not come up in
the context of the debate which I lament
was the implications of immigration on
things like wages in this country and
since it didn't come up in the debate I
guess I'll drop this now but the vast
majority of studies show and to the
extent that there are studies that are
contrary to this they've been debunked
by by some in some instances by
right-wing think tanks that immigrant
labor largely
does not substitute one to one for
American native labor and there is as
much data that argues that if you were
to restrict immigration particularly for
immigrant labor when it comes to things
like farm work that you would end up
getting far more automation which would
ultimately knock out native workers as
well additionally apparently restricting
immigration can have adverse effects for
high skilled labor in that immigrant
labor provides domestic services which
allow many instances mothers some
instances fathers to return to a
workforce earlier because they are given
because there's there you have child
care none of this has to be undocumented
you could have all these people
documented and they could still function
in the same way may raise some prices a
little bit but the market for nannies I
think is you know a function of demand
in a certain area and certainly with
migrant workers it would be nice to
bring them into the system so that they
could get protection in terms of wages
but there's no there's simply no data to
support that they have a significant
impact on lowering wages and then on top
of that we are aging out the white
population in this country the native
population is getting old and we need
more workers to support our society like
things like Social Security I mean this
is even more extreme in the UK and it's
actually a big problem in China as well
right I mean it's one of our competitive
advantages is that we have I sell Japan
actually undercut their boom population
thing though like I don't like to argue
on their terms about this stuff like
whether immigrants are good for the
economy or whether in some sectors they
have been used in the past to break
unions and drive down wages that's not
how I decide what rights people have you
know so like humans have the right to
freedom of movement and if the system
cannot support that then the system
needs to change period I mean that's I I
don't have a problem with that argument
but I'm addressing to the extent that
there's an argument out there that wages
particularly in the context of middle
class debate what hurts the middle class
that the that immigrants present some
type of threat there is I think
obviously another argument that we
should have no borders or that were that
people should have the rights to migrate
wherever they want but those are kind of
different things right like I'm just
that's right something it's like you're
it's one thing when people say you know
we should support immigrants because
they do x-axis and X which I agree with
you cuz I think there's an eight values
at work and it's another to just say
you're literally lying about what
they're doing here exactly I'm
addressing the arguments of the woman
who owns the lake house who thinks that
migrant towards are going to take over
her house I'm addressing the arguments
that we hear from from people who may
not subscribe to the idea that that we
shouldn't have board
that there is some type of material harm
that is being done to two American
citizens or American workers by
immigrants and my argument is that's not
the case now yes you can take
undocumented or even documented
immigrants and use them and leverage
them against happened yes I know you can
do that you can do that with with scabs
- I mean who don't necessarily have to
be undocumented and I'm not even sure
that it's you know sort of it may be
easier to manipulate immigrant
populations than not if that's the
argument that you're making or other
economically marginalized populations
right I mean that's so maybe it's not a
good idea to say that they are I mean
you tell me do you think immigrants are
more easily manipulated than than others
to break unions
I mean you it's happened in the past
it's happening in Odense it's happened
with other marginalized populations well
um by bosses who want to pay people less
do you think that they're more
susceptible to it I mean yeah if you can
threaten to call ice on somebody of
course right and so I mean I think
that's a problem but that's why I think
we should we should that we should be
brought in to legalize them in this
instance but that is I don't think that
the right is concerned about their their
negative effects against unions well of
course not it's pretty disingenuous on
their part but that also when they're
making a material argument like I and I
like it that you're arguing with them on
that level I guess but um yeah you need
to deal with the material facts at hand
and in the past like yeah there have
been benefits to our economy and there
have been there have been bets bad
things to bosses have abused
marginalized populations and use them to
drive down wages but the answer to that
is to always incorporate everyone into
your workers struggle yes all right well
look we got
