he's struggling with a couple things
that are important before and gets the
right course
the idea that he is bringing up what our
races I feel
absolutely criticizing Brown I think
[Music]
[Music]
always
[Music]
I don't
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
here
[Music]
alright alright so let's do it
which is that Donald Trump won
or I really against Longstreet teaches
corporate trade deals and corruption in
Washington
about all those things happen to
something very real which is a shape of
the system outsider and that meant
filling this day
it's hard to imagine that a worse foot
forward for Democrats than someone who's
so brand is putting back we do without a
press Republican politician
and giant corporations I mean it's hard
to imagine for many independent voters
complete both political parties because
above partisan bruxism
the value proposition of a democratic
entire of cutting back on the meals of
the Republican insiders not very right
that's why we need someone who is our
own equal and opposite bowls in exchange
we believe versus party festive
there are many people released
collectively going in that direction
people like Bernie and Elizabeth are
transformational be here
when they mature - are many to deduction
right on the Hyde Amendment for a while
on that obviously
the whole idea that almonds will have an
epiphany
all the businesses they want the
realities
in these a
[Music]
successful candidates standard barefoot
one is
and inspire the base and then expand the
base and it's
it's based in racial gender and economic
justice I need to bicycle short I don't
know
and
[Music]
being unable to in the
to have the authentic credible language
of the kind of politics and its
the successful winner of this primary is
going to be able to do is to actually
organize on the ground a multiracial
coalition that will win and that
candidate can't start campaigning you
know after the DNC they have to
demonstrate that they can do that now
and I think in terms of that second
score we see Joe Biden week on on those
fronts
I have heard over the last week's and it
wasn't just the interaction with Kamala
Harris although that laid bare his
inability to talk about racial justice
in the age of Trump in a way that speaks
deeply to the need to have a leader in
the debt in the White House that can
address and address racial justice but
also to provide a counterpoint a sharp
counterpoint to what Trump and his
cronies are doing from the White House
and and and from DC I also think that
when he minimizes the importance he
token eise's leaders in Congress that I
heard him do last with a women of color
who were the freshman freshman Congress
women he may not understand that as
women of color we're hearing that it's
as powerful of a message about how women
of color who are the core of the base
don't matter that much to as his
coalition and that's extremely damaging
and ultimately weakening of the very
coalition that we need to be successful
so the reason he is appearing as a least
electable is because he is drawing on a
same kind of sort of white moderate
message there's a ceiling to those
voters there's a ceiling to the number
of voters but the great opportunity for
Democrats to win the White House next
November is to be able to expand to
people of color to all the vote eligible
men and women particularly in states in
the south and southwest as well as the
current state we're in Pennsylvania and
others
that Trump won and yet we have the the
people that live in those states in
order to be successful those are not
white moderates by the way those are
people of color all right so let me let
me just ask a question I'm not exactly
sure who - top of this - but even if I
am looking at this from an agnostic
perspective on a set of issues and I
don't know the specifics of what drives
the vote I don't know what specific
groups are the base that needs to be
activated my concern is that when I see
a disparate group of different interests
who are active in the Democratic Party
and I can't find a constituency it comes
up and says I'm all in for Joe Biden
they come who are the people who are
going to dot knock on the doors who are
the people who are going to motivate
people I mean I'm looking at this almost
as purely a mathematical problem that
it's not enough to just have polls you
need people to fight for you I have
anything like can anybody tell me what
the constituency is listen that's going
to be that's activating and I know
everybody wants to talk and I they
should talk and I just want to say I had
reporters for months telling me the
polls are telling me black women
middle-aged arthas supporters of Joe
Biden and I said it doesn't match my
experience in conversations on the
ground how could that be and we saw how
quickly that polls moved after the first
debate which shows me that that that
support that they were identifying was
soft and it was based mainly on voter ID
and when we go down into the actual
substantive policies that's when the
support crumbles so I I wouldn't say
it's as it is we're still I haven't I
have come across people who support
Biden but I haven't in terms of like
massively motivated voters I
yet in my world and I will just say it's
working I'd enter one thing is that you
want to talk about electability and you
want to talk about someone who's not
living into the general election and
right now yes Biden started off strong
and he's still ahead but he's every
every month this election seems to be
going down a little bit more every time
people find out more about Joe Biden he
goes down and they go up you want
somebody getting more people excited
you know I think what I think it looks
like fearful people people who have been
led to believe that the safest routes
are taking Trump out as a white guy an
older white guy who people know and I
think that's not a base that you can win
an election on I think once people
realize the jig is up on that and that
there are many candidates who can beat
Trump that are not him then I think his
support wanes I don't think there is
energy for him and when we talk to our
members on the ground we hear well I
really want to beat chumps so if Joe
binds the best way to do it that we
should probably do it but now since the
first set of debates people are actually
believing that's different that actually
Kamala Harris that Elizabeth Warren that
Bernie Sanders can actually be Trump
right and so I think any any politician
whose base is based in fear and you're
the only one that can get it done on
where they love you but our whole part
knows while I check your name and the
ballot box is not a strategy for winning
in the general election and I think his
weakness is around as Amy was saying so
eloquently his weakness is around really
being able to own his record and to be
challenged on that record and to pivot
from that if he can't handle Carla
Harris on day one he can't handle Trump
you ain't ready I just want to say it so
it's a good thing to know that now
because the stuff that trunk will throw
at him he's not ready and so I think at
the end of the day I don't see and Amy
made this win as well I don't see him
building grassroots support because I
don't know that it's there I think he
ends up being the choice for a lot of
people particularly progressives who are
really fearful because they just want to
beat Donald Trump but we've been talking
about the fact that old notions of like
stability aren't really real
they're perpetuated in foundations of
racism and sexism and classism and that
what really is electable thank you Adam
for saying it is the energy right is the
person that can build a strong coalition
multiracial coalition on the ground is
the person that motivates voters who
stands for something
I also there's one more category I guess
so fearful people and people were in
histology for a time that they feel was
real but wasn't really that real and
they want to go back to that time but I
think that that that group of people is
really small and frankly most of them
are probably not going to support the
Democratic nominee Adam let me ask you
this I've heard in trying to do my own
personal assessment as to why Hillary
Clinton lost I've talked to people in
both in Pennsylvania and in Wisconsin
who described to me that activists and
and folks who were working on the
election there described it as basically
a race that both candidates were almost
like the question was who was gonna lose
first or who was gonna lose on that day
the trend was neither was rising it was
just that what rate where both of them
sort of degrading in favorability and
you know we're talking obviously very
slim margins here I want you to take the
opposite I would like you to to argue to
be the devil's advocate if you can why
should we not perceive when we start to
see this trend where Joe Biden starts
with all the goodwill that he amassed as
the VP convinced me that it's not going
to be a slow sort of demise sliding into
November of next year the two choices
past them eyes and slow demise
do your best I mean honestly I mean we
can't we couldn't find a strong
supporter of Biden so I'm looking for a
surrogate but but let me just let me
just give one piece of data about
supporters of Biden so we've been
pulling our members since the November
election every week right and the week
that the 24 hours after Biden got in
we're like alright Biden is in now who
do you support
and the regardless of who people
supported we asked the second question
which was what is your biggest reason
for supporting your preferred candidate
you believe they would be the best
president or you believe they are
electable against Trump it's possible to
believe both of those things
I believe those with more would both be
the best president and the most
electable against Trump but if you had
to choose 95% of Lawrence supporters
said my top reason best president mayor
Pete was actually number 287 Bernie
number 383 sliding scale all the way
down at the very bottom barely half of
Joe Biden's own supporters of thousands
that literally said I'm a Joe Biden
supporter barely half thought that he
would be the best president they were on
board for electability to me that is not
an Achilles heel that's an Achilles half
the body right these people are ready to
bulge these people are so soft in their
support that the second either messes up
in the debate which he did or someone
else is more inspiring and seems to
captivate general election voters more
on the campaign trail which I think
Warren is those people are like oh I was
never with him to go with so I really
it's hard to imagine the energy level
that we would be anemic in in November
2020
if we got that far you know we've been
told for a long time who's the most
electable I remember everyone saying no
John Kerry is the most electable you
nominate John Kerry a war hero of course
that record they'll never go after that
record and what did they do they went
after his record and he got hit and he
didn't fight back and what we need is we
need
somebody instead of Washington telling
us no this person is the most electable
we need to ask people who do you feel
like who do you want to go out and vote
for and if everybody would just follow
their heart they're not going to come
out with Joe Biden they're gonna come up
with another candidate and if they if
that candidate motivates all those
people come out they're gonna win in
November and we have to win we have to
figure out not only how to beat Donald
Trump but go up and down that ticket
who's going to be the best person to
bring out as many people as possible and
it's not Joe Biden he's not doing enough
down the ticket I I want to suggest that
electability was a figment of a white
male imagination and that electability
in 2019 2020 should be based on a new
set of standards women of color are
three times more likely than white guys
to go for a Democrat who's capturing the
women of color vote who's coalescing
that core of the base and and I the
reason why you're seeing a slip in the
polls is that women of color I believe
are coalescing around other candidates
and that's the main reason that I think
Joe Biden is really a challenge to
electability when we get to the White
House because we got to be able to count
to 270 and we have to be able to win in
states that Clinton could not win
Clinton made the huge hubristic mistake
of not investing in black voters and
brown voters on the ground in states
like Pennsylvania and Michigan zero
dollars for black voter engagement four
weeks before the election assuming that
she would ride high on the Obama
coalition which she could not lead
inspire and organize Joe Biden is
resting on an assumption that his
association with Obama would allow him
to tap into eight years or four years
later into a coalition that now is
reconfigured with women of color at the
head so I'm going to suggest that
electability is going to be based on not
the old fiction and but in not the old
ways of investing and
vote matters but a new calculus about
how we're going to close the gap three
points in in in Texas one point in
Florida and three points in Arizona how
are we going to get those additional
voters the final thing I want to say is
Joe Biden associates himself very
closely with Barack Obama and Barack
Obama's record it is true he's greatly
admired amongst Democrats and amongst
most progressives but if he rests his
laurels
on the way that immigrants and migrants
and people without papers were treated
under the Obama administration he's weak
because he because the the policy of
deportations existed before Trump took
office and so as when you look at the
Latina community a very important
particularly in states like Texas like
New Mexico like Arizona and Florida
places where we gotta win and expand the
electorate basing your ability to build
a coalition on old policies that hurt a
community is shaky and makes them not
electable well and he has to defend his
own policies he didn't show up to the
party as Obama's VP and I think that's
the real challenge
you know his ability to deal with his
his history on busing which has been
brought out in the debate the crime bill
I mean all of the all of his old
problematic policies and I think if you
if you can't stand on Obama's record
which he won't be able to do and all the
problematic parts of that record are
going to haunt him and you can't follow
on your own record what do you have to
show
he hasn't been like Elizabeth Warren he
doesn't have plans
he doesn't have ideas he doesn't have
new new ways of doing things he doesn't
even have Bernie Sanders record of I've
been about the policies that matter
about people my entire career what is he
standing on and so I think that's a real
challenge and I think after people get
over their fear a potentially reelecting
chump and they get over their nostalgia
for a time that was only good for a few
people I think we're gonna really see
that folks are going to coalesce around
a candidate that does have new ideas
that has
old ideas to really change our world
that is inclusive that expands the
electorate that energizes the base and
let's face it Joe Joe Biden is not a
good campaigner he is he is qualified
he's got a good resume but he he's not
he's not good out there he's good
one-on-one but often he has to walk
things back and we have a whole general
election ahead of us we need a candidate
who is strong who can say things and
they understand what the electorate is
thinking and they understand how to
communicate with the electorate I just
want to maybe open it up if there's any
questions if any of the folks have any
questions here should we start with the
Foreign Press the Guardian no no
actually can I say one thing about that
so because it's about empowering voters
who are progressive and who are scared
and who want to win to not have a false
prism for decision making when they get
in the voting booth right if every week
Chuck Todd is on Meet the Press saying
the Democratic Party is going too far to
the left for supporting extremely
popular things like better child care
and more affordable College that's a
problem for voters who want to both vote
their values and find the most electable
person right so we're kind of course
correcting here he's kind of a spirit of
this panel yeah I think that's important
to keep in mind I think everyone here
has reasons maybe why they don't support
Joe Biden or they support a different
candidate over them in the primary but I
think the primary thing I want to make
sure that we're exploring is this notion
of his electability and in fact in some
respects he could be the riskiest of the
major candidates I mean I think that's
one of the biggest concerns and I you
know
social science I think shows people tend
not to vote on ideology and I think
particularly so the the supposed swing
voters a lot of second choice for many
of the Bernie Sanders candidates is Joe
Biden and I think that's reflective of
people wanting to win not obviously the
ideological similarities between Joe
Biden and Bernie Sanders so I you know I
think that's the point I think the idea
that I don't think I've spoken to really
many people who would take the position
I'm not going to vote for Joe Biden
I don't think we can base our future
president on who's the least worst I
think we have to paste it on who's the
best and so if we're saying he's not as
bad as Trump already I think we're in
trouble and particularly in this space
where I think in particular if he ends
up being our nominee we're all here for
it because Trump's got to go Mickey
Mouse is the nominee I'm going with
Mickey Mouse let's be clear about that
but I think the idea that particularly
at this stage where we have some real
robust opportunity to get the best
president we can get let's do that
and if it turns out that the people
choose Joe Biden I'm riding with him
because it's because Trump has to go but
I don't believe where this is the
foundation of this conversation that he
is the most electable president and I do
and I do agree that he is the riskiest
because he's gonna have trouble
distinguishing himself in a lot of ways
from Trump once we get to in a
generation and he's also going to have
trouble inspiring people that we need to
come out we don't want people sitting at
home and I don't believe that we can
motivate some of those people just by
saying Trump's horrible I think some
people in our base have to be inspired
and so we have to make sure we have a
candidate that can do that well that yes
that's the question I would put to you
is that I think everybody here will be
for Joe Biden if he's the nominee the
question is how confident are you that
you can motivate your members or the
constituents that you represent to get
out there and work as hard as they would
for any number of the other candidate
yeah that's amazing sense of question
yeah it's it's it's the question because
your that the factor of inspiration
translates to vote turnout we have the
people listen a lot of people forget to
2007 we're having this conversation
about electability
Clinton or Obama who seemed more
electable at that time Clinton seems
more electable because there had never
been anybody black COO
the nominee and yet in the last 20 years
he's the only Democrat who's been
elected in the White House and the
reason is because our country has
changed the demographics have changed
the politics have evolved and Obama's
campaign showed the power of organizing
in States the multiracial coalition if I
sound like a broken record it is that
the states that Trump won are a lot of
them are majority people of color that
need to be organized and so when when we
say Biden is a risky candidate it's
based on our real lived experience with
the Obama candidacy and our
understanding about our the need for
actually organizing on the ground to win
to win the White House and win the
Senate I've been focused so much on
women of color because that's a that
that to me is a fulcrum or the through
which we should be understanding what
the future of our politics and our you
know so if you ask women of color who
are the most loyal Democrats which
candidate inspires them that they want
to go work for it's the untold story
with the Obama campaign it was black
women and a lot of other women of color
who gave small dollar donations who got
their friends involved competed online
to get the hours volunteer hours it
became a thing that was fueled and
expanded by highly motivated people who
wanted to see a candidate that reflect
their interest in communities and hopes
and dreams we have to have that this
time around not because it's an
unrealistic wish list of the left but
because it is the practical path to
winning the White House there are more
of us than them but we have to in from a
women of color lens because we're highly
we're one-fourth of the electorate but
when we're not motivated like in 2016
yeah black women we voted more than
anyone else for Clinton but there was a
there was
sealing whereas we need we need an end
and when you look at across women of
color the numbers are down three to five
percent depending on where what state in
terms of turnout and which made the
difference for the Democrats so what we
need is an inspirational candidate that
holds our issues could be anybody
someone in any race and gender that
holds our issues and is able to inspire
that coalition so that our turnout is
higher like it was with Obama in 2008
and 2012 women of color turned out three
to five percent higher that's what we
need that's the winning strategy I don't
know if there's anything else that
anybody anybody has any other questions
you know I think Amy nailed that and I
do think you know to the heart of
motivating our voters right I think and
not just like let me reflect on 2008 on
what I saw and we know that that as you
said a good foundation Obama really
built an organizing infrastructure like
we had never seen before there was a lot
of energy around him I was I was working
voter protection in Ohio and o8 watching
all the polling locations
what I saw was lines wrapped around
voting locations people that I never see
in lines I saw a mother with a stroller
a baby here a baby here and a baby on
her hip waiting in line for hours to
vote I saw young young men who don't
traditionally vote men like my nephew
waiting in line for three hours to vote
I did not see that in 16 it was very
different and I think the key is making
sure we don't make the same mistake
again
I'm not directing you to your sect we
don't make the same mistake again
because we do need to inspire we need to
motivate and inspire the folks who are
going to do the work and do the
organizing we need a candidate that's
willing to invest in that believes in
that strategy and is willing to invest
in that strategy we'll go all the way in
that strategy and we need to bring back
those voters from away
in 12 you want one last comment
the question is about authenticity and
how important that if you give voters a
choice between Republican a Republican
light will always take the real
Republican because that's authentic you
have to actually give them a choice
between a real Republican and a real
Democrat someone who will fight because
the Republicans there's no compromise no
one ever says for the Republican
candidates how come they're not taking
on more democratic ideals that's just
for the the progressive candidates to
get right so if you have an actual
candidate who goes out there and said
this is what I believe this is what I've
always fought for and this is what I'll
fight for in the White House that person
to get elected all right well I think I
think that's it this is a pretty
successful
Virgen enterprises the pop-up
