so beater your piece in many respects is
you know asking folks to to contemplate
what happens at midnight before you know
11:55 I guess in the evening to
contemplate the idea that Bernie Sanders
may very well win that in the event that
he does and and I think you know it's
important to examine this because I
think there's a real sense and let's
just stipulate for a moment that I don't
know if Bernie Sanders is a list in the
context of the world but certainly in
the context of the United States he
represents a you know a social democracy
that is as left as we've seen in the
United States at the very least since
FDR maybe you know even more so but
never nevertheless the point being there
is this sense I think amongst some of
his supporters and probably a sense
under some of his you know some of his
detractors that as soon as he gets in
he's going to be able to fundamentally
change the country yeah and the the
reality is that he if he's elected he is
just the president and he is dealing
with if he is lucky a Congress that is
run by Democrats in both houses if he is
unlucky a maybe a only one house will be
democratic the other would be Republican
I guess we could you know in terms of
political fortunes we could we could
argue as to which is luckier than the
other but they're certainly going to be
resistance in fact that would imagine
the resistance is going to be
significant
what oh and your piece looks at and
asked readers to look at how to make any
change that Bernie Sanders would bring
to this country more durable
and actually be executed where do you
start with that with with answering that
question well that's a really really
good question Sam and I think this there
definitely needs to be reckoning with
supporters of any progressive
presidential candidate who wins and it
might be Bernie Sanders this year it
might be someone else another year but
that one genuinely progressive or social
democratic or socialist and that wins
high office there's going to be fierce
backlash not just from the Republican
Party but from huge parts of the
Democratic Party and there are things
that we can probably start doing right
away
with presidential appointments I think
there's a good chance that as cognition
if some federal officials will be able
to be appointed you can start working
away as reversing the robot the Trump
administration and some of the things
that we can do within the existing
legislation but ultimately if we want to
start passing new laws things like
Medicare for all free college or like
the some of the more ambitious stuff
around worker ownership that I talked
about in the piece then ultimately the
president is going to have to think
about how to fundamentally for reorient
the balance of power within American
politics not just winning the top office
but how to also get control of the party
in Congress how to make sure there's a
durable lasting majority I think that
that has to involved seeing yourself not
necessarily as uniter within the party
but potentially someone who says to
certain folks the joe Manchin's or the
world that maybe this is no longer the
party for you anymore
and encouraging primary challenges using
that of platform at the top of the
country to say that look I've been
elected on this agenda and if you're not
going to
cooperating this then I want my
supporters to get rid of you Google and
I think that so there's going to be that
political challenge but then there's
also going to be an economic challenge
if you start getting into the really
ambitious social democratic or socialist
economic policies which is that not only
do you have politicians opposing you but
you also have business who are going to
in many cases do whatever they can to
undermine and destroy the fortunes of
socialists or Social Democrats in your
country now that's going to require a
very strategic approach which may
involve some policies that people aren't
even thinking about at the moment so how
do we replace the private investment
function with more socially oriented
things before we get into like you know
what those plans are because I think you
know the this is something that I'm
quite convinced very few people are
thinking about right which is the and
and first off before we even get to sort
of that that modality of thought that
has to take place on how you set up the
table essentially so that you know
people can start to eat is more or less
as what we're talking about is the
implications of a Bernie Sanders being
elected and not being able to execute
upon a vast majority of his agenda
people should contemplate this as to how
problem at me look there's every reason
you know I happen to believe that we
have some fundamental problems in the
country that aren't you know that are
that are that Donald Trump's election is
not the cause of but is indicative and
there's no reason to believe that these
problems are going to go away unless
there is people are offered and
experienced a change within the context
of society that provides you know a
certain amount of of power and both you
know of persuasion and of just sort of
like a political power in the in the
country and the idea of a Bernie Sanders
getting elected and on an agenda of
promising these things in being unable
to deliver on them is in many respects
more devastating than Bernie Sanders or
someone you know the you know we could
substitute the various people in in
terms of you know these progressive
policies and someone coming in and
promising these progressive policies and
being unable to deliver is almost more
problematic than them not getting in in
the first place
it seems to me in terms of like where we
would be four years out or eight years
out and that's what makes this question
so incredibly crucial how and and it's
centered around the the difficulty that
a Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren
let's say I mean people who are
specifically in opposition to not just
trumpism you know not just Trump not
just trumpism but the the power of money
in this country they face a unique set
of difficulty that might go beyond you
know a less ambitious program definitely
and I think what we really need to start
saying more among ourselves in public is
that really
electing of social democratic or
socialist answers to the presidency is
not like it's not when we win it's the
beginning of alternately much longer and
much harder fights which is how to
actually carry out the agenda of a deep
structural institutional change in
wealth and power in our society that
will make it just as hard for anyone
else to reverse it because we've had
deck
decades of both Republican and
Democratic administrations who have
transferred not just wealth but also
power and Beto's to be wealthy and
powerful he got left off with a first of
all like a very hollowed out labor
movement a hollowed-out set of social
movements that we've started to see some
bounce back in with the sort of room
with the rise of the progressive left
but like we do need to realize that when
anyone takes executive office that
they're going to need a whole lot of
pressure from the outside to keep them
on the right course to pressure people
into cooperating with their agenda and
to make sure that those who are blocking
this are the ones who are blamed for
blocking it rather than the people who
are trying to do this I don't personally
I think that what we need to do is not
be Obama we need to knock it into office
try to evike the country and like let
ourselves be blamed for not getting our
agenda tree we need to actually like
make it clear that the people who are
voting against our agenda are the ones
responsible for not happening all right
Peter we got to take a break and the
only analogy I'll give and when we come
back we'll talk about that is that when
you sit down if you're a carpenter you
sit down to make a cabinet one of the
first things you do is you start to
build jigs and you start to break and
build the tools that are going to help
you actually build that cabinet and
we're going to take a break when we come
back let's talk about those tools that
must be built before what the tools is
supposed to build BR is built itself
with a quick break we'll be right back
Sam cedar bring a fire radio
