[Music]
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it's a pleasure to welcome to the
program Margaret O'Mara she's an
assistant associate professor of history
at the University of Washington and
author of the code Silicon Valley in the
remaking of America Margaret welcome to
the program it's great to be here Sam
thanks for having me so let's start with
of why why California I mean what are
the stories or you know in fact let's
before we even get there let's just talk
very broadly for a moment about the
myths that you perceive that are out
there about the whole genesis of Silicon
Valley and those creators yeah well we
you know close our eyes and think about
Silicon Valley the sort of faces that
immediately pop in your brain perhaps
our Steve Jobs Mark Zuckerberg these
sort of iconic singular entrepreneurs
founders leaders you know there who were
celebrated not only beyond Silicon
Valley but but by Silicon Valley itself
and and also a kind of free market tech
no libertarian story this is what
happens when you let the creative
entrepreneurial folks do their thing and
when government gets out of the way and
there's actually that's the only part of
this story and so what I wanted wanted
to show in this book was not only
showing how how the story we know about
Silicon Valley also fits into this much
broader tapestry and the government is
part of that all right well let's I mean
let's start with just why why did it
land in in Silicon Valley in California
as opposed to say Route 128 in
Massachusetts yeah well for the first
you know first few decades of Silicon
Valley's existence as a tech hub Boston
was very much in the picture and
actually Boston and the valley had a
kind of a symbiotic relationship that
was beneficial for Bo
both places grew elect drew into
electronics hubs because of the Cold War
and that was something that the federal
government does in the beginning of the
1950's which it has never done before
which was start to make major peace time
if you can call the Cold War peacetime
major peacetime investments in
scientific research and development not
only in defense spending and spending on
very high-tech equipment for the
military and for the space program but
also investing in higher education in
colleges universities those on the
research side and the teaching side and
and some of the biggest beneficiaries of
that bounty were in Boston Harvard and
MIT and in the Bay Area Stanford and
Berkeley so we're I mean what happens
with all those things that get developed
they're like I mean you know I mean the
money's going into educating to funding
research theoretically they find stuff
right a lot of that we have invested I'm
an investor I paid taxes I paid taxes in
Massachusetts at one point where's my
bounty well the bounty is I mean this is
an only in America story and I think it
is one that is is it really instructive
particularly we think about the rest of
the world that has tried to build
Silicon some things and continues to do
so and hasn't quite replicated the the
what has played out on the west coast of
the United States and so it's a matter
of a lot of government funding and and
you know keep in mind this was not
altruistic this wasn't necessarily
entirely in the pursuit of you know
higher truth in a commitment to higher
education all had to do with competing
with the Soviets not only in terms of
building more sophisticated weapons but
also producing more scientists there was
a lot of chatter in the 50s and 60s
about you know not only you know beating
the Soviet space to the moon but also in
you know how many scientists the the
Soviet Union was producing and the u.s.
needed to keep up and this was you know
this was a matter
of national pride and also part of the
larger project of showing why you know a
capitalist democracy was a better system
than than socialism so so there was a
lot of kind of this firehose of money
flows in the direction of science and
research but it being America and keep
in mind the 50s this is the McCarthy era
this is not a time when large government
schemes are in fashion you know part of
the whole Cold War project is you know
do you don't want to be seen as
socialistic in any way and Dwight
Eisenhower you know with no fan of big
government he was someone who who was
suspicious of large centralized schemes
and and and railed against them yet
under his watch there was this this
great expansion of what he later terms
the military-industrial complex but how
it flows is not just building big
federal research laboratories which
certainly existed but in addition
slowing that money indirectly through
universities through private industry
and this is the key thing I mean this is
really how the flywheel starts going and
if you look at the valley in particular
you see not only one University Stanford
that kind of remakes its entire
curriculum to be a receiving entity for
this new federal money and building up
electronics building up physics building
up you know the small electronics and
communications technologies that the
that the valley starts specializing in
from the very beginning but also flowing
to big defense contractors like Lockheed
which locates its space and missiles
division in the valley in the mid 50's
and also these smaller companies these
companies that become the grandparents
of every venture back startup that
follows companies like Fairchild
Semiconductor which is not a defense
contractor per se but it's founded in
the late 50s right as Sputnik is
rocketing into space and it it has a big
book of business from the Apollo program
in NASA among other places so that's
kind of this this relationship between
public and private is something that we
miss in the story and it's really
important it's fascinated me III I
almost I mean I I laughed when you said
like we
we wanted to beat we want to prove that
free market capitalism could beat
socialism so the government poured all
this money into the market and I wonder
if that is actually what free market
capitalism is like I mean I don't happen
to believe that free market capitalism
actually exists yeah it's just a
question of who's gonna get the largesse
from the the government / the people and
what are they gonna get back for it and
I mean I'm happy that we were I mean I
feel a certain amount of pride I guess
that we led this technological
revolution but it's not like these other
countries don't necessarily get access
to that technology now yeah they
certainly do and look we're you know
we're at a moment of you know people
aren't feeling particularly great about
the tech industry said so much so that I
find myself trying to you know remind
some critics of well you know we are
carrying around super computers in our
pockets like there have been some
upsides to this whole operation but but
you're right there's always been a
government presence and it's both in the
kind of Keynesian you know pour money
into the system of the you know
pre-1970s period and and very much you
know around defense and in aerospace and
then after the 70s the government is
still there in its you know in you know
how is the other way what's the other
way the American government state aids
enterprise and individuals it's through
the tax system so you have you know stat
tax breaks for you know capital gains
taxes that benefit venture capitalists
and other investors you have you know
tax breaks for that are some some of
which are targeted towards the
electronics industry or for scientific
based industry that again are very
generative but also are you know shows
that there is there's effectively a
federal you know the the government
giving a boost to to these industries
but doing it in a way that allows for
enough creativity iteration and you know
a private enterprise to flourish and and
people to try and
fail that and also does it in such an
indirect way that oftentimes the people
who are the beneficiaries of it feel
like they did it on all on their own
right that seems to me to be highly
problematic because when we get when go
out when California let's say or when
when the federal government gives
capital gains break to these companies
or any type of tax breaks what they're
really doing is saying we're giving you
free services right it's because it's
not just where we're giving you a tax
break it's like we're providing you all
the things that you need in terms of an
environment in which to create this
stuff we're just not going to charge you
for it and so it's we're giving you
services in kind really as an investment
rather than a tax break we're just
giving you free services and the other
thing that strikes me too about why
California succeeded and it goes to show
that that I think from from a statutory
standpoint this provision where it where
it did not where where it did not allow
for non-compete clauses and contract law
will you explain that because that I
think is is is huge and it's still very
much like those type of questions are
you know are still very much highly
relevant across American society it's it
seems to me and it's a very good
indication we talked about the
government stepping in to the to the
so-called freedom of contract this was
really huge it seems to me in terms of
the development of Silicon Valley we
will you walk us through that yeah so
non-compete clauses essentially are you
know things that are appended to
employment agreements saying you cannot
leave our employ and then go to a direct
competitor you can't be you know in a
particularly in a knowledge sector where
the people and the ideas are the raw
materials it's really limiting that that
free movement of people and ideas across
companies California does not allow
those and this is an entry you know I'm
in Seattle Washington State for example
does you know it does allow non-compete
and and you can even see this kind of
reflected in the two ecosystems of these
two tech hubs which is you know Seattle
has been long been its
changing now but it was kinda it's kind
of a town dominated by one company at a
time you know first Boeing the Microsoft
now Amazon although that's changing
quite a bit but down in the valley you
have this this perpetual job hopping and
you have people moving from one firm to
another starting from the 1550s on that
you know and with that they're sharing
ideas they're creating this network
which for which is really critical to
you know going back to your why
California question or why the valley
you know one thing the valley has that
the Boston does not is this it grows in
isolation it's a very sort of
specialized economy and very tight small
and tightly networked everyone knows
each other everyone you know their kids
playing Little League together they go
and drink beer after work together they
work together not just one company but
multiple companies and then they go on
to become a venture capitalist that
funds the next generation of companies
and on and on and non-compete this legal
environment contractual environment is
very important there are also so many
other California specific things that
are feeding in you know the the Pat
Brown era investment in social
infrastructure broadly defined
everything from public public schools to
higher education kind of the Clark Kerr
era the higher educated expansion of
public higher ed in California during
the during the fifties and sixties the
building of roads building of public
infrastructure of all kinds it enables
this this society of these this past for
tremendous upward mobility for so many
people who happen to be there at the
time where you see these you know
someone like Steve Jobs who comes from a
family and his dad at a high school
education and he's a product of
California public schools but heck there
was a there was a computer lab in his
high school in the late 60s and and this
is you know he's able to kind of get on
this incredible escalator because in
part because of this public investment
which of course changes dramatically
after the late 1970s well I'd tell us
how well I'm before we get to how that
public investment changes but you you
write that the homogeneity of the of
Silicon Valley was both its
it's greater strength and it's its
greatest weakness we explain that for us
yeah well but you know I refer to the
valley as this entrepreneurial Galapagos
it grows up
I mean it's first of all it starts off
very it's very remote it's rural and you
know it's far far away from Wall Street
in Washington did the national papers
don't report on Silicon Valley unless
they're putting it in air quotes until
like the early 1980s it's it's you know
it's very kind of off to the side of the
main action and that allows these very
distinctive species to expert to to
develop a nice in isolation of sorts not
only tech companies and in engineering
focused businesses but law firms and
venture capital firms and marketing
firms that are all undivided two to two
bringing up these these companies and
there's a there's a very specific
personal dimension to all of it because
the model of venture-backed startups is
you find a person who would promise with
a promising idea and oftentimes they're
a young man in his early 20s who has no
business experience he comes with an
engineering degree he's never really run
anything and so you need this whole kind
of concert of services and firms that
are helping you mentoring you in many
different ways and when you're making a
bet on an untested person you're often
going with gut you're going with okay
this person graduated from Stanford
masters and whatever that's a
recognizable you know that produces good
people this person is you know knows
used to work at this other company or
know someone I know and so there's a lot
of hiring and investing based on
existing social networks and ties so
when you're starting from a place to a
world that is entirely male and almost
entirely white in the 1960s the world of
engineering a world in which you know
women were not a department chair could
sort of decide they weren't going to
allow women in their classes there were
very very few technical women in in the
world then and those that were kind of
on the job but despite obstacles and so
you have this very homogeneous pool that
you're picking from and when it becomes
a multi-generational phenomenon I mean
the the real talent of that the magic
Silicon Valley is time that you have
multiple generations of people making
making it big in a company they founded
or being part of a very successful
enterprise then they become the
investors of the next generation they're
picking the winners they're looking at
the younger you know 20-somethings who
are coming up with big ideas and saying
all right I'm going to invest in this
person and oftentimes it's investing in
the man investing in the person as much
as the idea and so this is how you know
when you're again going with what you
know it's very hard to let some new
voices and new people in the room right
and you're just not I mean you're not
you know it's not dealing there you just
there's no physical proximity like
you're just not now bumping into these
people on some level you're not you're
not well how much of it I mean how much
of that because I guess that you know
the value in understanding that dynamic
right is to also understand like the
implications of that dynamic down the
road like there's no reason why in 2020
let's say that a similar dynamic
couldn't exist where if that community
had you know now presumably more women
who are in those fields but also people
of color who are in those fields they're
all living in that that same era I mean
would be interesting if we had the
ability to sort of like say like what
would the trajectory of the of the tech
as we know it today have changed if
there was more diversity of experience
and thought and perspective in the
beginning there right because we have
now what has clearly become a severe
consolidation of this right like the the
the the utopia of democratization
while it's there on some level you know
Twitter I think democratizes the
political arguments to a certain extent
but we're really I mean we've created
these behemoths and they are so powerful
that we don't we have society has not
been able to sort of figure out what to
do with them and much of that it seems
to me has been driven by a sense of
conquest and of accumulation and in many
respects to the extent that there ever
was this sort of notion of like we're
going to have a community with a bunch
of different things growing that ethos
seems to have gone away where uh it
turns out like I'm the Bigfoot and I'm
going to eat all of these other small
companies and bring them in the fold as
it were and in some of them I'll kill
off good ideas that exist because I'm
not prepared in my entity to compete
with them so I'm just gonna kill them so
I don't have to and I'll get back to
this in five years yeah well you know
it's interesting yeah I mean
counterfactuals are pretty difficult to
prove but you know what if there have
been different people in the room at the
beginning would it have changed I mean I
don't know I I think that maybe the the
the types of technologies would have
might might have been different the
questions obviously when you have
different people in the room you're
asking different questions or
identifying different problems to be
solved with the kind of the drive to
bigness to scale the incredible
competitiveness of Silicon Valley which
is again part of it secret this
incredibly sharp elbowed you know move
fast and break things which is not you
know was not a sort of philosophy
invented by Facebook it's a it's one
that is very much baked in to the
culture it goes all the way back to the
chip making industry of the 1960s where
you did have to move really fast you had
to have it was a it was an extremely
hard charging environment of unvarnished
criticism it was kind of this you know
what frat house meets scientific lab
make meets military barracks and it
would could be a very inhospitable place
for people who didn't have an extremely
thick skin
and for people who were trying to you
know balance a life outside of work and
also kind of became a very you know a
very incredibly masculine environment
and with a sort of the normative you
know did the norm was to be a sort of
tough guy and and that was celebrated
Andy Grove the the legendary CEO of
Intel you know what if his he wrote a
book called only the paranoid survive
which I think kind of sums up both the
the market imperative you know this is
how the the industry had to operate in
order to scale and to do what it did but
also shows how different different
approaches might have been foreclosed
now you know I think you know here's
where I see daylight and I see some
really interesting things and I and
again I don't think that if there'd been
women in the and people of color in the
room at the beginning you know if Yummie
who knows I think there were some some
moments where those possibilities were
foreclosed you look to the very early
personal computing movement in the early
1970s where people are coming out of
places like Berkeley and Stanford and
the baby boom era Vietnam era
technologists saying hey let's take
computing power and let's make it
personal let's you know we can use these
machines as tools to solve all of the
social problems we see before us and
there were a lot of women in that
conversation initially and they had more
idealistic and less profit focused ideas
about how to go about it and they kind
of fell you know fell out they didn't
become part of the industry that emerged
from it and there was this techno
optimistic presumption that really
starts you know you see throughout the
entire history of Silicon Valley which
is that the tech is going to solve
things that society is messy it's yes
it's unequal yes there are these
problems but if we have these machines
and if we connect them and if we can all
have free-flowing communication you know
get rid of the gatekeepers get rid of
the bureaucracies get rid of the you
know the military brass and the
politicians at the top then we're going
to fix all of it and of course this was
in
in light of you know the world of 2019
seems absurdly idealistic but that is
the that has been this driving
if Silicon Valley has a political
philosophy that is it and it is one
shared by both men and women by you know
by technologists across the spectrum
it's just that the the more idealistic
voices and if got got a clipped by the
ones who were you know it's been it's
been so easy to make so much money well
that's that's a problem I mean it sort
of feels like that in and granted right
you had a bunch of very intelligent
people who were who gathered at the
exact you know at the moment when the
technology became sort of realistic and
in the wake of the massive investment
that came with world war two it seems to
me and the how how fast that pushed
technology forward to the point where
these where were semiconductors and
computers became sort of realized I
think you know much earlier than they
probably would have if we didn't have
that massive you know World War two
industrialization I guess but it also
occurs to me I just can't get over the
you know the it's one thing to say I
want to get everybody out of the way
after they give me the cash and all the
benefits of all the work they're doing
and we should all say there's a story
about immigrants to oh it's a huge story
I mean I think the 1965 the hard sell
our act which is the immigration reform
Act that lifts the quotas that in place
in place since the 1920s it had so so
restricted immigration and restricted it
on a on a racial and ethnic basis and
geographic basis that is you know I
think it's perhaps one of the most
important economic policy acts of the
last sixty years and of course it was
not designed to be such it was kind of
this crossing the T's and dotting the
eyes on civil rights it was making you
know making a wrong right and what it
does is it opens up it precipitates
these new waves of immigration and you
see this particularly vividly in Silicon
Valley where you have a great wave of
immigrants many of them from South and
East Asia who moved to the valley in the
70s and 80s and after that are not only
the engineering backbone of these
companies but also in a disproportionate
rate found companies and their children
found companies and so the children the
immigrants and refugees and their
children are really the kind of
lifeblood of I mean they are Americans
don't have haven't cornered the market
on being you know good technologists
it's that the United States allowed the
free movement of people and capital and
opened its doors to so many people from
around the world and made it a place
where if you're a really smart
technologist and you know named your
other country your goal is to get to the
valley and and the current the current
mood and the current political climate
in the United States is not only
actively you know creating barriers to
that but also actively dissing
technologists from doing that and also
doing that at a time when other places
have reached critical mass where you
could stay in your home country and have
a successful a career as you might have
had if you'd moved to the United States
a generation ago and wasn't there also
like a significant number I don't know
if they were documented or undocumented
immigrants who were actually
manufacturing were the workers in the
manufacturing the chips absolutely yeah
so so that you know look this the Santa
Clara Valley before the Silicon Valley
was Silicon Valley it was just plain old
Santa Clara Valley it was an
agricultural value Valley in California
it has had you know look was part of
Mexico so there's been a
mexican-american population there before
the Anglo population but they're also
spending a significant Latino and
asian-american population there since
the nineteen did the early 20th century
working in agriculture working in the
canneries and then after beyond that
four successive waves of new immigration
that yes in the you know in the 50s 60s
70s and into the 80s the valley was a
manufacturing region it was a place
where the dominant industry with
semiconductors microchip makers that was
computer hardware that was making stuff
and that manufacturing
the tech is still a you know it still
has a giant blue color workforce it's
the submerged iceberg underneath the you
know again what we think of when we
think of tech we think of these
white-collar engineers but the go-juice
is not just assembly line workers who
now are in Taiwan or Shenzhen or other
places but also the you know Mechanical
Turk considered at the gig workers the
that the great the Amazon warehouse
workers this incredibly large blue
collar workforce that is made been
essential to making a place like Silicon
Valley and a place like Seattle run for
so long yeah I mean it it's it's sort of
stunning in a way because my
understanding I think it was from a book
by I'm driving me crazy I think it was
Louis Hyman
yeah great book discussed the role of
undocumented workers in in building that
that labor force that could produce that
stuff and then the idea of something
like Palantir right which is Peter teals
company which is now basically does a
lot of other things stuff that I don't
like but now they basically developed
the technology for ice to find those
very people who probably made their
technology possible yeah yeah and
Palantir it's all kind of embodies the
contradictions that are so baked into
Silicon Valley I mean Peter Thiel's is
outspoken libertarian you know when you
think of Silicon Valley libertarianism
you often think of Peter Thiel it's one
of its most outspoken proponents and the
outspoken supporter of Donald Trump kind
of the loan the loan Trump supporter in
2016 in the valley and or at least the
sort of the loudest one and and his
company Palantir is is you know built
its book of business and continues to
have you know a significant chunk of
business from the national security
complex that you know the Kalin tier was
launched through CIA contracts and and
it's just grown from there and so
there's this dissonance between again
the kind of free free market free
enterprise ethos
of the valley and this this very deep
intertwining with government and
particularly with the defense complex
which by the way never went away
I think one of the things I I really
fully reckoned with when I was writing
this book because this is my third book
I've been looking at the tech world for
20 years now and I had you know I knew
the and been writing about the Cold War
history for a long time and but what
this really drove home to me kind of my
book goes all the way up to 2018
essentially when I turned in the
manuscript and to send it to the
printers is is that the Defense
Department never went away
Lockheed missiles in space remains the
biggest employer in the valley through
the 80s in the in the 80s and 90s you
know DARPA was extraordinarily important
particularly and in giving support to
basic research and computer science at
Stanford and elsewhere these
foundational technologies that on which
the big companies of today have grown
including Google it you know came from
this money not to say that they've
always been engaged in defense work but
it's it's really hard to separate out
and the government's never gone away and
that's I think one of the reasons I want
technologists to really understand this
history is not to say oh you guys didn't
you know entrepreneurship doesn't matter
it does matter I think that that we need
to recognize how you know there are
there is a reason that Apple and
Microsoft kind of broke away from the
pack they have these extraordinary
leaders that had a particular skillset
and talent that that need to be
recognized but there also is this role
of the state and society that that any
story of American business enterprise
whether it be agriculture or steel or
high-tech you can't take the state out
without and and in business history it's
all connected yeah I suspect that the
more knowledgeable of those are our
fully aware of like the the the origins
of that neoliberal thought as they came
out of like Mont Pelerin that was none
of none of what they're doing is
inconsistent with that vision it was
never about getting the the government
out of the mire it was to have the
government filter basically as
certain amount of control to a certain
set of players and and keep it there and
that sort of feels like what's happened
to a certain extent but there is a lot
of mass delusion and I hope a lot of
those people read your book I hope that
Margaret O'Mara the book is the code
Silicon Valley in the remaking of
America thanks so much for your time
today I really appreciate it it's been
great talking to you Sam thanks so much
oh boy
