[Music]
this apropos of our point about MSNBC
not being the sort of the equivalent of
Fox in terms of the defining of people
on the right I don't even know that this
really even fits into that assessment of
MSNBC but and you know I think people
know full disclosure that I am a
contributor at MSNBC I'm not not a
full-time contributor as it were I'm
sort of on an ad-hoc basis but I am
under contract and stuff like this is
and I don't I I don't watch it
particularly much I've done this show
with David Gura it's the latest
iteration of up just started first by
Hayes and then I think Kornacki had it
and gora and gora seems like a perfectly
fine person
I don't know this commentator but this
is embarrassing like I mean I can see I
feel like you know we have guests like
this on this show but they're not there
as analysts of any sort and to say
something like this is a very weird
thing to say I think but this is Mimi
Roca she is a an NBC legal analyst I
think you know having Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren next to each other will
really highlight because for me as you
know again I'm not the political analyst
here but just as a woman probably
considered a somewhat moderate Democrat
I Bernie Sanders makes my skin crawl and
I can't even identify for you what
exactly it is but I see him as sort of a
not pro-woman candidate and so having
the two of them they are like I don't
understand young women who support him
and I'm hoping that having him next to
her will help highlight that because
those are the people that I if I were
her I would want to say what why are you
supporting him and not me if you're
gonna choose between the two of us does
anybody do you have anything after that
does anybody say anything like that's a
very weird analysis like first off let's
just take it on like as if it wasn't
grounded in just her own personal sort
of like gut feeling I can certainly I I
can accept the argument that I want to
see a woman to be President that we have
a half the population of this country
has never has received at least a
subtextual message that women are not
capable of being president at least in
the history of this country up to this
point I want to see a female president
I can also accept the notion of I don't
know if I would necessarily point to
Elizabeth Warren particularly in terms
of women's issues I again I could see
how she would be representative of
certain feminist values but I think
there probably other candidates who
might be more oriented towards women's
issues in particular in the Senate but
to say that Bernie Sanders is anti women
is I mean aside from Betty she says I'm
not a you know a political analyst but
it's like factually incorrect I don't
think there's even a perception broadly
speaking of that now she says like I'm a
moderate Democrat but I mean can you
imagine if someone said I'm a moderate
Democrat and so Elizabeth Warren makes
my skin crawl there's just something
about her that makes my skin crawl or if
someone said hey I'm a you know like I
mean to say to say that
on television is stunning but let's see
if there's anybody who responded to it
because maybe you know it's one thing to
say it it's another thing to say it
unchallenged do your bets in no not pro
woman candidate and so having the two of
them they're like I don't understand
young women who support him and I'm
hoping that having him next to her will
help highlight that because those are
the people that I if I were her I would
want to say what why are you supporting
him and not me if you're gonna choose
between the two of us I believe it their
comeback and just a moment my family
think nope all right I would also add
that I would imagine Elizabeth Warren
would say to that commentator I've got
news for you we're more closely aligned
than anybody else on this stage you know
I I noticed I just I should have done
Agnes I didn't keep track of it over the
weekend cuz I wasn't online as much but
there was a quick like you know ask
asked candidate a question while they're
getting a plane not getting on a plane
or something like that and they asked
Bernie how is it gonna be when what is
it gonna be like when you and a warrant
and or on stage together and he just
looked and he went intelligent and
walked off and so like King that's
mostly been their dynamic together I
mean to me though it's not just
obviously I think it's totally
disgusting and contemptible and just
little sim that that woman would say
that and I think that there's not only
couldn't you say about Warren I don't
think there's actually another candidate
period that you get away with the sort
of just baseless casual contempt for
right I want to bridge the fact that she
talks about a lot of younger woman with
the fact that she doesn't just have
baseless contempt for Sanders she is
baseless contempt for poor people and
working people young women because well
a lot of young women not all I mean
there's certainly young women who were
quite well-off and privileged but want
to have fundamental change which is why
they support Bernie but a lot of young
women you know they support Bernie for
well actually because he is totally
uncompromising on things like
reproductive justice but also because
they're dealing with student loans and
all of these other serious structural
which which when someone like that talks
and that is why it's so offensive when
you talk about Sanders that way because
to me it's also your your coding on a
total dismissal of the material crises
of tens of millions of people
I also found saying she knows Elizabeth
Warren policies I think to not and Frank
well I would say in a smaller way not
knowing Elizabeth Warren's policies
frankly the same contempt for working
people right it's all just yeah it's
just my personal impression I have no I
have an easy as hell life so I don't
need to know this is why we need and are
developing in struggle of feminism for
the 99% because this narrow set of
issues this elite representation just
doesn't cut it for the vast majority of
women and people it would be nice or
someone on the panel goes like what
exactly what what women's issues are you
exactly talking about well Mimi Roca has
two hundred and forty seven thousand
followers on Twitter but she her account
is protected as of right now so I think
she might have been here in Rome so she
may be in the wrong end of the ratio no
I mean I should thank people like her
honestly because you know I was a little
hesitant to throw my hat in the ring as
a political commentator once upon a time
I was like well I am a woman and I am a
leftist so everyone's gonna treat me
like an idiot but then I saw people like
her you know running her mouth off on
television getting paid to do it in the
newspaper and the TV and they know
absolutely nothing and I know more than
they do so then I was like it why
not
