we were talking about the dynamic
between a Nancy Pelosi Chuck Schumer
Donald Trump as they are in the White
House and they get into what I took it
to be an impromptu argument and that
Nancy Pelosi was I think genuinely not
interested in getting into a public
argument with with Trump but she seemed
to be perfectly prepared to do so
I think she was being sincere and saying
look this is stuff that we should be
talking about in private because I can't
we're not gonna sit here and let you
stipulate fake facts with us standing
right here like I'm compelled to
challenge you and you know frankly I I
would rather not do that because we have
some negotiations to do and this is
going to poison the well and I suspect
that it did a little bit my
understanding is Donald Trump was quite
mad about that to watch Chuck Schumer
during this was also fascinating to me
he did get the president to basically
say I'm proud of shutting down the
government which like you say he's put
the Republicans in a very uncomfortable
place but to watch Chuck Schumer avoid
eye contact with Donald Trump you got a
sense of this guy of how conflict averse
he is and I raised this because I want
to talk about a Mike Pence and I want to
talk about some of what's happening
legislatively but we have two questions
about leadership in the in the House and
the Senate
terms of Democrats Nancy Pelosi has I
think edified her position there was
they've made a she made a concession to
some of those people who were who were
talking about challenging her leadership
and that concession I think is one that
we all sort of you know feel pretty
comfortable with which is this idea she
said that the caucus she will bring up a
vote for the caucus where there is a
three term limit for leadership members
of the house and they could only stay
there with a tooth
vote from the caucus now she said maybe
the caucus won't adopt it but I'll abide
by it
regardless not clear what's gonna happen
with committees I think she's locked
that stuff up and simultaneously gave
progressives a victory on the proposed
to change in the rules that you can only
raise taxes on at the the you know
eighty percent of the population with a
two-thirds vote that's gone and now a
pay go next so we have that on one side
right Heather on the other Chuck
Schumer's there and Claire McCaskill
gave away the game it seems in an
interview where she basically said oh
the great thing about Chuck as a leader
is he never asked me to vote against you
know in a way that I didn't want to and
isn't that what a leader is supposed to
do like hey we need you on this one I
know you feel like taking this vote
might hurt you but we need you and so
you got to do it I mean what kind of
leader is not asking anything of the
members of his caucus that's right and
you know that just shows the difference
between Schumer and Pelosi who has a
very keen insight into every one of her
members and understands what they need
what they can do how far they can be
asked to go she knows that there are
times when you can put pressure and
other times when you got a let off and
she's actively engaged in counting votes
and ensuring that she you know can get
things passed or stop you know bad
things from happening that's what a
leader is supposed to do that's the
entire that's the job and I I don't
honestly know what Chuck Schumer's how
he sees his job because there's no
strategic vision there there's no idea
I've never heard that he sits down and
they map out a plan on how to stop the
you know Republicans from doing
something or that they work together to
kind of you know play some kind of good
cop bad cop I mean this no there's no
strategy in what he does it's just
basically well we'll deal with whatever
comes up as it happens and I sure hope
they all do the right thing you know
whatever that would do what they need to
do I guess is his is his vision in other
words they're leaderless
and it really doesn't mean look you know
I mean he's putting mansion Joe mansion
from West Virginia you know on the
Energy Committee now I get that that
mansion wants to be on there and it may
be good for him but the guy just got
reelected he does not need to be given
anything he's got six long years ahead
of him he'll be fine and the idea that
they would do that in this two years
when there's all this stuff at stake
when when everybody is is you know
getting ready for the 2020 campaign not
to mention the fact that you know
climate change is a pretty big deal and
we don't really need did the Democrats
need to you know pull themselves away
from this you know Cole yet the Cole
hostage taking that they sort of have to
live with with Manchin why you know
there's nothing he could give Manchin
you know to replace his you know his
belief that he needs to be on the Energy
Committee I mean that's just the way
it's weakness it's just plain weakness
and and you know the fact that we
sitting here concentrating constantly on
Pelosi and how much of a drag she is on
the party and all of that and letting
Chuck just you know he won by
acclamation they didn't even hold a vote
they know yeah Chuck you're fine you
know of course well of course he's fine
because he's not asking he's not asking
anything of anybody in the end and the
idea that the face the the the arguably
right the most relevant position in
terms of the Democrats fighting climate
change at least in the Senate but you
know arguably legislatively the most
relevant position is now given to a guy
in the pocket of the coal industry I
know is uh I mean dismal for the planet
and it seems to me to be very contrary
to the interests of the Democratic Party
and I don't care if he couldn't get the
the notion that Chuck Schumer could not
communicate this or leverage this to
those other senators who needed to give
up their position to come and share the
you know to be the senior on this
committee
mitii I'm sorry that's a failure of
leadership that's definitionally a
failure of leadership something needed
to be done he could not get it done and
of course you you understand why there's
no insurrection against him because he
doesn't ask anything of anybody he comes
in there and he's just Santa Claus but
gets nothing done and so it's a real
problem all right look Heather we got to
take a break if you'll join me in the
next hour we're gonna talk about these
rumors about Mike Pence what's going on
with John Kelly will the president ever
find a chief of staff and then of course
later in the show we'll start talking
about the incredible criminality
surrounding this president we got to
take a quick break I'm Sam cedar this is
ring of fire radio
