[Music]
I want to talk about this for a moment
because this is sort of interesting the
the right wing talking points of the day
are centered around this opening by Adam
Schiff and I have mixed feelings about
this is in the this is in the hearings
yesterday I want everybody listen to
this because in some respects what Adam
Schiff is doing is exactly what we know
the President does and the right does it
is an acknowledgment that we live in
different media universes and that the
critique of what what we say as
politicians is almost irrelevant
certainly in the context of like Trump
or on the right the critique is worn
like a badge of honor
the center and the left I think is a
little bit more concerned about these
things but here's Adam Schiff he's
opening up the hearing and what he does
is characterize the conversation between
Donald Trump and the president of
Ukraine the essence of what the
president communicates we've been very
good to your country very good no other
country has done as much as we have but
you know what I don't see much
reciprocity here I hear what you want I
have a favor I want from you though and
I'm going to say this only seven times
so you better listen good I want you to
make up dirt on my political opponent
understand lots of it on this and on
that I'm gonna put you in touch with
people and not just any people I'm gonna
put you in touch with Attorney General
the United States my attorney general
bill Barr
he's got the whole weight of the
American Law Enforcement behind him and
I'm gonna put you in touch with Rudy
you're gonna love him trust me you know
what I'm asking and so I'm only gonna
say this a few more times in a few more
ways and by the way don't call me again
I'll call you when you've done what I
asked this is in sum and character what
the president was trying to communicate
with the presidents of Ukraine it would
be funny if it wasn't such a graphic
betrayal of the president's oath of
office
all right and the funny but very
effective right okay I want you to keep
that in mind with the funny because I
heard two right-wing talkers today
saying like well like the it was one of
those two guys on WABC they're there
nope like their ancient talk about
boomers but the way that they were going
back just hold that thought for a moment
we'll get to it but that is exactly what
the essence of that call was and the
behavior that is outlined in this
whistleblower report that there are
reports so one reporter say we had
information that we never printed that
the reason why Mike Pence called off his
trip to go to the inauguration of is it
zalenski and we sent instead the
Secretary of of energy I can't remember
his name now what's it Rick Perry is
because Trump didn't want them to have
the vice president there until he got
the stuff he wanted about Joe Biden's
corruption and so that that whole like
you know don't call me I'll call you
when you've done what I've asked you to
do is exactly what Trump was
communicating now the critique is is
like he's making this up it's an
impeachment hearing
it's an impeachment hearing how can he
make that up and characterize it well of
course he can he wasn't gonna read
through the entire transcript which
again is not a verbatim transcript but
that is their talking point at the
moment and I just don't think it's going
to work it will work with their people
but we are living in a different era
where we cannot expend energy in trying
to get to their people
we need to expend energy in getting to
our people the rest of the people the
majority of the people and tell them and
educate them exactly - as to what the
president is doing and I would say this
is also the case more broadly in terms
of politics as it exists whether it's in
the presidential campaign and just about
questions of like of health care or you
know college debt or Wall Street or
whatever it is that trying to chase
after their people who are in a
hermetically sealed bubble comes at the
expense of motivating the rest of the
people so shift could have gotten up
there and not been so pithy and
characterized it with a certain amount
of satire like he said it would have
been funny if it wasn't so tragically
accurate but if he had done so to
placate some notion of like he should be
more of a straight shooter from the
right he would fail to be able to
communicate to people who might be
marginal in terms of thinking this is
important and this that dynamic is
really important I think to understand
not just in the context of impeachment
but more broadly in American politics
today that it is it is not about
persuasion
it is about motivation how do you
communicate to those people who who are
already predisposed to believing what
you believe that this is important and
digestible okay so on to the second
point so I'm listening to this radio
show and there's two boomers and one is
like on the right and the other is like
on the mostly you know extent or right
but he's like the Alan Combs type of
figure and then there of course is a
woman who's on the show who basically
steps in and like you guys are PC and
it's that type of dynamic it's really
just tragic
but I will occasionally dip into
right-wing radio on days like this to
find out what just what they're saying
these are love his local show but new
local New York and so the guy the right
winger plays shifts things can you
believe this guy he's lying he's making
it all up that's not the transcript and
the other guy goes just telling a joke
and as a reference to this statement
that Donald Trump said at the UN I think
it is right
so UN sidelines non-threatening right
he'll journalist with general Sisi right
this is a this was apparently billed as
a family event where people brought in
their kids now I don't know why you
bring your kids into listen to Donald
Trump unless you really like want to
spend the next 10 or 15 years trying to
to make them less cynical but here is
Donald Trump referring to the
whistleblower right this is like here we
go
[Music]
the information because that's opposed
to a spy you know what we used to in the
old days when we were smart spies and
[Music]
yeah now people start in the in the
Fuller clip people start laughing after
that a little bit and and and the the
right-wing deejay was like well you know
people laughed at that one well there
you can hear people giggling actually at
the shifts a couple of turns of phrases
there I think it's certainly you hear
that you know also like I please before
people you know I'm not making this
comparison because I always feel the
need to say this but like you know Idi
Amin was a wit sometimes like just like
humor and irony does not mean that
you're not doing something right right
like sometimes it doesn't but sometimes
like he's saying in a funny way will
someone please rid me of this meddlesome
priest he's saying it
Jacob wall Benjamin Dixon flag the Jacob
wall think Jacob wall is it relentless
joke but he's still talking about like
you know putting some type of price on
finding out who this is or something or
you know at least he was yesterday I
mean and it's all a joke but it's also a
joke that's being how about this read by
the president it's for a joke
hey Russia if you're listening I'd take
those other 30,000 emails and then the
next day Russian agents hack into an
email server oh yeah
and different things are funny to people
based on their societal context and the
power dynamics is just like what they're
into like I'm be I'm reminded of the
show dangerous comedy with Larry Charles
have you guys watched that no no he
interviews people all over the world in
like really intense war-torn parts of
the world even about the things that
they find funny like general butt naked
in I'm gonna mess up which country this
is but like like a lot of a lot of these
um these warlords and soldiers are like
oh you know it's funny killing someone
who's weaker than you hahaha I'm just
saying like even that
interesting but I'm just saying very
specifically with these types of things
like you you know you can read if you
read about you know other examples and
leaders in this mode sometimes it is
like hey you know who is a real pain in
the ass and it's a chuckle but it's also
like a signal guys you know it isn't
just like it isn't just the chuckle yep
