I don't know how anybody could ever
accuse anyone of running on racism in
this country except for if they just
watched you know maybe a day's worth of
news in this country here is this is
Cindy hyde-smith she is a a Senate would
be or I should say she is a Senate
incumbent from Mississippi she's going
to be running off there's gonna be a
runoff election in I want is this into
mid-december mid to some area against uh
Mike SB what didn't heat like a he was a
AG I think under crazy
yeah Clinton administration they're
highly moderate to contrive it's a
conservative Democrat running in in
Tennessee he is a black man and here is
Cindy hyde-smith she's not trying to
activate any of this stuff at all
and we should say again tomorrow on this
program really interesting interview
hopefully it'll be interesting about
data that shows that you know that
people's racism certain people was
activated under truck under Obama and
that Trump brings it out and this is the
same methodology just want to remind you
my candidate is black man
[Music]
all right so this is and you could hear
it because of the the train a little bit
but she is with who is she standing with
who is it her husband no she was
standing with another politician I think
and she was basically saying that if I
got invited
I would I would go if he invited me to a
public hanging I'd be in the front row
oh she was with just : Hutchinson a
cattle rancher yeah okay yeah it's just
a you know a big you know a VIP in town
a lot of ways you can take that and
she's saying to a crowd small people if
he invited me to a public hanging I'd be
in front in the front row now and all
the public hangings they had in
Mississippi well I do I mean I think we
all know and I guess you know she's just
saying it's just the same it's just the
same as the common friends it's just
saying that even if I had to go to
something distasteful that wasn't in you
wanted to be in the front row I would go
there
and was she trying to say that she likes
him with that yeah that's saying that I
would follow this guy anywhere but still
with you know a huge dash of racial race
right hinting right I just wanted to let
you know that no maybe it's never her
occurred to her in all the years that
she's been saying that that idiom right
that's what it is that it refers to the
public hanging of black men I want you
to below meant that yeah idioms are
pretty up that's true and maybe
given the opportunity she would say you
know what I'm sorry now that I say it
and I think about it I mean certainly
look I I've said this before I was on
cable news couple years ago and I said
off the reservation never occurred to me
what the implications of that saying
were a just something you grow up you
sang it right
and and and so there it is
but when people pointed out to me I said
you know what I'm sorry I'm not gonna
use that anymore because yeah it is it
is offensive so let's play her apology
after she is told that this is highly
offensive oh I guess she never
apologized nice there it is
