what we also saw this week was Donald
Trump basically being announced or at
least leaked that he has plans to
celebrate Memorial Day by pardoning war
criminals and I know you wrote a piece
about this tell us about this I mean
it's it sounds ridiculous but it's true
it's it's obscene on any number of
levels first of all it's probably
important to to you know make clear
where he's getting the the names of
these people and why he's doing it this
is coming from Fox News a specific one
person by the name of Pete heck says who
is a veteran and he is on Fox and
Friends on the weekend and Trump had
previously wanted to put him into the
into the administration he floated his
name for four Veet Secretary of the VA
when they had that big you know churn
early in the administration and he's a
big favorite he is a fanatic and he is
basically a person who believes that the
rules of engagement of the military are
too soft and he wants them changed
basically to a you know legalized war
crimes including torture this is his
mission this is who he is and Trump
loves him and we found out this week
that he's been personally lobbying the
president he's gone up to the White
House he calls him on the phone to to
pardon these convicted war criminals and
a couple of others who were about to go
on trial for war crimes now these are
people in the military justice system
it's not so you know some bleeding-heart
liberal judge somewhere you know some
it's not the Ninth Circuit or whatever
his normal thing this is the actual
military justice system who has taken
these people to task and they are
accused of horrific crimes I mean one of
them is a doubt is a psychopath and
interesting you know a couple of months
ago it was revealed in The New York
Times that he he was a highly decorated
Navy SEAL and you know a chief which
that it's Chiefs who run the Navy SEAL
units and his own his own Navy SEALs we
just you know to break they're kind of
omert√† that they have in in these sort
of elite military services is really
beyond the pale they did it they went to
their superiors and had to fight hard
to get this guy into the military
justice system because he's a psychopath
he is killing people he is torturing
them taking pictures of them he held a
you know a mock you know trial for a
dead corpse I mean he's a sick piece of
work let's just put it that way it has
no business being in the military and he
is going to go on trial for these crimes
that were you know these Navy SEALs in
his unit very took a great risk and
coming forward with this story risk to
their own careers and this is one of the
people that Trump is is planning to
planning to pardon or at least that he
asked for the paperwork to pardon them
the others are almost just as bad some
of them are accused of urinating on
corpses
you know Taliban corpses and another one
you know kid killed a suspected you know
al Qaeda member in Iraq on his own and a
ditch he'd you know he stripped the man
naked and then executed him and said he
did it in self-defense I mean all of
these things are just they are they are
clearly war crimes and it's not as if we
haven't had recent experience with this
sort of thing Abu Ghraib was not that
long ago and we saw we've had pictures
of it we saw it and it greatly damaged
the American military and you know the
morale and everything else and nobody in
the military is for decision saying
nobody there are people like p-tech says
on fox news who are for this and we know
that trump throughout his campaign
basically ran partially on war crimes he
talked about bullets dipped in pig's
blood he talked about wanting to torture
he indicated that he might even think
about beheading if that's what it took
he said take out the families all this
stuff this was a big part of his
campaign it's kind of hard to remember
now because it's sort of fallen by the
wayside but Pizza XF knew who he was
dealing with when he went to Donald
Trump to do this and Trump has
apparently at least is considering
pardoning all these war criminals on
Memorial Day the day that the nation
celebrates the war dead going back to
the revolution and it's absolutely
appalling it's the most disgusting thing
I can think of and it's purely based on
this idea of you know
Trump showing that you know he's a tough
guy and you know they're all saying
you'd finally we have a president who
honors the the warfighter and and you
know that's what heads have said and
it's absolutely disgusting that you know
I'm hoping that this came forward you
know early enough that whoever it was
that leaked it
you know got it out there and Trump will
be persuaded not to do it by hopefully
by the military who many of whom have
come out and said this is outrageous you
can't do this you know MIT's
it would destroy that you know what we
know of the you know military discipline
and and many members of the military
take pride in the fact that they're not
barbarians and you know they really
don't want to be tagged with this yeah
it's shocking and well it'll be
interesting to see I mean I remember
also Donald Trump said like you know I
know more than the generals and it could
very well be that attitude that that
that that carries the day I mean it you
really do get the sense and we got to
take a break but and when we come back I
want to talk about what's been going on
with the states with abortion and there
was a major basically a pro-choice
rallies around the country but also to
the the notion that Donald Trump you
know we could be marching to a war in
Iran we could have been marching to a
war in Venezuela sort of underneath
Donald Trump's nose like he seems to
have soul it is so disconnected from
things that if stuff like that can go on
the idea that he would celebrate war
criminals without sort of really knowing
that the vast majority of the military
was like don't do this we that's
inconsistent with a professional
military IIIi believe that that it's not
just this guy's getting his advice from
Fox News
it's like he's only getting his advice
Fox News but we got to take a quick
break we'll be right back with more
Digby
