[Music]
there's a story and we won't have time
to get to it today but of a 16 year old
boy born in Dallas Texas apparently made
the sorry 18 year old boy made the bad
choice of having a the name Francisco
Irwin Galatia and apparently having a
complexion that was not white he was of
course 18 year old traveling only with
the school ID because you're not allowed
to do that in America
his brother was carrying only a Texas ID
which can only be obtained with a social
security number and apparently they were
going to see a soccer scouting event
they got into a CBP checkpoint and this
kid got a basically held in c/bb custody
for weeks for weeks the CBP an ice
attempted to basically round up a couple
thousand immigrants over the past couple
of days and they were stopped in some
instances they failed in others they
ended up arresting 35 people but here is
a clip of folks in erotic Tennessee and
a nice official tried to get a man into
custody and a neighbor's formed a human
chain
to allow the man in his son to get home
father's they get into the familiar mr.
lebrand off mr. sheean can you spare is
does he remain so las palabras está de
esposa de esta madre que esta tenías
miedo de que ya know
I do lament that noise so they were able
to protect this father and son I'm not
sure what their status were of course
we're all much worse off because these
two people are in this country I'm sure
everybody's feeling the pain right now
show us if feel less safe the idea that
a father and son would still be with
their mother or wife is horrific concept
and we should we should be spending
millions of dollars billions of dollars
to make sure this can't happen
and that seems to be the agenda of a
huge swath of Americans but good for
that life there has to be more of this
that's why it was important to play this
video to to give people to broaden
people's imagination and courage as to
what they can do when they see these
type of situations you do not have to
give ice your papers show them your
documents and for every person who is a
citizen who does not comply with Isis
requests because they do not have
authority over you the more gums up
their works
Isis Acting Director complained it's
unfortunate that our our noble law
enforcement agencies subject to such a
protest this is a memo that ice went
into lockdown during Tuesday's protests
I think that took place outside of the
skin clip in Stein from TYT reporting
this is Anna July 17th and it it helps
this is one of those agencies where you
can really gum up the works and so if
you have the opportunity to do so do so
I mean they're on a bus and they come on
and start acting for asking for papers
start questioning them under what
authority are you doing this is the bus
company allowing you to do this what are
the names of the bus company I want to
talk to the bus manager just
be a pain and they but if you hold them
up for twenty minutes half an hour who
knows
maybe you're helping some family that
you'll never meet yeah you're using
their resources of time exactly that's
really important and also please in
addition to that everyone needs to be
getting involved in long term immigrant
justice organizing because that's the
only thing that's really going to help
in the long run
