you basically ran down for us this
Facebook announcement that they're going
to attempt to start a quasi
cryptocurrency I don't know if it's a
fully cryptocurrency but you you
compared it to old-timey script that was
used in company towns and in this
instance the the company is Facebook and
the town is far more expansive because
it's going to involve a lot of other
corporations for which we do business
and the sheer size of the Facebook
audience if they adopted this would make
it far more effective and useful than
something like van mo you wanted to
compare it to WeChat before we do that
tell me about this Libre car or whatever
it is like the back like a Libra yeah
khalida Libra is is the digital wallet
and that you know the the Libra is this
consortium that's owned in a swift and
corporation underwritten by hundreds or
at this point twenty eight organizations
Facebook is not doing the direct
governments however Facebook is the
wholly owned subsidiary of this digital
wallet this thing Calibra and that could
be used to extract transaction funds
every time you use calibre you store it
or you hold it
calibra is sort of the way you would use
Libra to pay for things right and there
there are all sorts of applications for
that financial services that could be
offered through Calibra and and whatnot
and and and the way that you can already
see this being problematic is the fact
that so Libra you you you pay your ten
dollars and you get eight Libra or
whatever it is and then you you know get
to hold them in your wallet you store it
and that sounds kind of like a bank
right I mean you you are you are paying
money into this or this thing and then
you have the ability to sort of pay it
out in an ATM a situation as it were
or a debit card transaction now if you
have a bank account in the United States
for the most part you're getting some
sort of interest on that money because
what you're doing is you're handing over
this money to someone to hold and with
the understanding that that bank will be
using that money to make investments and
and and do all sorts of things with
those deposits but Libra in the document
say that we will be investing the the
reserves of Libra and we will keep the
reserves of Libra we will not be giving
them to the customers potentially
billions of customers that we will just
use their money to make investments and
the proceeds will go to us so imagine a
bank without any interest and that's
what you have with Libra and I guess
presumably the one of the dangers is
what kind of investments are you making
who's gonna regulate these investments
because now you're functioning as a bank
but you're outside of the banking
regulatory scheme and the reason why you
have benzene absolutely they say in the
document that they will only use safe
you know low-risk investments oh okay as
long as they say that says like
sovereign sovereign debt of Greece was
seen as a low-risk investment prior to
2010 my mortgage-backed securities were
seen as a low-risk investment under the
banking laws prior to 2008 so this idea
that it would only be low risk and you
raise the exact right question what is
this thing and who will regulate it it
is it a bank is it a currency is it a
just sort of a digital wallet like a
PayPal or venmo who is responsible for
overseeing this and its global so who is
responsible in all of the countries of
the world say there's a
you know someone that wants to ferret
money out of a country they exchange it
from from you know Turkish dollars or
something into into Libra and that
washes the money you know launders the
money and then they they convert it back
into dollars and they can use it freely
who's regulating that who you know
usually a bank would have to file some
sort of suspicious activity report to
figure out if someone is engaged in
modern money-laundering at least to
raise the question for regulators
doesn't Libra have to do that we have no
idea so that's just one of probably ten
thousand examples that you could come up
with for the the the the questions being
raised on what's fundamentally this
thing is and how it's going to be
regulated and and I'm frankly that's
also just one silo of problems that I
can just sit here and think about off
the top of my head even if we had it
perfectly regulated like a bank the
problem is is that there is a private
entity that sort of owns and controls
this currency and so if they decide at
one point we have now had enough market
saturation right we have we have I don't
know a billion people using Libra guess
what guess what retail outlets if you
want to take Libra now guess how much
it's gonna cost you you're gonna have to
kick back to us I mean this is sort of
the one of the classic sort of like sin
fin type of things right you could use
them dance indicate and own it good
right even if they don't take a penny
out of any transaction this is a
seriously problematic proposal for the
nodes from the standpoint of corporate
power monopoly because that I mentioned
we chat before if you go to China right
now it's very hard to spend paper money
because this app called WeChat which
combines social media a chatting service
and payments is basically all that
anyone uses to pay for any
seeing within the country of China and
that's really what Facebook is after
they want you to stay on their site to
be stuck on their site so that they can
basically provide you with anything and
everything that you would ever want her
desire and think of how much more data
richness you would have and how much
more valuable ads would be if you're a
company that essentially is an
indispensable digital partner for for
millions hundreds of millions maybe
billions of users all around the world
you don't necessarily even have to take
money off the top of the transactions
which they probably will write but they
don't even have to do that in order to
make this a serious serious monopoly
problem that that you know what would
require a tremendous amount of scrutiny
and and then on top of that of course
there is the sort of more broad and
general issue of monopolies when you
know if we think Facebook has too much
power now and we can't get Mark
Zuckerberg to do anything we want now
wait until they own a currency that a
billion people are using David day and a
fascinating topic that I know that we'll
be talking about more going into the
future
it's going to be interesting to see how
this implicates some of the presidential
contenders who are interested in
monopoly but we will find out about that
shortly in the future I imagine David
day and always a pleasure
