so Stephanie in the last segment before
we broke you basically walk us through
the first part of of this this case
against a dupont you told us that 3m had
manufactured a chemical called c8 which
was used in the production of Teflon at
one point 3m realizes this c8 chemical
is bad stuff it's extremely dangerous
we're gonna get out of the business of
making this stuff because we think this
doesn't end well they had told dupont
when they provided them this chemical in
the first place
you need to burn it because it is it has
no half-life it is it could possibly be
very toxic it's just not going to go
away dupont turns around and says mmm
burning is a little bit more expensive
than we want to spend on this how about
we just dump it and at one point a
farmer in Parkersburg
virginia Earl tenant realizes this stuff
is killing his cows we say Earl tenant
ended up passing away of cancer himself
but he got a settlement from DuPont
which except for the work of another
citizen in that area after getting a
letter from DuPont where DuPont says hey
we may have spilt some of this in the
water supply gets an attorney Rob blot
back involved in here and they go back
to DuPont and say and what what happens
at that yeah so they filed a
class-action lawsuit and there were I
think 3,500 plaintiffs and then this gym
teacher Joe Geiger was one of the lead
plaintiffs and they filed this
class-action lawsuit and you know
eventually to cut a long story short
dupont comes to settle so rather than
taking a check for each individual what
they did instead was they decided to
establish this fund that would allow
them to study the risks of the chemical
so just to be clear so so just to be
clear they file a class-action lawsuit
and do does DuPont settle with them or
do they I mean what how do they start
getting checks from DuPont the DuPont
wanted to reach a settlement okay with
within the class action lawsuit and they
said well let's do this instead of each
one of us collecting an individual check
what we want to do is start a human
health study and they rotten rob a lot
genius is able to get these people to
agree to it because the agreement was
we're going to put this money towards
one of the largest human health studies
of all kind
if this panel of epidemiologist which
both parties had to agree to both DuPont
and the plaintiffs had to agree to this
if this study comes back and they say we
can't find a definitive link to anything
then that all the people going forward
couldn't file any personal injury cases
against DuPont so DuPont would be safe
from those and I think DuPont was so
confident that there wouldn't be a clear
link that they agreed to do this
foolishly now in hindsight as we see so
Rob a lot these people designed one of
you know the most groundbreaking studies
it took them seven years they offered
people checks to come in and get their
blood tested they tested I think upwards
of sixty thousand people in the
Parkersburg and surrounding areas and
after seven years they came back and
they found lengths of c8 exposure to a
multitude of illnesses including
testicular cancer or colon cancer kidney
cancer side sorry high blood pressure
etc etc so they found these these six
diseases that they could link it to
which then spawned another lawsuit where
now all these people could file personal
injury cases against DuPont okay and
this is uh let me D it's less meaty when
you watch the film so I mean they I do a
better job explaining it on screen and
it is now available on iTunes and Amazon
to watch but it is that
but it's a very complex story but an
extraordinary story yes it's a
fascinating story and it's one that is
is it's frankly shocking and in the end
there Mike Papantonio of ringing fire a
ring of fire ends up in the courtroom
handling the first of what could
potentially be 3,500 different cases
would DuPont and folks should really
check out the film to find that out but
but I want it before we can oh we just
have about two or three minutes left
here what does the word what where's the
title the devil we know where does that
come from because I think one of the
things about this story it is obviously
it's a fascinating thrilling story but
what is so important about this story is
it reveals and we're talking about one
of the largest chemical companies in the
u.s. it reveals something about the
corporate personality if you will uh I
should say the personality of
corporations and the ability of human
beings to become part of a corporation
and allow for horrible things because in
some way they feel some type of distance
from these decisions what is the devil
we know refer to the titles of the film
comes from one of the internal memos
that we found where I'm paraphrasing but
the company was discussing that you know
they knew these risks associated with c8
and they were discussing alternatives
and they said you know basically any
other products we're going to come up
with is going to have its own set of
problems so it's better just to stick
with c8 because it's the devil we know I
mean and that was how these decisions
were made and all the while they were
clearly seeing that you know this was
being you know causing cancer in the
animals that they were testing in even
in primate studies so they knew these
risks and they continued to go ahead and
manufacture the products with them and
it's important to note that when you
know we say come on
but what we don't realize is that see it
in Teflon aren't just in pants
it's in you know if it's waterproof or
grease
proof attempt to be Teflon or some
version they're in so this is in our
rugs this is in our tooth loss this is
in the lining of fast-food wrappers and
popcorn bags this is everywhere so it's
not just about changing your pad but
it's you know your pants this is really
a very pervasive ingredient and things
that we are using everyday that we're
letting our you know children sleep on
and and that we're walking on it's
everywhere we just have a minute left
Stephanie but what is that what I just
want to get that devil we know when they
say you know this is causing cancer but
something else we could develop could
also cause cancer we should just stick
with the one that we know what they that
it causes cancer what does that say
about the incentive structure for
corporations I mean I think when it says
is we need to max out our profits on
this right who could you know we're in
it for the bottom line and so until the
until their feet were being held to the
fire they were going to continue
manufacturing the product it didn't
matter if it made people sick it just
mattered that it made them money
it is absolutely shocking and when I
have an opportunity to talk to tort
lawyers like this they all have stories
about smaller cases bigger cases that
involve this type of complete lack of
humanity in the pursuit of profits and I
think your film the devil we know
captures that incredibly thank you so
much for your time today Stephanie I
really appreciate it
