CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Elise
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday July 30th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report where rod
casting live steps from the industrially
ravaged Gowanus Canal in the heartland
of America downtown Brooklyn USA around
the program today its debate night
number one preview today because it's
debate night it's the second debate
first night 2.1 tonight
boom also on the program today
Trump's Intel director is an unqualified
liar as opposed to the qualified liars
we should be in that job
Republicans marinating in the racism of
their party more Democrats on board with
impeachment both in the Senate and the
house in the wake of the Muller
testimony and as Donald Trump's racist
attack versus Cummings a function of
Cummings investigation in Trump inks
involvement in a Saudi nuke plan
meanwhile President Stephen Miller wants
ice to adjudicate asylum claims judges
two-week Senate fails to override the
Trump veto on the restrictions on Saudi
arms sales
[Music]
Trump's food stamp assault could also
end up axing free lunches for 500,000
kids
[Music]
Dems wake up to the massive hill that is
a Senate take over and meanwhile many
Democratic incumbents are getting
challenges as the d-triple-c
implodes and how many times are we
supposed to be okay with data breaches
apparently all of them and forever
and lastly congratulations we have hit
the tipping point Afghan and NATO forces
have now the first half of 2019 killed
more civilians than anyone else they've
killed more civilians than we have
actual fighters and managed to kill more
civilians than even the Taliban so good
on you folks only took us about 20 years
to get there but we got there everybody
pat your selves on the shoulders all
this and more on today's program Oh
ladies and gentlemen I should tell you
this right up front we're going to do a
shorter free show today so if you are
listening via the podcast of course if
you're listening live watching live you
will see all of it but if you're
listening via the podcast it'll be a
shortened audio podcast today we will
move into the fun half wherein we'll
have something a little bit different
sort of a throwback it's a throwback
Tuesday around here I will be I don't
know if I would call this a debate maybe
it'll end up being a debate I suspect it
might be we may be debating certain
topics but I will be talking to the 19th
and current chair of the libertarian
National Committee we will this is part
of my listening tour listen
in talking tour to determine whether I
should throw my hat into the libertarian
2020 sweeps as I think this is an
intellectual curiosity expedition that's
correct I will be talking to Nikolas
Sarlacc about my prospects perhaps I'm
not quite sure we haven't we just it was
out there and so we just we said yes
sometimes that's the way that we program
around here we just walk around bump
into walls and then sometimes say yes oh
yes hi do you believe that water
shouldn't be treated oh great
call in my program right exactly so we
will be talking to Nikolas in a bit and
I should also tell you that tonight we
will be covering the debates live the
best thing to do you know because is to
go to majority dot F M on the homepage
we will have a link to where we're doing
this but we will we will most likely be
streaming live to twitch twitch is
available to everyone and you can I
don't even know if you have to sign up
for you just need to go on it and you
have to sign up I think if you're gonna
stream but so you can just watch there
the experience is very much like YouTube
arguably I don't know is it cooler
I don't know sure it's a totally
different it's the the the people who
stream on Twitch they I used to think
that I had the stamina cuz I I have once
done what do we do a 12 hour show we
have for that no I wasn't I did a 12
hour show and back in the radio days I
would do seven hours
full stop radio no that's exhausting but
these men and women on Twitch they'll do
like seven eight hours a day six days a
week well this is why I've been trying
to push a message to take gamers
seriously because they do have
impressive stamina
in sin so then when game and and what
and then what happens just take him just
watch her twitch watch this - its John
pikers - which to be fair though
sometimes he's just like doing things
around his house or playing basketball
well bolete it up though they want to
watch him fair enough but be that as it
may we will be streaming on Twitch
tonight with a full debate coverage and
tomorrow we will provide for you a recap
of the debate tonight and then we will
be back to cover the second night of the
debate I will get into the the debate
stuff tonight but before we we get to
that just want to remind you how not
racist Donald Trump is we know he's not
racist because he told us and here he is
he is on the White House lawn and it
turns out he is one of the least racist
people in the world for one second now
he's talking about these you know now
Sharpton almost all his business life
now
I thought he had said if you didn't hear
the shark that almost I've been the
least racist person for almost my entire
business life because there was that
little thing where they had to get to
consent decrees from the Department of
Justice for stop being so racist in your
housing policies and we didn't have bar
there at the time right we did no idea
so
[Music]
he's a racist but when people what
people let me explain to you what I've
done for African American in
two-and-a-half years no president has
been able to do anything like it
there you go African Americans is he's
the great white hope as as Jesse Lee
Peterson would say there's a great
exchange among I mean all the exchanges
with Cornel West are great but he told a
very funny
rogon asked him if he ever met Trump and
he said that he did meet Trump briefly I
think in the 80s or early 90s at some
some show in Las Vegas
and Cornell I mean he threaded basically
a broader argument about what patriotism
is an immigration and black experience
but he just had a very funny rundown of
how excited Trump was to be in a room of
black people because it made him feel
cool right and that was his distinct
memory of Trump and that's like Trump's
sort of emmos like this that's why I
feel like it's so Queens it's so New
York cuz it's so vile racist and then
also like hey what's up hip cat then
become a town you know Cornell was
really explained that well past the
watermelon Moe ever nobody would go must
be think that Bill O'Reilly doesn't get
it he doesn't get these are my cat's
look here is Donald Trump explaining a
little bit more because the
african-american people have been
calling the White House they have never
been so happy as what a president is
done the African American people have
been calling the White House I'm not
sure how that works exactly like is it
that PartyLite app is there a party app
where everybody aligns up but there it
is Don Trump the least racist person and
this is relevant because it will there's
a couple of polling out today now look
who knows right I mean we don't know
this stuff but there is indications that
this is gonna hurt Trump this seems to
be the game plan and he's going to keep
looking for these opportunities in which
to basically string that that that
racist flag up the there was no doubt
right that in 2018 the hardcore racist
just didn't show up
Republicans had better turnout than
they've had in the past Democrats had an
even better turnout than they've had in
the past Donald Trump will motivate
those people to come out however there
is data there's two data points that I
want you to dive scene one is a report
that for whatever reason this explicit
of racism is turning off and Trump is
beginning to lose non-college educated
white women I mean didn't start anything
with the wife and I'm not quite clear
what what it is that why all of a sudden
this racism but I people suspect that it
may have something to do with the the
the the kids but the racism in and of
itself seems to be so blatant the the
non-college white guys they're all in
this motivates them to vote not not all
white guys no knowledge I'm also
triggered by the the white whatever mean
oncology not all white guys not all non
college I'm talking broad strokes not
all not even probably the majority of
non-college educated white women are
moving to trump because of this but it's
significant enough of them that it's
problematic for Trump simultaneously
there is some polling that is showing
that the voters who did not come out in
2012 excuse me who came out in 2012 but
did not come out in 2016 for the
Democratic candidate may very well be
motivated by this explicit of racism
right like I can tell you that
do you remember Mike who worked
downstairs here how would you say he's
late 20s early 30s african-american guy
late 20s 30s was working at you know in
the building is like like I don't know
what you call it a concierge a concierge
and I think he was an IT guy or he had
some my caramel this is his day job yet
other things going on
when Trump one came in he's like yeah
I'm not surprised this this this that's
the way this country is and I think
there was a lot of african-americans who
had a similar response like no kidding
and I think a lot of african-americans
did did not come out in part I mean I
don't know you know how narrowly you
want to tailor what politics are but
Hillary Clinton was just not doing the
politics properly into motivated
everything was transactional everything
was top down there was not necessarily
she was not she was not emphasizing the
material benefits that she was going to
provide not just because of her own
record in the clearance record was
incredibly racist yes yeah tell me with
them that's really I mean and that has
changed over time Bill Clinton was was
was relatively you know relatively
popular with the african-american vote
and I would say also again Clinton's
relationships with older
african-americans pretty strong so and I
think there was an awareness of Trump's
racism but I think at one point I don't
know that we had
a similar dynamic where Trump was like
specifically targeting different African
Americans over and over again and in the
course of the past week in fact actually
now that the the the non-college
educated white women are responding to
his attacks on the squad I wouldn't be
surprised if a OCS background as a
bartender is not helpful in this regard
it's definitely helpful in this regard
and I just want to say I think that the
there's no question that I we talk about
the real contradictory nature of a lot
of the electorate and I think that this
is why Matt and I have been trying to
emphasize so much that you really have
to disaggregate between a hard core of a
trump Republican base and some other
people who may have any number of
problematic attitudes bla bla bla bla
bla but I don't like this they don't
like and it is it's bearing and I don't
think there's that many of those people
but I think there's on your graph
there's significantly exactly yes and
which makes sense right I mean it would
make sense just in terms of very broad
generalizations that someone living in
Wisconsin might be more sensitive to
overt racism than somebody say living in
Alabama with all due respect I don't
know maybe I'm maybe I'm wrong about
that but I suspect on the the data bears
me out but but the real issue is will it
bring out african-americans who stayed
home during the Clinton Trump race with
Donald Trump going out there and getting
all explicitly racist I mean super
explicitly racist and so we'll see at
the end of the day this stuff is just
sort of I don't know I don't want to say
it's masturbatory but I mean that's part
of like you know why we do this is just
sort of give you a sense of what where
we think things are but at the end of
the day it's not going to make that much
of a difference unless people get out
there organize mobilize so do that and
if that involves you traveling I got
good
is exactly as you know packing your
toiletries somehow always involves a
delicate game of stacking in space
hacking correct
that's why quip electric toothbrushes
work just as well at home as they do on
the go I I mean I don't know if I don't
know if this is actual data point but as
far as I can tell
quip is the most compact does not
involve a charger tucks easily into your
carry-on did your backpack dental
hygiene should not be just a function of
staying overnight it should be a daily
thing folks plus the travel ready cover
acts as a stand it mounts to hotel
mirrors it protects your brush from
sandy swimsuits luggage slip-ups and a
three month battery life will last
through a season filled with weekend's
away brush heads are automatically
delivered on a dentist recommended and
not just dentists recommended but a Sam
recommended schedule which is once every
three months for just five bucks so
you're always going to have fresh
bristle bristles there making it easier
than ever to keep up with your wakeup
and wind down routine when you're out of
the office I have given equipped to my
sister unsolicited she sends me a text
saying I want you to know my dentist
just complimented my teeth brushing
since I got the quip it makes a huge
difference and I've said this many times
before you can buy whatever electric
toothbrush you want if you're not going
to use it it's not gonna work and the
beauty about of the quip to me I mean
it's the design is very attractive and
it feels substantial but not too heavy
but the beauty is is that it can sit
right where your other toothbrushes used
to sit because of its size and so you're
not charging it in a different room and
I have to bring a charge you when you
travel it's super convenient and that's
why I love quip and why I'm taking it to
the well I'm in guess I'm going to the
beach later I take it wherever I go
oh good for you you should be Russia and
that's also a good follow question you
brush your teeth at the beach I brush my
teeth three times a day so em right
quick just starts in just 25 bucks and
if you go to get quick comm slash
majority right now you can get your
first refill pack for free
that's your first refill pack for free
I'd get quip GE t qu IP comm slash
majority check it out alright let's get
into this oh well let's just do this
rush limbaugh so that we can get this
out of way and then we're gonna do a
little debate preview Wow
Rush is done there's he's had some work
he's looking a little oh my god oh boy a
handsome fatso oh yeah I think Bernie's
smooth Dam and here it excuse you now
listen I never listened listen this is
Barrett matters whenever whenever you're
looking for someone to defend you from
charges of racism who better to defend
you from charges of racism than Rush
Limbaugh that's great and I'm not racist
asked by Fred Rush exact all that great
Jesse Jackson buckshot material oh he's
obviously not racist that's like be
saying I'm super patient I never lose my
cool ask my friend Sam cedar that's
right that's right there you go
and guess who's running these place is
not just Baltimore go to any place
there's certain things you're not
supposed to say you're not supposed to
criticize anything the Democrats run
you're not supposed to criticize
anything where minorities are involved
because that's automatically labeled
racist but I want to tell you right up
front the president is not a racist he
didn't say anything racist he didn't
call anybody well he called Cummings of
racist after Cummings reacted but but
folks Detroit Flint Los Angeles San
Francisco massive homeless problems
wherever you find this decadent decay
posit just so it's a great flint
incidentally was is the city where white
governor's white state
officials poisoned poisoned thousands of
children giving them future neurological
problems that they'll never be able to
recover from because of a combination of
their desire to save money and their
refusal to listen to the people like a
fundamentally anti-democratic move so
Flint very hard to say the mayor had no
control incidentally I would I would add
no and the notion of deindustrialization
being a function of democratic policies
in these specific cities is absurd it's
just absurd
San Francisco massive homeless problems
wherever you find this decadent decay
you're going to a bit redundant but
whatever decadent decay find Democrats
having run the operation or the city the
state whatever it is the county for
decades I'll remind you I mean what
would a load of hogwash this is the idea
that Democrats create homelessness let's
say as opposed to just don't arrest
people for being homeless I'm looking
now at the Rockefeller Institute for
government it is the who gives and who
gets page explore the balance of
payments between states and the federal
government there are the balance of
payments there is there are some states
that contribute more to the federal
government than they get back
those are Massachusetts Connecticut New
Jersey New York Illinois Washington
state Colorado couple others the vast
majority of the ones that are taking
payments that are actually gay are are
controlled by Republicans where money is
coming in I mean so the the idea that
you know that that there is problems as
measured by sort of how much revenue is
generated versus how much is spent that
there are problems with places
specifically as a function of being
governed by Democrats is absurd there
are urban environments that we have that
have been systemically denied or have no
political power and they've been
systemically denied the support
structures that that wealthier places
have bottom line poverty has been
allowed to fester it has been enhanced
by racist policies going back decades in
terms of housing in terms of jobs and
these are severe problems in some of
these cities also exist in rural areas
it's just that you have fewer people
there yeah that's exactly right but you
see also a parallel and it's it's
fascinating because I mean obviously now
we're in a major upsurge back thanks to
certain people in the IDW of racism and
IQ stuff but if you properly understand
charles murray more broadly than just
the the racism he's trying to be the
public intellectual that justifies class
stratification and so his books after
the bell curve he started writing on how
poor white people and indian cultural
losing ground was all about how people
in Appalachia and so on were we're
decking it and living in decay and
didn't have the intelligence and the
discipline discipline to succeed in
capitalism because that's what all this
stuff is is first you d industrialize
the press and everything else these
people and then you have to build a
narrative to justify so that's actually
all Trump's doing in his like crude
demagogic way and I just want to say
that but he's not also all the trumps
that's why he got that and that's why he
got there cuz it's the flip side of when
we said this many times during the
during the
campaign that when the Republican Party
says you're immoral and that's why
you're poor the flip side of that is if
you're the richest person on the stage
you are the most powerful and everything
and deserving and that's why I meant
Romney and Donald Trump for the same
thing in that respect exactly and it's
why when Jeb Bush said anything Donald
Trump was like I'm a billionaire
supposedly and so according to the
entire principles that you've
established around the Republican Party
in a world view of conservatism I'm
better than you right I think that that
and and also I just this is less
important but I mean the idea of calling
Elijah Cummings obviously I have very
different politics or significantly
different politics and Elijah Cummings
but I happened he's definitely my
favorite member of the House Democratic
leadership by far and just going back a
couple of months when there was that
whole melodrama
when Rasheeda to Liv did the whole like
you don't I forget what she's basically
made a point about racist attitudes even
if you don't have it you know even if in
your own awareness you're not explicitly
racist and that guy on the committee
cried and had a meltdown I don't know if
people are remembering this of course
and of course it came out that he had a
fax at multiple birth her and racist
comments but Elijah Cummings I mean in a
perfect distillation of all these
dynamics basically comforted the guy and
the guy the whole meadows mr. chairman
you and I are friends and all the stuff
and Cummings actually was like in fact
yeah we are friends but he had to
psychologically comfort and protect this
guy because he had a meltdown about her
making a basic point about entirely race
painting exercise which was all they
were doing by literally having a woman a
black woman from the Trump an
organization stand mute looking into
space while they were like look here he
can't be racist
meanwhile the Jeff Meadows when he came
out to excuse me mark meadows
when Elijah Cummings was being attacked
meadows who was you know great personal
friends good friends he came out and
said no one works harder for his
district than Elijah he's passionate
about the people he represents and know
Elijah is not a racist a few was really
concerned about Wow really put out there
I am a buddy Yeah right
I won't dignify that I support my
president but what an atrocious
disgusting thing to say about my
colleague and friends not like hey let
me tell you something Elijah's one of
the good ones and he would he would not
choose to live around rats that's why
he's in Congress I got your back to the
new people in Congress maybe don't make
friends with folks like that it
certainly I mean I you know I know it's
probably one of those things where he
comes up to a coming since like I'm
sorry about that you know how it is with
my crazies I've got to they're so crazy
I've got a I've got a really be racist
I'm sorry let's uh let's just preview
the debate a little bit tonight start
off with this this guy on CNN this is I
think I mean I think this is sort of
accurate in some way sort of but there's
there's one premise let's see if you can
figure this out what this premise is
that is that is mistaken here right when
he talks about Twitter Twitter Democrats
I'm at a party right now a real concern
among some more centrist Democrats of
establishment Democrats that the party
is moving too far left that they're
chasing Twitter headlines instead of
where the majority of the American
people may be that concern exists in
certain circles and I think tonight
there is going to be this I would
imagine assertion from folks who are not
in the center of the stage who are more
mob
to try and make that case and appeal to
that sensibility that concern in some
quarters of the party that the policies
that Warren and Sanders particularly are
driving forth may be too far left I will
just say Warren and Sanders have been
fighting against that theory their
entire political lives all right well
here's the problem with it with just the
the whole theory that this guy
postulates if it was the case that it's
just Twitter Democrats as he says that
are driving this sort of push to the
left why is it that no one else on that
stage will be polling in double digits
other than Warren and Bernie Sanders
like I mean and it's not even close you
got Buddha judge I think was around
seven maybe maybe eight maybe eight
probably close to seven on average they
just stopped talking about that yeah you
got to average these polls in seven or
eight yep and then everyone else no one
I think breaks 3% and that may be
generous so you have to ask yourself if
it's just about chasing Twitter how is
it that Twitter and it's true there's
there's not a lot of people on political
Twitter as it were currently know is the
3% how is it possible that they are
commanding between the two of them a
plurality it appears at this point close
to it of the Democratic vote how could
that possibly be the case on top of
which I still contend that I don't know
that other than the labeling that is
done by people like that and by the
centrist that people really care about
the labels it really is just sort of
like how you wear it
I think they care about your instincts
they care about I do think some policies
have salience for people but I agree
with you and I and I think yeah not only
people not care about labels broadly I
think you still see depending on your
like in certain social environments ICP
but wanting to claim the tag socialist
when they are definitely not because
they perceive it as cool and trendy and
then in other social environments I see
people that are extremely left who still
like to say you know I'm a moderate also
who are these establishment voters that
he keeps referencing like I like it when
they make people up and then you're like
oh it's you yeah of course I mean I
don't think it's him necessarily but
certainly the people who are espousing
this they're talking about themselves
people saying I want to see some numbers
on that well that's what they always
mean is they're small social groups cuz
as I've said a gazillion times like
socially moderate and maybe even in some
areas to the right and absolutely
economically populist and left would be
where you would find so-called swing
voters and they're always invariably
talking about people that are I won't
even say socially left I would say quasi
socially tolerant and right-wing
corporate economics all right come on
Harris is not going to be on tonight so
let's tomorrow let's say that for
tomorrow night
what's this who's this guy this is a
Robert wolf former economic adviser to
President Obama all right let's just do
this one and then one more point about
Warren's got a proposal today that I
imagine will come up in the debate but
this is the road to 2020 on fox news
this guy wolf is gonna blow is this
Ainsley Earhardt again blow her mind
with his description of the Democrats so
who's gonna be fighting in the debate
tonight who are they gonna go after
probably Warren yeah I think right now
on stage you have a bunch of moderates
tonight you have like Beto and Mayor
Pete and Tim Ryan and Klobuchar and it's
easy to go after moderates versus versus
versus where Bernie and warm enough I
mean not much with I'm talking within
the party but while he's not from
medicare-for-all so so there's a few
things he hasn't been for same with Beto
so you have real debates whether it's on
open borders or medicare-for-all or
student loans that you guys were
chatting about in in to me you have to
kind of punch up but more importantly
you got to let people know what you
stand for
that's what the party's not doing enough
off now
the idea that the party's not do it
first of all open borders he's making
that up yeah maybe I put D s a
convention but the idea of the party's
not making it known what it stands for
this literally a debate with twenty
candidates each one of them racing out
with their policy proposals earlier and
in more depth than I think I've ever
seen compare this to what the Republican
Party's last primary was like I'm gonna
build a wall and then Jeb Bush would say
well I'm gonna build a bigger wall and
then Marco Rubio would say well I'm
gonna build a thicker wall that was
basically the policy debate during
during the I mean so this is just absurd
we're getting a good debate on policy
we're not seeing a ton of details on all
these things so it's a little bit
difficult to sort of follow them on some
respects I can tell you that Kamala
Harris's medicare-for-all proposal is
taking a bit of a hit particularly on
the ten year waiting period because
people realize like wait they did the
math and they found out that if Barack
Obama had tried to push the ACA with a
10-year window then Donald Trump would
have been the one who would have been
responsible for implementing it so that
seems like a non-starter exactly from
the get-go
the other interesting thing is there was
pushback from Bernie Sanders Medicare
for all folks saying that her plan is
not really a Medicare for all now the
irony in an email what's that they sent
an email yeah the irony is that as I've
been saying the past that Bernie's
Medicare for all bill is really like a
Medicaid for all because it's more
generous it's more inclusive it would be
Medicare insofar as maybe the
reimbursement rates would be closer in
line with Medicare more people would
take it more people are aware of it
but they specifically wanted to brand it
Medicare because that doesn't have the
stigma apparently that Medicaid does so
there's some brouhaha there where the
the Harris people are saying well yours
is really a Medicaid for all but this
and that it's at the end of the day her
proposal was I think put out in many
respects to seem like a moderate version
of Bernie's plan when in fact it was
just one that does not appear to to make
sense because of it the ten-year thing
doesn't make sense and the Medicare
Advantage element of it doesn't make
sense because people go to Medicare
Advantage because it's more generous not
so much if you get really sick but it's
more generous if you don't get really
sick but but Bernie's version of the
Medicare for all plan would would
provide those things so it doesn't quite
make any sense but I just I kind of just
say really briefly to that I mean and
the faizan is a matter of lives - I mean
you you elongate that you're putting
more people's lives at risk the same way
that you know Jill Biden is just
unbelievable lies and fear-mongering you
know even under Obamacare which I'm the
first to admit that's not what I want
but of course has improved health care
there's still tens of millions of people
without health insurance and there's
still plenty of people who have health
insurance but don't properly use it
because they can't afford the doctor
doesn't so on can I just say I'm really
glad that Bernie is pushing back on this
and showing where they differ on this
policy because that's the kind of thing
that we were hoping he would do going
into the first debate and maybe didn't
do so well well she didn't have a
proposal at that time yeah also I should
tell you before we get into the debate
tonight Warren apparently has come out
with a plan on trade which involves that
nine separate criteria in which a
country would have to meet before
negotiating a trade deal with the US
they have to uphold and enforce labor
rights laid out by the International
Labor Organization they eliminate all
domestic fuel subsidies fossil fuel
subsidies fulfilling commitments from
the prime Paris climate change not
running afoul of the State Department
Scott country reports on Human Rights
not being on the Treasury Department's
list for manipulative currencies in a
before more
and it certainly would be a departure
from where we are in terms of trade in
the past I mean I think Bernie has
signaled broadly speaking that he didn't
like the existing trade structures that
we have but I don't know that he's come
out with a specific proactive plan as of
yet but we will hear more of that and
tonight we're gonna take a quick break
when we come back I'm gonna be talking
to Nikolas Sark and the fun half the
nineteenth and current chair of the
libertarian National Committee I want to
remind you if you want to join us and
listen to this you can become a member
by going to join the majority report com
once you become a member you'll
immediately have access to all of our
archives and it'll be searchable on the
app it's the easiest place to look for
it just log in on the lap as a member
search any keyword libertarian all the
libertarian stuff will pop up this one
of course will be there and you get the
whole show commercial free you know the
whole deal become a member today join
the majority report com don't forget
just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea
or chocolate thank you for all the notes
about the a.m. quickie I'm glad you
liked it
we're gonna continue to do it one point
we're gonna put it on its own feed like
a little birdie it's gonna fly from the
nest but not quite yet probably closer
to September now we're talking but in
the meantime check it out it's on your
feed as it exists now and Michael yes
sir
last night last night we had on Brooke
Thomas from TYT very fun we talked about
understanding the Central Park five as
like you could use that as the sort of
key to understand Trump and tabloid
culture we also got into the Mafia q and
on story a really broad wide-ranging
interview with Saul so Ameren who's
author of acting globally brazil's
assertive foreign policy he was Lula's
foreign minister Dilma Rousseff's
defense minister we talked about the
failure of globalization the rise of the
far right and the state of Lula's
imprisonment then I went over Rogan and
Cornel West a whole bunch of other stuff
obviously
this weekend an illicit history of
what's happening in Hong Kong with
Elaine Koo who's a reporter there
Michael Brooks show on YouTube
patreon.com slash T MVS I want to thank
everybody we've met big targets this
month we've got over 2,500 patrons which
was the goal and we crossed our first
60,000 on YouTube so really appreciate
it Jamie this week on the anti Fattah
I talked with Leslie Lee the third from
struggle session about the movie
midsummer and that's coming out tomorrow
so if you haven't seen the movie yet you
should probably see it right now before
we spoil it for you although I feel like
a lot of stuff that happens that movie
is fairly predictable but anything your
name oh yeah oh yeah I think it's better
than hereditary actually it's a good
it's a good follow up to hereditary and
also I've got an episode of my little
side project the vampyre castle with
Leslie as well coming out next week I
think it's for patrons so if you want to
hear us talk about vampires you should
probably be a patron to one or both of
our shows and also we still have the
episode from last week that I'm very
stoked about wherein I speak with te
Bhattacharya and Cinzia Russa about
their amazing book feminism for the 99%
a manifesto yeah a literary hangover we
did james fenimore cooper's the pioneers
which if you like to read literature
from a Marxist perspective it's probably
the best I've covered talks about
settling central New York and how
important commodification was to that
process basically the myth is that
people are pioneers because of their lot
they like landlords want to give them
freedom where we have you know the
pilgrims or whatever but really it's
because we want to commodify things and
then central New York it was maple trees
and there's two things you can do with
maple trees you can either tap them for
maple sugar which is a longer process
but the trees can renew every year or
you can just burn them for patata and
sell that into Europe for fertilizer
that's a bit of a shorter term but
faster money and you can guess which one
was done potash
see you in the fun half and we will be
talking to the chair of the Libertarian
Party Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't maybe you
should rethink your defense of that
you're idiots we're just going
to get rid of you alright dude dude dude
dude you want to smoke this joint yes
[Music]
good exactly I'm happy now
win-win-win hell yeah now listen to me
two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven
56:27 1/2 5.9 don't you see everybody's
taking their dumb juice dance dance
dance
[Music]
Rand Paul had my first post coital I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the scroll fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no wait what you make under a
million dollars you're scum you're not
they accuse me you you all
right take quick break I want to take a
moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there take whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
rise these people Shitler what's such No
death to America I wanna just flesh this
out a little bit I mean look it's a free
speech issue if you don't like me
you
we are back what what is that we are
back Sam cedar on the majority report
folks on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome the 19th and current chair of
the libertarian National Committee
Nicholas Sarek and Nick
Nicholas welcome to the program thanks
for having me on Tim so all right just
will you just tell folks what does what
do you do as the chair of the
libertarian National Committee are you
like the party head yeah I am it's the
same position as the chairs of the
Republican or Democratic National
Committee's so you're the chair of the
National Organization as a party that
controls you know the national finances
has a national headquarters coordinates
ballot access party stuff okay and so
now all right so let's get some of the
the mechanics out of the way here if I
was to run in the libertarian primary
what how would I go about doing that is
it too late well it's not too late we
nominate by convention still so
libertarian politics is still real and
not as made-up and kabuki as the two old
parties mm-hmm so you would have to go
around to state conventions all around
the country were organized in all 50
states and convinced people who are
going to be delegates to our National
Convention held next May in Austin to
vote for you at that convention we don't
do binding primaries in in the various
states those are just advisory you know
or beauty contests could I could I lobby
these potential delegates you know by
phone by mail in other forums yeah I
mean it's standard political campaigning
and the only difference is you're not
trying to get boats on a state sponsored
primary election day you're trying to
convince active
who are going to be delegates to the
National Convention that you would be
the best standard bearer for the
Libertarian Party in 2020 are we going
to be debates there are debates already
happening among the candidates who are
seeking the nomination usually those are
at state party conventions around the
country there are some online debates
that have happened one of the things
that I've noticed is everybody is really
focused on the 37 people who are running
for the Democratic nomination right now
so that's eating a lot of the oxygen in
the room yeah by all means send send the
if you have video the debates send them
to us because I'm upset that we have not
seen them who who has been debating who
are some of the who are some of the top
libertarian candidates at the moment
this kokeshi in there so right now Co
cash is in there there's Adam coquettish
there's Arvind Bora there's Kim Roth
there's Berman supreme Daniel taxation
is theft Furman and then there's a
number of other people who are rumored
to be considering running and having
decided to run yet because we are still
you know almost a year out from the
Convention and in Austin okay all right
so we've got those mechanics down I'm
not sure what do you think my chances
would be in the I mean to run if I was
to going to run I you know every time we
have a national convention the delegates
are going to balance between who is
closest to the libertarian platform and
you know in their beliefs and who is
likely to have the largest megaphone if
they go out and get the most credibility
and earned the most votes so where do
you fall on how much of the libertarian
platform you agree with it well that's
the thing I wanted to talk to you about
because I'm not sure I'm fully aware of
what the platform is but to the extent
that I am aware of it I have a feeling
not much now I wanted to talk to you
about it might be a tough tough run for
you well but I also I gotta say I mean
as popular as vermin supreme
is I may have a bigger platform right I
mean I could probably I could probably
get on MSNBC as a libertarian candidate
in a way that you know I understand Gary
Johnson had that trip but I so far I
don't see any big names out there who
gonna be able to do this yeah I mean the
the field is fairly open right now but
you know the question is gonna be why
should a libertarian delegate want you
up on that stage if what you're gonna
say is well I don't really agree with my
party on anything
but look at me I'm on TV all right well
so sell that for for my delegate fair
enough but you got to give me some
credit
Nicholas it because I'm not gonna that's
the way the way I'm going to approach it
I'm gonna try and convince the the folks
in the party that that there's some
policies that need to be changed like
probably most of them now I think like
on a foreign policy perspective I think
we're fairly close fairly close I'm not
sure like you know at least at least top
line it looks like we're close
obviously I'm for don't support Foreign
Wars and I don't getting involved in
other countries civil wars bombing in
and things like that
indeed indeed so I think we've got where
we're a line there I think our
decriminalization and legalization of
drugs I think we're we're fairly aligned
I'm guessing I don't know you're not you
don't want to keep the racist war on
drugs going that you want to stop that's
correct that's correct okay we're good
on those two we got to now it gets a
little trickier where are you guys on
single-payer health care do you think
the government has been really good at
doing things efficiently with your money
yes
okay relative Frank like relative to
what like Verizon I mean what's that
what do you see as the quality of the
single-payer systems that we have now
either the VA
medicare/medicaid do those produce
high-quality health care the VA is
actually not just a single-payer va is
actually full-on socialized medicine
right that we provide
it's going actually if you look at if
you look at the surveys of people who
use the VA in terms and kill themselves
that's that's right that's right there's
a lot of people who come back from wars
and have PTSD that's why if we go back
to the first plank that we agree upon we
don't want it's another one of the
reasons why we don't want to send people
to war I mean you know right that the
people who get treated by the VA have
the single are the singularly most most
complicated cohort of people to treat
because they are sustaining injuries
that doctors in who are civilian doctors
who just don't come across they just
don't have any experience and it
medicine medicine for people who have
gone through war is a radically
different animal in many respects and so
the VA if you look at satisfaction
surveys of the VA overall they're
competitive if not better than private
hospitals a if you look at polling on
Medicare
people love Medicare they love it and
people are medicated absolutely Lowell
and they don't ask about how it works
well how would you assess how it works
beyond whether the patients are happy
with it cost for outcomes it is usually
the way that mostly I've seen working
you know that Medicaid costs almost 20
cents less a dollar then private
insurance does in terms of delivering
the exact same services and then in fact
you also probably know that when private
insurance decides on on trying to figure
out what is the most effective treatment
for different things in what they'll
cover they look to medicare for that
data because Medicare is the only one
that collects all
that data and has enough of a of a pool
in which to assess it
so by both those measures Medicare is
doing great that that does not comport
with the lived experience of Medicare
recipients but wait I thought we just
said if you want any talk about polling
that's fine when you say comport with
the lived experience of Medicare
recipients wouldn't we be able to use
polls to judge their satisfaction levels
and we started with that that's the
first thing I told you he said that
wasn't good
well no you would use patient surveys of
how they feel about the treatment they
receive not how the general public feels
about Medicare is an abstract program
I'm talking about Medicare in terms of
the people who are on Medicare all the
polling of people who are on Medicare
give it high marks now that doesn't
necessarily have to do with the
treatment because the treatment they're
getting from private doctors Medicare is
just the insurance you know that right
right right so I think I could go in and
sell people on the idea that a
single-payer health care system is the
way we should go Medicare for all and in
fact the Medicare for all that that
Bernie for instance is offering is
actually even better and is I think
gonna be appreciated by people even more
than the Medicare that exists now okay
how would that work with the 22 trillion
dollar debt that we have
I don't know how was the tax cuts work
with the debt how does our military
correlated when you don't cut spending
and neither the Republicans nor
Democrats have any interest in cutting
spending and you continue to spend more
than you take in in tax receipts no it
doesn't really work
why what's not working I mean we're
putting our children and grandchildren
into debt was that sustainable yes it is
insane about how to attain that well I
mean it's easy the debt we're a
sovereign nation we can print our own
currency the debt that we owe is really
just to ourselves we did we gave
trillion
dollars to the banks I didn't agree with
it but we did it trillions of dollars of
the banks in it we just wiped it off the
balance sheets it's gone okay okay so
what happens when we just print our way
out of this what is that what does that
look like to you well we wouldn't
necessarily print our way out of it we
would just erase the debt but to the
extent that we print our way out of it
you can know what you're worried about
inflation you're worried about inflation
and if do you have an example of another
country that's defaulted on its
sovereign debt and what happened to them
we're not going to default on our
sovereign debt okay we owe it to
ourselves we're not going to default
well we don't
OS ourselves but we have bondholders
that hold Treasury notes that are
separate from the I understand the vast
majority of they'll go home by the US
government
I thought the majority was owned by
China but really what most of our
sovereign debt really come on now you're
the chairman of a major major US policy
Matt would you put up would you google
for us who owns u.s. debt put it up
there I would say China the last I
recall was somewhere I don't know around
maybe nine ten percent foreign investors
own 30 percent US government owns 30 30
percent wait what's that roll up there
Federal Reserve owns 11 percent
US investors own 30 percent so we have
China assuming assuming Florida is the
biggest holder of our debt it's not
going to be more than like 10 15 percent
so the 30 percent the five point seven
three trillion held by the US government
well guess what US government's gonna be
fine
we can we can print our own money so we
don't need the money that we owe
ourselves we've borrowed okay how how
did that work for Argentina or Venezuela
how did how did what did out of won't
work for Argentina Venezuela
well Venezuela inflating your way out of
your
well we're not inflating her away
developing on it we're not we're not
inflating our way out of it we could
just write it off okay you're not
comparing the economy of Venezuela to
the economy of the United States are you
no I'm asking you the question would
Venezuela fit in the States which is one
of the states is the outcome that we get
if we print our way out of it I've
already told you what they are way out
of it or default because what happened
in the country I told you people who
live here Nikolas I told you what
happens nothing what happens nothing
okay um do you have any examples of
someone else where they did this and
getting bad happens the United States
quantitative easing
I want everybody who thinks that what
I'm talking about is not accurate and
what Nikolas is saying is accurate to
Google QE one two and three and look for
inflationary fears because i sat on a
stage on a TV stage with David Stockman
you know who he is right
Reagan's office office office management
budget one of these guys like these
Third Way type of guys who said that we
are he said the exact same thing that
you did almost ten years ago in the wake
of the the QE the quantitative easing
one that we are gonna head for vy mar
and guess what happened nothing
trillions of dollars we gave the banks
and then we just burnt it off they said
fine keep it just trade the money back
and what happens what happens when we
can't control the interest rate we can
control the interest rate the Federal
Reserve controls the interest rates well
the Federal Reserve can set a nominal
interbank rate what happens when the
bond market refuses to respect the
interest rate what are they gonna do
where are these bond where these
bondholders gonna go that is really
either the Euro or the whren maybe I'm
sorry the Euro are you aware what's
going on right now in Europe I am okay
so you think that you think that the
bondholders are going to say
at what point do you anticipate this
happening I mean you know what you're
saying it's advancing because the
president's throwing us into a trade war
with a bunch of tariffs well win so you
know your theory buyers are you're
listening to other countries yours even
if other countries they're gonna start
marking the market in different
currencies that are not the dollar right
which then lowers our buying power these
same power so you can actually control
the interest rate ten years ago Nikolas
okay let me ask you this how much are
bonds worth net what what are the
interest rates that we're having to pay
to borrow money now are they have they
skyrocketed I mean the t-bill rate I
think is down into the like two percent
ninety these bars there are these bond
buyers Complete Idiot's because if what
you're saying is the case if we've got
this massive debt that is going to
challenge us and and we can naturally
talk about how expensive
medicare-for-all will be because it's
it's not nearly going to be as expensive
I think as you anticipate but if it was
the case that these bondholders were
worried about it when the interest rates
go up according to your theory well sort
of the bond the bond price goes down to
reflect the wrist but right yes the the
perceived or the felt interest rates
through the economy would go up right
and why isn't that happening according
to your theory well it's not happening
in court because of the stuff that
you're talking about as the government
continues to ignore the debt ceiling and
print more money or issue more bonds and
keep selling more debt it pumps money
into the economy which then allows them
to keep the interest rates low you can
do that for a long time I mean when you
can use a long time and not have a
hangover when do you have a still you
stop drinking right when do you have to
stop - why should we stop drinking I I
would say take a look at what happened
to Argentina
we're not Argentina we have control over
we have control over our currency we're
not tied to any one natural resource to
provide
but is that per minute is the currency
control permanent where we can issue
sovereign debt and people will want to
buy no no I mean that you wait I have a
feeling climate change is gonna be a
much bigger problem than then our
preeminence as a currency failing is
going to be particularly
bondo holders agree with me because
otherwise you would see a commensurate
rise in what they require to take on
more risk but they don't so who are you
gonna believe the people who are
actually in the business of buying US
debt or you but let's change for you
let's change for some yeah let's shift
Medicare for all you're afraid that it's
gonna cost how much I it's gonna cost a
lot I mean government when you have a
single-payer for a service you have no
competition in that market which is
going to raise the cost of provisioning
the care get some economies of scale for
being a large fire but there's no
competitive pressure to do anything
better are you aware of the term of
monopsony yes I'm aware of the term
monopsony okay explain to people what
that is monopsony is when you have one
buyer of a good or a service in the
market so only one one group or
organization is the the sole buyer of
the product correct and what is that
buyer that buyer have what kind of power
do they have in terms of of the cost of
things theoretically they have the power
to set what price they will pay because
they're the only buyer the the normal
supply and demand stuff doesn't work
exactly right what happens instead is
you have a steep drop from a willingness
to provide the service to this single
buyer at a dictated price to I'm not
willing to even participate in the
market anymore because the single buyer
won't pay me enough so what you end up
happening is you don't the problem you
get with a single payer so we and let me
just explain what it is okay shortages
and scarce
because if the single buyer says my
price is going to be so low doctors get
out of the market or okay so just to be
clear a single-payer system will
actually can actually control costs more
but the danger is that they'll control
cost in such a way that it won't be
profitable enough for doctors to be
doctors right that's what your see
fantasy Danna or the National Health
Service in Britain and you see some of
these national heart service and Brewer
is like the VA right you're conflating
two different things because because the
National Health Service is actually all
the doctoring Medicare for all than it
isn't no right if you dig lusts you're
making a very very severe error of
category I understand okay
in Britain under the the National Health
Service if you're a doctor your check
your check you're an employee of the
government everyone around you is an
employee of the government in in a
single-payer health care system you the
doctors all work for either the hospital
or themselves but they get checks from
the insurance company in this instance
the insurance company is the US
government so why would you keep the
insurance model if you're trying to move
to a single-payer system I think
ultimately you manage to take the worst
of big health insurance companies you
know padding their bills and third-party
payer and all of the disincentives there
and combine it with a mandate that you
know forced everybody to buy this crappy
product you know it's the worst of both
worlds well any the product to go ahead
health economists will tell you that the
product got well that's not true I've
talked to a lot of health economists but
the product got better because of
basically a minimum standard for what
constituted health insurance I will
agree with you it was a bad way we
shouldn't subsidize this owner who had
to buy health insurance for my employees
the product got significantly worse to
the point where the only coverage that
was affordable had such a high
deductible that it wasn't really
insurance at all for anything other than
catastrophic care and that's why I'm so
unpopular
you had no recisions companies little
crappy insurance it's more appropriate
it's actually got a 50% more than 50%
approval rating now but but that but
putting that aside for a moment we know
that there's no such thing as rescission
anymore there's no lifetime caps we know
that it can't be that that all makes it
actually get out of the market that's
why I lost my insurer from year to year
right which is why you and I agree on
this the only good part about that was
the expansion of Medicaid this is why we
need to go to a single payer and then
your fear is we're gonna have doctors
who are gonna get out of the the
business because it's not going to be
profitable enough for them now there's a
much better model sim than single-payer
medicare-for-all if you're looking for a
transitional service that works better
look at the Singapore model for health
care it's a much much more robust model
it works better across the income
spectrum it incorporates some market
scrappiest forces risk a pasty net price
caps price caps in heavily regulated yep
well Singapore the thing is everybody
has a health savings account that can
ice caps for their life and there's a
mandatory amount of withholding are you
okay Nick dollar chairman of the
libertarian party with price controls
issued by the government I am NOT well
wait a second you're proposing
Singapore's model
no I'm what I said was if you are
looking for something better than what
we have a Singaporean model would be
much better than Medicare for all
because you still have people who
receive services paying something out of
their own
which makes them conscious of cost
that's what increases quality I mean you
want to look at it read not be the case
right look at rate a second you just
complain to me about co-pays we do with
the Affordable Care Health a as I
complain to you about deductibles a year
well but isn't good any service but
wouldn't that make it wouldn't that make
it make your you as a patient as a
consumer more sensitive to creating
better quality no no when you have a
deductible that that that's that large
you actually create weird perverse
incentives to stack your health care
into one year so you have people putting
off care that they should get that would
cost them less because they want to you
know have their surgery and get Johnny's
teeth fixed and do everything in the
same year so they might actually hit
their damn deductible so the incentives
get perverted you know the if you look
at look at laser eye surgery Sam it's
not covered by with you guys at laser
eyes right which is fun the prices went
down and the quality went up it's
exactly the opposite of every other part
of health care it was deposed I am all
out of technology that also happens with
stereos too I mean that is but it
happens with MRIs but those prices go up
there technology is getting better but
because it's an insurance model and
because the government is involved in
setting the prices through that same
pricing we we set prices where we get
Medicaid all these prices now only sets
prices knowing that the guidelines for
reimbursement care right with with the
AMA so it's basically you have a cartel
of doctors you have a government agency
what makes you think that we're not
gonna have a cartel of ordinary of a
single oil the singapura everything they
regulate sorry didn't I think that makes
you think we're not going to have a
cartel of doctors with the Singapore
model because the reason that the cartel
is less effective with a Singapore model
is as long as the first dollar is the
consumer is paying is an out of pocket
dollar
they're going to be looking at quality
of service compared to price they're
going to be making the decisions that
you make when you go to Costco about do
I buy the cheap stuff or the medium
stuff or the expensive stuff anyway I'm
just curious I'm just curious about what
is it that we're buying at Costco
I just want to actually get a real-world
sense of this so I'm looking at the
Cheerios at Costco versus should I get
some sort of organic you know
whole-grain whatever it is okay then you
make the choice you want cheaper
calories or better calories okay your
money fair enough
now when I go well hold on whatever the
hell you want when I go into the doctor
and they say well we can do this type of
radical surgery we can do the Lapras
Cassata me or we can use radial surgery
now how do I make that assessment I mean
I got any other assessment I mean if you
look let's go back to the eye surgery
you know there's radial keratotomy
there's lasik there's you know some new
stuff with these little flaps that they
can change out where it's like a contact
lens inside your eyeball and you decide
between the you know you do the research
and you decide what's best for you okay
so I've got to learn about different
surgeries and not just eye LASIK I mean
that's gonna take me a while but if I
you know god forbid I get something that
I don't have I have to crunch crunch
time unlike what's the best way to treat
this spreading cancer or something I
guess I got a read into that a little
bit more to figure it well you talk to
your doctor about it I mean that's that
is how how do I know if my daughter is
the organic or the other type of
Cheerios or whatever it is uh well one
of the ways that people have been using
now with the advent of social networks
and you know better technology is they
have services like Yelp for doctors for
medical providers where you can say this
doctor sucks this doctor is great this
doctor had good outcomes this doctor had
bad ones the one that
people would really help but the doctors
fight against is actual published
pricing for what procedures cost there's
a differential of hundreds of percent
percentage points in the same geographic
area for say an MRI you don't know what
the MRI MRI provider charges and they
work real hard to make sure you can't
comparison shop that's how you get
gouged now so on the Singapore model if
we were to adopt this you'd be okay with
everything that comes with that right
which is the price controls with the
taxes I didn't say I it's not it's not
my preferred policy I see it's just
better it is objectively better than the
policy that you're suggesting because
you still have a consumer interest in
getting good quality care at a Eddie
what is considered to be a fair or good
price because it's their money up front
and then Singapore puts a safety net for
catastrophic care you handle you know
the the grave disease knowing that
you're not going to die penniless but
you have to spend your money first so
that for the normal routine things in
life you're you're you're discouraged
you're valuing in your money you're
valuing it as your money not someone
elses I'll tell you a link right that's
I think I think you would agree no you
were more careful with your money than
someone else's is that fair I when it
comes to when it comes to medicine I
never know what to do I meant I meant in
general but I'm talking about spending
your money then I never spend other
people's money nobody gives me that
opportunity but when it comes to
medicine I don't know I don't know it I
I mean when I went in for my colonoscopy
it's it took me like three weeks to
figure out like what the GAC was going
on just with the anesthesia to be honest
me so I found it to be okay horrific I
will say this yeah there's like the idea
that I like the idea I feel like we see
this is
I think I have a chance to win in the
race because I've gotten you to suggest
to me
a system that has price controls that
has more aggressive taxation than we
have in this country also they have a
system of what they call government-run
clinics so it's actually yeah NHS but so
be almost a VA for civilians get really
sick oh been here I'm sorry what were
they and less they spend less the
government in Singapore spends less than
our government spends and they get
better outcomes they only have 20
percent of their population uses private
hospitals 80 percent use subsidized
hospitals by the government I mean all
this I feel like I'm making some headway
here but let's let's not let's go from
single-payer single-payer Singapore plan
I think maybe there's if we could get
all the things that come with that it
really is I would be I would be open I
would be open to it
but it so here's here's the real problem
with health policy in this country and
this is just real talk when you try and
create a policy that solves a hundred
percent of the potential health care
problems the policy will be bad if you
create a policy that solves 90 to 95
percent of the health care problems the
policy will be much better
the problem with Obamacare and the ACA
was these mandates to make insurance
cover all sorts of stuff in all
situations to not allow people who are
young and unlikely to need that kind of
care to buy different different packages
and solving for you know the the
life-threatening rare illness that cost
millions of dollars in treatment when
you solve for those edge cases the
overall solution gets worse but but it
exhaust for eighty to ninety percent
Nicholas you can
I'm a solution that works really well
for most people Nikolas I have two
questions to ask you to assess how well
how much you've thought about that
statement okay where does 80% of the
cost of our health care system come from
what percentage of the population I
don't know that answer you want to guess
I I don't want to guess I don't blame
you because you like that tape I feel
like I take longer than you just telling
me it you're not answering and me
talking about this also took longer but
it actually comes from 20% of our
patients so when you talk about trying
to aim 80 to 90% of solutions you're
basically missing the most expensive
people that's the tricky part about
health care yeah 80% costs of health
care no no I - 20% of the people then
let me ask you one more question how
many people were implicated by the
Affordable Care Act put aside Medicaid
right the Medicaid expansion that some
states did not do some that did but in
terms of the actual number of people who
were subject to changing their insurance
because of the Affordable Care Act how
many as I recall I want to say it was
somewhere between 20 and 30 million
separate a little bit less a little bit
less but but a little bit closer to
close enough it was close to 10 million
and okay and so we talked about the
implications of the Affordable Care Act
really the only thing that impact we're
all buddy really that's a bait and
switch though Sam that that is not fair
because while that number of people who
had to change their insurance is a small
number no no no they didn't have to
change it or any demand but already
existed did not continue to exist and
that affected a much larger pool of
America but yeah it's like complaining
that's like saying hey this whole lemon
law thing with cars for instance you can
sell bad cars that you know you know the
left you know what a lemon law is right
yeah for a new vehicle if you take it
for three repairs and it isn't
successfully repaired the dealer has to
take it back and refund your money
if there's something fundamentally
flawed with the car it's not ready it's
not you can't it's not a sale well
that's basically what
yeah the ACA did it said if you can't if
you if you have lifetime caps if you
have yearly caps if you can be denied
claims because of this if you can be
denied claims because if you can be
denied insurance because you're not
because you have some type of
pre-existing condition it's not really
health insurance and so you can't charge
for it it's basically a lemon quo you
can't be denied for a pre-existing
condition the thing that you're being
sold isn't insurance insurance is
pooling risk if you know that somebody
has a pre-existing condition you're not
selling them insurance you're selling
them a chronic care plan exactly and
that's a different thing
I think it's a different product and I
think what we've gotten there's no way
to make money on that product exactly
exactly
we have hit we have we have found the
fundamental flaw with the existence of
the health insurance industry it is not
yeah back in the 50s
yes it was in the statement with with
wartime price controls that made it tax
deductible for your employer to give
money to an insurance company on your
behalf but not tax deductible for you to
just give money to your doctor there was
we screw this whole thing up high
government design I agree with you I
wasn't just government design that did
it I've done literally numerous
interviews with historians on this but
be that as if a wage and price control
yes maybe that isn't current there's a
benefit yeah sure they not we have come
to the conclusion that the health
insurance industry is not a real
business because if the idea is that we
want to make sure that everyone has
has access actual access not a function
of their wealth but actual access to to
healthcare everyone universal then the
health insurance industry is not the way
to do this no no anyway anything API is
not the way to universality University
is giving things out for free exactly
free isn't free
well we have to pay for free right we
can't act we actually cost quite a bit
we can tax well in this instance we know
we you know we have actually libertarian
think tanks that have done the numbers
and the difference between the cost of
single-payer to society versus the cost
of the system we have now to society is
according to the Mercatus is that how
you say that Mercator Zetas Merck ADIS
Institute is actually like two to three
trillion dollars less over the course of
of ten years well this goes back to
Milton Friedman's paper for Hoover from
the early 90s where he pointed out that
both single-payer systems worldwide and
completely free market systems like Hong
Kong had both produce better health
outcomes at lower cost on a per patient
basis that our mixed system of
government provided health care plans
running next to private health insurance
plans that our system is our system is
the worst possible system and yet you
know we continue to do it because people
don't get down to the fundamental
distortion that was put in when they put
the tax benefits on health insurance
which is it is cheaper for me to give
money to my employer to give money to a
health insurance company to give money
to a doctor then for me to give money
directly to a doctor and eliminate those
other two people right that's the
distortion that makes health care so
expensive in the United States I mean
that is one of them in some of the
research has shown that actually it's
it's a function of
of I don't know if you've ever read that
out till it'll go on day a piece I think
it was in The New Yorker about 10-15
years ago about a checklist manifesto or
know about the children the two cities
in Texas one of them I can remember what
they do were but they showed that even
Medicare billing was higher twenty to
thirty percent higher and one than the
other same health outcomes same
demographics it was a function of
doctors owning their own equipment and
basically using it when it wasn't
necessary now a single-payer system will
deal with that because it will it will
it will look at data across the spectrum
of three hundred million people being
treated and no no it is more effective
than others but that's not correct based
exactly on the Gawande piece you just
mentioned that is a single-payer system
it obvious with a smaller market but if
to Medicare cities can build different
amounts of money they're the single
there's nothing special about having the
government do something that changes any
of the human behavior or incentives so
if some if doctors are gonna try and
defraud the system they're gonna try and
defraud a health insurance company or
they're gonna try and defraud Medicare
the government people aren't any smarter
or nicer or better trained than the
people who work it for the health
insurance companies in detecting this
kind of fraud right that the you have to
separate who does something and whether
it's government provisioned or there's a
market system from the question of how
humans behave with each other which is
more fundamental than that does that
make sense I mean I think so
okay yeah but I think so we're we're I
mean I feel like you're and we're in
somewhat you can try and pitch it I mean
I'll tell you that I think that you do
better if you're really trying to seek
the nomination with maybe not leading
with the places you don't agree with the
party on and maybe going with you know
the places you do agree with the party
on but you know you human frailty I
think
maybe a problem psychologically I have
is that I like to lead with that where
are you on Social Security you okay with
Social Security I it needs to be
dismantled in some way because it's
fundamentally unsustainable the
actuarial tables are just off it no
insurance company like life insurance
which is real insurance no insurance
company could use the actuarial tables
that Social Security is using they would
go to prison for fraud
because it's just the money's not there
what do you mean the money's not there
there is so Social Security isn't set up
as an insurance pool it is a transfer
program from existing workers to older
people who are receiving benefits from
it and there aren't enough workers for
the number of old people because life
expectancies Social Security is set up
on an actuarial life expectancy of like
70 something 72 so you go by the Social
Security where as these correct entities
are in the 80s now are you going by the
Social Security trustees report a team
of actuarial x' who do this stuff yes
yes which as a are you using a B or C
I'm not looking at the report right now
so I'm not I'm not picking a particular
estimate I know the the current forecast
I believe is 2030
when it goes bankrupt during Bert's I'm
so was that long said that ridiculous
okay
because why am I wrong well as the son
of a bankruptcy attorney and as someone
has very recently read the Social
Security trustee report
you've mistaken you made a mistake you
have you have assumed that the
exhaustion of the trust fund right which
was money built up so it's not just well
just a transfer there was a money built
up back to uh theoretically remember
it's all held in debt that really
doesn't matter and we can default on
well what right we can just pay it off
exactly we can pay we can pay in fact
theoretically act
well not just theoretically statutorily
fortunately but what happens if we do
that what happens to the value of the
Social Security check those people will
be receiving like I'm more valuable or
less valuable
it doesn't change in values Troi five
point four trillion in debt it doesn't
it doesn't change in value that that
would surprise most economists no I
don't think it would actually I think
your your your you're operating I think
most economists were very surprised that
we could have this size the debt that we
have now I mean five years ago before
folks realized that Rogoff you know
forgot to to slide a number on his
spreadsheet everybody was talking about
we're gonna be via our Germany at with
this type of debt but we're not even
close so if it surprises people maybe
they haven't been reading reading up on
things that are actually happening but
the bottom line is the trust fund is
gonna be exhausted you're right about
the date it shifts your D but it's
around there twenty thirty but even if
we do nothing in other words even if we
don't raise taxes and I'll explain to
you in a moment why we can very easily
even if we don't raise taxes we will pay
out 75% of promised benefits if we do
nothing so people will take a 25% cut
that's a lot that's a big cut I'm not I
don't want people to have that cut but
if we do nothing those younger workers
cuz people in there have calculators
they've figured out how many people are
born they know the actuarial tables they
know what the projections are for people
living etc etc seventy five percent of
benefits until you and I are well dead
now why can we raise taxes because
traditionally works traditionally with
25 percent haircut what the hell kind of
social safety net is that the prior is
I'll explain to you get three quarters
of the dollar you put in well no no no I
didn't say you get three quarters of the
dollar you get put in you get three
quarters of the dollar that you were
promised Social Security still pays out
a net benefit Medicare even bigger net
benefit which is more of the problem but
but the right now because of wealth
inequality we take in about seven to
eight
less in revenue on FICA taxes than we
have traditionally done so in the past
for the first 50 60 years of the
existence of Social Security and that is
because of the cap and all we need to do
is get rid of the cap and even if you're
worried about getting rid of the cap for
the you know the the people between one
hundred and twenty thousand dollars and
say two hundred thousand to fifty you
can do a doughnut hole doesn't matter
either one of those people page wage
taxes and all their wages going up this
the income scale we would be solvent for
our great are our grandkids before they
die so we can raise their tax is Malthus
devil Sam the math is simple I know I
just got baptized
you can't put more money out of a system
than you put into it so you either need
to cut benefits or increase revenues
right right those are your two choices
so you're saying we're going to increase
revenues are you saying that we're not
going to adjust the Social Security
threshold from you know 65 or 66 and put
it at 70 where it ought to be in order
for the program to be solvent I'm not
know not only am I not going to raise
the the retirement age I'm going to
increase benefits when I blow the cap
away Wow
that is likely to work but you might be
able to get a vote I mean what do you
mean unlike from people who don't
understand how money works wait wait why
is that unlikely to work you just said I
need revenue all right I told you where
I was gonna get that revenue yeah you're
gonna you're gonna raise the taxes I'm
gonna raise I'm gonna raise the taxes if
you make more than a hundred and twenty
thousand dollars a year instead of
stopping to pay that three percent FICA
tax at 120 thousand dollars you can have
to pay it all the way up to your million
dollars that extra three percent in
Windows oh you're not you're move the
cap to a million are you gonna move it
you're gonna bust it entirely I was just
assuming you make a million dollars I'm
gonna bust entirely how
that's a huge assumption well I'm taking
a gas just you're worth it they'll
believe me but I would buy would bust it
I would go bust all the way through 3%
if you make 10 million a year much 3
plus revenue how much more revenue does
it bring in on an annualized basis if
you bust the cap
billions right now billions how much how
many billions I don't know I all I know
is that I've seen the the models and
they suggest that it would it would fund
Social Security honestly for 75 years
plus I would want to see the actual
revenue projection very easy to find
just Google blow the cap off and that's
it I mean it's there people have been
doing this calculation for four years
because we've been arguing for it for
years as wealth inequality has gotten
more less money is run through the
system that's just the bottom line
more people are hoarding why would I
want why would I want to have to do
these shenanigans and have the taxes
raised to get at or you know 75% of what
I'm promised no no we could have similar
to a Chilean model we're at 75% now
invest into an account that actually has
a return we're at a Santos positive
number we're at we're at well I'll tell
you why one we're already at the 75% now
all you need to do is raise taxes on
extremely wealthy people to to to
traditional levels in this country to be
solvent forever and two if you look at
the 401k and again I hate to just say
google it but the 401k has been a an
experiment that has been a abject
failure people just don't save that way
like you say you cannot change human
behavior and human behavior is such that
people do not save on their own in the
401 you know via a 401k and the way that
everybody had hoped they would it's been
an abject failure and we want to keep
elderly people off the streets we want
to keep them from having to eat cat food
we know that social security when it was
instituted kept to three
our elderly out of poverty and and
that's that's why blowing the cap away
was the worker to beneficiary ratio in
you know the first two decades of the
Social Security system it was much
higher than it is today but productivity
was lower it was like in the 20s or 30s
right 20 now it's like two to three to
one and productivity is about it is is
is commensurate with with with those
changes I would suggest you take a close
look at what's going on in Japan and and
the kind of demographic shifts the
shifts that you get when you have
transfer programs that are not able to
be funded and what that does to but you
keep repeating that but I keep the
Social Security trust fund which has
three different has three different
estimates one is more conservative one
is more moderate one is more liberal if
you will and on all three it can pay
seventy five percent of benefits at
least if we do nothing I mean and I'm
telling you no we're only taking a 25
cent haircut well amazing we're selling
this as an investment I go thanks for no
thanks right and I'm telling you that
we're taking eight six to eight percent
less in national taxes are going to our
social security because of wealth
inequality and if we get that back up to
the traditional level of ninety one
ninety two percent of all income as a
top marginal income no no no no let me
explain why this is what you don't
understand
so if you go back to the 70s and the 80s
maybe in the early 90s and obviously
before then ninety-one percent of all
income in the country rant was subject
to Social Security tax the three percent
three percent right okay 91 percent of
all the income that everybody made in
the country went through there however
now we have such great such incredible
wealth inequality that the money is
sitting in the hands of people who could
cross the threshold of 120,000 and they
have
so much money there that there's less
money circulating around and we need to
blow the cap off to to get to that
traditional level of how much of money
is subject to Social Security tax and
when we get to ninety one percentage of
income is subject to FICA now the first
hundred and twenty thousand dollars
eighty six percent nobody in what eighty
seven eighty saying come 8686 so we were
ninety one and now word eighty-six yeah
so it's gone down because there I assume
there are more high earners who are
making money this that's above the cap
right but do you think that getting that
five percent back or you know even
increasing it and making it ninety eight
percent of income subject to the tax is
really gonna balance that out I don't
think the math works man it does like I
can I didn't come up with this I didn't
do the mellon Foundation analysis or
something and you should find someone
who did all the numbers but you don't
think your math works you've I think if
you go and you'll find that the math
works the problem is is that people
don't want to be taxed more that's the
issue oh they really don't right sucks
because here's you know why I wish I
could eat cake all other than you know
you know just like if having things
taken it's that the people who take the
money are pretty damn you're responsible
with it well you think you think Social
Security has all do good things for us
so why are you getting so moralistic on
this but you won't on other things
I'll get moralistic on anything you want
me to see them you know something else
you want me moralistic on well I did you
get moralistic on moralistic on other
things
sure do you think it's kind of boring do
you get a lot of math well do you think
you look it's do you think it's
irresponsible to keep elderly people out
of poverty I don't that's our social
security moss going friend that's what
the Social Security is going towards I
mean we know that the three biggest
expenditures of our government are
defense
Medicare and Medicaid and Social
Security one let me ask you this what's
your responsibility means test the
benefits
on the backend no and deny the benefits
to an elderly person who has plenty of
resources of their own Oh means test
them on the front end I'll raise their
taxes but you wouldn't mean testing on
the back end correct
why because it's much more efficient to
do it through taxes a because I don't
want to have to make these assessments
and garner garnish this money later
we'll just do it through taxes we
already have a mechanism for it
it's just a question of raising taxes
Yemen so here's the question is your
goal to make sure that there are no
elderly people eating cat food and dying
on the streets did that your goal yes I
would share that goal I think we found a
point of agreement if that's your goal
wouldn't it eat more then here's a on
summary a even if you've been
irresponsible right benefit program for
elderly people and not take a transfer
to give to people who are comfortable in
their retirement who did save up
wouldn't it make more sense to just give
the benefit to elderly people who were
in poverty
well your honor just give it to you
every elderly person in the country
it would be more efficient we got to get
the money from somewhere and I would tax
them but I mean to be honest with you
right but how the tax also my question
what's that why why should someone who
has put away well over the course of
their working career receive a social
safety net that's intended to keep them
from living office on the streets and
eating cat food it's insurance that
benefit only go to the people who are at
risk of living on the streets and eating
cat food because society's showed us
time and time again that the more
universal you make a benefit the more
assuredly it will get to those people
who need it and an entitlement we can
easily I don't know what entitlement
means but I guess I don't know it means
that you have some sort of legal claim
to get that money from the government
yeah you are entitled to it yes by
virtue of having worked before yes but
that is different from a social safety
net
well I'm exactly not the least of the
and entitlement is we all agree to take
money from people who are working today
pass it through a Social Security
Administration and hand it to old people
who work many many years ago that's just
a fun thing for us to do we like to do
that ok that's an entitlement all right
entitlement a safety net is poor people
shouldn't risk death or homelessness or
eating cat food but that's welfare I'm
in favor of both very different from
entitlements all right I'm in favor of
both I mean I I am in favor of a social
insurance or as you call it an
entitlement and I am in favor of of if
you want to call it welfare I'm in favor
of that too this is why your cat food
example is a bait and switch because I
agree with you on that goal that we want
to stop that thing from happening and
you're using my agreement to say we
should make sure that all young workers
give money to old workers all the time
well they the young workers will get it
back when they get older well they will
only if the system's still there when
they get old that's right that's right
only if you trust the government to have
enough money look at the pension look at
the government pension systems in
Illinois in California frankly in every
state in this country in this government
not good in managing money very well
this state did a very listen you and I
would be in total agreement that
corruption on a local level is greater
than it is on a federal level that you
cannot allow such latitude for states to
invest in stock markets because they are
open to the shenanigans of hedge funders
and what not you and I are on no
incentive you're at we're on well
they're getting kickbacks the corruption
on a local level I said a federal level
you and I are perfectly aligned here I
would put that money in lockbox I would
demand that employers fund it a greater
no tax cuts until there is 98% funding
of pension funds but politicians in the
state government in particular because
it's getting less scrutiny and even less
now they're willing to give tax cuts to
people instead of fun
the pensions so you and I are in perfect
alignment there but the federal Social
Security system has been proven to be
effective and when we needed to raise
the the ink of the the tax under Ronald
Reagan bless his heart
we did it and we we got we anticipated
this the baby boomers retiring and what
we did and this about happen what we
didn't in this is why our government so
broken is what it took was we have to
the nature of politicians is they're
spineless cowards and they're unwilling
to solve a problem until they're
literally driving off the cliff this is
why I should get the nomination for the
Libertarian Party because I am NOT going
to be so cowardly I'm gonna get in there
and I'm gonna say we're gonna blow the
cap off this and I promise you that your
insurance you may think that you're
gonna be a millionaire when you're 65
you may think you're a popper neither
one of you may be right no matter what
your situation is I guarantee you you
will not be on the street with cat food
I mean I feel like we found my plank
here for the Libertarian Party because I
will not be cowardly about this it would
be like I said if you want to go with
with the thing that you're solidly off
platform with and use that as your pitch
more power to you you know it's tricky
to get a nomination from a group of
people by coming in and saying you know
what I want to represent you but this
thing that you've had in your platform
for the last four decades that everybody
agrees on it sucks and I'm gonna not do
what you want on that thing
that doesn't seem persuasive to me yeah
you may be right about that you may be
right about that but I mean what I
encourage you to try well it'll be all
right I mean yeah it would be fun I mean
I I feel like it may not work but why
why is the Libertarian Party so dipped
in amber why is it so encrusted I mean
aren't we in
we're warm every two years every two
years we amending like that for decades
there are certain poor things that are
pretty much the same how I guess far as
the government should spend less money
than they take in how about that's not
changing
well you don't want that that should
always you don't really want that
because you really do want that because
that you you know historically if you
look at where we've had surpluses right
you can look and see what happens to the
economy in those instances right well I
remember fondly the Clinton years but
maybe you don't I do
I do remember the Clinton years and we
had a surplus and mapping out what
matters most went pretty well
what happened 2001 when we actually had
the surplus mm well politicians spent it
no no because they like to spend more
money bring in we had a recession George
Bush had to mail checks to everybody for
300 bucks that's what happened but and
you should look that up I can tell
you're younger than not now I listen
because you didn't know you didn't
recognize it I got my check from George
Bush didn't know I how's this I'm right
up there I get up there and I say no I
get up there and I say 20% I'm gonna cut
the fence by 20%
cheers Cheers and I'm gonna spend that
to send every kid to universal pre-k and
one year of universal preschool and have
money left over okay are we down with
that probably not what are you saying
that the spending would be below the
revenue taken in would you commit to cut
spending government spending
no across the board to lower than the
amount of money the government takes in
in taxes no why should somebody vote for
you is what you're telling them is I'm
going to put your kids and your
grandkids into debt to give them stuff
today because that's not what I'm saying
to them
I'm saying I'm gonna do stuff today that
is actually going to implicate the lives
of your grandkids and your children and
make their lives even better the old
perspective on fear of debt and deficits
has been proven to be bunk this has been
a way to keep you people down to keep
the the money to classes from basically
preventing you from having any services
and providing any competition to them
now I don't know what the financial
makeup of the the conventions are gonna
be they may be cut against me a little
bit but in what way well I just I think
if I if I start talking about the money
classes it may end up being problematic
I don't know are you dog whistling
because I've been trying to avoid people
dog whistling inside the party what does
that mean dog whistling no I know a dog
knows what it means but what am i well
what am i dog whistling what
oh anti-semitism do you guys have a
problem in the program in the party huh
big fan
what are you what's in it I'm not a fan
of anti-semitism are you not a fan of
anti-semitism no I've invited a little
bit problematic good boy
what was the gleason things that sound
like dog whistles wait what we let's
avoid things that sound like dog
whistles if we if we share this problem
with anti-semitism wait a second wait a
second
you thought that when I said the wealthy
classes that I was talking about the
Jews that I was dog whistling about the
Jews it's been a dog whistle that's been
used to refer to the Jews global elite
thing like you know these are you
unaware of this kind of stuff yes I've
heard of it but I that was not at all
was not in any way I think I can say you
were not trying to do that fair enough
and then I will I will apologize for
being sensitive well no I appreciate
that sensitivity is there a problem
within the libertarian party with this
not within the party but there are
various alrighty people who think that
it would be cool to call themselves
libertarians and as a care of the
libertarian party I think that's a lot
less well I'm trying to police I'm
trying to police those people on your
behalf I can assure you well listen
Nicholas this has been great
it's been part of my listening tour to
find out if I'm going to run for the
libertarian I have to consult with a
cabal of people to find out if I've got
to run and to see that if I can get your
media exactly exactly
need to find out if I can if I can do
this what are your marching orders
exactly from the machine but in the
meantime I will give it I will take it
under advisement I'm gonna if I if I do
run of course I'm gonna take also
contemplate I'm going to be listen to
this and and think maybe I shouldn't
lead with the expansion of single-payer
or the expansion of Social Security I'll
give that some thought and but I
appreciate your time today and where can
people go if they want to get more
information about the national
libertarian party and know all writers
please LP org is our website where you
can find out what the platform says and
you can kind of score yourself you can
sign up to join the only political party
standing up for all of your freedoms all
the time LP org alright thanks Nicholas
sorrow architect I really appreciate it
thank you Sam have a good one so that
guy it was a perfectly reasonable guy
nice very good
very nice guy the most cordial one we've
had very bad for the truth the true
believer libertarians because they're
really lonely right now because a lot of
their old friends I've turned into Nazis
I also got the sense that there's
probably a lot of libertarians who would
think that Nicolas is not a true
libertarian that's the problem with
libertarians like you talk about the
Democrats being a you know herding cats
I have a feeling it's it's it's a lot
like that with the libertarian party to
the bankers don't like it
Hollywood doesn't like it a certain
group of people that roam from land to
land don't like it but guess what we're
gonna fight them the money changes the
lenders Shylock's died this
administration was so disarming because
it's it's crazy the idea that you
talking about oligarchy would cue the
idea of anti-semitism but on the other
hand good for him to be honest I thought
Sam was making that joke about
libertarians being anti-semitic oh
really why he wasn't really do it yeah I
didn't think so I thought Sam was just
populism I was doing more populist I
didn't even occur to me at all I got a
ceccolini libertarian guy you're
subconsciously at least I thought Sam
was throwing shade of libertarians
Sheree yeah he's like are libertarians I
I've never perceived libertarians as
necessarily being anti-semitic no no but
like he said I mean first of all a right
winger who's pretending to be a right
person I think all it rights more cool
than libertarian at this part for like
fascists right or like right wingers
like none of them are cool but yeah well
I mean you may want some institutional
support no III honestly thought he was
like dog whistling I was trying to like
I don't drum up fervor against rich
people I did not understand what he
would say right and I realized he was
talking about Sam's just sort of
incredible appeals to the Ben Shapiro of
the left
exactly yes rationale the Jews run the
money since we can do bench press
rationale let's talk about taxation for
a moment now I didn't get into it too
much with our libertarian friend because
I didn't want to blow his mind too much
with mmt but here is a bench Pierrot
last night I guess it was last night
yesterday I'm not quite exactly sure
Bernie Sanders had written greed is the
religion of the billionaire class I mean
that's a little more poetic than I would
put it but okay and a nation based on
greed but I mean I think it's
indisputable right I mean how do you
attain that type of money without making
different decisions at any given point
that money is more important than I
don't know being with the kids that one
day or you know not hurting that
person's feelings or paying that person
what they're worth I mean it's almost
definitional it seems like in a nation
based on greed Bernie rights will not
survive morally economically or
politically I mean if you read any of
the literature on the collapse of
countries it is more or less all based
around that same theme whether it's that
a ruling elite literally and
figuratively puts themselves behind in a
gated community that there is extreme
wealth inequality destabilizes countries
I mean this is this is how countries die
and Bernie goes on to say that's why we
fight to take power back from the
billionaires and put it in the hands of
people where it belongs this seems
rather uncontroversial I think I mean
but bench bureau wants to jump in the
game and he says greed is literally your
religion now I I just my son saw has
been saying literally a lot
and he uses it correctly he actually
does like like I don't know a cup is
empty because that cup is literally
empty now ben shapiro must know that's
your son that that Bernie Sanders is
talking figuratively Bernie Sanders does
not think there is actually a religion
of greed
they made it secret temples kisses they
worship our greed I mean and you could
use religion loosely I guess but I think
he's basically saying it's their credo
and so he just says greed is the
religion of the billionaire class and
then Shapiro responds with greed is
literally your religion now Bernie
Sanders literal religion it's socialism
well I don't know if he has a literal
religion in the in the literal sense he
made it sound a lot like his religion as
socialism when he answered that question
well it he's Jewish and I don't know if
he recognizes himself as a Jew in a
religious sense but greed is literally
your religion like I don't think there
is a religion that he's called greed but
he wanted to make it seem like it's
actually yours but he read that and it
didn't sound as good and then he goes
you want to steal other people's money
and distribute it as you see fit now
stealing other people's money and
distributing it as you see fit is not
necessarily greed no it's closer to envy
or power hmm right he called Robin Hood
greedy right I mean is Robin Hood greedy
but we should say that Bernie Sanders is
talking about taxation and so I wanted
to know does ben shapiro think that
taxation is stealing because stealing
has a definition just like literal it
has a literal definition
and in the merriam-webster dictionary
just the first one that comes up here to
take the property of another wrongfully
especially as a habitual regular
practice so wrongfully right it's just
it is a crime to take something it's a
crime and so I said area man thinks
taxes are illegal and apparently he
wanted to have the last word so he said
nope I think can fix it Kotori taxes
designed for redistribution are immoral
now what's interesting is is that
immoral is not the same as illegal a be
all taxes are designed for
redistribution there are no taxes that
do not redistribute
sometimes they do redistribute up we're
gonna give you know we're gonna provide
I don't know benefits the people are
starting a small business so let's say
or I don't know or sometimes they're
redistributed down but they're always
redistributed because you're taking not
stealing because if I was stealing you
would say wait a second I'm gonna call
the cops
not darn it those taxes Joe I hate
paying taxes it's immoral so he had to
back off the stealing thing because he
was a little bit too glib and apparently
doesn't know how taxes are designed and
so I thought you know what Ben maybe
you're not gonna get the last word and
I've put in that case err a man doesn't
know what steel means nor the function
of taxes and then I think he decided it
was time for him to step off the Twitter
for a while but the bottom line is is
that they I'm struck by two things in
this
either ben shapiro gets away without
being challenged at all i mean this is
the guy who's considered to be the most
intellectual guy on the right i mean we
saw what happened when we went on the
BBC right he doesn't expect to be
challenged at all he can't deal with it
and how is there nobody else saying that
this guy's out there stealing you know
confusing what taxation is i mean the
this guy has a huge platform
he should be interrogated by people not
literally like you were a police officer
and finding out but his uh or black site
or something like that but it is his
like ridiculous assertions but geez got
two million people following him on
Twitter he's only throwing 228 if your
whole brand is being a pedantic little
prick you better come correct when
somebody actually corrects you exactly
it's pretty shocking but there it is ben
shapiro
alright and so let's move to the other
member of the IDW the even more wounded
animals ladies and gentlemen I've been
telling you for years that part of the
reason why I would was determined to I
don't say harass but to question Dave
Rubens assertions that he makes in
public about where he stands politically
was because he had announced several
years ago that he had a book coming out
and I want to make sure that if he got
press for that book that they would see
that his whole shtick is bunk
and well it is uh it is time for Dave
Reubens book to come out it is entitled
don't burn this book implying that there
are people doing book burnings in the
country the last burning of any media I
cannot be aware of was conservatives
burning the Dixie Chicks albums when
they spoke out against the war we don't
burn books as bad for the environment oh
wait it was also the Koran being burned
by some right-wingers I guess about
eight and nine years ago
don't burn this book which is also sort
of ironic because well it's it's Abbie
Hoffman and which was steal this book
should I call it don't remainder this
book they don't remainder this book
don't burn this book this was his way of
basically saying there's book burnings
that are taking place but don't burn
this one because I don't believe in free
speech I guess I don't believe in its
expression it's like he's trying to
reverse psychology us into one interpret
oh yeah nobody buy this book and then
burn it
oh god I'm doing his market price like
whatever you do don't burn them I am
willing to bet anything I own wait here
somebody are you sure you're monitoring
Twitter for the book burnings cuz I
haven't seen a single one see they're
gonna they're gonna get about don't burn
this book the progressive woke machine
from outraged mobs and online censorship
to activists masquerading as journalists
its waging war against the last free
thinkers in the world there's only like
eight three years ago like eight free
thinkers left it's kind of like one of
those I think I move you know one of
them are Weinstein you know what I am
your brother you know what I feel like
is also happening somebody must be
waging a war against the last copy
editors to that is quite a sentence
this book is both an explanation of the
current political upheaval and your
guide to surviving it it's a survival
book is there is there more oh there's a
little bit more here it is it's oh wow
there's a lot here oh we got to get put
this up there okay and America and the
West in general in the West
that's gonna be genius yes in general
it's in the midst of an identity I feel
like I need I need music for this can we
can we get some type of how about I
don't feel like that yeah this is this
Bridget what do you guys okay America
and the West in general is in the midst
of an identity crisis that's headed
towards an outright revolution the
progressive left once the advocates of
free expression an individual autonomy
now undermine these values at every turn
the uncomfortable truth is turned
moderates and true liberals into the
politically homeless class in response
Dave Rubin launched his political talk
show the Rubin report in 2015 as a
laboratory for anyone trying to make
sense of our shifting political
landscape the landscape is shifting he
disasters the most controversial issues
of the day with people he both agrees
and disagrees with yeah including those
who have been dismissed de platformed
and even despised because I have had a
chance to speak for themselves
sometimes I changed video titles based
on his own story as well as his
experiences from the front lines of the
free speech Wars this book will inspire
you to make up your own mind about what
you believe on any issue and show you
how to check your facts not your
privilege
no matter your gender economic class or
level of education you're still allowed
to have opinions for now
Reuben separates facts from feelings
dispelling today's most pervasive myths
like the wage gap gun violence racism
affirmative action climate change hate
crimes and more okay give it all away
doesn't even go in that list but wait a
second what are this is using the logic
of this paragraph but I'm not even sure
what this means dispelling today's most
pervasive mesh he's saying those things
aren't real the wage gap is is pervasive
pervasive myth gun violence is a
pervasive myth racism is a pervasive
myth sir permit of action that doesn't
even exist affirmative action exactly
climate change doesn't exist hate crimes
doesn't and more doesn't exist and more
learn to stand your ground my husband
did a lot of negotiations with the Koch
brothers to have the climate change
stand your ground is one of those
phrases that as a liberal I love to use
a difference of opinion should not be a
deal-breaker for any relationship
professional or personal sadly if sadly
these days it often is Ruben will show
you that losing a few friends is a small
price to pay for standing up for what
you believe like nano Anna why won't you
take me back anymore my I don't know why
being so weird about stuff Milo that's a
weird yeah choosing an authentic path is
ultimately worth it defend liberalism
while you still can
there it is oh about his publisher
Sentinel was established in 2003 as a
dedicated conservative imprint with
penguin group it publishes a variety of
right-of-center books on subjects like
politics history public policy defend
liberalism while you can is as always
saying time is running out to defend
individual rights limited government and
free expression rubin provides a roadmap
for true classically liberal principles
regardless of your party affiliation and
shows you why freedom is impossible
without them
don't burn this book empowers you with
time-tested and common-sense principles
that can turn the tide against
authoritarian czar both sides in this
increasingly pretty brown boats calling
up boats because what is a rallying
cries for anyone who wants to live
freely which is quickly becoming the
most radical belief you could have right
now in assembly you know what this copy
this copy is like some like anxious
person at a restaurant making sure they
get everything in an order
you could cut down 50% of this and have
the same thing
racism is fake platform is description
wanting to live freely is not a belief
sorry to be presenting you have been so
pedantic don't you know he's disturb
unkingly pervasive myth of affirmative
action yeah it's it's big of a
conservative imprint to publish the last
liberal like that to show Bob and I'm
also impressed that he dispels pervasive
myths and wage gap gun violence racism
affirmative action climate change hate
crimes and more all in a slim 256 pages
don't worry I don't need that many
brevity's it at they said bereave it
gravity blank the dude is a pervasive
myth they've just you punked it I just
debunked all right lose the jazz so I am
very interested I think I really think
is Walter so it's an Eaton was alive
today I'm telling you right now we're
introducing a new segment on this
program we will be reading from the Dave
Rubin book once a week we will read
maybe we'll put it out as a member
benefit I'm not sure how we're gonna be
we're gonna be doing this
Walter silts and Eaton said that if he
was alive today oh he's still alive but
but he would come on my show and we
talked about the Soviet Union we will
read from this book and we will
scrutinize every single word of it and
if you see
any indication that Dave Rubin is
meeting with a journalist I hope for god
sakes so that we can get the full story
because I know how Dave doesn't want
anybody D platformed I want a platform
in that piece written about the book I
want a complete audit of any magazine
that does a or newspaper or website that
does a positive review of this
immediately look like I want to know who
is funding that outlet where do we blur
well I'd also look a little bit closer
at this part here speaking of copy
others just learn learn to stand your
ground
it felt really empowering to write this
myself I take this out I'm walking back
with my smoothie with one hand I want to
keep living my life all right dude I
want so Mitch McConnell got very upset
apparently because liver my wife he
doesn't mind being called cocaine Mitch
but I guess when they call Moscow Mitch
he gets really uptight about that and I
think the reason why people are doing
that is because we got extensive reports
from both now maybe dan coates I don't
know dan coates quit the Director of
National Intelligence because of
repeated watering downs of his warnings
of of interference by Russians in our
elections and look I was on the dave
pelman show the other day and he asked
me if I thought that it made a
difference what the Russians did buying
you know I don't know how many millions
of people saw those facebook facebook
ads but they say 10 million or a hundred
million doesn't matter I have no idea I
also have no idea if what we do here
everyday means anything at all I don't
know if what David Feldman does means
anything I don't know avoids a ruin to
to antelope I yes dude I'm talking about
Dave Feldman
IIIi don't know I don't know if any
anybody who puts out any information or
disinformation
it is implicates anybody's vote in
influences anyone's vote or I don't know
there's no way to know I do know that it
was reported that the stuff about
Hillary's health supposedly that she had
Parkinson's I don't know if people voted
against tariffs that if that added to
sort of like the miasma of why people
voted against her or we're not
interested in going out and voting for
her it's hard to imagine that there
weren't five people or ten I don't know
if there was a thousand I don't know if
there was 10,000 I mean we're talking
about two hundred and twenty plus
million people voting I do know that
when they pushed that meme that she was
sick that Jimmy Dore pursued it and he
spread it to another several hundred
thousand people I don't know if that
influenced anybody we don't know I can
list a bunch of other reasons that I
think that Hillary Clinton lost that
probably had more salience but it was a
very close election should it have been
that close I don't think so but George
Bush won by five hundred votes twenty
years ago this is a very polarized
country so when there are multiple
reports that a foreign entity nevermind
a foreign entity I mean I think if we
found out that Boeing was doing this
that I have a problem with it and
they're certainly doing it through
lobbying and whatnot from a legislative
perspective and I have a huge issue with
that whole point of citizens united was
to get dark money out so there's an
attempt by the Senate and the house to
pass bills to protect the databases that
include voter registration for people
and Mitch McConnell refused to bring it
to a vote why would you do this he
thinks it's gonna benefit Democrats it
might we
that the Republicans have as their
stated goal to diminish the number of
people on the voting rolls because it
behooves them so people started calling
him
Moscow Mitch it made him very very angry
other things keeping our Republic means
we can't let modern-day McCarthyism win
so here's my commitment no matter how
much they lie no matter how much they
bully I will not be intimidated for
decades
abused my Senate seat to stand up to
Russia and protect the United States of
America I'm proud of my record I'm proud
that it's right there in black and white
posit and well recall that Mitch
McConnell it is reported and he is not
refuted that when Barack Obama assembled
all the political leaders to say look we
got a problem with Russia interference
in our election we're seeing it we want
to tell the public about it
that man right there said if you do that
we're gonna make it a political issue
right and liars cannot Gaslight it away
in the 1980s as a freshman senator I
probably stood with President Reagan on
missile defense and other aspects of his
Soviet policy while the liberal media
was shrieking shrieking that Reagan Bush
foreign policy wouldn't work I was
honored to support it with my vote and
then watch communism crumble then in the
1990s I used my place on the state
foreign ops subcommittee to sound the
alarm and President Clinton was too soft
on Russia develop during my lived
experience he was very very very angry
about being called must look good
they're judging in a racer of my
eternity as a cold warrior I'm an abuse
victim I'm a ghastly ghastly outside of
a discourse that has erased my lived
experience so apparently Ted Cruz took a
plane and he was at a la LX and I guess
some people saw him and started saying
like hey you got free the children it's
a real problem what's going on at the
border and he started laughing he was
giggling I know maybe it was a nervous
laugh like oh god I'm amongst people now
there's humans all over this is a normal
reaction a large group of people have
around me and so they started to boo him
and chant at him now look we should also
say that Ted a couple weeks ago
co-sponsored a bill that would not only
make it illegal to engage with an Tifa
in any way apparently basically said the
resolution says that an tyfa are
terrorists that it also includes anyone
who is associated with an tyfa basically
anybody on the left would be that the
resolution says that they're terrorists
I don't know what the legal implications
of that are
but it's junk and I imagine if he could
figure out a way he would get all these
people in LAX to go to prison for in any
way protesting against him in in LAX
here they are
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
look at that utter homunculus just
standing there grinning she's trying to
pretend like it's it yeah I'm not gonna
listen to the free the children chant
that's ridiculous and then a couple of
his supporters come and take a photo ops
with them during it here's the thing
about anti right I don't care about
the children let me to prove it to you
it's not just a small group of crusty
anarchists everyone should be
anti-fascist and everybody can be and I
think we saw that in this video this is
wait what number is this one right here
oh right number 10 yeah this is from
where is this from it's from Hannity
yeah they are full on board with the
president's attack on the squad on
people of color women of color in
particular that's an extra bonus here
they are analyzing it and poor poor Sean
Hannity seems so distraught about what's
happening with America know it exposes
the religion say this is a Pete hagseth
no it exposes the real agenda of today's
modern left but if you look over at
Rasheeda Talib talked about President
Trump having a hate agenda you I can
then sir for therefore look at her and
say she has a Hamas agenda if you look
at the she was in June of 12 this year
she criticized the New York Times
because they in her mind favorite Israel
and Hamas was launching rockets from the
Gaza Strip and she said it didn't
reflect well enough on the Palestinians
in the Gaza Strip and we know it's
controlled by Hamas so if she wants to
throw around labels we can - the reality
is you know this partnership between
Kamala Harris and and comrade Cortes is
a reflection of the fact that Cortez
like Bernie Sanders is the modern soul
of the Democrat Party Bernie Sanders
problem in 28 in 2020 is that everyone's
Bernie in 2016 the system was rigged
against him by the establishment now
you've got Elizabeth Warren himself and
and Cortez is the soul of what the my
exit counsel Harris is trying to partner
quick answers both of you Pete first I
don't think the Democrats can stop the
squad I think that's what the
educational institutions have created
well we can only hope it's very rare
that I have Pete hexif and Sean Hannity
basically providing validating all my
aspirations this is this is basically
trying to imagine if you were a dog but
I'm trying to put myself in the position
of like a conservative fox news viewer
hearing that Bernie was was it was
rigged against Bernie in 2016 but now
he's winning like that seems like it
reflects good on Bernie if I'm somebody
who's been trained to hate the
Democratic Party well it was rigged
against him because he they always talk
about the Democratic Party was good in
the past and so that's what they're
that's the argument there nevertheless I
hope he's right I hope he is right from
your mouth to God's ears honey indeed
let's listen to Kamala Harris she's come
out with a health care plan it is not
being it's been fascinating sort of
watch the response to this I'm really
surprised frankly because she got she
got a little bit hammered and I think
this someone put together this montage
of her different positions on Medicare
for all justice Democrats and I think it
reflects frankly what's in her plan her
plan is of course static it's not
changing back and forth but it it works
across purposes and it doesn't make
sense within it now I like the fact that
she's come out with it
because I think it is more indication
and I look regardless of who you're
supporting in this election if you are
remotely happy with the direction that
Democrats have taken in terms of
policies you you regardless of your
feelings in terms of who you're
supporting you have to credit Bernie
Sanders with this I mean it has been
frankly I'm I'm I'm almost shocked
Harris is trying to present a plan that
basically the subtext of it is it's like
Bernie's but not quite as abrupt it's a
slow burn it's a slow burn now there's a
lot of problems with it there there's a
lot of problems a lot of people have
come out and said like you can't you
have 10 years you're basically
guaranteeing that this is in the hands
of of a based upon that what's been
going back and forth in terms of our
presidency tomcod with it yeah with Tom
cotton but never and a lot of people
like I said have have questioned like
why would you still have Medicare
Advantage programs if the Medicare
itself was expanded but nevertheless
here is a representation of how she's
been sort of all over the place in terms
of health care maybe that's not a bad
thing who chose flexibility you don't
have to go through the process of going
through an insurance company having them
give you approval going through the
paperwork all of the delay that may
require who of us have has not had that
situation where you got to wait for
approval and the doctor says well I
don't know if your insurance company is
going to cover this
let's eliminate all of that let's move
on and you'll remember and roll the tape
that well you support the Bernie Sanders
bill which essentially but I really do
need to clear up what happened on that
stage it was in the context of saying
let's get rid of all the bureaucracy
let's get all of the way not the
insurance company no that's not what I
meant I know it was interpreted that way
if you watch the tape I think you'll see
that there are obviously many
interpretations of what I said that's
not be duped by a messaging campaign
that has been waged for years
the insurance companies to have you into
believing that you need to defend them
you need to defend yourself do you know
what ninety-one percent of the doctors
are in Medicare so the idea and the
suggestion they're trying to make to you
is really a false one you will be able
to have your doctor ninety-one percent
of them are in the Medicare system who
here would abolish their private health
insurance in favor of a government-run
plan so you saw the hand up by Kamala
Harris but then she sort of clarified
that a response this morning on Morning
Joe do you believe that private
insurance should be eliminated in this
country no you don't I purchased your
hand less but the question was would you
give up your private insurance yeah
there you go
that was a weird question it was a bad
question it would without a doubt
there's no doubt about it but I think
like the that is reflective of like the
sort of the schizophrenic quality of the
of her plan all right let's just do I
don't know you want to do one more you
want to get Pete hexif on which one
should we play here which one oh let's
go with Rand Paul this coward this dirty
coward dirty coward who as far as I can
tell did not vote to override president
Trump's veto on the war in Yemen right
essentially you're selling stuff to
Saudi Arabia is that right
did did he vote to override the arm sell
on the veto I don't think he actually
did I don't think he was part of that
what a coward well a despicable coward
brave enough to hold up the 9/11
Compensation Fund because he want to
make sure that those guys actually have
cancer here he is talking about someone
this is a guy who had his whole life
basically handed to him on a platter
wealthy a doctor dad who made a lot of
money as a doctor and leading basically
a
proto-fascist group of followers who he
would write emails to talking about the
Jews and the blacks and sometimes that
would happen he would just we wouldn't
read them carefully you know how you
often accidentally hire a racist
anti-semite and let them write emails in
your name and don't check their work
that happens to all of us we've done it
on the show multiple times it's
unbelievable
that's why we don't send emails anymore
because you can never be sure that the
person you're hiring isn't gonna write
stuff that's why we had to stop dick
Spencer from written the blog post
exactly dick Spencer had some
interesting ideas took the keys from him
but here's a guy who basically went I
don't know did he go to private school
probably smoking bongs in his college
dorms I got no problem with that I
certainly did that was more of like a
joint guy myself but nevertheless this
is a guy who's known the greatest
hardship he's ever had is when his
neighbor's beat him up and I'm sure that
was not painted that was painful sure it
was not fun but for now but for him to
well listen to his comments about ill
ill Han Omar I'm in a town where we have
a lot of people who are refugees who
have come some from Somalia some from
Bosnia I've never heard one of them say
that America is a terrible place or be a
unappreciative of our country most of
them are thankful I've met people who
have come here from behind the Iron
Curtain that got away from communism
there's some of them best Americans we
have because they really appreciate how
great our country is and then I hear
representative Omar say America is a
terrible place I'd love to be justice
and there's no justice here it's like
well she came here we fed her we clothed
her she got welfare she got school she
got health care and then love all she
has the honor of actually winning a seat
in Congress and she says we're a
terrible country I think that's about as
ungrateful as you can get
and so while I'm not saying we forcibly
send her anywhere I'm willing to
contribute to buy her a ticket to go
visit Somalia and I think she could look
and and maybe learn a little bit about
the disaster that is Somalia that has no
capitalism has no god-given rights
guaranteed in a constitution and has
about seven different tribes had been
fighting each other for the last 40
years and then maybe after she's visited
Somalia for a while she might come back
and appreciate America does this guy not
know that she came from Somalia is he
not aware what she went through to get
here I mean it's stunning how desperate
this guy is how thirsty he is for an
appointment from Donald Trump how horrid
the voters his voters must be that this
is the type of stuff that they that he
thinks they expect to get reelected this
is garbage party garbage people
appealing to other garbage people not
all garbage people how's that hash tag I
also just would say well they're talking
about Republicans so my my emphasis on
making these distinctions doesn't stand
when you're talking about Republicans so
we maybe not not all you're still voting
for these people at this point I don't
know what to tell you but the you know I
mean I won't even get into it but
there's always the colonial and
historical lesson of how a place gets to
be in the state it is including even
under the Bush administration damn
encouraging Ethiopia to interfere in
Somalia in a very aggressive way and of
course Somali has its own failings and
its own problems that are self generated
it's an interdependent process but you
know and this just is if you watch Ilan
Omar and what she says about the United
States it there's a incredible degree of
optimism and idealism there that these
people have no understanding of
precisely because they are a bunch of
spoiled bigoted trust fund babies and I
I think that that's actually another
thing to emphasize that if you look at
the real seriousness about the
opportunity of America that someone like
ela Nomar puts across it is in fact if
you want to frame it that way
profoundly more respectful of this
country and its possibility than
anything has ever come out of these
people's mouths way more respectful than
it deserves in my opinion I don't know
no horrible Rand Paul though is just on
a complete mission to suck up to Donald
Trump oh yeah I mean you want to talk
about the libertarian to alt-right
pipeline just watch this video and you
know you were talking to our libertarian
friend earlier and he was expressing you
know upset that so many libertarians
turned into Nazis or Nazis call
themselves libertarians you might want
to ask yourself why yeah exactly
all right well we were gonna I was gonna
go but we just lost Matt all right
listen folks we'll be back I don't know
about 8:30 maybe to do the to do the
show somewhere around there starts at
8:00
what's that the debate does yeah oh it
does yeah oh closer to 7:30 yes
oh good for CNN they're doing it 8 to 10
not yep oh that's much more helpful
right and an easier babysitter situation
all right folks
see you tonight in that state
to get to where I want but I know
[Music]
I was
[Music]
No
[Music]
I just see where the choice is made so
the option where you tell getting pain
for the road
their business
brakes
I just lost a try
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
