[Music]
you guys remember Marco Rubio little
Marco he was another great embarrassment
to this country's political class people
actually thought that he was some type I
mean the first brand of Marco Rubio is
that he was the answer to Barack Obama
and what was incredible and you know
I've said this so many times of like one
can and should be if you have left
politics be a profound and relentless
critic of President Obama's record on
Wall Street on the economy on national
security on aspects of health care on
labor on the environment and so on right
but the notion that anybody it wasn't
just that he had a certain charisma an
incredibly smart guy who took a very
strategic approach to his own career and
I wish more so for all the Democratic
Party but then much of the national
press and all these Republicans they
just they they they their delusion and
disrespect that Barack Obama was so
profound that they were just like he's
youngest she's you know he's young he's
in his 40s and uh he you know he plays
basketball he seems kind of fit he has a
non Anglo name
that's our Barack Obama you know in a
way that was just totally delusional and
disrespectful to Obama and then of
course Marco Rubio ran for president it
was a disaster he was humiliated by
Donald Trump he had a few moments where
even though even Marco Rubio who I have
absolutely no respect for I think he's
not bright I think he is purely the pawn
of the arms industry and far-right
interests in Florida there is not a
single issue in which he's distinguished
himself on but there were one or two
moments with Trump where it actually
seemed like even this total dull
careerist registered that you could not
have a dangerous bigoted narcissistic
authoritarian as president but of course
he endorsed Trump and count out the
Trump so even that one or two moments
where I actually genuinely thought he
had some human recognition that Trump
was unacceptable is gone and now he here
he is is just a you know another
far-right war promoting back-bencher he
tweeted out that photo of Qaddafi couple
weeks ago which is I think actually
helpful in our resistance to regime
change in Venezuela and he needs to find
a way to get back into relevance and so
since a an important and dynamic and
conscience driven politician like Bernie
Sanders is talking about democratic
socialism and I don't know maybe there's
some you know 90 something like bolita
entrepreneurs you still remember the Bay
of Pigs here is Marco Rubio talking
about democratic socialism is quickly
becoming a trendy phrase in American
politics but why has it become so
popular among some because it allows the
radical left to ignore the incredibly
destructive history of socialism and the
promises are very familiar a universal
basic income free college government-run
health care a guaranteed government job
for everyone there's just one problem
democratic socialism is incompatible
with our American values democratic
socialism hasn't worked anywhere in the
world and in fact there are people
living in America today who came here
because democratic socialism destroyed
the economies of their countries there's
no doubt that our public policies must
change to better reflect our values of
dignified work and strong families and
thriving communities the democratic
socialism that will never be the answer
okay and of course just in the last
point Marco Rubio is obviously voted for
every single rich in corporate tax
giveaway he's voted to cut protections
for consumers he's voted to destroy
health care for tens of millions of
people I mean we know what his policy
said is right we we know that obviously
the idea that there's any policy set
that would even remotely benefit anybody
who isn't an oligarch is a lie and
ridiculous on its face but the to sort
of actual substantive answers to that if
that could even summon any substance our
first and easiest which is wait you're
talking about people fleeing higher
liver living standards and higher life
expectancy and better life outcomes from
Sweden Norway and Denmark to come to the
United States to know
have healthcare pay for college and deal
with extreme wealth inequality and when
it comes to countries in developing
world and particularly countries that
people like Marco Rubio want the United
States militarily and CIA involved in
and potentially assassinating people and
destabilizing governments well it's
pretty useful to remind yourself that
actually most of these governments going
even back to the Michael Manley
government in 1970s Jamaica were really
focused on in fact implementing some
form of the same successes that the New
Deal did here and countries in Europe
were able to achieve for themselves and
the reasons that they weren't able to do
it was because countries like the United
States relied on them to have cheap
labor and have their resources exploited
in a supply chain that didn't work for
them at all
so I doubt Marco Rubio or anybody who
took that video on it all seriously
would understand any of that but those
are some actual talking points that you
can use to have a real historical
conversation about these things now
here's some footage of Marco Rubio
hitting a kid with a football this is
just a visualizes attempts to talk about
talk to the kids okay what's this Rubio
cliff here is this a classic okay is
this from a February 2016 wow this is so
fun
we are taking our message to families
that are struggling to raise their
children in the 21st century
because as you saw Jeanette and I are
raising our four children in the 21st
century and we know how hard it's become
to instill our values and our kids
instead of the values that try to ram
down our throats in the 21st century
it's become harder than ever to instill
in your children the values they teach
instead of the values that they try to
ram down our throats in the movies in
music and popular I see repeating South
America why do you keep saying the same
thing do you need a drink of water you'd
like
I went when I was working with fusion on
the 2016 campaign we did the RNC debate
and in South Carolina and I remember I
knew Trump really had a chance when
there were like four College Republicans
with Marco Rubio signs outside and then
a bunch of people just surrounding them
with Trump stuff like you out shouting
them down and I was like Marco's got no
chance little Marco has no chance let's
just face it guys it's not gonna happy
for look it's a tough ride he said I've
never seen a young guy so thirsty
