[Music]
let's do some Pam Anderson on the view
now Pam Anderson is an interesting
figure there's a lot of things that she
has to say on Twitter and whatnot that I
find I'm in total agreement others less
so there's been some weird I get I heard
some like peripheral talk about like you
know sort of her disposition on I don't
know a juicer I don't know exactly what
i i i my read from everything i've seen
of her and i Devon I don't follow her
that closely but I read a really good
interview with her in the Jacobin like I
this is somebody who's actually super
awesome she's totally not just a tional
II the right take like she's on top of
it and I agree you know with the parts
of her support of WikiLeaks in Assange I
agree with frankly but I so my read
would be that she is somebody who has
criticized the policies of Israel and
sometimes I don't know you know I'm
looking at it actually a real thing it
looks like she like honeymooned in
Israel and like there's pictures of her
was from Aleppo Tech and I forget that
Horus God who knows but and and I am not
as much of a fan of Julian Assange as
she is but I think the wave of the
things that he's been indicted for is
reprehensible and I the the publishing
of the materials that Chelsea Manning
got were massive in fact I was on every
week on MSNBC at that time in the early
2000 I think teens or 11s or whatever it
was and I remember like you know every
day someone would say these are not
important you know this is not important
information we didn't need this
information and it's endangering the
lives of people well it endangered no
one there wasn't a single accusation
even vague one so
revealed a lot of endangering that we
did yes without a doubt but there wasn't
a single accusation that any sensitive
asset person system was in any way
endangered a be the idea that it didn't
tell us anything new was absurd because
literally every day there would be
multiple stories in various publications
New York Times The Washington Post The
Guardian
Times of London whatever it is they're
Stern based upon the cables that were
released
so clearly newsworthy the mainstream
media dined on this for years for years
I'm talking about that original dump
which is what Julian Assange is being
charged with and so in that regard Pam
Anderson is talking the truth and then
to see her run into Megan McCain who you
know undoubtedly like sorry you mean
John McCain's daughter yeah it's totally
clear what it is whatever whatever you
know like her town hall husband you know
talking points gave her the this is this
is what she's you know Seth Meyers
you're a jew pansy talking point right
he was allegedly kicked out of the
Ecuadorian Embassy because he was
defecating everywhere and creating men
oh that's a snack thinking that it's not
true there was video of things that
happened I mean I don't would you do
with your lapped in a room for just for
the quakes years well I wouldn't be a
cyber terrorist which he is he lacked
information he makes included classified
documents that put our national security
at risk our military you know the lion
survivor and diplomatic and military
how many people have mobility American
government killed innocently and how
many has WikiLeaks so you think the
military is putting
[Applause]
Oh calm down sir I'm actually genuinely
I really should be we have war crimes
need to be punished and they haven't the
war crimes that he's exposed no one's no
one said anything about it but they put
him in jail to shut him up to ten video
of the helicopter right fire killing
civilians in Iraq yeah well that's one
thing but there's so many other things
that he's exposed it's not just America
he's exposed well suppose Russia he's
exposed all sorts of different country
yeah I mean there's Megan McCain just
like she's just up there like honestly
they could just do a ticker-tape like a
literally just like type in the talking
points and just you know play it on a
scroll so that she doesn't have to you
know undermined her own points by having
such an attitude about it the I mean
honestly like you know I mean it makes
for a better TV but the the reality is
is that there is no evidence and you
know she would cite it she would say as
in the CIA Inspector General report or
as in the Senate Select Committee's
special and security report no there is
no report and ah maybe the guy defecated
all through this embassy maybe he didn't
but guess what that's not why you
charged someone with espionage I do have
to say too and addition to that just the
really specifics one of the stuff coming
out of Ecuador it's worth noting that
this Ecuadorian government of Lenin
Moreno has shifted to the extreme far
right even though he was elected on a
center-left platform and there are some
at least one equity you know one or two
Ecuadorian Embassy employees who
basically are saying what she's saying
which is that this is a
misrepresentation of his conduct there
and you know he didn't do stuff like
that but regardless it doesn't matter
well the thing that also that actually
does matter is that is that it's it's
like so amazing and unusual to hear
somebody just sort of state that
civilian casualties matter on a national
television podcast right I mean the that
is the the broader point I just think
extremely dangerous from a press
standpoint to be pursuing him in this
way I mean if you want to arrest him for
defecating in the Ecuadorian Embassy and
maybe you can bring him some type of
like public indecency charge but I don't
you know and let him go on trial for
that but this rather stuff is just sort
of like talking point no BS and you
remember reading that indictment it's
terrifying I mean that the hawk charge
there is one thing that is like maybe
I'll help you find a access to a
password which he does not achieve
that's in the document and everything
else that's in the document is stuff
that if you follow any good
investigative reporter like Ken clippin
Stein like hit me on whatsapp share this
on Dropbox that's what the indictment is
right exactly exactly it is the idea
that they have a Dropbox a secure
Dropbox on their website here is Meghan
McCain asking well what would you tell
the imaginary spies who were endangered
by these leaks else the question I have
a mails she wrote would you say - I know
but that doesn't mean everything should
be the question I have though is like
spies that go out and put their lives at
risk like congressman will hurt who we
were just talking about who's dedicated
you know decades of his life to helping
fight terrorism it's classified
information I believe is classified for
a reason I do have some faith in the US
government although as a commander of it
if I have less faith normally than
liberals do so what would you say to the
spies who are putting themselves at risk
for a national security with your
relationship would have well I don't
think he there's nothing proven that
he's actually put anybody at risk
they've gone through this over and over
again and I just I think that people
like Edward Snowden Chelsea Manning our
heroes and and Jillian Hassan as a
publisher who Dena thinks that yes
the food insult really is the first
refuge of a I looked into his eyes
sobs man integrity remember what that's
what I think McCain and Biden both have
said things that are literally I looked
in his eyes and I said nothing that's a
dead shot saw Lucifer that is not the
most important in that clip but that
whole I trust the government to keep
important like what's classified is
meant to be classified what if anything
if anything the entire leak from Chelsea
Manning is evidence that stuff is over
classified that I mean if I was going to
make an academic argument about the
over-classification in this country that
would be Exhibit A
there become a couple other exhibits but
basically it was do not embarrass us
this is this is honestly this is using
the classification system for basically
the for a high school mentality right
like we can't be seen as being human or
weak or we don't want to tell everybody
that we didn't use the best China for
you know to see the ambassador of
blankety-blank I mean I the the news
value of this information was proven by
how many literally hundreds of stories
it generate or that we're terrorizing
the Haitian government to not raise
minimum wage right like these are some
really substantive things too but I also
just love the juxtaposition though of
like I'm a conservative so I have some
distrust for the government and what I
mean by that is when it comes to like
pretty transparently making sure that
like the water is drinkable I'm not into
that what I'm into is secretive global
killing programs right that's the part
right and I'm going to give them more
deference I don't want the government to
mess with my light bulbs but they it's
okay for them to go and kill world
leaders as made to take and kill people
without Ward's across the globe and not
take account of civilian casualties but
if they tell me about what I can dump in
my backyard that we're going to really
crossing the
all right head to the IMS Jane
