oh okay so so Mehdi Hasan was the
example of the journalist who was doing
quality work let's go over to Fox &
Friends and this is look this is gonna
be the most meaningless a piece of video
that we show you today but it is just
too funny to watch the Fox and Friends
try and get out there and do a nanny
state piece this is where you know of
course somebody wants to tell you not to
text when you're crossing the street
because you could get hit by a car or
run into somebody now this is very true
huge problem particularly in New York
City I imagine it's a problem in other
cities but it's a huge problem here like
one I mean just walking but like people
running into bikes people getting hit by
cars I mean this is a huge problem and
like literally if I had a if there
wasn't like an RFID chip or something I
could implant in my daughter's hands so
that when she was to step off a curb it
would like make her fingers freeze I
would do it
it's another but blossom Steve Doocy
trying to do segment on the nanny state
and it turns out he's I mean I can't
believe it this is not one of those
things that he might do again live let's
put it that way
he might be discovering that there is a
problem with people not paying attention
to any resides yeah exactly
here we go we've been watching all sorts
of people walking by with their texting
devising excuse me ma'am hello hello
excuse me hi can I ask you a question
it'll just take a second I see you're
walking through the crosswalk with your
phone how often do you look at your
phone with the texts and things like
that
I try not to you maybe it going forward
you could get fined $250 it's not a bad
idea
or a good idea she's in a hurry to go to
work okay this guy right over here hi
how are you looking at this guy right
here see he's using his phone too hi
excuse me can I ask a question can you
tell the New York City a very busy place
it is indeed all right meanwhile we got
all these people they're going to work
keep in mind if you're working in New
York City at nine o'clock you've got 20
minutes to go right and so everybody's
in a big hurry
no to producer don't do these segments
at this time you see if I can get his
attention excuse me excuse me sir hi
let's go cross the strip I'm gonna get
hit by a car now all the people who are
texting we're looking at their phones
could be subject to a $250 fine going
forward it looks as if so far from the
people on the streets of New York City
let's just talk to this guy hi excuse me
[Music]
what's the fine for harassing oh my god
no kidding I love it duty I'm the Lucy
treat and by the way you shouldn't be
mean to people trying to raise money for
Amnesty International on the street it's
a nightmare nightmare job be nice to
them and move by them quickly but
they're giving him the you're trying to
raise money friend it's the
International on the street treatment on
Assad there isn't even like a oh it's TV
none of the it's just like nope you know
I mean no you see someone like Steve
Doocy to coming up to you it's perfectly
okay to go like no stop oh yeah so this
do-si-do that stand back go you're oddly
named have a good day I mean the the
beauty of them trying to build this sort
of nanny state segment around like where
people these people are really pissed at
the idea that someone would tell them
what to do I'm sorry could you stop for
one second I need to it's not your day
they can't decide because they've also
done segments on how sad it is that
everyone is always on their phones right
well it's the human state teens and
they'll do they'll do a 45 minute
segment a while back on teenagers who
wear their pants too low but the idea
that you would actually impose some type
of restriction on texting as you're
walking through a street is highly
problematic to them and incidentally you
know we look at things like vision zero
in this city which was much maligned but
I can tell you right now from my
perspective that people people drive
slower
they drive slower in New York City than
they did three years ago and what was it
maligned I mean I'm not a de Blasio fan
but I don't underst was it again just
because it was you're gonna make was
drive 25 miles craziest it's so hostile
to cars right that's a good thing
it's a shitty hostile to cars car but
you know this is the way this trajectory
all I mean I don't you guys too young to
remember like the huge huge national
issue not smoking and restaurants was
even bigger but buckling his seatbelt
that's when those laws got passed Morton
Downey jr. who was the original um like
Rush Limbaugh character he would do Epis
show after show on the just the
infringement the nanny state making you
buckle your seatbelts my grandma was
affected by that she had bad dreams
about like that she'd be in a car crash
and wouldn't be able to get out because
the seatbelts right that's what they
were is what happens is you get trapped
by the seatbelt and then you can't get
out and it's very bad thing because
there's a lot of people they might feel
a little scared they were crashed but
then they can step outside but then when
you can't then you die and remember I
mean the cigarettes smoking nobody I
mean you don't hear anybody complain
about that now it's a minute it's like
it's it's it's absurd when you go into a
place only in Vegas is the only places
you've been smoke inside John got very
excited when we were in Miami and you
could smoke in a bar oh there you go and
in the remember the 20 the 30 ounce
slushies that we came outlawed or
whatever it was I was against that yeah
a soda ban I'd like to see that actually
the the data now to see if that's had an
impact a positive impact or negative one
and some economic standpoint somebody
must have done some research now is that
why sodas are 20 ounces here and not 24
cuz I remember them I think's for in
North Dakota I think so soda Somali a
well let's go to the phones
