here is Donald Trump asking reporters to
please go down there and do the work
which incidentally they've done there
have been many many reports of people
interviewing these people who are coming
in this Caravan and why are you coming
oh because Honduras is overrun by
criminals and it's extremely dangerous
for my family and I can't make any money
and I'm afraid for our lives in fact the
whole reason why people are travelling
in a caravan is not because they think
that somehow you know they're gonna
swing their four-year-olds at the the
Americans where they get there and and
and and overrun the country we're gonna
use them as human shield right right
it's because they are afraid of
traveling alone it's because they don't
have the money to pay for smugglers and
are afraid of those people and they
think that there is strength in a larger
group and so Donald Trump is asking
people to go down there and embed
themselves in it and this let's listen
to him as he gets off the plane
[Music]
we're not allowing
you know they find a lot you can even
bother capital with what way to say wait
but here you have you're gonna find
Middle Eastern whatever that means
you're gonna find Middle Eastern in
ms-13 in the middle there so I mean the
idea is that somehow this Caravan they
think these people from Honduras think
it's in their best interest to hide
Middle Eastern terrorists and or you
have thousands of people travelling
together because they're afraid for
their lives and they're I guess
supposedly protecting ms-13 in there
what happens is is that first ms-13
protects the people that are fleeing
ms-13 and then ms-13 is scared so they
bring in Hamas to protect them and then
how Qaeda comes when does North Korea
get involved here is not anymore because
Trump negotiated here's a piece from the
The Times you have this tweet Matt we
sent Brenda we sent it to map this is a
clip from the New York Times a piece
they had written yesterday and it is
about the perspective that this triggers
in the right wing brain and do you have
it it is a clip that's right that reads
but mr. Trump's dystopian energy mr.
Trump's dystopian imager imagery has
clearly left an impression with some
Carol shields 75 a Republican in
northern Minnesota said she was afraid
that migrant gangs could take over
people's summer lake homes in the state
what's to stop them said MS shields a
retired accountant we have a lot of
people who live on lakes in the summer
and winter someplace else when they come
back in the spring their house could be
occupied
that's great point
I mean so there are people who are
susceptible to all sorts of imagery and
it's effective in some respects because
there's a tremendous amount of ignorance
out there particularly amongst you know
white people who are living outside of
areas where they have some type of
interaction with people who are not
exactly like them here is Mike Pence he
is being asked by Robert Costa on the
Washington posta live show I guess about
this Caravan and here is the lie that
Mike Pence tries to push just to finish
on the midterms you're gonna be heading
out on the campaign trail soon yeah
immigrations become a major issue the
president keeps talking about this
migrant caravan and he references Middle
Easterners that are part of this caravan
without evidence why is that and where
is the evidence if any well it's
inconceivable that there are not people
of Middle Eastern descent in a crowd of
more than 7,000 people advancing toward
our border in getting the truth is well
let me just expand it for one second now
he wants to offer statistics it is very
conceivable that in a group of 7,000
people in Central America and it's 4,000
I think but let's just say 7,000 because
he wants to double it because apparently
for thousands not scary enough for
retired retired accountants living in a
lake is enough to take over Texas 7,000
could take over Texas if you have enough
four-year-olds to swing around and use
as human shields but the idea that it's
inconceivable that there's no middle
Eastern people in this caravan is
naturally pretty easy to conceive of
right right that's and what would they
do in this caravan they're gonna move
freely through Mexico they can move
through freely through Mexico anyways
but let's here let's let him complete
this lie because Costas is like what
Middle Eastern people what is that
supposed to mean Enki the truth is well
let me just atisha con this I mean in in
the last fiscal year we apprehended more
than more than more than 10 terrorists
or suspected terrorists per day at our
southern border from countries that are
referred to in the lexicon as other than
Mexico that means from the Middle East
region I mean the the the idea that they
would not be in this large throng that
was that what the president Honduras
told me was organized by leftist groups
in Honduras financed by Venezuela and
sent north to challenge our sovereignty
and challenge our border all right
the idea what does that mean by
challenge our sovereignty like we like
the the idea that somehow we're going to
open it alright we give up and but you
should know that and this is a pretty
big story and I I don't blame people for
not not being worried about this they
were 10 a day and you notice how the
media doesn't report on this at all and
it's not like they didn't get a heads-up
because back in February of this very
year Mike Pence said that the government
was napping seven terrorists or
suspected terrorists a day on the
southern border
it's obviously gone up now what's very
strange is that no one else has reported
this no one else from the US government
has reported this fact it's just Mike
Pence decided to drop the
now maybe that's why it was so pensive
the no pun intended when he was going to
answer this question because he was not
sure if he should leak this obviously
very top-secret information that no one
else has in our government well he
doesn't want Isis to know that he knows
all right or ms-13 were like me scroll
down because he's guarding this is on
the politifact and it's pants on fire
level of and can i the FBI's terrorist
screening center in a fact updated in
January 2017 said that a known terrorist
is an individual has been arrested
charged or convicted in the US or abroad
and a crime related to terrorists or
terrorist related activities her person
identified as a terrorist pursuant to
the National Security Council resolution
and scroll down
the FBI says that they haven't gotten
anywhere near those numbers there are no
data for terrorists apprehended at the
border as far as anybody could tell and
the thing from the president of Honduras
just you know because these things do
kind of run in kind the president of
Honduras represents a far-right party
and has been plagued by corruption
allegations right yes and has it from
comes from the coffe hotel and media
sectors
I wonder how Venezuela's getting this
money I mean seeing this Venezuela's
getting this money to men as well that's
the funny thing is that simultaneously
Venezuela is totally broke which they
actually are but then they have all this
money I mean yeah the money that
Venezuela is still circulating comes
from like smuggling drugs through the
military and I don't think they're using
it to challenge us sovereignty they're
using it to they're using it for
communism right by which they mean
buying houses abroad for when the thing
collapses if you scroll down here even a
little more they there was apparently in
2016
211 people apprehended from Chad Iran
Libya Somalia Syria and Yemen
and that's obviously not seven
terrorists a day it's not even seven
people a day it's one person two
terrorists is a pretty wide concept
forget Mike Pence yeah exactly right
right but Brendan just said I mean he
could be including gay people people who
listen to music that is not that is
quote unquote ethnic at a loud volume
but this is working I mean it's it's
it's clearly working well you know what
I said yesterday they're returning to
their core brand proposition Oh worse
for the midterm right course it's
working well and that's you know in part
because there doesn't seem to be like
enough energy left in the in the tank as
far as the national anthem
