yesterday we played the a clip from the
debate that I had with Charlie Kirk at
politican and as we were playing it it
was a TYT recording 20 minutes was
missing and it was 20 minutes in the
middle of the debate and it came in at
about 20 minutes in right about 24 yeah
and so what we're going to do and we
were gonna we were going we're doing
obviously we're playing the the debate
and we're giving a commentary we were
gonna try and stitch it in but then we
realize like wait I'm wearing a
different shirt and so we want to put
this video out there if you in
particular if you are a young person and
you come across Charlie Kirk you should
know that a lot of what he says is not
really sound and we're going through
this debate to show you that it's really
a lot less this debate at least in my
mind there's a lot less about me winning
Chara beating Charlie kirbo winning a
debate or whatever it is or or murky
what is it working yeah working just go
with that
Sam it was really more about giving
folks who are not aware of what he is
selling more insight into this product
being defective and you know maybe some
decent packaging but when you start to
dig into it it's not very substantial
but so here is the middle segment of the
debate and then we'll just run into the
to the beginning of the debate so
forgive us but this is this is what it
is we're picking up now we're talking I
think about taxes right and and then
we're gonna get into regulations no
you're right so tax cut we're an average
middle-class family had a $2,700 tax cut
where you have the corporate rate that
went from 35% of everyone now III said
in the other
we should also say that we're speeding
it up so that people can go through this
is you know without spending hours the
average tax cut was $2,700 but the
median far less closer to 800 so when
you add together the tax cuts of the
millionaires and the billionaires with
the middle class the average is $2,700
just like if Bill Gates and I were in a
room our average net worth would be 30
billion dollars but I got to tell you I
did not win the Mega Millions last night
so I don't even have I don't even have
hundreds of millions at this point but a
lot of corporations did not pay that
they used loopholes of which I disagree
with completely went down to 20 per 20
percent effective in January and they
use that money to invest in capital
infrastructure or they repay tree
buybacks so see using the money not by
not exposing so stock buybacks
how about companies where the actual
employees on the stock and then their
own net worth goes up aren't they part
of no class I am sure there are some
members of the middle class who
benefited from the start of the tax cut
that's what I'm saying Sam the
overwhelming thrust of the tax cuts goes
in do the wealthiest pockets via either
stock buybacks or through capital gains
or through having an S Corp and getting
and paying less in taxes so look we
could cherry-pick things you can say
Illinois I could say the the worst 16
the the lowest 15 states in the country
terms of education are all run by
Republican governors except for
Louisiana which had Bobby Jindal for
eight years up until 2016 but
cherry-picking doesn't work you wouldn't
a lot of things wouldn't me to
cherry-pick that's my deposit let me
just say here now I don't know if this
was appropriate on my part by
cherry-picking in his organization I
think in my mind at the time I will cop
to this I was going to maybe bring up
the fact that his number two for a
couple years at this organization who he
went on to praise and praise and praise
turned out had to be fired only after it
was leaked by someone else that she was
writing all sorts of
things that were of racist sentiment
things like I hate blacks I'm sorry I'm
just gonna say it I hate blacks
or cherry-picking like you know the
Florida division of his organization
which you know had a private sort of
slack or whatsapp saying you know don't
mention Richard Spencer too much he was
a guy who was just accused of domestic
abuse in addition to being a white
supremacist and don't use the n-word too
much and don't and see if I get this
quote don't hate Jews
just because too much so you could
either hate Jews just because they're
great qualifications if you had reasons
too much but or that they were kicked
off some campuses because they were
funneling in thousands of dollars of
dark money to influence student
government campaigns so that they could
end all so he was caught up in something
where he was intimidating some some
left-wing voices on college campuses I
probably look up Ferguson huh that was
with Niall Ferguson right with now
Ferguson I was fun I probably well I
don't know if I should have brought that
up or not maybe it was wrong of me to
sort of do it in that context but that's
what I was alluding to I just want to
cop to it alright continue the
philosophical difference cuz I don't
believe when someone gets rich someone
in here but we don't need to but that
data okay but the date right so the day
fight Sam if you want to talk data and
Charlie I'm gonna give you the last word
on this yet but I mean so again I was
thinking maybe because again you were
just talking about cherry-picking and
then you were cherry-picking and I was
trying to talk about philosophy which is
I don't believe in a zero-sum game I
believe in a market economy when you
trade both parties equally get richer
when you trade and standard living goes
up prices go down and you have abundance
you've an abundance problem that a
scarcity problem in the West but just
I'm trying to maybe maybe I'm failing to
understand how because the Left seems so
adamantly opposed to the policies that
have delivered us a 4.2 percent GDP rate
the lowest ever black unemployment rate
the lowest ever asian-american
unemployment rate the lowest Hispanic
unemployment rate the lowest veterans
unemployment since 2001 a $2,700 average
middle class
cut and and the economy is still good
Obama's trying to take credit for it and
so but Sam I can you give some credence
to the idea that when you have when you
when you lessen government burden you
couple that with a massive deregulation
the largest deregulation agenda in a
hundred years is there so is there are
you willing to give an inch to say that
maybe something Trump has done has
benefited the well-being of people in
middle class all right well you keep
repeating the same thing and I keep
explaining it doesn't make it less true
Sam well it makes it I'm explain to you
why it's irrelevant because yes there
has been a trajectory where we have seen
all the unemployment games that you've
talked about we have seen stagnant wages
that is a fact the buying power of the
middle class is dropped you talk about
rolling back regulations let's talk
about that let's talk about that I'm
glad I want you to name three
regulations that have been rolled back
that have helped the middle class and
I'll name three that have hurt the
middle class
how about rolling back Obama's war on
coal okay that has created hundreds of
thousands of jobs throughout Appalachia
and brought down utility costs to 30
states huh positively I should probably
let that roll because if you let that be
a drop first of all full-on key change
the the folks who lived in West Virginia
and Appalachia in the audience everyone
started laughing at charlie kirk at that
moment you can just simply go and google
ja a coal jobs created and well almost a
million jobs I actually did j.cole and
it gave me the rapper J Cole threw coal
jobs created in the news and you will
see that there is been maybe like
somewhere around 3000 jobs that have
been added with coal across the country
I mean you're still seeing like well you
see this point yes so I think you can
conceive jobs
there was there's a new round this is
from the Tribune review new round of
grants will help coal impacted
communities there's been a hundred and
20 jobs created from that I mean there's
probably you know thousands of coal jobs
maybe that have returned but not
hundreds of thousands but here continue
ok that has created hundreds of
thousands of jobs throughout Appalachia
and brought down utility costs over
thirty states yes so so this is laughing
in the front why I smile and I'm happy
when the people West Virginia actually
have jobs unlike what Hillary Clinton
said we're gonna destroy all your jobs
we're going to find another way to give
you meaning that's one and also if you
go that EPA agenda there is a specific
regulation under the Obama era that
categorized lakes and tributaries in the
backyards of certain farmers as oil
spills that's number two and number
sorry walk us through this by saying you
can't jump yes am being condescending
about a fact it's not making any less
true so under the Obama era well wait a
second I'm just asking you walk us
through so how be a mapping farmers jump
pesticides in tributaries okay that's
not what I said they classified lakes
and tributaries in the backyards of
certain farms as oil spills which the
complete mischaracterization and abuse
of the Clean Water Act of 1976 so that
was a that was a abuse of power under
what I like to call the employment
prevention date how many jobs do you see
that were created by that well it
definitely saved all these farmers
hundreds of thousands of dollars in
legal costs and the fact that they can
still be operating would you like more
regulation Sam how about one more how
about the thousands of consumer
regulations that were finally rolled
back under the Consumer Financial
Financial Protection Bureau so that we
do not have to go through excessive
amount of regulation to get small
business loans happy to defend that any
single day I'm happy to defend the
deregulatory agenda of Trump against the
excessive regulatory agenda of Obama so
there there's three first off for first
off all right so first off let you start
with this Donald Trump has not roll back
that many regulations that's the reality
the rate in which our regulations have
grown has definitely been slowed he's
done about half of new regulations that
Obama and Bush did up to this point that
is true but let's talk first about the
Galatian that you mentioned in terms of
the coal-fired power plants
this will cause 3,600 deaths 90,000
cases of asthma 1,700 heart attacks the
expenses associated with this are in the
hundreds of millions of dollars the
mercury and air toxins rollback will
cause 11,000 deaths annually the
asbestos rollbacks will cost for up to
40,000 annual deaths the EPA the Trump
EPA says that for every one regulation
$1 worth of regulation that costs an
industry or what not $14 of economic
growth are are generated what's an
example of that lightbulbs for years
conservatives were angry about light
bulbs I don't know if people here old
enough to remember this but the idea
that the u.s. government would require
more efficient light bulbs was the the
loss of Liberty in a to a scope that we
can't even imagine what has happened is
consumers have saved tens of millions of
dollars because they don't have to
replace these incandescent light bulbs
we've seen in terms of in terms of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
save consumers 90 million dollars worth
of bank fees in the last year the Obama
administration alone caused it for one
second this is incorrect I misspoke it
did not save consumers ninety million
dollars worth of fees save consumers in
the last year 900 million dollars over
the course of the life of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau
up until the Trump administration
basically stopped all of its of its its
investigatory actions it's it's attempts
to stop you know mal factors like Wells
Fargo and whatnot it saved consumers and
returned to consumers thirteen billion
dollars thirteen billion with a B but
continued real quick so I misstated that
number
real quick do you think Charlie mister
took that environment the employment
prevention line did he test that with
his mom first I have it a little bit of
like that's a very funny joke charlie
very funny you use that when you debate
that be man from Sex in the City
that's a nipple line that's useful if
you're doing like dumb radio well he his
whole thing sounded like in that moment
like a campaign speech but you're right
is a little morning zoo too because
there was a he else is really I didn't
notice this as much as first but he's
very in the school of like if I'm wrong
or I've said something that just doesn't
sound credible if I raise my voice and
act like the teacher
act like I'm no no I will I will double
down on that then that that confidence
will power me through nonsense it also
seems like some capitalists might be
sneaking into the nebulous middle-class
category when he talks about the people
who own farms and businesses right all
right let's let him go the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau saved
consumers 90 million dollars worth of
bank fees in the last year the Obama
administration alone not so one there
has not been one enforcement action
since the Trump administration has taken
over so what's the CFPB budget what is
the budget
it is completely funded by fees that
they get from the bank now okay so so
forcibly take money away from the people
that are depositor and then say that
they're saving ninety million dollars of
fees on the back that's not the way it
works deposit for one second
so the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau was set up in a way that would
inoculate it from a a Republican House
or let's say a Democratic House that was
in some way hostile to it but it is
clearly was set up to avoid pressure
from politicians because it is self
funding its funds its operational funds
come from fees it collects from banks
but then Charlie has a problem that cuz
he thinks that's unconstitutional
because Congress can't defund it
but here when you deposit your money so
so the famous make money by people
putting money in house it you got to go
back here because this is also really
important for people to understand
Charlie does not seem to understand how
banks make money or he assumes that
depositors would have to pay these fees
to the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau but when you deposit money they
may charge you some bank fees your
checking account maybe you get a free
checking account maybe you get an ATM
fee or whatnot Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau actually also cap
those but I think the Republicans rolled
that back but so you get fees for
putting your money in there but these
are not fees that are associated with
their fees to the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau the bank doesn't take
your money to pay these fees they have
to pay it out of their profits you are
aware that the body of the bank doesn't
just sit there Sep well here here we go
your bank fees in the last year the
Obama administration alone
one there has not been one enforcement
action since the Trump administration is
taking over so what's the CFPB budget
what is the budget
it is completely funded by fees that
they get from the bank now okay so so
forcibly take money away from the people
that are depositor and then say that
they're saving ninety million dollars of
fees on the back that's not the way it
works no when you deposit your money so
so the things make money by people
putting money in it and then they borrow
it out so those are depositors so you're
taxing the depositors to then put on the
back end of the government agency that
is run and a the CFPB sure can be
completely abolished as an
unconstitutional agency and it's used as
a weapon bankers do not loan out their
depositors money exclusively that's why
you have capital controls they loan it
all exclusively that is one form and
function of a bank but it goes back to
you well obviously goes back to you know
most the money in your bank section out
in there Sam you know that's right okay
that's the way a bank works so you have
the FDIC that insurance it up to a
certain amount but that money is
probably somewhere else in the economy
on loan or on lien to somewhere else to
try to make the bank money so when
you're taxing the bank to try to fund
the CFPB you're actually taxing the
depositors you
yeah you are you're taxing the money
within the bank the bank is comply
comprise the people up with the money in
the bank know you're taxing the profits
they make off of their land they make so
so let's talk about banking so first of
all they make money off okay with
regulation they make they make money
they make money off of most of the money
that banks used to make until dodd-frank
was off lending to small businesses and
local communities but dodd-frank
completely obliterated the idea of the
local community bank we have seen a
sharp decline in community banks we have
not seen a sharp degree happen to
community banks unless you look over the
past thirty years where we have seen a
precipitous decline of those banks
because of mergers and acquisitions
right so we simply saw it I will repeat
myself because it's correct since 2010
some financial crisis dodd-frank was a
weapon used against small community
banks that has hundreds of millions of
dollars of regulation that put on small
and local community X you know who loves
God Frankie know who's lobbying against
the repeal of dodd-frank something that
you and I can agree with governments act
I mean Goldman Sachs which completely
owned the Treasury Department in both
administrations by the way whether be
the Bush administration the Obama
ministration or the Trump administration
government Sachs has an inside-out
access to our to the Treasury Department
they are lobbying against a repeal of
dodd-frank now why would that possibly
be because dodd-frank is used as a hedge
against small and community banks to
protect the Wells Fargo's of the world
the JPMorgan Chase's and the Goldman
Sachs and so they use regular use in
calling for a 21st century
glass-steagall Act we can deal with
government we can deal with government I
would I would actually I think we should
get rid of the carried interest
deduction I think you and I could have
caused it now that's now listen this is
sort of a stunning I will join you in
supporting another thing that will
massively benefit wealthy investors no
no the carried interest deduction is is
something that we should be repealing it
is so completely far afield from the
glass-steagall that at that moment I
realized he doesn't know any of what I'm
talking about
I don't think he knows what a 21st
century glass-steagall was I'm not even
convinced that he knows what the
original glass-steagall was so Charlie
if you're listening I'm going to tell
you right now and you can obviously look
this up but glass-steagall
is a law that was put in place following
the the crash of the banks in the Great
Depression and basically what it does
listen to the original didn't do exactly
this but the but it would it would do
more or less this it constrained
commercial banks from joining with
investment banks so that commercial
banks where people have their money
invested was not subject to the same
risks that an investment bank would take
because if a commercial bank goes under
a big one a lot of people lose their
money I mean you're you're in federally
insured and that came in after the Great
Depression up to $250,000 but you are
all that money can be wiped out put it
not only a big strain on the the
government of course but on all sorts of
businesses that have more than $250,000
may be in the accounts and so the idea
is separate these two things so that
these banks won't be too big to fail
that their failure will not bring down
the entire economy and that more
speculative business will be separated
from the more conventional vanilla
business the carried interest loophole
has nothing to do with commercial banks
or investment banks it has to do with
hedge fund managers and hedge fund
managers what they do this is private
equity they go out and they get a bunch
of rich people and they say let me
manage your money we'll go and we'll do
maybe venture capital or we'll make some
bets against other companies whatever
this is what a hedge fund and hedge
funds do all sorts of different things
but the managers of these hedge funds
escape paying taxes on the money they
make by claiming that even though all
they're doing is managing other people's
money that it's like their money and so
they get so that so alright let's say
I'm managing five hundred million
dollars and I take one
percent of what I'm managing and what I
earn and I am taking capital gains as if
I have invested money but I'm not
investing money I'm just managing that
money and that's the capital that's the
carried interest loophole they call it
carried interest because they want to
make up a name that makes it sound like
I'm just a financial adviser and I'm no
need to be taxed on that money at a at a
wage rate I want to be taxed on at a
capital gains rate cuz it's much lower
I'm glad he's for getting rid of the cat
the carried interest loophole but it has
absolutely nothing to do with what we
were talking about which leads me to
believe it's noemi of what we're we're
talking about I mean it literally is the
equivalent of saying like I'm gonna open
up a dog kennel well I'm against opening
up a table kennel but I do like cats
sort of like talking to a bot online
it's weird
yeah but government's acts that's my son
boom ah thank you do it's completely
different from what I've done well it's
actually it's a component of what no any
people on your safe no I will not join
you in a 21st century glass-steagall
like no one all right hold on guys I
want if you want to cut down on the
power of the big banks why wouldn't you
well okay so you were sincere while I
would walk me through what one honey
that would actually cut in to the size
and the power of those bags because it
wouldn't do that because every single
time you try to penalize the power of
Wall Street every single time you try to
use government to go after the people to
have the power the exact opposite
happens pawns oligarchic let me give you
a great example of when that didn't
happen after the Great Depression and
for the subsequent 65 years that we had
that regime it was only after the
Clinton administration when we had a
Republican Congress and Senate and a
president who was extremely close to the
banking industry in fact his Treasury
secretary was guy named Robert Rubin who
wanted to get rid of glass-steagall so
that the Citibank could merge with
travelers and they did and they became
Citigroup and then Robert Rubin left the
government and
became a very handsomely paid
vice-president uh if you can believe it
Citigroup because every single time you
try to penalize the power of Wall Street
every single time you try to use
government to go after the people to
have the power the exact opposite
happens you have an oligarchy a class
that is created on Washington DC and the
biggest companies get more powerful and
it and it totally pushes out comput you
mentioned the financial crisis the
financial crisis let's talk about
product of the rollback of
glass-steagall okay that covering the
clinton incorrect I'll let you take you
do your case of why you think 2008
happened and I'll tell you what really
happened well I do have a talking point
it was not the cause of 2008 of the
initial crisis it was the cause of the
severity of the crisis because we
allowed commercial banks and investor
banks to commend commingle and they were
too big to fail and it almost pulled our
entire financial system under and so you
return to a day which existed 396 where
these banks cannot commingle if one of
them fails it's a problem but it's not
one that is going to throw our entire
economy into jeopardy that is why the
debt increased during Obama years
because the economy fell off a cliff and
so if you want to diminish the power of
Goldman Sachs and of Citibank and Wells
Fargo and we can agree on this let's
call for a 21st century glass-steagall
Act we can do something bipartisan this
will be great and we can actually
diminish the power of these banks so I I
will say there you'd actually find more
you find more acceptance that argument
to me than most people because I think
there was there is some merit to the
argument that the repeal of
glass-steagall did open up the reckless
behavior of banks however I would say it
played in talking about 2008 it did not
it was not the primary factor nor the
secondary factor of why that financial
crisis was created it was first and
foremost Fannie and Freddie which is a
government-sponsored you see that like I
actually the in and I knew the reason
why I knew what he was going to say is
because this was the major talking point
that came out of the financial crisis if
you go back you can see I'm mouthing the
words Fannie Mae because this was the
talking point and that's what Charlie
has he has talking points and the the
you you can go I mean this it gets very
weedy
but as you know the financial crisis was
a function
of mortgages being issued willy-nilly to
people to people who did not have any
financial savvy in some instances
depending on the region to pay people
who are taking out two or three
mortgages and flipping houses now none
of these people did it to lose money
right so they didn't really know what
they were doing when you go to a bank
there's a reason why they call them loan
officers is because they have a
fiduciary responsibility to make sure
that you the client are worthy of
loaning - that is their responsibility
that is why their banks get licensed
many instances that didn't happen
mortgage industry was set up - and what
would happen is I would I would make a
bad loan to somebody I would sell that
loan and there became a a secondary and
a tertiary and in some instances like a
fourth level market for these mortgages
to be combined together as these
financial instruments and paying off and
paying out dividends these are
derivatives and then there were
derivatives on those derivatives side
bets essentially that they're going to
fail or go up almost like insurance
hedges and the problem is is that
everybody assumed that these mortgages
were good because there were three
private rating agencies Moody's Standard
& Poor and one other I can't remember
what it is and they issued them all
Triple A because of the relationship
that they had with these investment
banks the investment banks would hire
them to rate their own product that they
were selling and of course if you wanted
to get higher again you raid it well
that was a huge mistake about three or
four years into this somewhere in like
two thousand five or six Fannie Mae
which had not engaged in buying these
derivative mortgages got pressure to do
so because they were leaving a lot of
money on the table and they were a quasi
governmental agency not fully
governmental but quasi and so there was
a lot of pressure for them to make
when everybody's making money hand over
fist they got into it very late so they
were not the cause of this this was all
happening everywhere it's just at the
end they ended up holding a lot of this
stuff not they weren't the only one
Lehman's went under Bear Stearns goldman
sachs had to be completely bailed out
there were others and so chase Citibank
so Fannie Mae was definitely a player
but they were no way deprive the
approximate cause it was just there was
a huge real estate bubble and when it
burst everything fell apart because of
the the interconnectedness of everything
we can have a bursting real-estate
bubble but unless there is like this
ongoing interconnectedness it's not
going to threaten the economy like this
1000 you raise some interesting points
Sam however you you think we should pay
exorbitant fees I think that capitalists
take risk that's a good piece the good
thing for people and they come out of
these banks so I will say there you'd
actually find more you find more
acceptance that argument me than most
people because I think there was there
is some merit to the argument that the
repeal of glass-steagall did open up the
reckless behavior of banks however I
would say it played in talking about
2008 it did not it was not the primary
factor nor the secondary factor of why
that financial crisis was created it was
first and foremost Fannie and Freddie
which is a government-sponsored
institution that has yet to be held
accountable that has never showed their
books to the taxpayers
triple-a bond rating crap triple-a bond
rating mortgages where people had FICO
credit scores that were beyond death
that had meeting him come around $35,000
a year never actually visiting the
houses that were they were giving the
mortgages to it was B&B - loans that
they were looping together a triple-a
bond rating and they were in bed with
the rating agency so I think Sam I would
agree that there was there was
widespread collusion Fannie and Freddie
is not Wall Street it is a government
institution that's that that Congress
sanctioned has yet to be holding
accountable they are you patty
all right I mean it's a government it's
a quasi government form to put its
enough but Fannie and Freddie entered
into that subprime market four years
after all the major banks know rightly
right but we were in high school at Sam
I can administer III I paid attention to
this now finish the point
well our you know argument already came
loans we need royal regulated so they
uphold their fiduciary
okay so let's I want I'm going to finish
the point on the financial crisis you
couple that I only get to trade and okay
after that the Community Reinvestment
Act which incentivize these banks to
give loans to low-income communities the
Community Reinvestment Act you can read
the actual language of the bill had
quotas for banks over a certain level to
give these loans out you cut you triple
that with Alan Greenspan artificially
lowing interest rates after 9/11 so you
had cheap money flowing all around and
all the sudden people said oh you can't
question the housing market it's as
stable as can be when you looked at the
mortgages that Fannie and Freddie were
triple-a rating a government agency the
banks were treating the base rate examp
the ratings were by three Sam sees that
were not government agency Sam movie and
Freddie the banks were trading off the
confidence that Fannie and Freddie gave
them because they because they said all
with Fannie and Freddie is trading it oh
my goodness we could trade it so then
goldman sachs never actually looked
through the mortgages because they were
first of course they were incentivized
to do it there the chief money from the
government and finally they had the
confidence in the conviction which was
all false by a government agency to
trade on these loans the destabilize our
economy now the bankers that live lease
Wells Fargo's executives that lied they
should be in prison you wouldn't agree
on that if there was a if there was a
scroll underneath here it would be
really embarrassing for you because
everyone who knows anything about
banking knows that there were three
rating agencies their names were not
Fannie Mae and not Freddie Mac I never
said the rating agency they were trading
them as triple-a bond rating and they
were separated them they were rated by
the three rating agencies right are
those agencies government agencies or
what if Fannie and Freddie issue yes or
no JP Morgan sir are not governments
that's right they're independently
governed
hold on who is supposed to regulate them
Sam hold on a second who is supposed to
regulate them did the SEC do their job
in regulating them no heart of God I
thought the SEC was safe you're saying
the biggest government failure of the
modern era the SCC that has a thirty
billion dollar budget every single year
did not even walk into these rating
agency and say show me these mortgages
show me the FICO scores show me how
their 1800 lincoln dodd-frank if you're
arguing that regulators were not on the
ball you and i agree there should be
stricter rack i'm arguing that's what
happens when you continue to add these
layers and layers of population so and
then you blame capitalism for it you're
like oh you have all these regulators
that are that used to work at goldman
they used to work at Credit Suisse they
used to work at Wells Fargo they'd go
work for Fannie and Freddie they'd go
work for the regulations they say oh you
know just a failure of capitalism
despite government to play bottom you
stand you the failure of regulation to
regulate the capitalist who
who who gambled with with money that was
putting our entire economy in jeopardy
the failure of those regulators to do
their job the answer to that is to have
no regulation and just let it be
completely wireless so I know first of
all dodd-frank does the exact opposite
of it number one number two the
dodd-frank try to write over so eh Sam
I'm so I'm so glad you got you I know
the solution is the solution is we
should have let them makes fail and make
them pay a price for gambling with our
money that's the solution because they
won't do it again Sam if you bail them
out and you give the Wall Street
executives huge bonuses and they and the
one the Wells Fargo executives should be
in prison you and I agree with that
examples are money now this is I mean
it's interesting because I mean he's
very adamant about this and I certainly
would have had no problem with allowing
these banks to fail to a certain extent
certainly we came and and bailed out
these banks and so what we should have
done there is a middle ground between
this we can let them fail and everybody
suffers because there's no cash that you
can take out of your your ATM machine
just doesn't work at that point I had a
friend who was working at the Citibank
at the time and she had told her husband
take all the cash out you can uh of the
bank and you know within a 24 but she
was very concerned there's another way
that you could have done this you could
have bailed out these banks and just
said we just bailed you out let me tell
you what happens in the so-called market
when someone bails someone else out you
know what that's called it's calling it
coming in and buying a company and the
US government should have ended up
owning every dollar for dollar in fact
they should have gotten a good deal
should have been like we should probably
done two for one every dollar the US
government had to pump into these banks
should have come back with equity
that's definitely what Bernie would have
done III think I think so and it's
certainly what I think it was Iceland
did and Sweden I don't know if Sweden
did it but I think I did it back in the
day Iceland did it - yeah Iceland did it
during the financial crisis and we
should have nationalized these banks
nationalize the banks that we needed to
make sure that the system didn't fall
apart let the ones that could die die
and move on
and now if it was up to charlie all
these banks would have gone under and I
don't know what would have occurred then
we would have had a massive massive
meltdown of our financial system because
it was allowed to metastasize without
being treated you know it's not your
literally your money in the ATM Sam you
don't put it in the machine Sam you know
that there's not actually a person
inside the ATM dispensing money we don't
they don't take a $10 bill from your
bank
now he's about to talk about how the
Wells Fargo's Wells Fargo and there was
a lot of these people there was a lot of
people who really abused the system
people who foreclosed on people on
purpose people who ran up these huge
things there was a company called
countrywide I want you to to google that
and countrywide I think was bought by
Bank of America and if I'm not mistaken
the that Bank countrywide had to pay I
think almost a hundred million dollars
worth of oh it was uh it was one West
I'm sorry it was one West and they had
to pay at least a hundred million
dollars in fines for what they did
during this period of time and that CEO
was a guy named unka oh I know who it
was he was he was a guy named Steve
minuchin who Donald Trump hired to be
Treasury secretary continue but you
don't have a voice you don't have an
agreement they're going to do it again
yes I agree there's if you don't punish
them they'll do it again or if you let
them have the regulatory space to do it
again they'll do it again no so that
that's what you're not disagree it
wasn't the regulatory space it was
Fannie and Freddie that paved the way
they were the ones that way they were
the number one district distributor
falsely labeled triple-a bonds they
never actually saw the mortgages they
were trading you Baney and Freddie to
this day huh they've never opened their
books we fund them and they ever open
their beliefs do not listen the bottom
line is the reason why
we had such a severe crisis was because
of the relationship between the
commercial banks and the investment
banks Fannie and Freddie bought those
mortgages from those banks four years
after the run started I agree with you
that you have some of the elements
correct you don't understand the role of
Fannie and Freddie in that crisis but
it's largely irrelevant to the point I'm
making which is the crisis was as severe
as it was because we rescinded
glass-steagall under a Democratic
president and a Republican Congress we
could go back and we could today we
couldn't reinstate institute it and say
the bank's a guy like scooter-cide or
anything there's some merit be in jail
okay stop I'm not pretty hard to see
personally but I think we're we could
agree where Sam and I agrees there's
something fundamentally wrong that
somehow a prerequisite around the
Treasury Department is working at
goldman sachs there's something wrong
with that and that is cronyism steve
minuchin did not work oh he did work at
goldman sachs and then he went to one
west and basically committed such
measure of crimes that had Kamala Harris
been on top of it in California and
listen to her subordinates Steve
minuchin might have been indicted of
course none of these US attorneys were
indicted anybody and that was also a
function of Eric Holder and that's a
whole nother story where he could have
gone to but he didn't because Steve
minuchin is his daddy's daddy
essentially just about 45 seconds
welcome let's just say I'm not capital
is no example so that's what happens
when you lock capitalism I would
completely untold when you have
corporations gain so much money and
power okay they're too big and we need
to make them small I had four seconds of
an agreement moment so I want you all to
remember how does the market for that
how does the market make these entities
that have too much power
smaller competition because because you
know why who's keeping someone from
competing with Amazon so I go on at that
point to talk about the idea of like you
know you can go and attempt to challenge
Amazon or challenge Google or challenge
one of these banks but the fact of the
matter is because glass-steagall
particularly in the context the bank
because glass-steagall was was repealed
there were banks
that were situated to become behemoths
that basically can now close everyone
out of the system so if you're really
concerned about the aggregation of power
you need to return to an antitrust
regime that predates the Reagan
administration when these companies
whether they were telecommunications or
banks or whatnot
we're not allowed to buy up other ones
and become so huge and you know the one
thing I will say and and then this video
will combine with the rest of this
debate is that if I take Charlie as
being sincere on some of these things
that he does have a problem with the
consolidation of power and if I take him
seriously on these things that he's
sincere about him I think that you know
as he learns more about this stuff if he
really does try to that like I say this
guy may end up not doing the exactly
what he's doing today but maybe that's
being a little bit too hopeful all right
so you why away from my Charlie if
you're watching on YouTube we're gonna
just roll into the beginning of that
let's do the debate callers I don't know
how much time we're gonna have oh yeah
we could it's only gonna be an hour so
we should we should be able to do this
relatively quick quickly I didn't mean
to do that
all right sup cuz when you're so
conscious you know what here in collars
here is the here is the the debate now I
should say at the beginning of the
debate that we had to submit and fill
out or submit questions like a series of
questions that were supposedly going to
keep the debate on track not only did
the moderator it seemed like a perfectly
nice guy not only did he not ask those
questions
he didn't even introduce us which was I
thought a little bit weird
so we went right into it but here's the
debate we're going to play the debate at
one point two times the speed and we'll
be stopping it - one - correct
Charlie and - correct me and to give
some insight as to what's going on so
here is that debate between charlie kirk
and sam seder posit it's Cedar not Seder
[Applause]
so for those who don't know me my name
is Steven Olli Cara I'm the founder of a
non partisan organization called
millennial Action project I'm honored to
be back at politican for the fourth year
and we've got a great debate for all of
you discussing the middle class and
whether Trump has been helpful or
hurtful to the middle class and will
debate all of that here my one request
of the panelists is that we want to have
an exchange of ideas and so we want to
focus on the substance avoid personal
attacks and my request on behalf of the
audience here is that we don't yell over
each other because then they won't be
able to understand what you're saying so
are we on board with that yes yes we do
all right very good are you all ready to
get started
okay so again we're here talking about
the middle class and I think perhaps the
most consequential composite one thing I
did notice in the reason why we're both
having have handheld mics is that I
noticed in the the debate that Kirk had
with a Hasan that Hasan did not
wear I didn't had a lavalier mic and
Charlie had a handheld mic now of course
you do this if you want to scream over
somebody because you can modulate your
voice in a different way and so I think
I had not exactly sure I wasn't sure why
Charlie didn't show up for the wiring of
the mic but when the guy said what kind
of Mike do you want I said I'll take
what he's taking and and so we both
ended up with handheld it's like a duel
yeah and some level it was like if you
want to play this handheld mic game I
will play that game - so there's a
little debate
for you folks president Trump passed
related to this was a tax bill last year
so I'm gonna start with Sam what was
your take on the tax bill and more
broadly do you think Trump has been
helpful to the middle class well let me
answer your second question first no I
don't think he's been particularly
hopeful for the middle class I don't
think that across the board I'm sure
there are some measures perhaps but
across the board net things are not
better for the middle class now and
certainly down the road they're going to
be a lot worse because of policies that
we've seen at least in the first two
years of this administration 65% of the
tax cuts went to the top 20% of the
country this was you know in nominal
terms the biggest tax cut for the middle
class in history or at least a you know
recent memory but at the end of the day
if I turned Charlie's microphone up from
a five to an eight and mine from a five
to a 12 or a 10 that is the dynamic that
we have going here with the incredible
wealth inequality middle class losing
out in terms of wages and versus
inflation certainly at least in the
first 18 months of the Trump
administration versus the last 18 months
of the Obama administration where was
basically flipped and with increased
wealth inequality you get things like
middle class being priced out of the
housing market in the top ten
metropolitan areas across the country
you see it in in in other areas as well
so broadly speaking at least in terms of
the tax cuts it provides some very
inefficient stimulus to the economy but
no this was for the very wealthy Charlie
your response um I first want to say Sam
I think you always come about your ideas
very thoughtfully so I look forward to
this discussion sincerely so thank you
know and so the first thing I would come
from the argument that Trump has helped
the middle class and let me build it out
in a couple ways first of all you did
say it was the largest middle class tax
cut in recent memory and that's not
saying a lot because there hasn't been
done a lot for the middle class but
let's define what exactly we mean by the
middle class the middle class in some
ways is a uniquely American concept the
way that most people would label the
middle class and you could have your own
definition is you have the comfort to
send your child to a relatively good
school and your child's life has a
greater than likely chance that will be
better than your life that you have a
meeting here I mean like I'm not sure
what the point of this was
it is a uniquely American concept
insofar as in most industrialized
Western countries in fact maybe all you
don't you the the opportunity to send
your kids to school and to get health
care and to lead a comfortable life is
basically taken for granted it is not
something that has to be aspired to or
you know a a roll of the dice
but it's like what makes them in a class
special here is we have more of a
precariat so you write about it there's
a chance it may not happen so we feel
good that we have those things allows
you to live comfortable that you could
take maybe one to two vacations a year
and that you don't have it to have an
instrumental amount of debt now that
being said when Americans are polled
anywhere between seventy to ninety
percent of Americans think their
middle-class which of course only 50% of
Americans are middle-class that's it
it's really amazing to see that the the
separation of date of how many people
think their middle-class versus how many
people actually are middle-class is it
now I understand what he was trying to
say here he was trying to say that those
people think they're middle-class and
they also think that they are living the
life that Charlie uses to define the
middle class and he did this a little
bit clumsily but I see where he was
going here he's saying the the concept
of middle class and you may have your
own definition Sam and so might all
those people who define themselves as
middle class may not think that like hey
my life allows me to vacations a year
and I can send my kids to college no
problem I don't have excessive debt
because the vast majority of Americans
don't get those vacations do have the
debt worry about sending their kids and
getting a good education and they still
may identify themselves as middle class
because who wants to because I know I'm
not in the top 1% or 10% but I don't
want to be perceived myself as being at
the bottom rung of society now I suppose
I could have addressed that but I only
now understood this point because he
didn't quite deliver
that succinctly but the reason that I
would say that is for that is that we
have an elevated standard living in this
country that goes beyond just income and
goes actually that people that are
earning 30 or $40,000 a year have access
to higher quality goods that in other
countries they wouldn't let's talk about
the Trump tax cut in particular first of
all there's a lot of demonization
against corporations and against
businesses when businesses thrive they
have to employ people and so 3.5 million
jobs have been created since to start
the Trump administration most of those
are middle-class jobs wages have gone up
about 3.8 percent in the last year they
were flatlining under the Obama
presidency my favorite number I'm sorry
well that's not true excuse me do what
you just did
excuse me well I'm not gonna sit here
Sam and have lives about facts everybody
has a phone
Google Google middle-class wages so see
if there's stagnant versus inflation
those three with a 3.8 percent wage
increase over the last year for the
median worker Hispanic incomes at its
highest level in American history at
$50,000 a year my favorite number of the
Trump administration is that 3.9 million
people have gone off food stamps and
into the labor force three point nine
million people now why is my favorite
number we know how many people are on
food stamps and in the labor force like
I don't get that I mean well no what are
you saying you think look here's the
thing about about food stamps food
stamps is what is known as an automatic
stabilizer of the economy when the
economy has a dip or let's say a crisis
like in 2008 more people become eligible
for food stamps it's not that it's not
they're not it's not that the program is
expanded it's that more people
unfortunately become eligible because
their wages have disappeared and their
money has gone away and so yes as you
get further out from this crisis more
people get more jobs incidentally well
as long as we're talking about job
creation and this is something I
probably should have brought up during
the the debate there were some things I
simply forgot to to raise but job
creation
under Barack Obama's last 20 months was
higher than under the first 20 months of
of of Donald Trump here let me get these
numbers here we go 20 months the last
the first 20 months of the Trump
administration 3.8 million jobs is that
what he said 3.8 million jobs I think
that's what he said yeah right in the
last 20 % no no that was that was he's
arguing wages but he said more jobs
created in the last 20 months of the
Obama administration four point one five
million jobs were created so job
creation during the Obama years last the
last 20 months higher than the
comparable amount of time that Donald
Trump has been president the wages he
has exactly opposite although I think
what he's doing is he's taking the
increase in wages in a very short period
of time he's not taking it for the
entire time that Trump is in office he's
taking a very isolated month to make
that argument but if you look back in
the past 20 months and you look at wage
increases versus inflation it's a net
loss for workers including middle class
number for us conservatives we do not
judge success by how many people go on
government programs but instead of how
many people go off into independence now
I will not say that our economy is at
its optimal level I think it's the best
economy in a generation we looked at
four point three percent GDP growth 3
point 7 percent unemployment rate and so
if you try to pause it now again he's
looking at one quarter and it is not
there we don't haven't had what he's
using a term that is for a very limited
period of time
true but worthless in terms of making an
assessment as to the policies put good
well class by two major things which is
standard of living increase of which
you're seeing that happen dramatically
and the second of which is education we
have a lot of work to do on the
education side I think you and I would
both agree on that we could have a
extended conversation about that on
policy but the economic metrics are so
good but the New York Times says quote
this economy is so good we're running
out of ways to critique it
and so again it's not a perfect economy
but for middle-class Americans that care
about rising wages creating jobs and tax
cuts the average American family had a
2700 dollar tax cut under this Trump tax
cut before here is where I had one of my
bigger failures I didn't really pay
attention to what he was saying there
but very the average family he uses that
figure as opposed to the median family
so that's the old if a Sam cedar and
Bill Gates are in a room the average
wealth between the two of us is
somewhere around a billion dollars or
two billion or whatever what does he
have like 50 billion
I don't know 25 billion dollars that's
what the averages that's if we
redistribute it all the wealth that well
that's what the average is but the
median is something very different
because the median is where the family
sitting in the middle and for the median
family the tax cuts was actually closer
to about $800 now $800 isn't nothing but
it if like I say if I give Charlie a
raise in his volume by three units on
his microphone but I give me seven guess
who you're gonna hear more from folks
it's gonna be me and that's the problem
your purchasing power is and your
political power is diminished if I give
that much more money to billionaires
that's good for some consumers consumer
spending power that's good for savings
and it's good for of course what you
would say is more demand side economics
coupled with supply-side economics that
created jobs and repatriated trillions
about was our wealth back to the America
so everyone here has a phone and they
can Google the first 18 months of the
Trump administration versus the last 18
months of the Obama administration wages
have gone up 1.7 percent under the first
18 months of the Trump administration
they had inflation is up 3.8 percent
that is simply a fact now if you if you
narrow if you narrow the time horizon
you can come up with numbers you're
talking about and this is why people
have to be careful about statistics
because I can come up here and
manipulate anything yes
Latino wages are up in fact the middle
class is making more money today than in
a $61,000 than in the past however like
I say inflation is uh the cost of higher
education has gone up a hundred and ten
percent since 1994 so it doesn't matter
if the middle class is making sixty one
thousand dollars if to lead the middle
class life that you were talking about
is that much more expensive if the
middle class like the tax cuts they
wouldn't disfavor them far greater than
they do even Obama care at this point
right I mean so the bottom line is we
can throw out statistics but if they're
not contextualized it doesn't matter
okay so everyone knows the tax cuts went
to the wealthy am i demonizing them no
the point is that they have an inward in
amount of wealth and income in this
country and it turns into political
power and I know you have a problem with
that and the way to solve that is to
flatten the tax it's to not give them
tax cuts and more power and give
corporations more power in cash to pay
off their their shareholders which tend
to be the board of directors and the
CEOs but rather to spread the wealth so
okay there are some things I agreed with
however to contextualize it further it
doesn't make the economic growth
economic success any less exceptional or
any less historic because following the
same trajectory but the Obama
administration was like this he hasn't
screwed it up sam'l sam'l III I
routinely restrain myself during your
comments to Allah thank you for that
Charlie and that's a big deal for me if
you watched yesterday feel free to
interrupt me when you when you think I
said something wrong if you heard it
everyone heard it mothers nutshell such
that one more time that is such a smart
move it's so - I had to cuz he just lies
of course but also practically I mean
practically because he just lies but I
mean there's no escape but what is he
gonna say no we should stick to format
so I can why a beautiful and then also
you look really accountable like hey man
let's both be honest and totally by all
means if I'm being if I'm wrong or god
forbid being dishonest please correct me
if you're public points there the first
of all the big misconception that I have
with your original analysis is that just
because someone gets rich
someone got poor that is categorically
false if a wealthy person increases
their net worth they did not exploit
someone to get wealthier they had to
take a risk and ploy a bunch of people
buy a building who had a really good
idea and people had a keen a slightly
different topic I would have would have
said I would have I would have addressed
the fact that of course yes they're
exploiting their labor they're both
doing it in a in terms of like a Marxist
critique but also many times in this
country particularly under Trump when
you have rolled back all sorts of
protections for workers they're doing it
in a more explicit almost legal well
you're doing it in a liberal way which
is your your your violating contract law
right exactly that's pretty simple
exactly those products over and over
again
and you and I will have a philosophical
and economic difference in this I come
from a perspective that does not believe
in the zero-sum game and does not
believe in a fixed pie fallacy instead I
believe that when someone gets richer
they must employ an extraordinary mind
of people a to take a huge risk they'd
hire them like chance no no wait a
second a lot of people thought that that
was he was like baiting me on that but
that when we have talked about zero-sum
it has not been in the context of
economic growth and it's not I think
they just pit I mean I'm you mentioned
that it's hard to imagine that they
didn't have some you think I mean he
gets at for time would give him some
credit I'm sure he or somebody around
him listened to the show once we get a
total misunderstanding of are you
telling okay Oh succeed they probably
borrowed money and then they had to
create something that all of us had to
buy over and over and over again that
inherently allows the standard of living
to increase for all people prices to
usually go down and then you can enter
competition it's very very difficult to
do that time and time again and you see
in market-based economies you have to
have really really good ideas for a long
period of time to accumulate that kind
of wealth but that being said those that
get wealthy because of access to power
such as 8 out of 10 wealthiest counties
in America around Washington DC they're
not actually creating anything that I
would consider to be a value to the
middle class because they're being
rewarded to their geographic proximity
to a four point four trillion dollar
federal budget that is extracting money
away from middle-class Americans those
are the lobbyists those are the trial
lawyers those are the people working for
the corporations that are lobbying not
on behalf of middle America but on
behalf of people around Washington DC so
in that you and I will agree well
okay the people who live in that the the
the counties are talking about are
overwhelmingly arms sales and military
industrial complex people I'm not the
front administration raised the budget
military I don't agree by seven hundred
billion dollars over the next ten years
and that money is flowing into the wrong
I don't agree with that those so I will
okay that's it
my point is Donald Trump is the one who
is leading but your action so first of
all but let me finish it then you second
interrupt you if you say if I said
something wrong yes so it's only seven
hundred million dollars of our budget
every single years the but what's the
rest its to entitlements it is to be
robberies it was about the government
contracts for housing urban development
contracts were helping me material you
were talking what about the government
contracts yeah so those counties that
got the diamond contracts outside of the
defense contracts or also what I write
my critique minuscule the three point
two trillion dollars is not mention the
lien on to made up number
let's talk Kansas for a moment shall we
because I wish I wish to explain why I
was a made-up number well all right so
the fact of the matter is that our
budget the the biggest expenses we have
our Medicare Social Security and the
military and then the entire rest of the
government is like about a fifth of the
remaining money that we spend maybe it's
a little bit less than a fifth but let's
just call it a fifth and so any like the
HUD contracts he's talking about are are
minuscule compared to the rest of the
budget and I Got News for you here's
what no one in those counties are making
money off of Social Security there's
just there they're not there's no way
for them they're not selling Social
Security I like how he agrees with you
about the military industrial
contractors in Virginia but the second
thing he had to mention was as opposed
to that the most famous thing in those
suburbs
he mentioned trial lawyers there are
there's no trial lawyers living in those
areas either I would say that the that
is that is probably one of the few
jurisdictions where there's just not a
lot of trial lawyers about all the trial
lawyers think tanks in Arlington that
are funded by Lockheed Martin and
Raytheon part of the problem is is like
with some of the times and this is
something that I got to work on the
context in Dube is like I couldn't even
understand what his point was it was so
like sort of disparate so I had to
choose one and that's basically the
trick in these things is that what is
the the you know the the overall notion
is that you're getting ripped off by
five different groups that are just
maybe associated what he's talking about
maybe not and so you pick one but then I
want it to basically take the offensive
and talk about Kansas because
theoretically we were still talking
about the tax cuts because it was the
only question you're asked okay can talk
about what a small business does for
employment I'm a small businessman and I
understand what small business does in
Kansas if I had been living in Kansas I
would have gotten a huge huge tax break
because huge I'm an escort huge under
Sam Brownback back in 2012 he brought in
Arthur Laffer who I'm sure you're
familiar with is the God for folks like
you in many respects the idea being if
we cut taxes on the wealthy they will
spread this wealth it will trickle down
on all of us it will will shower down on
us right it will rain upon us and we
will all be sprinkled with this golden
shower if you will and and the economy
will explode and people will have jobs
and everything will work out in fact
revenue will go up that's what Mitch
McConnell told us after this tax cut -
and what happened in Kansas was a
disaster it was such an unmitigated
disaster
not only did it destroy Kansas is
educational system the
republican-controlled state House rose
taxes four years later because their
economic growth lagged their employment
lagged and then Sam Brownback was
literally made ambassador to like ether
right he's like the ambassador to
religion now he's been jettisoned into
the atmosphere in some way because that
is the perfect example of the Republican
conservative philosophy and it failed
and we know that right now a
national-level night repenter because
Mitch McConnell made the same promise
about the deficit in fact Larry Kudlow
the chief economic advisor of the
president made the same promise in July
and we now have a deficit that is twice
the size it was when Obama left office
and now Mitch McConnell wants to cut
Medicare and Social Security let me
because of those taxes you're
or not you're not gonna hear me you're
not gonna hear me defend was it for one
second now I will just say this there
some people had a complaint that I was
using the deficits in this context
because there really isn't a problem
with these deficits
however deficits are used exactly in the
way that Mitch McConnell has used them
which is to use to justify because most
people in this country and I am NOT one
of those people but I live in this
country and I have to take the terms as
they exist on some level I could argue
that deficits don't matter but then I've
taken myself out of this argument and
once I argue that deficits don't matter
in this context I don't have a response
for why for you know the way that Mitch
McConnell uses them and so they are
using these as a justification these
deficits as a justification for cutting
Social Security and Medicare and so I
didn't want to have the argument about
MMT in this context because it wasn't
just the modern monetary theory but so
just I just want to note that for people
I don't think deficits are that
problematic except to the extent that
they are used as a justification to cut
the most important programs for
Americans so really in many respects
when you get a tax cut like this it is
zero-sum because if if it wasn't
zero-sum for them they wouldn't pretend
to care about the deficit or are
exploiting national debt quickvac rock
obama had and word enter the present us
Esther you know offend what do you
defend these tax cuts that have doubled
the deficit so the tax cuts should have
been coupled with spending cuts however
we have explosive economic growth we
have more people in the labor force than
ever that's revenue coming here you have
trillions of dollars repatriating back
to America let me finish I allowed you
to have your cams example now that we're
talking about states let's talk about
the juxtaposition of the failed state of
California with the successful state of
Texas
[Applause]
and I think I want a country that's
gonna look a lot more like Florida and
Texas and a lot less like Illinois in
California now what up states like
Illinois and California done well
they're losing citizens number one
they're losing job creators they're
losing entrepreneurs because they have
raised taxes they have reckless
politicians in both states like Illinois
in California what have Texas and
Florida done they've kept their taxes
low both have no state income tax they
have deregulated their economies and
samadeva agree with that Texas during
the Great during the Great Recession
2008 2009 2010 comprised one out of
three all jobs created across the
country and and if you couple that with
if you drop suppose that if you will now
like you know all through this diatribe
we had basically the oil and gas and
fracking like in North Dakota there was
also like huge job creation because of
fracking which you know our our have
large costs associated with them win-win
right in terms of climate change and in
terms of people's health and I don't
think Florida is the place you want to
go to talk about
enormous economic growth but and
Illinois has a Republican governor but
the point it's like all of this stuff is
pretty narrow but this is where he
wanted to go so this is I continue that
in the Midwest the Midwest was booming
except Illinois every state in the
Midwest as a 3% GDP growth Illinois has
a 1.8 percent GDP growth despite Chicago
being an exceptional city has being
screwed up by corrupt politicians in one
political party and you look at
California that should be the most
prosperous there should be the richest
state in the country and yes you'll say
you'll say it is the richest country
also is the most populous country with
the most amount of homeless people with
the most amount of people living in
poverty with crumbling schools closet so
yes one would expect the most populous
country to have the most amount of
people associated with societal ills so
if you have the most amount of people in
the country living in a state the most
populous state will more than likely
have the most populous homeless populace
and also I mean even
even more but it like there's I was
actually just talking with wise about
this the other day like there's more of
some certain aspects of homelessness
around LA as an example the further
because the weather is nice
well yes easier place to do that so
people come from other places so they
don't freeze to death in the winter sort
of makes well but also I would even say
like just slightly more substantively
like and you don't have time to get into
this but like this also is a difference
inside the broad center left to left
coalition because certainly like the
more liberal California Legislature has
proposed doing a bit more for this stuff
and Jerry Brown's the tightwad guys want
to spend money and they don't want to
tax the Silicon Valley people so it to
the extent it even is true because of
policy it's true from a left you know
even just a Kenyan Kensi and critique
Democrats aren't as socialist as yeah
yeah yeah right did Democrats or
basically keeping tax rates lower why
they should be doing more right right
but in the conservative mind
homelessness is not something that is a
situation that has happened to people
being on food stamps is not a you know
providing a baseline for the for so that
people can eat it is a virus that is
distinct from people and that you can
catch as opposed to a condition that
people find themselves in for a myriad
of reasons that we could impact the
condition but they there is a certain
you know morality that is associated
with this so they think it's like
something like that is a virus that
spreads to people if you have Democrats
around them let me finish and I know you
got plenty differences but as long as
you want it if you want to talk about
states allow me to address the Kansas
example when Kansas if you if you if you
look at Kansas versus state like
Connecticut Kansas had higher economic
growth was creating more jobs versus
similar size similar population blue
states during the Brownback tax cuts
there are a lot of other contributing
factors to why Kansas was not exactly a
pristine example how to run a state such
as government corruption such as Miss
allocation of resources and other
diminishing businesses that went to
states like Texas that had a zero zero
state income tax and so if you want to
talk about the contrast to states it's
the red states that are eight nine out
of ten
most pro-business states in America and
Republican governors and Republican
legislators the most proud road looking
States in America run by Republicans I'm
glad you mention it the reason why I
bring up Kansas is because the dynamic
is identical to the one that Donald
Trump is we're talking about Donald
Trump and the Republicans did on a
national level now here's how the game
works and this is why it is zero-sum
because you get these massive tax cuts
to the wealthy and you repatriate money
from overseas that ends up going into
shareholder buybacks to stop by that we
know that 84% 84 percent of stocks in
this country are owned by the top 10
percent this is a great well and great
and 60 percent of those tax dollars that
were repatriated went into the hands of
those people we saw no job growth as a
function of that repatriation we saw no
no not only trickled down that were
supposed to see we see these tax cuts
and then Mitch McConnell brings down the
hammer we're gonna cut Social Security
we're gonna cut Medicare these are the
most popular the most successful
programs in the country and the only way
the Republicans can cut them is to
create an economic crisis and that is by
giving money to wealthy people so let's
talk about the stock the stock buyback
so let's talk about the stock buyback so
you say 84% what that doesn't
contextualize to use your word is money
managers that are controlling money for
pension funds so I've been sax controls
money California say pension fund it's
categorized as goldman sachs controlled
that money not as the pension fund so
when the stock market goes up the
teachers are firefighters the police
officers their 401 K so what their
pensions go up in their net worth goes
up so in the market expose the network I
allowed you to finish your lying
okay so what for example when when when
GCT our partner from Chicago Sam answer
the question when goldman sachs controls
the california state pension fund is it
classified as the california state
pension fund by insecurity are gonna tax
by the securities moment Sachs someone
you use you know that's true 84% I will
tell you okay Google again so 84% your
number of stock racks delivered to add
context to it Sam is that the money
manager is in the 1% with the money
they're managing is pension fund money
that are people in the middle class
upper class so what you're saying is not
incorrect but it's only half true
because it is the middle class people's
money that they're managing with that
being said okay when let's use an
example zero zero evidence that
repatriation create any jobs all use a
microcosm example how about Foxconn that
create 4,000 jobs in Wisconsin because
they repatriate the money away from
Chinese manufacturing jobs to American
manufacturing second are first off I
have tried to track down
this concept that he's suggesting that
the manager of what is that they're
coming from oh I don't know maybe that's
coming out of my think alright that the
the manager of a fund is listed as the
owner of the fund now I don't know how
to disprove that I'm looking at the the
Edward Wolfe nigh bar paper two four
zero eight five issued in November of
2017 that talked about the asset plunges
prices plunging between 2007 and 2010
and who owned the stocks and it includes
401ks and pensions and whatnot I don't
know if pensions would be classified by
who manages them that does not make
sense to me
because it's called the California
pension and we have some awareness of
that yes that is a huge several billion
dollar pension it's a lot of people
nevertheless there are trillions of
dollars invested in you know all sorts
of Minar in our market and by the way
that's another maneuver there too right
not that you had time or it would been
useful necessarily but like yeah maybe
we should have a debate about Goldman
Sachs and other Wall Street banks well
Iping out public pension funds with
reckless bets on policies you support it
being irregular we do we do actually
later in the thing but yeah and then he
goes on to talk about Foxconn now he
talks about Foxconn repatriating funds
to Wisconsin from China and I should
have addressed this because I was aware
that Wisconsin is paying out four
billion dollars plus to Foxconn in
incentives to get them to function in
their country
I had not heard that first of all I have
presumed that it was more jobs in 4000
plus his use of repatriated does not
make sense the repatriation is about
American companies who had overseas
profits and we're bringing that money
back in a as part of the tax deal at
lower tax rates than they otherwise
would have paid and that's what
repatriation referred to and so when he
brought the Foxconn thing I should have
pushed back on this and I think at the
time I was thinking like I don't know
what he's talking about like he's
talking about something that I think is
different from what I know about because
he's using the wrong words you know
Foxconn is not repatriating anything
because they didn't start here they're
getting a sweetheart deal to open a
factory yeah they're repatriating all of
these Chinese villages that they stole
from America because of globalist trade
deals well but that was that was part of
the problem there and so I got sort of
thrown off and I should have I should
have pushed back on that because first
off this is the guy who doesn't want
government intervention in our in the
free market and this is not terribly
free market II from my perspective but
all right continued subsidy in folks
four thousand new jobs were created in
Wisconsin because the Trump tax cut that
they directly attributed to a
pro-business
pro-american mindset that's four
thousand jobs in Wisconsin that
otherwise would not exist exist under a
Republican governor Republican state
legislature and a president oh that's a
microcosm example you said there's your
evidence that's a piece of evidence well
look people can look at the last time a
Republican president repatriated that
money it was the American Jobs Creation
Act 2005 George Bush promoted this he
has come out and suddenly sent he got
rolled because all those companies that
wanted that to supposedly add jobs cut
jobs we know the these money went to
buybacks
we know why buybacks are legal now
because of the Republican Party changed
that regulation in the 80s when it used
to be called stock manipulation and we
know that it benefits the CEOs and the
shareholders and that 84 percent and it
does not it includes the California
pensions it includes every municipal and
state pension and 401k and the
tree thank you sir so here's another
thing I do want to talk about because
you talk about can you explain to me
when someone gets richer who exactly
gets poorer can you explain how that
process works like when I for example
so get a folks you understand the idea
of buying power right if I give you
ma'am
ten dollars and school costs ten dollars
you buy school but if school goes up to
twenty dollars and you don't have the
same buying power what drives the price
of let's say housing for instance it is
wealth inequality and you see this in
ten cities across the country the
biggest metropolitan areas in the
country the middle class can not afford
to live there anymore because we have
real estate going through the roof
you're right and so you have you have in
states such as Illinois in Connecticut
in California because of excessive
property taxes people don't want to
purchase some of those houses so you've
wanted to give one or two problems that
happened is that the middle class gets
priced out so the wealthy if you will
the people that you are demonizing will
go up a bracket and they'll say well if
I'm going to pay thirty five thousand
dollars a year in property taxes I might
as well buy this XYZ house therefore the
middle class person who's trying to sell
their house with an excessive property
tax burden has to all property tax are
one of the main really
I know what the axes are they're not
nearly as much as if the price goes up
again so in states like Illinois this
property taxes can be anywhere between
six and a half to nine percent for a
state that doesn't work for schools that
schools are completely and totally
broken so but let's you the fourth the
foreign investment things so I'm still
trying to go back I like I don't I I
didn't know how to address what are you
saying there because he's just the the
words don't connect he's mentioning the
state taxes if state taxes were so high
it would have an adverse impact on
prices it would drop the the the the the
price of the house I mean overall you
could say it's too expensive but it
doesn't it doesn't even track with what
he's saying but he does just keep going
he's got a deep well of talking points
and it doesn't really matter how
relevant they are it's pretty impressive
in that respect but but some came when
an entrepreneur renders a service and
employs a bunch of people and you buy
that service who is getting poorer in
that transaction because you said
zero-sum game
try to understand more guts no you're
right so tax cut we're an average
middle-class family had a $2,700 tax cut
where you have the corporate rate that
went from 35 percent effective
understand a lot of corporations that
not pay that they use loopholes of which
I disagree with completely went down to
20 20 percent effective in January and
they use that money to invest in capital
infrastructure or they repay tree
buybacks so using the money not by
Nauticus own stock buybacks
how about companies where the actual
employees on the stock and then their
own net worth goes up aren't they part
of no class I am sure there are some
members of the middle class who
benefited from the start of the tax cut
that's what I'm saying some be
overwhelming thrust who's keeping
someone from competing with Amazon what
was that
it looks like the TYT cut that out I
don't know that's the stream here that's
strange
wow did we lose well I that couldn't
have been much it could have been just a
blip who's keeping someone from
competing with Google okay sometimes I
think someone nobody but you know who's
keeping them you know who's trying to
compute preventing em from keeping to
prevent against Goldman Sachs and JP
Morgan the dodd-frank bill because I had
so much regulation and so and such
cumbersome rules it dis allows the local
community bank from ever competing
against the local community bank is
going to compete against Goldman so I'm
so glad that's a great question where do
these banks hold on for one second
alright you got an I am going back to
the pension funds and I'm glad some of
it
hi Sam Kirk is wrong about pension funds
classified by the money manager I do
Securities Litigation and these kind of
statistics are formulated by the 13f
reports pension funds report these 13f
separately and they are specific to the
fund I have no idea what he's talking
about here now honestly like in that
situation you need to have a securities
attorney and maybe debate isn't the best
place to hash some of these things out
yeah I mean some in those areas I think
you just got to I mean the the idea that
I was like III don't know how to I don't
know how to disprove this it's like an
argument to meckley yes exactly but
continue and Wells Fargo start it
started as a local community bank that
eventually is a very good job of running
their balance sheets and then they
became one of Wall Street banks it's not
not unheard of there was no job Frank
exactly right it was before dodd-frank
Sam like and they were not allowed to
have to merge until that 96 no again I
think there is some merit to your
glass-steagall argument I do not think
that is the primary factor why 2008
happened nor would I say that
reinstating glass-steagall will have
possition can we miss that all that
glass-steagall stuff there's a big gap
in that that's strange there was a big
gap we were talking about the
glass-steagall because we're returning
to it all right well let's continue here
well we'll try and find that that
segment that's missing that's weird Wall
Street we will get competition back on
Wall Street when we decentralize the SEC
when we do centralize the FDIC we make
it easier for people to give out loans
and have an and have FDIC deposit I
don't know what the words decentralize
the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation means like I don't like
that's the thing is that there are times
where you would say stuff like I don't
even understand what the work what the
what like I know what the FDIC is and I
want to decentralize means but how would
you decent relies this this is an
insurance fund so that when you put in
money into a bank up to two hundred and
fifty thousand dollars I believe it is
for each individual depositor each at
each Bank in the event that the bank
goes under because they have made a
series of bad loans let's say and the
loans go south and certainly in the
run-up to 2008 we started to see this
quite a bit they make too many loans the
businesses go out of business and
because they loan not only out you know
what's in the back you know what's in
the deposits but a certain percentage
more than that people could stand to
lose all their money and so the only way
these banks can function in a way that
is confident for people and you don't
get bank runs is if the federal
government says I could look we got you
covered for the first 250 grand you got
in that Bank
and I don't know what it even means to
decentralize it like I don't know
Bitcoin honestly like I know it's it's
it's taking a wheat like there was a
line of people I think who some were
sort of associated with like critiques
of bureaucracy in the 70s that has
barely has almost nothing to do with
what they're talking about today and
then maybe maybe it's I don't know he
doesn't know there's no explanation my
point is well my point is the real
explanation is that you could connect
those words with the tradition that he
is not a part of in terms of policy but
what that is that's a nicer way as I see
not at all I understand without at all
and that's a nicer way of just saying he
wants to get rid of insurance people's
deposits right I mean that's the only
order no it's the Treasury Department no
or your check should come from several
different agencies instead of one no it
means that um he doesn't know what the
FDIC or he doesn't know theft yeah all
right here continue surance backing that
is so hard to do right now because the
goldman sachs doesn't want that
competition it's very simple when you
have someone from goldman sachs running
the treasury department that will
probably work for goldman sachs after
and they work for them before they're
gonna try to protect goldman sachs
interest what does that look like create
rules and regulation that make it very
hard for other banks to compete with
goldman sachs you and i agree with that
we agree that the middle class is
suffering for trump's continuing to
allow goldman sachs in there maybe we
should both vote for Bernie Sanders well
so is it with Warren and and again it's
important to remember it's it's not just
a Republican or Democrat thing both
parties allow Goldman Sachs to run the
Treasury Department but let me say this
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders
definitively well she might one 1020
forth allow it to be run but oh there
you go do one one thousand
the Treasury Department might be run by
the Birchwood I honestly did not hear
that so when I saw you I thought Sam is
so done right now that he's not even
gonna like be like yeah oh my god right
like you didn't even acknowledge that
dude was talking the the the the
moderator here scroll back I missed that
completely
ortant it to remember it's not just a
Republican or Democrat thing both
parties allow Goldman Sachs to run the
Treasury Department but let me say this
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders
definitively well she might one 1020
forth allow it to be run but one 1020
for the Treasury Department might be run
by someone from Philly
so again I want to make sure we talk
about trade and tariffs I suspect there
might be some agreement some
disagreement here I'll start with
Charlie give us your take on Trump's
trade policy his tariffs
yeah posit and the whole thing where I
said we should get together agree with
it support a 21st century yeah hard
and all right well let's continue it's
very weird we'll we'll have to track
that down what's your take I've I've
been more nuanced opinion on it I think
what he's doing with China's terrific I
think China o pleasant they also missed
the part where he was talking about the
banking about they feel like they missed
the part where you challenged him to
list the three no that regulations comes
up later doesn't it or no I think I hope
yeah partial okay debate has been an
unfair actor on the on the world on the
world stage for far too long they still
are categorized as a developing nation
in the World Trade Organization which
allows them access to subsidies they're
allowed there they build a coal-fired
power plant every single month which as
soon as they exit as a developing nation
under that certification it would be
much more difficult to do that Sam and I
might actually agree on that posit and
what it was also sort of amazing is like
you just justified the huge subsidy for
Foxconn do you know 20 minutes earlier
and you're crying subsidies to help
China now on some type of principled
level like it's it's just look good you
look China steals our IP so the way it
works in China is if you want to trade
with them you have to essentially form a
partnership with the government they'll
copy or good or service and then they'll
sell it back into the market that you're
competing and probably quicker than it
will take for you to manufacture back in
that country generally I'm a free trade
guy and if the goal is to get too low
tariffs with some of these countries I'm
all for it but with China I consider
them to be the great existential threat
of the west and of American I called
totally completely support what Trump is
doing which are IP is not free
free-trade just technically speaking
right well technically speaking but I
mean in terms yeah that mean I also the
United States has written every single
trade agreement with loads of IP
regulations that are bad for public
health internet so like you know what
country built its publishing industry
off of no copyright didn't IP laws in
the 19th century United States the
United States they sure did but not when
it came to South Africa delivering
generic aid strokes their people then
you needed to tighten up on that the
Trump tariffs on China and there are
issues to some extent with China the
Trump tariffs on China are a tax on the
US a middle class Ford is going to be
laying off close to twelve percent of
their workforce as a function of these
steel tariffs you have a lot of smaller
companies that are looking for
exclusions to these steel tariffs that
make pipe fittings or whatnot the Trump
administration because they have big
donors who are major u.s. steel
manufacturers have denied every single
one of those waivers you see it with
Iowa farmers who are paying stand up to
about six hundred twenty million dollars
worth of of cost to Iowa farmers so from
a middle-class perspective I think the
tariffs are are damaging them there's
some benefit in the new NAFTA to some to
some Auto Workers but it codifies the
monopolies by Big Pharma by forcing
these monopolies on Canada as well and
really you look the number one issue
that the middle class is facing is
healthcare and that's why we see every
election across the country we see
Democrats running on health care and
Republicans pretending that they're not
signed on to the lawsuit that will
destroy some of the most popular
elements of the Affordable Care Act
slash patient protection bill so maybe
we could turn to that where we'll be a
little I mean the trade I think we can
agree on part of it in disagree let's
talk about health care first of all the
Trump tax cut also included a repeal the
individual mandate which was the largest
tax on our generation and if you don't
believe it's a tax just read John
Roberts opinion that upheld Obamacare it
is a tax on people that do not need to
necessarily buy health insurance by
force and we're being forced to buy
something that was completely deter
income bracket
but in healthcare in particular there
have been bill after bill that would
have lowered premiums that would have
allowed health insurance we brought
across state lines that have been
opposed bitterly by Democrats and some
Republicans because they're bought by
the health insurance companies and I
would be much more on the underside of
that we need actually have a market in
health care we have anything but a
market we have an ole agape an oligopoly
controlled by a consortium of health
insurance companies that are in bed with
the pharmaceutical companies I agree Sam
that are also embedded the regulators
from the FDA and so you could kind of
see a constant theme in health care and
higher education in particular which are
two things I talk about a lot the reason
why prices continue to skyrocket
in my opinon would Sam will totally
disagree is an inside-out relationship
between the the entities that are
raising the prices and entities that are
controlling those markets and the
government regulators and Garmon stitute
sanderman politicians where you actually
allow a market to happen and you
deregulate and you're like competition
entrepreneurs to cut prices that will
that will end up that will change
quickly there have been probably a dozen
waivers for in various states across
where insurance companies can sell
across states they don't do it because
their risk pools they're much more
comfortable in dealing with markets they
know when they go into other states they
lose money and that's why they don't do
it the idea that there's any inhibition
for insurance companies to sell across
States by there's no federal law that
says that they can't do it each state
has their own insurance regulators that
is not a federal law whatsoever so they
I'm trying a time and time again the
risk pools are different they cannot
make money that's why insurance
companies don't do it what is going on
now as twenty Republican states are
suing the federal government because of
that small tax that was the individual
mandate which incidentally has risen the
cost of premiums by almost 15 percent
since Donald Trump is do it proves that
young people were subsidizing this
backwards healthcare system it proves
that our generation was being taxed
that's right okay so if that's right so
our generation has to pay more for
something we're not gonna get well you
don't know that you won't get it right
now if the Republicans have their way
you will lose your pre-existing
conditions if you had is not correct so
that is 100 percent correct the bill
that we had that was not about I'm
talking the lawsuit by 20 Republican
states that is not being defended by the
Trump administration DOJ if that lawsuit
which is not being defended by the
federal government that has the law is
successful at the Republican controlled
Supreme Court if you have pre-existing
conditions you can be denied your health
insurance or you can be charged through
the roof if you're 26
our younger you cannot be on your
parents thing you will have lifetime
caps you have yearly caps
you will not get essential benefits you
will not get your free colonoscopy you
will not get your free man mouthing it's
free Sam stop saying that's nothing I
mean it's not something someone got some
tax payer someone or attacks supported
mammograms or your colonoscopies and we
will end up paying even more because
nothing is free we pay us as a nation to
set free : ah well yeah Charlie Oh
taxpayer-funded colonoscopy would be a
better way to put it are you paired with
a microphone no wait you're they're
paying me to be here so weird yeah okay
look the bottom line is yes when
government provides you services it
collects tax and that's the way it pay
for is it pay for way it's paid for it
is far more efficient to have a single
payer for health insurance then then the
private insurance industry in part for
the reasons you mentioned in part
because there's no profit off the top
but for those reasons we should probably
have a single-payer health insurance
program in this country so but um I hear
this argument alot and I'm hearing you
imply it that somehow somehow a market
stops working as soon as it goes into
health care is that something I mean it
works in food it works in housing works
in technology well it doesn't work down
how old it goes up it doesn't work in
housing it doesn't work at housing no we
have gender said yourself we have we
have how many homeless do we have in
this because California has excessive
environment irregular yes it Texas
they're far more deregulated anymore no
do they have homeless people of course
but far less time to say to California
housing I'm sorry do they have section 8
housing in Texas yes but again more
homeless of course
so in housing we see the failure of the
private market we see it circus homeless
our homelessness is not failing here's
the thing so the idea is that somehow if
you eliminate profit from health visitor
that helped profit should not be
involved in healthcare that's that's
right possibly one second I just want to
give you some more specific specifics as
of 2017 there were six states that
enacted laws to allow cross state sales
Georgia Kentucky Maine Rhode Island
Washington and Wyoming
none of those states as of in 2017 had a
single new insurer enter its market
because of its law when asked about
their laws state officials insurance
expert in those states agreed that
establishing a competitive provider
network is the primary
to new market entrance not law it's just
simply it's too hard to go into a state
across state lines because you actually
need to know the people in the risk pool
that's involved and it's too risky
insurance companies are basically
gamblers and under the ACA there was
what were derided by conservatives and
again I would prefer scrap the entire
private industry because this is just
more proof that it is not capable of
delivering this product but there were
you'll recall there were slush funds for
insurance companies and that is because
whenever they move into a new market in
this instance it was providing
individual health care to people not
associated with their jobs remember the
only people who bought new insurance via
the ACA were about ten million Americans
who were buying through the exchanges
four to five percent of Americans tops
there was another four or five percent
got it from Medicaid the only
implications for the rest of us was that
the amount of profit you could get on
insurance was capped at 20 percent and
what insurance had to provide was also
mandated so these these so these these
slush funds would essentially inoculate
insurance companies from having to
service a new clientele because they
couldn't predict how sick these people
would be and how much it would cost them
to provide services versus how much they
would take in in premiums and so that
these so-called slush funds were set up
essentially to smooth that out we're
gonna backstop how much you can lose in
this situation occ blend market for that
right the market actually this is a it's
a horrible Sam have you been to Texas
but continue here
not not only is that so you would say
food is essential to health to living
white white why not have government
subsidized grocery stores we do ohhow
sugar corn wheat we hay farmers not to
grow it's the opposite of we literally
activity we something guys not realize
all of these products to tell that's we
subsidize farmers not to Purdue 1972 of
here's the Palmer's a market no matter
where hard contact whether be in health
care and so what so how we subsidize
these are I mean in some instances we we
tell them not to grow it that raises the
price that is a subsidy like we
literally hand them money that is a
subsidy I don't know you know like you
get stuck native like wait you're you're
describing a subsidy and you're saying
you're trying to prove the fact that
it's not a subsidy and I don't know
beyond like you know flashing a
dictionary up it's a subsidy we
subsidized food of course you do know
that corn doesn't come from magic seeds
so you you you always see prices go down
quality go up and more people have
access to it I know you know the market
but up working because you don't have a
choice if you need health care LASIK eye
surgery is elective wait so it's all
someone sees I'd be blind that gets
LASIK that somehow elective because
lasix LASIK eye surgery is dealing with
one of your vital organs it takes some
of the hi-hi special specialization
degree was it okay I I had seen a debate
that he had done a year ago where he
brought up lazy guy or maybe it was Fred
and so I was I knew he was going there
so I just jumped on it before he got
there because that's his big example of
a surgery that cost a lot of money when
it was first done and then when it was
widely adopted it did the price of it
went down now incidentally it's the
opposite with Invisalign braces I've
known noticed and I imagine that in the
context of LASIK surgery because it's
not one specific product they did
have the same ability to gouge people
but again LASIK eye surgery is elective
that's why I kept pointing to my glasses
I have not elected to get LASIK eye
surgery I don't have a choice
if you find a tumor in my colon I'm not
gonna be like eh I'll live with it
because maybe I won't but continue and
well sight sight might be elective to
you you're wearing glasses but I
wouldn't say that's necessarily elective
but so but it requires a specialized
specialized technician surgeon doctor
and so it's not any less important
here's the thing there's two good things
there's health care and their health
insurance do total different things we
have very bit read the best health care
for those who can afford it correct
how do you how do you expand access to
something and get the price down a
market it works in everything Sam
there's a lot of medical error in
America well that's one of the leading
causes of death United States as medical
error yeah yeah it has failed then we
don't have a market and health care we
do not we limit the amount of doctors
that go into health care personally we
have a national doctor quota that the
American Medical Association obviously I
know you never heard that you should you
should google it because it's what we
have in this country we have a national
quota of doctors at the American Medical
Association the American Medical
Association many allow for second heard
apparently we have a I I've never heard
of this quota frankly and I didn't know
anything about it now there is a I'm
looking at a page here the Jo see doc I
don't know what the Jo see is the doctor
quota this is from 1997 and it is
possible that the AMA won't accredit
enough school so I guess I'm not sure
what's involved with that but I
certainly am in favor of driving down
the price of doctors I mean the the pay
of doctors but I don't let's see I guess
there's some type of rationing of
medical degrees in the
States in terms of the number of medical
schools now maybe that's conceivably
possible but I also saw an earlier
debate of his where he talked about the
the ratio of doctors to patients and he
said it was one to one thousand and so I
brought that up but it turns out that
the ratio of doctors to patients in
other places is actually like higher so
I mean a lower I should say so but here
this is that explains where I'm going
with this doctor is in how many doctors
per patients do we have in this country
enlighten me
we have what one to a thousand is it I'm
asking you enlightenment I think it's
close to one to one so when you have
more doctors doing something therefore
you're not more competition in that pool
which would bring down prices and by the
way it's all rising smaller ratio for a
larger ratio in the other Western
industrialized nations and in fact they
spend far less on health care and have
they paid in taxes Oh Sam here's the
thing so you puke on de Mercado you
you're familiar with the mikado
study yes no tell me what it is pecados
is for Cadis I'm sorry the Makeda study
for like the Mercator stuff which scored
Bernie Sanders twenty five trillion
dollar thirty-two trailer T two trillion
right it's scored Bernie Sanders
single-payer health care program at
thirty two trillion dollars over the
course of ten years it's scored what we
would pay as a nation for health care if
we didn't do single-payer as being
thirty five trillion dollars right so so
yeah your your solution would then be to
take that in taxes and to appropriate it
for a single-payer that's correct I
don't want to live in a country that has
a fifty five to sixty percent tax rate
to pay for something that I'm never
going to benefit here's the problem you
have
here's here's the problem tell me what
they do with my money all night away 60%
of my earnings charlie for something
that I'm not gonna benefit if Charlie
doesn't want to live in a country that
appropriates his money to pay for health
care for other people he's got nowhere
else to go except for maybe a third
world country because every set is
lonely Heather Sam West Riley's rise
country I'm gonna give you the laughs
we're doing that for their citizens and
they are saving money and providing
better health care outcomes with 56:11
highest tax rate the highest tax rate in
a country that Sam likes to talk about a
lot in Norway is 78% that's not a
country that I want to live in and maybe
this may be best country has a 90%
highest tax rate for 30 years during the
bench marginal versus effective Sam you
know there's a difference do not
demagogue at bars and explain to the
audience marginal versus effective you
just demagogue something like your word
demagogues so much well firstly after
that marginal versus effective
like I don't why does he think opposing
I don't they're not he I don't think he
understands fully what that difference
is like the marginal rate is like it
runs contrary to the point he's trying
to make I think like I the the the
effective tax rate of people at that
time back when the marginal tax rate was
ninety percent for every dollar made
after I think it was four hundred and
seventy thousand what would be
equivalent to somewhere to two to three
million dollars today the effective tax
rate would be like after you do all your
tax loopholes how much do you really pay
so it would be less but I'm making the
argument in this country that we've paid
more taxes and those tax loopholes
haven't gone away so I'd only way I can
interpret it as if he's saying like yeah
it was 90 percent but they weren't
actually paying that because they're
ready enough till down to like 40 but I
don't think that even if you said that
what that would be I mean if you were
saying people didn't pay 60 percent of
their taxes which I don't know like
there's a lot of loopholes out there but
how does 50 years ago we're not
yeah mountains fifty years ago we're
very creative and the thing is that the
taxation in Norway is also sub is
marginal as well I don't know I couldn't
figure out if he was saying and they
also get this thing rebated to them
which is their collective share of a
nationalized oil industry which they get
a direct deposit back from the
government from alright well let's
listen to where he's trying to go with
this marginal tax rate means that for
every dollar okay okay so was it the
effective that's the difference its
effective tax rate in Norway is a
different the effective tax rate was
probably about eighty percent it was it
was it was thirty eight percent then it
went up to forty four percent you just
say the tax rate that was that I should
tell you we go back here a little bit
you can hear somebody yell at me shut
the up some dude did and now it
turns out that the that he was that the
Charlie was wrong it's not an effective
tax rate it's the marginal tax rate in
in Norway I don't know what the
effective tax rate would have to be to
get 78 percent maybe 90 but it's 78
percent and for some reason some guy
over in the corner so was he a sovereign
citizen it could have been the guys he's
absent he said about the Norwegian he
says shut the up and you'll notice
I put my microphone down and I tell him
to go F himself damn cedar alpha
well look I will take it I was I was
ready like I know you're ever interrupt
me when I'm talking about taxes exactly
son-of-a-bitch here we go
highest tax rate the highest tax rate in
a country that Sam likes we'll talk
about a lot in Norway is 78 percent
that's not a country that I want to live
in and maybe it is maybe that's country
ever say 90 percent highest tax rate for
30 years
during the BET's marginal versus
effective Sam you know there's a
difference do not demagogue it margin
explain to the audience marginal versus
effective you just demagogue something
what's marginal versus marginal tax rate
means then every dollar okay so was it
the effective that's the difference it's
effective tax rate in Norway is a
difference the effective tax rate was
probably about eighty percent it was it
was it was 38 percent then it went
to 44% you just say the tax ring at
night the tax rate is under a no point
tax rate under 19 Eisenhower went all
the way up to ninety percent on the UH
effect of not every dollar and after
four hundred thousand dollars was taxed
at a ninety percent rate that would be
at about two million dollars a year now
and so the marginal tax rate you can
work it out we have such an incredible
wealth inequality that when you're
talking about some of the billionaire
funders that we might know or the tax
rate we're not getting an effective tax
rate is gonna be quite high maybe eighty
five percent okay
yes I love doing that created millions
of jobs and wealth for all Americans I
think we should applaud them okay all
right he should he personally should
absolutely afford we're out of time here
but I actually thought that was a very
constructive one second now we should
tell you for whatever reason
respond to James II know this way but
this we have the time code on the other
one all right can we we play that other
one because the it was nineteen minutes
long that did we most ninety minutes
yeah it was that whole section where you
where you had him named three eight
three things that help the middle class
all right we'll do that tomorrow because
I think the best section of the debate
yeah they clipped out the juicy stuff
why did they do that it's weird the best
section of the debate where I think I
got him to do the worst was on when I
asked him to name three regulations that
Donald Trump has cut and how they've
helped the middle class and the first
one he mentioned was the coal like
basically rolling back the coal the
restrictions on coal which have led to
which create a tremendous amount of
obviously the problem from a standpoint
of global warming but also from health
problems but he claimed that it created
two to three hundred thousand new jobs
in West Virginia which would mean that
something like 1/6 of the total
population of West Virginia
got new jobs in the past few years was
the other one about this like was it
Superfund sites where it's like farmers
and he said the Consumer Protection find
it and the CFP the we're gonna we gotta
go back and find that it's very strict
like that whole section yeah all right
well we've got to get in touch with the
TYT and ask them why they have that
stepping on your shine the way they
protect exactly
