[Music]
come from a 509 error code who's this
where he come from 509 am dis with
Ronald Reagan Oh Ronald Reagan what's on
your mind I wanted to tell you a story
about law school I'm real fat oh sure
great I'm looking forward to it yep it's
a good one
so I think it was my second or third
year I took an intellectual property
class yeah and one of the big like this
or the big project that you do
throughout the semester and it
culminates and you know whatever
 that we had to do was
litigating in a ma that's right like
these sort of Maca claims and we were
divided in new courses moot Court is
that we're talking yeah but it was it
was more like the behind-the-scenes
negotiations that the lawyers would do
before I just go straight to court right
yeah okay so anyhow so me and my group
my group and I should say we were
representing the da Vinci
Italian soda syrup company are you
familiar I'm not but I believe you you
can imagine the product I'm talking
about right the big tall bottles that
they put in coffee drinks and these
sorts of things
sure Oh our competitors tour Ani which
is another Italian soda company they
were accusing us of violating their
copyright and their intellectual
property because our label is too
similar to their so you have to go
through and sort of assess all of the
circumstances right so are the products
direct competitors where they play sort
of in the grocery aisle is their intent
to deceive the consumer and then you
want to look at the design elements you
know yeah to Ronnies
red white and green but those are the
you know that's the Italian flag right
so it's not like they invented that
color combination and and you want to
get into all of the facts and in our
defense was that our design was
sufficiently unique as to have avoided
any infringement on their intellectual
property but do you know what would have
been absolutely devastating to our case
is if the Taurani Council had approached
us and said you know what a week before
you change your label the head of your
marketing company called the head of our
marketing company and asked hey how did
you design the label for your bottle
okay suddenly we have literally no cases
so deep because they can show not only
that clearly we copied but that there
was intent right I mean this goes to the
heart of the matter
right and so David Pakman is out there
acting like this is some big
joke but I take the law very seriously
and yeah it's great that you asked how
to build the set that only proves your
culpability and you know I'm ready to
throw down for you Sam
I don't know anything about intellectual
property other than the course I took
ten years ago right but you see my yeah
on top of it though I gotta say you know
about that it's all yourself sure let's
look at the facts he's not like a guy on
YouTube reviewing you know toys for kids
or whatever thing he's a direct
competitor right and somebody this is
another submission I would I would use
in a court of law
somebody in the YouTube comments said I
literally thought pac-man was filming
from your studio for a while lol but
it's not it's not oh well
me
so he's he's acting like oh I changed
Studios and don't worry put this screen
up on my left hand side but it's clear
what he's trying to do he's trying to
benefit directly or indirectly from your
branding which is unique to you and your
show and this is a serious thing so you
know everybody's laughing about it David
thinks it's all in good fun but we'll
see if he's laughing when he gets
subpoenaed or whatever they do and that
last part does not give me full
confidence in your your skills as my
attorney when you say when he gets
whatever they do but we do have a clip
where he he's called out now what are
the two clips that we have here I'm glad
you okay oh I get these are just he's
asked I think followed up somebody
follows up on Reagan's what are they
different clips though I think they're
consecutive oh they just clip them
toward it okay all right let's uh well
let's let's dig into this here we go
why don't you stay on the phone Reagan
because I think you're implicated in it
yeah okay
hey David this is Brian from Seattle hey
Brian what's going on hey well first of
all it's an honor to get to talk to you
have been watching your show for a while
and I think you say what to do now Wow I
just want confirmation around Reagan
this Brian from Seattle that's not you
is it
no okay I never heard of this guy all
right good to be fair because we just
did sounded a little like a fake call
but um I want to do real briefly like I
don't want to get into this whole you
know majority report thing cuz I mean
the reality is the whole thing is kind
of a joke and of course posit born
second appositive one second hold on
your your rock your phone is breaking up
a little bit Ron redd+ for one second
okay we did wrong Oh wrong okay okay
good
now I'm also looking at this somebody
just uh somebody gay
fifty bucks or is that you can do
different monetary denomination Wow
all right that's yet Wow okay Wow it
puts that super chat right up on top of
that board there as these just go ahead
but but real briefly like just to give
you some context the guy that that was
actually calling in and as a bunch of
people I saw in your chatter familiar is
the guy that goes by Ronald Reagan's
that calls in the majority report all
the time and he's a smart guy he's an
immigration attorney so they bought a
house and father that part is true right
that part is true which my idea that I'm
smart right okay immigration attorney so
they he discusses issues a lot of the
time about the border wall and that you
know ice and things like that and he's a
smart guy and he has a lot of
interesting things to say I also think
he is used to getting straight through
on the majority report because they know
let me tell you a story caught in first
of all the next thing that happens on
this video better be that david pakman
shuts him down for implying that the
show is somehow corrupted that our phone
processes he corrupted IO Pakman shuts
this guy down it's not like we're making
people pay to get through to us right
exactly
I mean this is this is akin to the John
McCain moment where that voter said that
Barack Obama was this is where Davis is
oh no no no no sir he's on all reports a
good show yeah we just happened to have
our disagreement I'm not and I stole a
corrupt phone system stolen is set they
may we may have different disagreements
on that but they run a good show and
there is not a corrupt phone line let's
see if he just happen to have a
disagreement yeah we report because they
know him and he has a lot to say about
topics and I kind of feel like the issue
comes down to David Pakman doesn't let
me immediately get through and talk in
other words that this is a personal
gripe that he doesn't like that I think
privately owned tied always gets to get
through he get to get priority on the
air which and you know in that context
racial attorney Asbury yeah we composite
sure of course know whatever you say
yeah Ron right yeah whatever you say
you're completely and tightline and
apparently apparently you have run of
the show so pause clips now yeah yeah I
got a I got a story for Brian and see on
Friday I call I'm gonna hold 44 minutes
only to hear Sam say and one more caller
we're going to Mindy Mindy with
the last caller this is the after an
hour this is a special treatment that
I'm basking in over here on your show
listen listen listen right now I'm
looking at the I'm looking at my my call
thing we have 30 calls lined up there
are literally seven people who have been
on hold for 43 minutes seven people then
then I go it goes down from there
and so like I just go into the pool of
43 minute holders for the most part
occasionally I'll jump out of it you
know just to mix it up a little bit and
I'll take the you know I'll randomly
pick out of that 43 minute pole now if I
run out of 43 minutes I'll go down to
the 37 minute pool of people right et
cetera et cetera but the idea that this
is about hurt feelings because I'm I've
been trying to get the root of Pakman
well I believe is my favorite my
favorite egg that I I believe that part
there's no doubt you're a vindictive
person and if Pakman doesn't let you on
you're going to dig it burn the house
down I'm not gonna deny it
okay let's let it roll let's see what
else we good to get priority on the air
which can you know in that context that
he's an immigration attorney and he has
very direct relevant things to say that
that makes sense but you're not the
majority reported you don't know him he
and my other issues well pause it for
one second now Ronald Reagan to be fair
to be fair hold on to be fair Ronald
Reagan you could be confused that it's
not the majority report because of the
background that's the whole point right
exactly so you could be
calling it to packwood show presume it's
this show because of Becca
he's got the robot voice she's using the
same phone thing alright continue and
again I'll keep this brief because the
whole thing is kind of silly
I want to give it too much weight she's
my other thing is she like it would be
one thing if you were saying I'm not
gonna do my show today unless I get you
know 10 new members and it's the live
stream oh all right
I do it is part 2 more cookies Martin
Fallon is not corrected the record what
is part 2 Oh
Brendan's gone alright well I don't know
that we need to part do part 2 all I can
tell you is that I you know we will have
a conference and we'll talk about this
how much do you think I could get by
suing them well you look at it okay so
obviously when you see someone you got
to look at who you're suing to see you
know what kind of money they got and
also what the actual damages are you
don't get to just sue a homeless guy and
get a bunch of money right you know this
I'm not take a look at a super chat take
a look at a super chat you want an idea
how much money we're gonna get yeah that
money is yours family but I want to say
you know people are accusing me of like
trying to start some and that's not
what I'm about but I do want to say
something about the pod save set right
real quick these guys also have panels
but it's not inspired by your design
it's just a really shitty painting and
these guys from what I understand are
like making a lot of money and they
bought like an old painting at Goodwill
and chopped it into three pieces and
it's like of the Capitol and a big flag
and it's the dumbest looking set I've
ever seen
they would be better just doing like the
basement YouTube guy staying just in
front of a wall right then whatever it
is they've got going on
and so I think that the fact that you're
being copied is a sign that on the left
there's a real lack of creativity as
evidenced both by David Pakman copying
you and by these pod saved people who
maybe I got to change my know what's
going on over there maybe I got to
change my backdrop again and then in the
you know as my attorney could I get
Pakman to pay me to do it because if
I've got a change it too you know yeah I
think that's definitely a thing
appreciate it in cording to the law yeah
thank you thank you
there you go all right you know
appreciate the cost it's just the total
of humor illiteracy
