[Music]
but what I mean so what are the because
you know like I look at the Gaffney's
and the Harrises is that they are they
are in many respects part of the same
animal I'm not saying they're
coordinating with each other or in any
way affiliated but from a sort of a from
looking at like the the structure in
society some are working sort of the
more inside game the more policy game
and then others function to to provide
almost like a foaming the runway you
know maybe you know foaming the runway
for sort of the intellectual acceptance
of this I mean it's have we seen has
there been has there been a a project
like that specifically the like let's
work on this aspect I mean it's one
thing to say you know sort of like brute
in terms of brute proclamations
associating the you know Islam with with
terrorism and we do that by saying you
know we can have a Muslim band we can
have extensive spying on on people who
are you know in in Islamic youth groups
in college or whatnot but but has there
been a project like this where we're
going to really sort of appeal this
level of like a soft Islamophobia that
we're going to sort of dress up as an
intellectual exercise because because
you talk about you talk about anti
blackness in the relationship with
Islamophobia and we've had in the past
intellectual movements to describe why
why whites are so uh you know why white
supremacy is actually intellectually
justified not just morally or you know
in terms of God I mean this is this is
this a phenomenon we've seen before in
terms of Islam in terms of Islam I think
so but it's obviously catching steam and
I think the reason the fact that it's so
popular now and also you know I
motive thinking that is not only
exclusive to the right but is that
definitely pervading the center and also
the less is because there's political
will and sort of power behind these
quasi intellectual disseminating these
negative ideas or even flat ideas of the
slamming of Muslims and that connection
is really important I think the work of
I would never you know try to understate
the at least the the influence other Sam
Harris were imagined to watch these are
individuals who are you know selling
books New York Times bestsellers you
know filling stadiums they have millions
of followers on Twitter so their message
is definitely effective in his resonate
and a large reason why it's effective in
residence because they have a president
like Donald Trump in movements within
Washington DC that repackage their
message messages in ways that are
palatable to lay voters right so what
what Trump says in signing the executive
order known as the Muslim ban is not
it's sort of a translated sort of
version of what Sam Harrison measured in
was sort of like no petal off as being
real academic work so the connection
between what they're doing is really
really important really hope in terms of
you know having real effect in the
political sphere has it happened before
not to this extent not to this extent I
think that Islamophobia and Orientalism
is more profuse today for a range of
reasons I think part of it is tied to we
can talk about the sort of inverse of
white supremacy taking place today with
this this new moment of white anxiety
you know some people you can call it
white paranoia because of shifting
demographics so the landscape is really
right for Islamophobia in both message
and policy to be very resonant because
of demographic shifts because of you
know a new sort of racial justice and
racial consciousness awakening on the
left and I think third most importantly
and I'm not sure if you want to discuss
this more closely but this rise in sort
of identity politics that has taken
place on the far right in the far left
where there's a I would say dangerous
fixation and I
in ways that facilitate the rise of
forms of bigotry like Islamophobia anti
black racism white supremacy and
anti-semitism in ways that we hadn't
seen in a really long time yeah III do
want to get into that but let me that's
that sounds fascinating I want to get
into that but I do for but like it just
me I want to make sure that I'm clear in
terms of the idea that rising white
anxiety is it's almost as if like you
know we there's less latitude for us to
express anti black sentiments in the
context of or anti racist sentiments so
we're going to sort of we're gonna
whitewash it or launder it through a
anti-muslim sentiment because that's a
that's a choice that people are making
or that's we're talking about now a bad
idea not a we're not being as so
essentialist is that is that the theory
there is that me is that what you mean
by that
I think that's part of the theory I
think I think what Sam Harrison's like
to say he's like look Islamophobia and
they don't even call it as long told me
they dismiss the entire sort of framing
right they don't think the word I means
anything right exactly they think that
they think that anti Muslim man is a
rational form of discrimination based on
the threat that is being posed by Islam
and by Muslims so they would not
analogize Islamophobia and anti black
racism I think if he sat down with sam
harris imagine Nawaz they say look
racism against black folks is wrong they
would also say that being anti-semitic
is entirely wrong these are individuals
who you have to sort of if you were to
out kind of classify them along the
political spectrum they'd probably be a
lot closer to the left and the right on
most issues right right right but they
but they think that discrimination
against Muslims is rational and also
serves the best interest of the state so
they view it is entirely distinct from
these other forms of bigotry right and
that's not you know
there's a lot of bigots I think you
probably feel that way about their own
bigotry right like it's a perfectly
rational thing I mean God God did not
mean us to co-mingle and yeah but okay
so well so talk about this theory that
you have about identity politics I mean
I it's it's clear to me that you know
identity politics on the far right dummy
translates into a certain amount of
white supremacy right and so that's a
pretty straightforward that's a pretty
straightforward roadmap to being
anti-muslim how how does it function on
the left in your opinion well there
there's a range of sort of perils that
also exists nonetheless and I'll mean
two of them for the sake of brevity
number one the idea and we saw this you
know manifests and exchange between
Harris in Juan Cole so Harris and the
laws both critiqued Juan Cole for not
being an expert even though he has a PhD
in Islamic studies and studied in Cairo
at you know can boast a resume that if
you have with regard to study in Islam
entirely based on him being a white male
so him being a white male excludes him
from being able to speak on these issues
and this is this is a view that's
pervasive on the less to be frank with
you I think many many far-left activists
and you know even pundits have very
sadly sort of conflated expertise with
identity and in some respects supplanted
the importance with expertise with this
fixation on identity there's a brilliant
piece by federal law professor Nancy
Lyon called racial capitalism which does
a great job sort of you know
meticulously analyzing this phenomenon
so the danger with that sort of position
in representation is important and I'm a
critical race theory and I can tell you
how important representation is but
there's been a disposing of expertise
for the sake of racial optics in
bringing in somebody to speak on issues
just because they look the part
if that makes any sense yes I mean and I
think he
and correct me if I'm wrong that's not
to say that you know that's not to say
that that's not the same argument as
just because I'm a white guy doesn't
mean I can't have an opinion on this
it's to say that expertise counts and
okay and that's it I mean if somebody
like Juan Cole was the white male but
has been studying Islamic studies for
his entire life
you know it is in the sort of like upper
1% I love these issues his opinions
that's not only count but it should be
seriously considered and hurt right so
there's right so there's there's a
certain amount of you you get a certain
amount of of credibility for having a
lived experience but expertise still has
a huge import in these things
ya know the live experience matters
considerably matters considerably right
but so but so does craning so does
expertise and again you and I are both
American right being American does not
make us you know experts on the First
Amendment does that make us experts on
you know American Administrative Law
does it make us an expert in a whole
host of issues so identity might be sort
of a segue into knowing about a specific
subject matter but expertise should be
considered to be the most salient sort
of metric of knowledge it is sort of
fascinating to me that identity politics
is I mean we see it wielded obviously by
by you know white supremacists right I
mean that's a fairly obvious calculation
yeah but to see it leveraged by someone
like Sam Harris as he did in that
exchange and we see this all the time
you know I'm not you guys are caught up
in identity politics you're so worried I
mean we in a political field you're so
caught up in this idea of identity
politics but look here I have a black
friend and so or I mean that type of
dynamic is is sort of it's fascinating
to sort of see how much it's being
utilized as in many respects adjusted
for some type of of either
discriminative discriminatory actions or
beliefs no definitely and I think for me
who you know somebody who you know
thinks about these issues really closely
I think the most unfortunate sort of
development in the political discourse
is there's really no more nuanced right
there's no more sort of you know careful
criticism and then look there's we can
carefully critique specific segments of
the broader listen global milieu that is
dangerous that is vile and that should
be considered you know an element that
we have to confront you know whether
it's the Saudi regime whether it's
terror networks whether it's specific
interpretations of Islamic doctrine that
is problematic that is true but that is
only a sliver of the broader population
reality that we have in this discourse
right now is people are talking in terms
of hyperbole people are flattening
entire experiences and people are
discussing entire groups as monoliths
and the sad reality is that it's not
only happening at the sort of bottom of
the political discourse the individuals
that are sort of being wielded out as
are thinkers of the day and are you know
most influential pundits are also
engaging in that you know very flat in a
you know vapid sort of conversation as
well and it's not just simply a question
of of the the quantity even in the
context of something like Saudi Arabia
we're talking about the interplay of
Islam with the whole host of historical
and economic contextual issues and and
power dynamics and it's really I mean to
examine that stuff is really to examine
how these various factors I guess in to
relate with each other and and play off
each other exactly I think that we
definitely see that with the present
sort of discussion on Islam globally
speaking we see domestically with the
way Islamophobia is framed I would just
you know somebody who wrote this book I
think what I'm trying to do with this
book specifically is
to counter what people like Sam Harris
Gaffney are doing on the Islamophobia
side and bring some care bring some you
know you know again some careful
analysis to what's going on in a way to
hope you know hopefully bring some
thoughtfulness in fact to the
conversation if that's not an impossible
sort of objective well it's it's I mean
I think it's I guess I guess hope
springs eternal right but lastly so let
me ask you that I mean that's that's the
to some extent the private realm what is
what is the opportunities for structural
change
well the opportunities for structural
change I think hinge considerably on
what happens politically right so if we
get a let's say a Democratic
administration succeed this one the
Sanders administration specifically
which I think is the most robust in
countering Islamophobia we could see a
doing away with the executive order
known as the Muslim bad with a
subsequent executive order that quashes
it or does away with it so that's you
know one imminent hope that I have that
again hinges on this next presidential
election also the the shape of the
courts right the Supreme Court is one
that upheld the Muslim ban largely
because it's now been packed with
originalist or conservative justices
brought in by the Trump administration
so you know another objective in the
short term is to sort of cultivate a
court that is more I would say keen on
delivering the promise of the First
Amendment specifically free exercise of
religion and Establishment Clause that
enables sort of a structural dismantling
or at least diminishing of Islamophobia
Kali badoon author of American
Islamophobia understanding the roots and
rise of fear thanks so much for your
time today we will put a link to your
book at majority dot F M real pleasure
talking to you know thanks so much I
really appreciate the conversation Mike
