and speaking of funny total
props here Nancy Pelosi I really like
Alex Perrine's take that with you know
obviously we have the rising millennial
politicians we have great people like
aoc who are articulating a serious
robust class politics and revitalizing
that tradition then the only viable
political tradition that we have and
then you have people obviously people
like Bernie Sanders who are great and
carried the flame but even people who
you know unfortunately have not always
carried the flame by a longshot like
Nancy Pelosi but they still actually
have a memory uh you know
institutionally even of like well there
was a time when it really was being a
Democrat for all of its flaws and
compromises there really was an element
of like this does mean that you actually
fight and you look out for people who
have real actual grounded concerns and
that's why in an environment like this
that that and Perrine's point was that
it leaves the gen-x politicians really
flat-footed because they both are too
young to have any real understanding and
commitment to that political tradition
and they grew up in a context of boomers
embracing you know neoliberal politics
so they don't have either the sort of
instinctive sense of it and nor the you
know just the material and social
conditions that of course driven so many
Millennials to the left but the Boomer
ones like Nancy Pelosi in the in this
context is the reason she quoted Justice
Brandeis it's a difference why there's a
huge amount of work to be done in a lot
of failures but clearly progressives are
starting to throw their weight around in
the house a little bit and she's someone
that can be worked with at times for
sure and it also leads to born like this
this is I mean this is as close as you
know anybody that is in Bernie Sanders
or AOC or maybe sherrod Brown or maybe I
or the Lizabeth warrant or sherrod Brown
I'll put those in a four separate
category or Rashida to live obviously
but
most of the Democrats that we talk about
obviously not Chuck Schumer but you know
not dick Durbin not any of these kinds
of people they usually are pretty
flat-footed in dealing with Trump this
Nancy Pelosi burned at this she's at the
White House this is after Trump threw
his tantrum he said are you gonna fund
the wall they said no he walked out he
then he went intent on Twitter and
whines now you recall I think was
yesterday we played a clip of Trump or
maybe Friday basically saying like well
you know it's tough if you're a
government worker but you know people
figured things out you know the the both
policy position of the Republican Party
that wants to increase poverty and gut
people's chances and increase human
suffering so the literal like you will
figure it out as we kick you out of your
home make sure you don't have health
care and increase poverty and suffering
in this country but also the perspective
of the you know spoiled ridiculous
trust-fund baby who all of his
businesses were bailed out and his whole
trust fund was set up by daddy which is
of course Trump Nancy Pelosi nailed this
let's check it out few days many people
federal workers will not be receiving
their paychecks and what that means in
their lives is tragic in terms of their
credit rating paying their mortgage
paying their rent paying their car
payment paying their children's tuition
and the rest the president seems to be
insensitive to that he thinks maybe they
could just ask their father for more
money but they can't boom that was
 Buick all props to Nancy Pelosi
on that I put out a request for somebody
to do a thug life video thank you so
Desmond sugah sued I think so yeah we're
gonna try this here let's check it out
the president seems to be insensitive to
that he thinks maybe they could just ask
their father for more money but they
can't
maybe we also want to touch on this this
is no not to give Nancy Pelosi props
like don't do this which is what the
daily Coast did what do they do they
decided they wanted to do so it says but
they this is a Marco's wrote but before
we get to Pooh flinging both internal
and external let's do something nice for
once we're going to take a page from
some previous community efforts and
welcome Nancy Pelosi with thousands of
roses so they gave 7,000 they delivered
7,000 roses to Pelosi's office and then
like a remaining like 18,000 to Walter
Reed Hospital okay that's that's a
little weird
they didn't Marcus wasn't he the one who
said it was so great that all the Bernie
bros were flaming out because and
because he was just like a personality
that people loved and that people were
going to hung up on his yeah he's been
pretty yeah yeah he's I know that he's
you know I mean I don't know he's
totally obviously I only thing I know
that Marcos in a current iteration is
how stupid he is on Bernie I don't think
I mean I know that that site still has
you know some energy and that's great
but I haven't read it in a long time I
haven't read it like literally since
like before 2012 it was me it seems like
it was of the Bush era there's another
guy who writes for him I see Armando's
saying stupid things online often - yeah
I don't I don't understand these people
are so fixated on hating Bernie bizarre
according to Melissa he conducted an
interview with Pelosi after this which
raises a question how exactly do you
conduct a fair and honest interview with
someone you just gave thousands of roses
to all right now let's out of the way
let's talk about Pago Pago yeah do you
like how they smell is there any place
you'd like us to put this alright now
let's talk committee assignments
