tomorrow we're gonna go over we're gonna
we're gonna do some news and I'll get
into Bernie's corporate accountability
plan and but but before we do and we'll
do that tomorrow here's a CNBC anchor
who has a really smart analysis of this
plan remember Bernie Sanders depending
on which poll you're looking at is in
second or third place nationally he is
been consistently in the top two or
three candidates one two or three in all
the states frankly and so a very serious
contender for the presidency one of the
beautiful things about working at a
business channel is that you don't have
to take anything seriously apparently
tries it with an applicant one was
talking more about this than Bernie
Sanders putting out this whole you know
plan to do to restrict share buybacks
and raise corporate taxes back up to
whatever size it shows you this working
Kate's point more effectively than
Bernie Sanders putting a whole plan
about how he's gonna tackle corporate
America cause it's just not that
surprising just another Bernie plant I
think coming after this dive there you
go that's another save the working class
and not completely destroy I love the
idea like for instance corporate
buybacks are something that's like can
you imagine you know what's really easy
to imagine about not allowing for
corporate buybacks is that prior to 1984
when the Reagan administration told the
SEC basically we're gonna now allow that
even though last year that was
criminally liable as stock manipulation
we're gonna do that now it's not hard to
imagine some of these things at least in
a vacuum in the context of the way that
the
the elite the plutocracy essentially
have had the opportunity to write the
rules it becomes a little bit more you
know seemingly radical but the idea of
like stock buybacks and controlling
corporate governance this is these are
not radical ideas relative to the world
or frankly even our own history it's
such a short memory and it's on purpose
you know for a long time I think I said
this the other day
gore Vidal would come into studio back
in the old version maggiore rapport with
Jeanine and he had written a book United
States of amnesia and I couldn't really
grasp what he was talking about in part
because I hadn't had you know 15 20
years of of watching the news and watch
how like just revision takes hold
just on stuff that happens last week on
some level but there it is meanwhile
