all right folks no more calls today
we're going to get to a few pieces of
sound and let's start with this one this
is incredible
basically Fox is still drumming up fear
about the migrant caravan no doubt it
served its purposes for stoking up the
fantasies and the racism of the base
during the midterms still got him
crushed yeah still got him exactly they
still lost the house by historic margins
and the races they won were ones that
they should have won and if they lost it
would be even more catastrophic so 2018
was a total disaster for the Republican
Party and now as Trump drags the country
through this catastrophic shutdown fox
needs to turn the propaganda machine
back on to full thrust to freak out
their old and uninformed viewers and so
what do they do well they get Brian
Kilmeade in studio and then they sent
some in Guatemala to harass
people are some to Guatemala to
harass people on the street let's check
it out this is Mexico gonna do different
this time Steve
you're really as we can see some more it
looks like a very young man here he
looks to be about 16 or 17 most of them
carrying just one sack and strangely
enough a lot of the young men that I've
talked to had absolutely no money in
their pockets for what could be a month
long trip one man told me today I'll
rely on people on the road to feed me we
haven't seen any handouts we haven't
seen any finance and we have seen some
like Church soup kitchen lunches people
providing for the migrants but largely
they've really been on their own it's
mainly right so basically the
appropriate reading of this both
ethically and analytically is so people
are leaving situations that are so
desperate that they're willing to walk
miles and miles and miles and miles and
miles and miles and miles without money
without food without any basic
necessities guaranteed in an attempt to
get refuge in a country that everybody
is knows is run by an incompetent racist
sociopath who's caging children where
two children have died and yet you're
still trying to make this escape so the
natural question for anybody that wasn't
totally stupid totally evil would be
what the hell is going on and places
like Guatemala that people would want to
go there
and then that person will go huh what
kind of trade agreements like NAFTA has
the United States imposed on poor
countries in Central America
what kind of governments from the 80s to
today that are oligarchic governments
I'll use that word like Feldman that are
in bed with US corporations and violent
narco traffickers that we support with
aid and military assistance or even on
the flip side in a place like Guatemala
where the United States is both
aggressively interfering with and trying
to destabilize the government and at
times certainly that government is
having a repressive response what are
all the things happening there that we
are a part of through
our policies that lead to that and even
incidentally if we want because frankly
look I think everybody should be able to
go and spend time wherever the hell they
want obviously but I do think most
people it's a truism most people would
like very much if where they grew up and
was born and were born was a nice place
that they could stand that is most human
beings desires even on inside the United
States talk to people it's like oh man I
didn't want to leave where I grew up but
there was no opportunity there so they
had to move to some city or somewhere
else so the obvious answer for everybody
even if you have some concern about this
migration which is zero concern with is
what are the conditions behind it and
what do you think like these these kids
that you're harassing or just doing this
for fun or also like what can I do to
help like when I see someone who's in
that much trouble like the humane the
human and humane reaction is to say wow
is there anything we can do dodo
