[Music]
we look at what's going on with the
courts as we look at you know the
attempts by the Democrats in 2020 to
take over the Senate there is one person
who I think liked their usefulness as a
senator has reached an impossible
all-time low
Susan Collins preens and has pretended
that she is some type of moderate I'm
just speaking you know within the
context of American politics she
pretends that she is a moderate and she
must do so because that's important to
Maine voters if Susan Collins portrayed
herself as what she is and what she
enables because the Republican Party has
made it impossible for its members to
pretend to be moderate within the
context of what the American political
spectrum is and therefore if you're
going to try and sell that pretense it
becomes increasingly hard and you have
to get more and more performative
without actually performing the one
thing that would make you a moderate
which is voting against the radical
agenda of your party speaking out
against when they don't allow for the
most basic functionings of the Senate in
terms of meeting and deciding upon judge
or voting for the most reprehensible
judges who would turn the clock back on
everything that you pretend to support
and so this ad has been released that I
think it could be one of the best ads
I've seen in a long time about a
politician who literally does not in
fact walk the talk that she has
[Music]
I'm disappointed I'm very disappointed I
was really disappointed and that really
troubles me
well I'm very disappointed I'm
disappointed
I was really disappointed and dismayed
but I disagree strongly I'm disappointed
disappointing Susan Collins voter out of
the Senate that thing is Jean it's a
total bummer she's constantly saying she
feels bad about having to support an
agenda she totally disagrees with if
only there was something she could do
about that it's so disappointing in a
way during the bushes right there was
lincoln Chafee who was a Republican who
voted against all the bush he voted
against bushes initiatives more than a
lot of Democrats yes there so you are
able to do that you are allowed to do
that in a Republican to vote against the
invasion of Iraq as an example
