so Cara let's just start tell us a
little bit about the second District of
Nebraska this and we should say this is
you know we've been doing a series of
interviews with candidates who are
running in the Democratic primary who
are running against Democratic
incumbents in this situation to the
extent that there is an incumbent I
guess on some level you're the incumbent
this is you you ran last time to take on
a Republican sitting Congress person you
came incredibly close and we'll get more
into you know some of the reasons I have
heard that you know the challenges that
you faced in this district but first
let's just start with you telling us a
little bit about the second district in
Nebraska sure well so the second
district encompasses Omaha and the
county that Omaha's n which is Douglas
County and a little bit of the county to
the south of us which was gerrymandered
in 2010 and unfortunately is less of a
democratic stronghold than it should be
so I ran in 2018 actually won Douglas
County but lost Sarpy County that their
the part of the Sarpy County that's in
the success
second district and and you say when you
when you say you you ran that was in the
general election correct yes so we had a
primary last year and part of the reason
why we got a lot of attention is because
I beat a former incumbent Democrat he
was in Congress for one term from 2014
to 2016 lost the election in 2016 to a
Republican ran again and I beat him in
the primary by three point three percent
I mean you were I think objectively
speaking one of the the most reported on
primary candidates at the time because
of that dynamic and because you are
running a you know I don't know how to
our best to characterize it but a
completely full
full-on to the left campaign in terms of
your support of various issues I mean
how much get just you know but for folks
who weren't following that story in 2018
at least in terms of the primary tell us
like we know what was involved in that
because I mean you have shown up in a
lot of like a pretty big important
reported pieces particularly about the
dynamic with the d-triple-c but but tell
us about that primary and why you had
received such attention right well I
figured it's just because I'm such a
phenomenal candidate and that's why I
was getting so much attention but sure
there are all those other reasons too so
basically what happened was you know the
d-triple-c supported and backed my
primary opponent in 2018 because he had
been at an incumbent and we were not
necessarily then predicted to win and
and once we did when and and I might my
task you know I've always been looking
for to unseat the Republican incumbent I
wasn't intending on having a primary
opponent
I had actually reached out to the former
Congress person he told me he probably
wasn't gonna be running again but he
changed his mind and decided to run but
when we beat him it made national
headlines because the d-triple-c
hadn't supported me they had supported
him they put him on their red to blue
list and so I think it was a little bit
of a shock to to the nation that
somebody who you know from for all
intents and purposes that come out of
nowhere beat this former incumbent
Democrat and just tell us about this and
I want to talk about the general
election then we'll talk more about the
issues that you support and and and what
you're looking at for this primary but
in terms of the partisan index as they
call it how democratic is the second
district because and I asked this and
it's obviously relevant in terms of the
general but it's also relevant in terms
of the primary because because of what
we now know at least from the data
coming out of 2018 as to what it takes
to win in certain types of districts and
so what can you tell us about the sort
of the political make
of the second District well we are we
are pretty split when it comes to
Democrat versus Republican I think
what's interesting about the district is
we are corridor registered independence
and we you know this area I think when
people you know outside of Nebraska
think of Nebraska they think of rural
areas this district is 98 percent urban
we're twelve percent african-american
ten percent Latino we have a large
refugee population actually the largest
South Sudanese refugee population
outside of South Sudan so it's an
interesting diverse district and I think
the conventional wisdom has been and
maybe even still is you have to be a
conservative Democrat to win which you
know we only have evidence that a
conservative Democrat could win by that
one case of somebody winning in 2014 but
losing in 2016 so the person that I ran
against in the primary are technically
ran against me was a Blue Dog Democrat
somebody that was considered more
conservative but what's interesting
about the district is that the when we
look at polling when we look at public
opinion the platform that I'm running on
the policies that I support are vastly
they're supported by a vast majority of
people most people think that we need to
do something about climate change that
people deserve a livable wage that we
need to fix and expand healthcare so
it's always interesting to me when when
people kind of peg a candidate it's far
left or far right like I see my
candidacy and my platform is being much
more mainstream because it's widely
supported by so many people well what's
interesting in earlier this week on on
my other show the majority report I
interviewed a statistician and a
pollster who by all accounts was the
made the earliest prediction about the
2018 election and almost down to the
numbers of democratic pickups had made
that prediction four months out way
before anybody else had and she said
that because and she has this idea of a
new paradigm that she has that that
districts like yours and ones that are
even more Republican than yours
that because the electorate is so
polarized that even the independence
already predetermined who they lean
towards in terms of parties they either
lean Republican or they leaned Democrat
and that the key to these type of
elections is mobilization of people who
already agree with you and much that is
very much driven by a negative
partisanship and in fact the vast
majority of people who won in these
contested races were were people who
made sharp distinctions with their
Republican challenger and that the Blue
Dog Democrats lost in 2018 and in fact
she cited you specifically as one of the
rare cases where someone with your
politics would lose but that was more of
a function of the d-triple-c
afraid on some level that you would be a
proof of concept of what happens when
you run on these progressive populist
issues in a you know purplish district
and so I'm fascinated about by this and
obviously it has big implications going
forward and I think people you know want
to know why they should be supporting
you on the the second attempt to you to
do this and you lost by an incredibly
small amount didn't you in the general
election yes by 1.9 percent it was one
of the closest races in the country and
you could tell me if I'm wrong here the
d-triple-c and you know people I guess
could argue as to why they were
motivated to do so they gave you
virtually no support to the extent that
they gave you any support it was
completely anemic and you yet you lost
by what you told me was the smallest
margin of a loss in all of 2018 and one
can only imagine had they supported you
significantly or even remotely how big
your margin of victory would have been
in that
since but you tell me if I'm wrong did
you get in that general election do you
feel like you got the full support of
the d-triple-c no and we know now that
we didn't they actually pulled an ad by
a couple of weeks prior to the election
so and we know that that those ads can
actually move the needle one or two
points so yes they had they come in and
fully supported my candidacy we might be
having a different conversation right
now
and as I said in the last segment that
the data shows that folks like yourself
were more likely to win these races in
2018 than Blue Dog Democrats so tell us
about the proposals that you are that
you are pitching to constituents in
Nebraska's second district well we went
one of the ways that we won the primary
and did so well in the general is by
knocking on doors we knocked on over
200,000 doors and we learned a lot from
doing that and the number one issue for
people here is healthcare and that
continues to be the same as we knock on
doors now so I I believe you know right
now I think we're in a bit of a
healthcare crisis as the Republican
Party is basically threatening to take
away health care for millions of
Americans and so we need to save our
health care system but I have supported
expanding health care so that everybody
in the United States has coverage I
decided to run because of my mother's
own prescription drug costs and I meet
people every day who share that those
very similar stories to me of how
they're having to choose between
prescription medication and putting food
on the table for their family so this is
the number one issue here I think it's
probably the number one issue for people
across the country and we need people
who are going to put out bold solutions
to solve our health care issues
all right so health care is is is up
there and give us a sense of where you
are on climate change so I ran a
children are mental health organization
for thirteen years here in Omaha Omaha
Healthy Kids Alliance and our focus with
safe energy-efficient healthy housing so
I've seen firsthand the impact that
creating an energy-efficient home has
for people living in poverty for
middle-class working families because
they pay such a proportionately larger
amount of their income
for their utility bills and then the
rest of America so we need to we need
absolutely bold solutions for climate
change right now to deal with the
pollution that's happening in Nebraska
we're seeing this with flooding and and
just the devastation that's occurring
around the world which then impacts
things like immigration which impacts
things like our economy so for me this
is this is one of those issues where you
know I think climate change is the
number one moral issue facing our kids
we're leaving this issue for them to
clean up and it's time for policymakers
to stand up and take bold action because
we don't have time we know that we don't
have time to wait on this so where are
you on something like the green New Deal
III support I mean look so the green New
Deal has become you know the Republicans
have been able to twist and turn this
around and say ridiculous stuff like
candidates who support the support
banning airplanes or meat which is just
silly but I think the fact that we have
a bold idea out there and and it's not a
formal policy the plan but I think
there's a lot of stuff in there that
makes so much sense for moving the
country forward and actually getting us
to a place where we can say that we are
having a positive impact on climate
change instead of contributing to the
further deterioration of our planet and
what are other issues that you're
finding that folks in the second
District are interested in um for us
here you know jobs and the economy are
important so while while we keep hearing
that the economy is doing so well and
unemployment is so low that that is true
for a report for a percentage of people
but there are a number of people here
who are still working two or three jobs
who don't have access to high-quality
high-paying jobs transportation is an
issue here so making sure that we're
participating in an economy that
continues to grow for everybody not just
for people who are already well-off I
think that's a major issue and the
reality is right now corruption in
politics comes up a lot it comes up at
the doors it comes up when I meet people
on the streets because they're worried
about the the way that it you know just
the stuff that's happening in the White
House and and you know it's fascinating
to me that what we'll hear people
is like oh well politicians have always
been corrupt so what Trump is doing is
nothing new but to me he is decimating
our democracy decimating our global
standing and and I'm concerned about the
future of what we are allowing a
president to get away with we need
politicians who are refusing corporate
PAC money like myself because we have to
get money out of politics there are
there steps that we need to take to make
sure that we have a functioning or
public and that our democracy and our
elections are not interfered with by
foreign entities so there's a lot of
stuff to work with under that corruption
umbrella but we need candidates who are
actually going to stand up and say
what's happening right now is just not
OK in the United States of America well
tell me about your perspective on
impeachment I mean it's quite possible
that by the time if you do get through
the primary and you head into the
general election you will be facing a
incumbent a Republican incumbent who has
voted to to not hold Donald Trump
accountable would give me your
perspective on that yeah and not just
not hold him accountable I mean he
endorsed you know my opponent endorsed
Trump out of the gate and stands with
him both with him 97% of the time and
basically signed a pledge saying he
won't disagree with him so he will never
support impeachment of this president
and after reading them all apart
I supported impeachment then because it
if you know from reading it it seemed
like we had clear evidence that the
president had committed impeachable
offenses and now we clearly see this
happening that we did you can't let a
president get away with inviting foreign
governments to interfere on our election
no matter what this is this is like the
foundation of our of our democracy and
if we let this president get away with
this and what are we saying to future
presidents what are we thank future
candidates that that we're we're
tolerant being something that is so
unthinkable and I think we've almost
become numb to this like every day
something else comes out and it just
doesn't even seem like that big of a
deal anymore I actually had a high
school students say to me well do you
just support impeachment because you
don't think any of these I'm
kradic candidates or who are running for
president are qualified to beat him and
I said this to me is not about removing
president Trump from office this is
about saving America right all right so
we just have about 30 seconds or more
what are you looking for for folks right
now in your fight you're in this primary
there you have a couple other challenges
I think about three I don't think that
any of them you could really say are to
the left of where you're at in that
respect what are you looking for in
terms of support from folks who are
listening to this interview right well I
mean I'm in the primary we are the clear
front-runner our base our fundraising
numbers based on our poll which we
actually just got back that has me far
outperforming them but more importantly
we just have a lot of enthusiasm and
support from people within the district
people are excited that I'm running
again and in terms of support we always
need volunteers we need people to follow
us on social media on Twitter Instagram
Facebook and obviously as all candidates
right now need is financial donations of
my website eastman for congress.com easy
to find very Google but welcome any help
from anyone anywhere long as our values
align and you're not a corporate PAC all
right well we don't have too many
corporate PACs listening to the show
these days
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it and good luck
