[Music]
Wow speaking of Griff's Candace Owens
out at turning points USA unclear why
what led to that separation between it's
possible she might feel that she could
make more money out on her own and might
have something to do with the fact that
certain chapters were complaining about
her presence air in prominence at TP USA
following her Hitler nationalism
comments that could have it also could
be that she has you know has been to
Hitler friendly although maybe she got
sick of stuff like the what seems to be
a real rash of coincidental eruptions of
white supremacy amongst specific
chapters of turning points USA leaders
of the church leaders of the chapters
and really there's nothing else except
for the chapters I mean of course you
know charlie Kirk goes around to say hi
to the chapters but it's all about right
it's all about the actual school's
latest is Las Vegas the University of
Nevada I think it was UNLV and you know
of course we've seen these problems I
think they were in Florida they had
problems and and actually in the
executive leadership I think initially
there was also some major white
supremacy problems yep
things like texts or whatever it is you
know their internal discord channel
essentially like a make sure you don't
don't hate on Jews for no reason there's
nothing worse than hating on the Jews
for no reason when there's so many
reasons but here is Candace Owens
tapping into where the big money lies
and that is in the the circle jerk that
is the IDW and with Dennis Prager this
is a its branded by both organizations
so I'm not sure who's who's show it is
if it's a Prager you show or the Candace
own show I think the Candace ouch
exists under the fragrant new umbrella
yes I'm not that's not surprising and
here is Prager obviously famous for
bringing on folks like Dave Rubin saying
it's so helpful that you identify as a
liberal because it helps from a
marketing perspective and Dave Rubin was
like wait a second here undercutting my
sales pitch I'm doing that for you
you're saying you're saying the quiet
part loud what's going on
and here's Candice Owens making her
pitch as to how she can effectively make
the overwhelming Lea white audience for
Prager University feel good about
themselves and their racism what's scary
to me is not that they're that they're
preaching as lunacy but that some people
are grasping on to it
some people said to me when I got
engaged my fiancee is white I can't
believe you're marrying a white man and
what I said back so then my retort was
what why don't you just put back in
Milazzo my man well let me ask you I'll
bet you those who said that are all
black that's correct that's why whites
don't give a damn if whites and blacks
there's more racism in the black
community pausing the way let me just uh
he didn't fully develop this point about
whites not giving a damn about whites
and blacks marrying he may not be it was
ironic that he said that after she had
mentioned
anti-miscegenation laws which of course
were laws in this country for the vast
majority of this country that were not
put in place by black people
it wasn't black people doing reconstruct
it was the base it was they organizing
against that they organized they were
like you can't have the 17th apparently
the history department at Prager
University is woefully understaffed and
they did not give him a heads up on they
better get more tax deductible donation
it probably actually is a guy with like
a mail-order diploma
Praeger you who has like a theory of
like the black creation avanthi i don't
want to be surprised
whites don't give a damn if whites and
blacks so there's more racism in the
black community than in the white I mean
it's it's so it's
of the truths that because the left has
as I say everyday truth is not a
left-wing value it's a liberal value
it's a conservative value it's not a
left-wing value so since the Left
dominates this course you can't say that
truth right but a camel Harris by the
way is married to a white man you never
see him that you notice that I'm Lemon
easy Don lemons male-male love are they
married
I would like to ask him if whites are
for all does your does your white
partner or husband or whatever it is
this is he a racist I mean the guy's a
bad Jew easy Prager spends a lot of time
in the black community so he knows how
embedded what's up brothers let's
discuss racism the you know the
interesting thing about this exchange is
it suggests to me that they don't
understand that there is a relevance to
power dynamics in these conversations
and I don't know what it is about that
conversation that made it so obvious to
me I mean obviously you know there's
nothing profound but there was something
about that conversation that just really
I mean Dennis Prager is probably one of
the the top guys working in the field of
of making sure why people don't feel bad
about their racism or their misogyny
right I mean I think that's like his
that seems to be his that seems to be
what the university's mission statement
is race pendeks are rational right hello
it's it's fascinating but she has moved
on to her new grift Candis Owens good
for her
