so Heather it's our last segment
together of 2018
among other stories that have been in
the news the the idea of deep
platforming has become has gained a
tremendous amount of prominence I mean
Alex Jones had his Twitter feed taken
away his Twitter handle he broke the
Terms of Service YouTube's same thing
and he disappeared off of basically
everybody's radar similar things happen
at Gavin McGinnis a little bit and some
other right-wingers on YouTube and on
Twitter and at the end of the year one
of the people who is being subject to
another advertiser boycott and frankly
I'm sort of amazed that it garnered so
much attention because we've seen this
many times before right it happened at
Glenn Beck happened to Rush Limbaugh
happened to others certainly you know
when we were at Air America back in the
day we were on a blacklist by
corporations they would not advertise on
on our our network side it barely made a
ripple of news but there are people out
there who are organizing advertisers to
stop advertising on Tucker Carlson's fox
news show because people are offended
and frankly worried and concerned about
Tucker Carlson saying things like I will
not be replaced by immigrants and
implying that somehow our sovereignty of
our country was threatened by the idea
of of presumably brown immigrants right
I mean I didn't hear him criticize Paul
Ryan for looking for more Irish
immigration visas to be available but
but nevertheless even if he did I think
we know what he's talking about he talks
about how dirty the immigrants are who
crossed the border we know that more
than half of the undocumented immigrants
in this country just simply overstayed
their visa didn't cross over the thing
the border so
but people seem to be sort of up in arms
that this is somehow censoring Tucker
Carlson because advertisers are pulling
out of his show
nothing inhibits Fox News from playing
Tucker Carlson it's just really
inhibiting their profits isn't it I mean
like they can afford to subsidize Tucker
Carlson's show if they want to they just
don't want to presumably or maybe they
do I don't know I mean what's the big
deal here I don't mind am I missing
something no I don't understand why you
know look if rupert murdoch if he wants
to keep tucker carlson on the air making
disgusting comments about immigrants
which rupert murdoch is by the way he
was not born an American citizen he took
American citizenship so he could have
ownership of a bunch of media companies
but you know if he if he wants to keep
Tucker Carlson on there making you know
disgusting sort of comments like that go
ahead and my feeling is you know look it
gives the best of my recollection maybe
you can correct me if I'm wrong here but
the first part the first a notion of
this boycott did not come from people it
came from a company and god I cannot
remember which one it was I know the
second one was Bowflex I don't think
this boycott was initiated by the public
I think it was initiated by one of his
advertisers who heard what he said and
or maybe some people called him up and
said it I don't know that but my feeling
was is it didn't because as you point
out this is common this and Tucker
Carlson has become a truly despicable
kind of alt-right personality now on Fox
I mean he takes it to a level that
really nobody else does I mean Sean
Hannity to a certain extent but he's way
more political I'm Tucker Carlson's deep
into this culture war stuff in a really
despicable way particularly focused on
immigration and that's his new niche you
know I mean the guy is nothing if not an
opportunist and and you know this is of
course that these advertisers have no
obligation to offend their their
customers which there are millions out
in this country who do not want who
don't want to you know to see someone
like Tucker Carlson supported
Tucker Carlson can say whatever he wants
wherever he wants to if the person who
owns the platform is willing to let him
say it that's just the way our system is
and by the way you know any job I ever
had I could get fired for saying things
that just by my boss just coming in and
going you're fired I don't like that you
know bumper sticker you've got on your
car you know you're voting for for
Barack Obama you're out and it happens
to people it don't happen to people in
there that's the way it is yeah and you
know I gotta say that you know and I
think it was a year ago that I was fired
for a tweet that I had done nine years
earlier and my my beef with being fired
was not that MSNBC didn't have you know
the the right or even audiences didn't
have the right to ask for me to be fired
if I had tweeted something that was
suggesting I was Pro rape I was I was
protesting it because the tweet clearly
was not Pro rape and everybody knew it
and that's why they rehired me I mean I
wasn't out there right yeah exactly I
wasn't out there saying that oh I should
have carte blanche to be able to say
whatever I want on your you know
multi-million dollar platform or any
platform for that matter other than a
soapbox down on the street corner and
what none of us who defended you we're
defending you on that basis either we
were defending you because it was stupid
of course because people right to fire
you exactly and and so this is really
this is really surprising and I think
very problematic because I see voices on
the nominal left as if there's some type
of principle here and this is not an
instance of censorship censorship is is
you know has a lot more to do with or
free speech free speech is tied into
government censoring people this is not
the government this is a corporation
deciding they want to make millions of
dollars
and can't with this guy now because he's
too toxic
so that's 2018 nutshell toxicity and
people making millions of dollars in
ways that they probably shouldn't be but
heather quickly I only have ten seconds
left here but I just want to thank you
so much for being with us all this year
I admire you so much I think you are one
of the best out there and analyzing this
stuff and being measured about it and I
am looking forward to you helping us
decipher the insanity that surely headed
our way in 2019 oh thank you so much
salmon right back at you it's a it's a
privilege to be on here with you and and
I look forward to doing much more of it
next year and god fasten your seat belts
everybody exactly Happy New Year
everybody and happy New Year to you
Heather we will be back live in 2019
