[Music]
every day on the phone it's a pleasure
to welcome to the program English
professor at Wayne State University and
author of key words the new language of
capitalism John Patrick Leary John
welcome to the program hi thanks for
inviting me so this is I really enjoyed
this book and these type of approaches
to sort of making us more conscious of
the way that we we speak and what the
implications are but before we sort of
dig into some of the the words here and
that you that you examine in the book
let's just start with the way that you
define because you these are words that
have been I guess I'm not sure how to
phrase this brought to us by late stage
capitalism but what does what does late
stage capitalism mean to you you're
starting with the well you know
basically it means the latest form of
capitalism I think that's the best and
most concise definition that I know
which is to say on the one hand it is
characterized by a lot of by a
particular vocabulary of rebellion of
artistry of individualism of individual
possibilities through the market and so
that is what gives rise to something as
peculiar in historical context as like
the creative creative capitalism or the
creative class but on the other hand it
also implies that this is merely a new
twist on something very old and so
that's one of the points that I like to
really emphasize about this book is that
you know dark our current economic
vocabulary is really big on constantly
celebrating novelty you know constantly
setting innovation
so forth and the point is that a lot of
are a lot of what passes for novelty in
our in our world is is just slightly
different forms of the old forms of
exploitation and so it's the latest form
of something old it's a new twist on an
old story
you know it's interesting you say that
because I think you know Cory Rob and
Robbins definition of reactionary ISM is
it's very similar to that the idea that
you're so repackaging the and maybe not
so much in terms of capitalism per se
but you're repackaging the sort of
pre-existing in the longtime existing
power dynamics and making them cool and
seem rebellious in some fashion yeah and
a lot of the some of these words and
innovation is is a pretty good example
they come about
sometimes in deliberate ways sometimes
sort of organically but as as ways of
responding to old critiques of
capitalism so in the you know in the
depression in nineteen thirties and
forties the the and then in the post-war
period the idea of big business was
something really toxic in American
culture big business was seen as with
great suspicion and the life of a
businessman was seen as a kind of life
of conformity you know the this is like
the organization man idea and so
innovation becomes a way of sort of
celebrating the idea of personal
liberation and personal fulfillment
through trudging off to the office every
day and that's a kind of phenomenon that
I think is it was very much with us now
but its origins are you know about half
a century ago is there I mean is that
and you know I want to get into some of
the specifics of the words again but but
but staying sort of like just a little
bit 10,000 feet is there is there a can
you organize
the development of these words or I
guess like the not so much the
development but the adoption and the the
frequency of use of these words are
there different ways are there you know
main categories of the ways in which
these happen are they for instance are
they to serve in the same function that
you were just talking about like I mean
for instance you know I just got back
from a trial lawyer conference and they
don't necessarily call themselves trial
lawyers anymore because trial lawyers
got maligned so they refer to themselves
sometimes as plaintiff attorneys and and
so we see this you know development
happen when like you say there's a
perspective that you know being been
part of big businesses is seen as being
ossified so we come up with the word
innovation is that is that the way that
these words enter into the lexicon or is
it are there other roots as well well
I'd say that's most of the function in
kind of that way they don't always have
a particular author or you know there's
not necessarily one guy who thought of
saying innovation all the time you know
but they do function in a way - as
substitutes or as evasions for what
we're really talking about so that one
of the best examples is human capital
which I talked about in the book which
is really just a way of saying labor
without talking about without using that
dirty word if you're an economist and so
it's a way of talking about something
that might be characterized by you know
exploitation or mistreatment as being a
resource and not just as a resource but
it was a resource for your own self you
know your your work is your own human
capital you're not bubbled into a boss
in that kind of imagination so it's a
way of talking about work without
talking about inequality or exploitation
at work all right
