[Music]
lobster Reuben currently melting
down at Twitter due to mild the IDW on
IDW criticism in Collett well I mean
since you brought that up
oh look at what I have right here in my
hand now I haven't read it fully I just
have seen its characterization and I did
I'm going to cop to this I did in fact
tweet about it to Dave can we bring up
my tweet because I wanna so this is the
the article how the IDW can avoid the
tribalist pull and it basically you know
talks about the author is kathy young
and she refers to herself as being
sympathetic and sometimes critical
observer of the IDW arguably something
of a fellow traveler she's not overly
fond of the term intellectual dark web
but intellectual descent web would also
work maybe okay no and anyways she talks
about you know harris and then goes
through here and then you get through
some of this and then where do we get to
take reuben is mention in this oh here
it is
okay page three of my thing however it's
equally essential for such a movement to
stand against the identitarian populace
right and that can be a blind spot for
some IDW figures would you mind
highlighting this all right there yeah
this paragraph right here yeah and then
here
reuben this is the dave rubin i believe
has a particularly troubling track
record in this regard i should note that
i was a guest on a show in 2016 it had
an entirely positive experience imagine
that hmm he has been rightly criticized
now
by progressives but as libertarians as
Anthony Fischer for providing a
sympathetic forum to far-right activists
including Paul Joseph Watson Mike
[Applause]
Tsarevich Stephan Melania and Lauren
southern Rubin and his supporters
typically respond that he cannot be
faulted for interviewing controversial
guests true enough however where have we
heard this critique before he doesn't
simply have them on but treats them as
allies against sjw's or the regressive
left and allows them to masquerade as
reasonable anti PC centrist hmm I have
to say that my brain is still in
recovery mode from taking in so many
high-level important ideas there is a
video compilation of Rubin addressing
Watson a youtuber has promoted
conspiracy theories about water
fluoridation of fluoridation I can't
speak today Barack Obama's birth
certificate in the 2007 Virginia Tech
shooting Serna vich who has flogged
pedophilia panics and declared that
diversity is code for white genocide I
would also add was actively denying the
existence of date-rape online also
pushed pizza gate heavily not to mention
is a failed getting a contributor fired
at NBC er anyways also an mullah knew
who routinely rants about low IQ rapey
minorities as fellow members of a new
center here is what the new center it
looks like according to Dave Rubin
someone put up this video like you and
me our whole life we're gonna be
like we'll be fight in 10 years when we
find the right again and then in another
10 years we'll find the left again yeah
so that Center so where do you actually
consider yourself politically I think I
have a good sense and one of the things
we've been talking about here is sort of
this new growing Center so five years
ago where liberals and conservatives
were just fighting about everything now
actually there's a new center developing
and I think both of us are sort of
huh so I guess when this writer says
that he is including them in the
NewsCenter
like literally hmm and he goes on to say
let's see when southern and a Canadian
ex libertarian turned white identitarian
appeared on Ruben show she argued on
challenge that the alt-right icon
Richard Spencer was not really a white
supremacist but merely a supporter of a
white ethno state southern also appeared
on ben shapiro show hmm interesting it's
kind of like the difference between
pedophilia and a feeble philia yeah all
of what she's written here is I would
say the only editorial is that that
stuff's a problem everything else is
just completely factual right like we
just saw a video of Dave Rubin saying to
all those guys you and I are part of the
new center and she thinks it's
problematic to define them as the new
center and what's Dave's response here
is he upset about this can we can we
check that out let's see Oh bonus
special for Kathy oh he's attacking her
now here's a primer on what nationalism
and populism actually are courtesy of
Hasani author of the virtue of
naturalism oh wow he's really upset
about this huh what else does he say
wait this is whole thread on this this
is all from today yeah oh my gosh hey
this is really upsetting to me Dave I
just can can everybody just go away for
a minute because I just want to talk to
Dave alone and this of course is the
tweet that I put up well let me let's
turn to that in a moment I just want to
say to Dave listen to me as you like to
say Twitter is not real life I think
you're getting a little bit upset and I
think you just got to let the ideas be
out there and
refute them and now we can cut to my eye
my tweet because I as I said hey Ruben
report condolences it seems like the IDW
is culling the herd that's just a way of
saying that they're trying to cut ties
with you in some way hang in there
brother seems like nobody on the right
is open to ideas want to come on the
show to discuss and then of course I did
the hashtag solidarity Dave my door
metaphorically speaking is always open
and I'm happy to come on your program
and talk about it if it would help or
you come on my program and talk about it
or if you just want to meet for coffee
and are willing to videotape it and take
sound I would I would do that too so it
you hate to see the IDW circling the
wagons I hate to see that it you don't
want to see the IDW circling the wagons
around dave rubin and keeping everyone
away from him yeah keeping him yeah
that's that's really big of you yeah so
there's that
