I don't know if most of the people
listening to us spend as much time on on
things like Instagram and Twitter as I
might but if they are my age they may
also not be tremendously familiar with
the idea of memes what what are memes
memes are those images that you see that
have sort of you know really short
amounts of text and they are often
political and they're designed to go
viral they're just supposed to catch
your attention be funny or to slam
somebody you know make fun of the
Democrats and there are very very visual
pieces of information and you see them a
lot on Facebook actually as these are
probably more than other places for some
reason because the Facebook algorithm
likes them so they get promoted a little
bit more than like regular newspaper
articles things like that but they're
just bits of information some people
just call them propaganda when they're
used in politics because they're they're
visual and they're short and they're
very they they play on people's emotions
as opposed like rational thinking right
I mean these are not these are you know
almost like a headlines if you will but
they're in a they are in a preexisting
construct the best I can I can do for
people to sort of give them a sense of
like to the extent that memes existed
prior to things like social media it is
almost like the those those ads the I
think they were Budweiser ads from like
20 years ago or something that was up
guys and they had they had created a
structure which was they get on the
phone so they said what's up what's up
was that was that was up and then from
that people started creating derivations
of that and it became a shorthand but we
see this used in the in the political
arena have political memes existed as
long as memes have I mean
when did these things start getting a
little bit more weaponized well I think
they're definitely a product of social
media because they are quick and short
and also they go viral and what's
interesting about them is that they
change constantly so you have all these
you know millions of people who are
online on social media especially on
platforms like Reddit and 4chan which
you know a little bit different
communities of people and they change
them so you know I wrote about the way
someone took a picture of Lindsey Graham
the senator from South Carolina and they
the image of him from the Kavanagh
confirmation hearings it went viral
because people just played around with
it and they had Lindsey Graham and that
took 200 different settings in the same
picture and you know with different
little bits of text about him and so
that's what kind of interesting about
they they don't they're not fixed images
they're things that people add their own
little little color to then what is the
value is it just simply that it's it's
propaganda but is there a equality to
memes that are that much more valuable
just simply because there is a there's a
relationship to a younger audience with
these things that in some way resonate
in the way that sort of other I guess
political propaganda wouldn't I think so
I mean there are people who think that
Donald Trump was elected in part because
of memes and there were these
communities and a lot of it is from the
alright these are not you know nice and
friendly groups with people who launched
a lot of these things they have their
own little chat you know not chat rooms
anymore but they're like sites that they
they hang out on and they promoted you
know like during the 2016 presidential
campaign they promoted conspiracy
theories things like Hillary Kalina that
Hillary Clinton was really sick and that
her health was questionable and
therefore she was unelectable and it
wasn't true
but they've just bombarded the internet
with these images of Hillary looking
sick and frail and with some text about
it and it forced the mainstream media to
have to address these questions and so
it became you know just a few memes
turned into something that the campaign
had to address and the media in more
mainstream platforms were talking about
it and I think that had an impact maybe
on how people saw her during campaign so
you write in your earpiece about a guy
named Benny Johnson now Benny Johnson
some people may remember that he I think
he more or less got his start at
BuzzFeed and then had to be let go
because he was a some type of editor I
think and they found that he was
plagiarizing a lot of stuff who better
than to get hired by a conservative
outfit I should guess so what is Benny
Johnson up to these days well then he
has been hired full-time by a group
called turning point USA which is it's a
campus slash youth conservative group
that was started by a guy named Charlie
Kirk and Benny's job with them is
basically to go out across the country
and to do workshops on college campuses
to teach conservative kids how to do
means and as he says how to own the libs
because owning the lives is all about
making good memes and making fun of
liberals online I should say I just saw
footage of Benny Johnson addressing a
turning points USA conference where he
came out and and exclaimed that he had
never seen so many white people in one
room I thought that was at least
appropriate and honest and full
disclosure I've had my own debates with
Charlie Kirk and whatnot and we've
talked quite a bit on this program about
turning points USA they they do
everything from sending college kids on
conservative retreats to actually
they've
charged with trying to fund campus
elections so they go all out and they
obviously have a lot of money they've
hired their own creative consultant and
chief creative officer and Betty Johnson
so he's going around trying to teach
people about memes what where do we have
some like I guess history of or well so
so what is his he's going around trying
to own the libs like what is when they
talk about this internally like what's
the agenda is it just like we want to be
to show that we're more I don't know
biting on online then the libs as they
say well myself I'm talking to people is
that it's almost like a form of
proselytizing because what the ultimate
goal is if you make a meme especially a
political meme often those memes come
out of these like alright sites places
on Reddit and 4chan but the best ones
make it through the meat grinder and get
pushed on to more mainstream platforms
and that's where they want them because
they want people who aren't necessarily
fixed in one party or the other to see
these things and that's where they catch
their new members you know they want to
persuade those people who are
persuadable because nobody on people on
4chan have already made up their minds
about a lot of stuff but there are
people on Facebook who they think could
go either way and so their goal is to
catch those people with these images
whether they're funny or you know just
to find some little piece of information
that really resonates with them that
will draw them in and bring them over to
their side I think that's their ultimate
goal and how they see it all right well
let me let me take a break here and when
we come back I want to talk about more
of these guys particularly this guy Jeff
jeiza I guess is his name and well just
how successful these memes are and
what's happening on the left to
counteract that we got to take a quick
break
talking to Stephanie Menemsha we are
talking about memes and how right-wing
groups are training the next generation
of social media warriors I'm Sam cedar
this is ring of fire radio we'll be
right back
