[Music]
doll Trump was at TP USA as we discussed
earlier in the program and this is a
little bit disturbing well I mean look
we've seen him do this before but he
stopped for a couple of years and now
he's making this claim again and I will
say that you know when I've been reading
into the this Senate report there's very
little that's out there in terms of the
Senate report and one of the things that
people felt in the past that oddly
protected our election system was the
fact that we have so many disparate
systems across the country and I think
at the end of the day that's a rather at
least in terms of national elections a
pretty
I don't know narrow and naive
perspective because again it's really
very limited number of places where you
could impact the outcome of election we
you know we saw that in 2016 in terms of
just how close things can be and how
targeted if you want it to be I don't
know if that they were but targeted you
know target specific areas of the
country that are going to be in play it
occurred to me that one of the things
that the Trump administration was trying
to do was to centralize voter data rolls
in one place that might make things
convenient I mean they had their own
agenda which was also basically to
disenfranchise voters in specific
locations I don't know if Russia or any
other entity that wanted to break into
our things would have that level of
savvy I'm being facetious of course they
do and if they didn't have it then they
would have been given it by people who
do have that savvy but I raised that
only because for a couple of years
Donald Trump was on talking about how it
was millions of legal
immigrants according to him voted which
would brought about the Kris Kobach
attempt to disenfranchise voters across
the country
apparently he's back on it and for those
people who are trying to make an
argument that Donald Trump is not going
to leave the White House if he loses the
election quietly I think this is more
evidence of that case I don't think he
has the you know the the military might
to stay in office but bill Barr may file
a couple lawsuits I mean who knows where
this could lead but here he is in front
of the college students explaining
exactly how it was that he didn't really
lose the popular vote because don't kid
yourself those numbers in California and
numerous other states they're rigged you
got people voting that shouldn't be
voted
interests they vote many times not just
twice not just three times they vote
it's like a circle they come back they
put a new hat on they come back they put
a new shirt up
and in many cases they don't even do
that I think easy race on a car to race
on it
we're going to vote again man going
through the circle I'm gonna do my
second lap or on the circle ever had
don't worry about worry put on the
Groucho glasses you vote again we are
going to drive up that popular vote
totals so much yeah I know they were
trying to get us to go on a bus to
Wisconsin that
she went the moral victory I have like a
smaller game I have like a synthetic
memory now like a droopy dog cartoon
where he he's like running of election
he's like watching an election and like
people are going around the block he's
like wait a sec exactly
wait a second why are other people
around those blacks look so similar that
was the same one as before get a top hat
on mister
