[Music]
to the majority report Michael Brooks
here joining us now the second player in
our doubleheader gene Basler Lonnie's a
professor of history at Missouri State
University you can find his writing and
outlets like the Jacobin you can find
him regularly on T MBS he's fresh off
with the Chicago team vias live show in
fact gene how you doing I'm doing great
Michael it's great to speak to you today
thank you so much so a lot of
conversations about censorship about
this and that I have no problem actually
I think some of the criticisms of the of
a sort of coke you know culture of
censorship isn't the right word but kind
of control and constant kind of
monitoring is correct and I do think
that there does need to be a sort of
commitment to openness in some respects
open this in all senses but you know the
right makes a lot of hay out of this
stuff and then when there's like a
actual literal threat not a cultural or
stylistic conversation a you're speaking
about the human rights of Palestinians
we're going to cut your funding maybe
even fire you that is the only time that
actual academic freedom is threatened in
this country and that takes us to the
extraordinary thing happening at Duke
and I believe also UNC and Betsy DeVos
and the Department of Education Jean
what's going on well there has been a
letter published in the Federal Register
basically criticizing the Middle East
Studies program that is run jointly by
Duke University and the University of
North Carolina in Chapel Hill it's not a
particularly big Middle Eastern Studies
program but it's obviously fairly
prestigious Duke is a you know
well-known University UNC Chapel Hill is
a very prestigious university as well
and this letter has basically been
criticized in quite chilling terms the
the activities of the Middle East
Studies program they're accusing them of
bias
and so on and so forth and this really
hits a number of different points
related to the sort of the broader
debate taking place in the United States
pertaining to campus freedom so you know
as you mentioned in the lead-in there's
a lot of complaints that students are
you know refusing to listen to
alternative perspectives and they're
your friends in the intellectual dark
web make careers basically complaining
about how their freedom of speech is
being sort of stifled but you know a
little etalk I'm gonna take to the New
York Times to talk about how I can't
talk yeah and you know this is obviously
kind of a little bit bizarre given the
fact that these individuals usually have
very large platforms and of course we
have seen perhaps excesses in in very
small cases or very marginal cases in
sort of particular institutions you know
people focus on Oberland I think it's
ever evergreen or and some of the
University of California systems where
things perhaps have got out of control
or people have acted in a responsible
way
there are hundreds there were thousands
of universities in America and you know
individuals on the political right are
often you come to speak in these places
and with very little problem and if
there are protests there usually as you
know civilized and within these sort of
realms of respectability but yet we have
this kind of discourse that you know
people on the right are kind of you know
being persecuted in universities now
what we've seen here though in this case
is the full power of the American
government well being sort of deployed
to threaten the Middle Eastern Studies
program which receives federal funding
was a title nine program which they have
in the United States which is designed
to capacity build trained people up in
languages you know prepare people for
the before for sort of careers in
government careers in business and also
careers in education and so we had this
letter basically what triggered this
whole event was an event held by the
Middle East center in Duke and Chapel
Hill
in which there was a discussion of
Palace Gaza and it included individuals
obviously from Gaza who have discussed
who discussed the impact of the Israeli
blockade or on that region and also
included people from you know
respectable think tanks in Washington
and so on and so forth but this provoked
local Republican congressman from
Raleigh to forward a complaint based on
the base based on sort of the assumption
or the sort of accusation that this had
been an anti-semitic debate and you know
people were engaging in all kinds of
anti Israeli and anti-semitic tropes
against the you know against Israel and
you know this is the sort of classic
constellation of you know criticism of
Israel and you know anti-semitism often
deployed by the political right to
confuse that issue but you know people
you know this individual had not for
example this congressman hadn't attended
the event and was basically going off
some secondhand information now sort of
reports about that particular vent
search you know they makes the point
that you know there were a diversity of
opinions but the problem is you know
increasingly
you know the politicians are critical
off of sort of anything which perhaps
didn't immediately is the Department of
Education so that okay so this is so I
mean this is disturbing and problematic
but and typical everybody you know I
mean in fact I think you know especially
as we actually started to see some
resurgence of anti-semitism in the
United States including terrorism aimed
at the Jewish community the you know the
fact that people who just defend Israel
is Israel's conduct anytime anywhere any
place you know from occupation to the
you know indiscriminate killing of
civilians and the fact that they've said
any discussion of a sovereign
nation-states policies is anti-semitic
they've you know they've done it in
edible amount of work to turn one of the
greatest poisons in human history's in
human history into a joke frankly you
know at least until quite recently but
the the you know moving forward I think
that um yes so that that this somehow
this letter gets the the the Department
of Education now if I understand
correctly is actually threatening
funding yeah that's right so that this
title nine funding which which has
certain strings attached and this has
always been the case and in sort of
comes out of this Cold War tradition of
area studies where you know there was
sort of a need for specialist knowledge
on various regions of the world during
the Cold War and you know basically the
Department of Education is making the
claim based on very little evidence it
doesn't actually excite much evidence
except for for example the titles of
particular classes or the you know
doesn't look at the content or types of
or the names of conferences that were
giving at the university to make the
claim that a the sort of the university
that is not using the money
appropriately it isn't sort of training
people to go into government it makes
accusations that be it's actually quite
ironic you know they accuse accusing
them of not sort of following people
into government careers which is bizarre
given the fact that there's no career
counselor at that program and are they
trying to sort of dictate how people
should you know use their education and
do they have to go to a particular labor
quota in the State Department or the
military if they learn a foreign
language so there's all these
accusations they accuse they use the
program off doing esoteric topics which
aren't really related to the national
security of the United States which they
claim is the sort of function of these
title nine grants and this is you know
there is a certain element of truth to
that but you know the the language on
these grants are pretty pretty bored and
they talk about building cultural
competence right and of course that
means sort of delving into deeper
cultural
so one of the things that they get that
they highlight in the letter is a
conference on Iranian cinema which they
don't see as having a relevance to
American sort of national security
interests but if we're trying to build
up cultural competence about a Middle
Eastern culture then it is a very
relevant tourist you know the
fundamental problem is that these
individuals don't have any competence to
make these judgments there's a very good
example of this in the letter first
it complains that you know Islam is a
being shown in a positive to positive
light or it's been focused on too much
which is a deeply problematic and
straight-up Islamophobic but it also
talks about the lack of focus on Middle
Eastern religious minorities and one of
the religious minorities that they
mention is the Kurds who are not a
religious minority Kurds a Muslim Sunni
Muslim part of the part of the sort of
majority of the Islamic laws which just
demonstrates the complete ignorance of
the people writing this letter it just
comes straight out of sort of an Islamic
Islamic approach baby what from me could
be plucked from a you know a Harris book
let's I'm moving forward I mean we'll
loop back to this and this is a bigger
problem but I do want to touch on a
couple of other issues actually emerging
from the corollary of this mindset that
are even an obviously a far more
dangerous fashion what's the what's what
do you read is the last couple of days
state of play with Iran I mean a lot of
us breathe a sigh of relief and laughed
when John Bolton was humiliated by
Donald Trump that was good for a couple
of hours but it still seems I mean you
basically have an administration almost
saying you know happily that they're
sort of a security subcontractor of
Saudi Arabia certainly how sati Arabia
moves the Saudis you know these jokes
about the Saudis will you know they'll
fight til every last Pakistani soldier
or Sudanese soldier is killed for them
what is happening in the last couple of
days at the same time I mean Iran is
certainly winning the kind of global
public relations war because at least
in this instance there right I mean you
know they are right about who destroyed
the the agreement the jco a they're
right about you know many aspects of
their critique of you know the general
Seidel us-saudi war and em and Yemen
yeah I mean this is kind of like an
escalating game of chicken where you
know parity becomes reality I think
there was a couple of months ago there
was a an article in the onion in which
John you know John Bolton was saying
attack on the Saudi Arabia's attack on
every American or something like that
right and then we come to a position
where basically the administration is
putting board this discourse you have
people like compare yet from sort of
really pushing this sort of narrative
that an attack on the Saudi oil
infrastructure is an attack on American
national security interests and it's
deeply concerning I mean obviously
there's been a lot of play within the
within the security establishment in the
United States the Saudis saying that the
Houthis who claimed this attack did not
actually do it and it was a plot it was
an Iranian attack the Saudis brought for
example you know bits of the drone onto
Saudi television and you know experts on
on sort of drone warfare say well yeah
it's possible that this is an Iranian
drone but it could also be one of the
drones that is built by the Yemenis with
the support of the Iranians and sort of
the whole idea that well the drones came
from the north you know security experts
again said you can drive drones up and
down in different directions make them
hover so you know it's still very
unclear you know even even though the
governments are you know the United
States and Saudi Arabia are sort of
claiming the Iranians did this it's
still you know very difficult to sense
you know I personally do not necessarily
believe that this Iranians were behind
it and you know of course if the Houthis
did it they did it with Iranian
technical expertise and Iranian support
in a kind of general sense but if we go
down the path of like you know weapons
supplied
to one group if that group attacks
somebody then the country that supplied
the weapons is to blame that's perhaps a
path that Saudi Arabia doesn't
necessarily want to go down give him the
people that they have supplied military
support to in India tasks and and more
generally further from the Saudi
perspective blaming the Iranians kind of
covers up the complete failure of their
military adventure in Saudi in Yemen you
know they have pumped millions and
millions into warfare there you know the
countries on the edge of starvation and
yet the Houthis are able to strike and
you know seriously damage the Saudi and
by the way in a way that's legitimate in
everybody any understanding of even of
just basic international law I mean you
know the Saudis are you know waging a
genocide ulm a skilling campaign they're
bombing hospitals they're bombing
schools they're bombing children they've
led to cholera outbreaks there are
countries on the edge of starvation all
of that bloodshed is in the Saudis you
know hands and it's entirely legitimate
of a you know ground force to resist a
foreign invader I mean you know I'm
sorry but I don't it's reality yes
the Houthis since since this sort of
attack attack took place the Houthis
have declared that they won't launch
further attacks on Saudi territory but
it is a let's say a little bit strange
to to sort of imagine you know that you
can attack a country and then not expect
anything to come back to you I mean
right Yemen is right next to Saudi
Arabia of course if you're going to end
if you're going to go to war with one of
your neighbors expect that there will be
strikes back on your territory the
nature of warfare as you say this is
hardly unexpected and you know whether
or not one supports any particular
sudden this is this seems entirely sort
of normal consequence of the war that's
taking place so you know the Saudis I
think that desire to blame Iran is to a
certain extent a function of fact that
this is a Hugh
humiliation for them in military terms
they obviously they're military although
well-armed and you know has a lot of
money behind it is not anywhere near as
effective as they would like to present
it to the international community final
couple of minutes I just want to touch a
little bit on Kashmir
Imran Khan has stated now several times
that India's you know incredibly
aggressive moves in Kashmir which I mean
should be a lot of its interpreted
domestically obviously which is that
they've the BJP mode Narenda Modi
government has torn up the Indian
Constitution they're going in and waging
an aggressive Human Rights assault in
the in Kashmir which already was by many
estimates the most militarized Zone on
earth there's been a tech blackout
there's been you know children have been
blinded by rubber bullets there's family
separations there's detentions even
local moderate political leaders have
been put in jail and there's multiple
interpretations of this I mean one part
of it is there is obviously you know the
extreme far-right nationalist project
the Hindu project of Modi and the BJP
and you know this we go back to Modi and
the Gujarat pogroms and mass murders and
mass rapes of 2002 so this stuff is
already you know quite on the public
record for anybody who bothers to look
it up but how does this fit with
Pakistani concerns you know in Pakistan
obviously Pakistan has certainly
supported groups that engage in
terrorism in India including I mean the
Oberoi hotel atrocities in 2008 but
there is you know the point is is that
there's a dimension of Kashmir that it's
an atrocity and a problem in and of
itself but this really is the place I
mean even more so than the Korean
Peninsula where the worst thing
imaginable could actually happen so you
know where are we at I mean the problems
with India and Pakistan of course go
back to the partition of the
subcontinent in the late 1940s and sort
of
Kashmir was one of those flash points
one of those areas which which conflict
between whether they should be part of
India or Pakistan emerging violence
it was a Muslim majority province which
was ruled by a Hindu prince and
according to the sort of partition
scheme in those provinces which were
which the British had allowed to be
ruled by indigenous monarchs the
princely state the princes were allowed
to decide you know which country their
province would go into so of course you
have a situation where the the cash
Merrie Monarch brings Kashmir with its
Muslim majority into India and so this
becomes a bitter bone of contention
between India and Pakistan for example
Hyderabad which was another princely
state in India was a ruled by Muslim
monarch when Muslim Manik chose to be
part of Pakistan that the province was
occupied by India so there's a sort of
long rancorous history going back to the
sort of partition era and this of course
is made all the more dangerous because
both India and Pakistan are
nuclear-armed talas so we have in the
60s and 70s you know ongoing conflict
low scale conflict and of course the
people who get stuck in the middle of
this at the Kashmir the Kashmir
population and it strikes me that sort
of more generally speaking this assault
by Modi on the cash Mary population is
an attempt in many ways to kind of bring
about a final solution to the province
to the issue of Kashmir by opening it up
to Indian settlement and diluting the
Muslim population it's like that Roberto
Rico it's gentrification and population
displacement yeah yeah I mean this is
this seems what this seems what it's
what the plan is and of course in an
international environment where there
isn't even any pretense of sort of a
respect for human rights
this becomes you know this becomes
possible
you know under a prayer even under a
president Hillary Clinton Modi might not
have been so willing to make that that
date that leap to sort of escalate this
conflict because you know what's the
what's the comeback well however it I
think it should be noted right that that
you know you do have I mean Modi was
just the United States he did a big
event in Houston with Trump he met with
Steny Hoyer he met with mainline
Democrats and of the presidential
candidates you know as is the case
Bernie spoken clearly and bravely on it
the other main contenders have had
nothing to say and then you know
obviously you know Gabbard sort of
basically Gabbard echoed the talking
points of the RSS which is the you know
paramilitary organization that sort of
you know oversees all of the ideological
direction of the extreme variant in in
India you know led by the by Modi and
you know I just I'll add and I I always
struggle with it but I mean look at when
Indonesia is doing in West Papua you
know I mean this is half this is
definitely a global dynamic right now
yeah I mean we're seeing it with a doe
on attempting to sort of push to three
million Syrians in to occupy Roger and
put two three million Syrian abs there
nothing to dilute the Kurdish population
that we're seeing what as you when
should you know people don't talk about
the brutality is taking place in Western
Poppaea and of course Kashmir is again
part of this sort of newly aggressive
nationalism which is really taking hold
you know as sort of the pretense of
liberal internationalism breaks down I
think we're going to be seeing more and
more of these kind of events as
governments move under the you know
under without any fear of sort of
international condemnation the move to
sort of resolve these long-standing
ethnic and religious conflicts in the
most brutal way possible and in India's
case Imran Khan speaking on MSNBC today
he made the point that for many
countries India is a market of to a 1.2
billion
people so you know criticizing India has
a have an economic cost to it as well
and we can add of course the just
absolutely horrifying footage and
stories emerging of you know China's
let's say I mean there's certainly
deaths but the detaining of you Gers is
really essentially I mean it's just it's
cultural cleansing the idea that we
maybe we won't necessarily kill
everybody although some of that is
taking place but we are going to you
know strip you of what you are in an
aggressive horrifying manner and of
course you know China you know that's
even beyond just a powerful emerging
market like you know India I mean China
already I mean arguably we're already
are really in the g2 world so yeah so
yeah it's very disturbing and I think
the you know this isn't caused by the
election of Trump or the you know
ascendancy of the right wing in the
United States but it's certainly
intensified by it and facilitated by it
so I think you know this is a very
disturbing trend and this is why for
example the difference between Elizabeth
Warren and Bernie Sanders on foreign
policy is extremely critical right the
highlights you know there's a lot made
about the how different they are on
domestic policy but is the foreign
policy dimension that really has a you
know has a there's a very serious
difference there and a standard
presidency may we might hope sort of
help arrest some of the the more sort of
extreme manifestations of this
intensification of violence and ethnic
and religious conflict Dean bodger lon
from your lips to Allah's ears I
appreciate your time as always professor
of history at Missouri State University
thanks so much Jean thank you so much
yeah all right folks
