no debates this week no big bumps and
changes in the polling although you know
Joe Biden had his requisite having to
walk back comments this week I think it
was one where he basically told the
Latino community to fall in line you
know which was weird he also was I mean
he you know each week it's a different
story right it may be maybe like every
three or four days this guy has some
type of gaffe as you know it was the end
of the last week he said that poor kids
can be just as smart as white kids and
now he saved himself there as well but
there's all sorts of these type of
problems meanwhile Bernie Sanders has
been you know complaining about the
media coverage he's getting now look all
politician not all politicians many
politicians do that and you do it
because you want the best media coverage
you can get but there you know there was
multiple Democratic candidates who said
at the democratic debate you you guys
are using right-wing frames and that
certainly is the case with with with
Sanders when they go after him and and
they're even doing it in the context of
his story I mean he's been on the stop
saying Jeff Bezos is you know America's
richest guy that you know he's getting
all these free tax breaks and he's
getting all these free services without
having to pay his taxes essentially and
you know go figure the Washington Post
doesn't write good stories about me I
wonder why that is well that's not a
conspiracy is it Ferren it's like the
the the the billionaire knows what he's
buying when he goes out and he buys a
media outlet and if he thought he was
buying you know some type of like you
know Village Voice or some type of
liberal outlet he probably wouldn't have
bought it he bought the Washington Post
because there's a culture there of
really sneering not just at people with
with Bernie Sanders politics but people
they perceive as outsiders and and there
you have it and really you know yes the
the situation is so much more say but
but but that's basically since the
beginning of the United States rich
people would buy the newspapers because
they you know they wanted to protect
themselves and and the businesses they
owned and get some good coverage of that
and SoDo Bernie's not off-base at all I
mean earlier this week what was at the
wash to post ran 15 negative stories
about him in just 16 hours so averaging
one per hour just cranking these things
out you know completely clickbait be
dishonest headlines and so birdie has a
very strong case people saved the
receipts you know screenshots of all of
those headlines going around anytime
somebody said Bernie was assaulting the
Free Press which is what Meet the Press
said in a tweet they said he's
assaulting or attacking
the freedom of the press but that's not
what this is look the basis of liberal
media in general and we've talked about
this for years obviously is because the
corporate owned media does not cover
these stories in a meaningful way and in
many of them they ignore altogether
corporate media is a thing corporations
do influence the coverage of the outlets
that they cover and I can give a great
example here a couple years ago Papp was
working on the yaz case we had a
reporter at the New York Times who had
been working with him he had been doing
some investigations was putting together
this phenomenal piece for The New York
Times about how yaz was killing women
yeah out of control yeah Brett birth
control okay good and so then after
about two or three months he finishes
the article it was phenomenal he says
great giving it to my editor we're good
to go a couple days later we hear back
and he says hey I was told we can't run
this story it turns out Bayer the big
advertiser in our paper oh wow they
don't want to run this so that is that
that happened and so when people say no
these corporate they don't
call the shots at the network they do
they may not be doing it on a day-to-day
basis but there is now no longer a
single media outlet in this company a
corporate media outlet that does not
also share a board member with a
pharmaceutical company they all have at
least one from Big Pharma in there and
that's just one of the ways I know
that's not what Bernie was necessarily
talking about but it is part of his
broader point corporations call the shot
with the corporate media right and let's
be clear I mean even if there was never
a a moment where stories were killed and
would look we know we know that this
happens you know vice even vice media
remember they wouldn't attack the NFL
because they had some type of deal with
them or something like that but look
even if it's not that which I know for a
fact that like back in the early you
know the the mid-2000s at Air America
I'm not excuse me at MSNBC that Robert
Wright and presumably on in response to
the the people who owned his company at
GE had a lot of problem with people
getting a to actively Pro anti-war on
air but for the most part they don't
have to police these people because they
are hired in the first place because
they know they're simpatico
like I say Jeff Bezos is not going out
to buy the Village Voice he's going out
to buy an institution where he knows the
people share to a large extent his
fundamental values and truths and you
know I
there's nobody has to go and tell you on
Ring of Fire don't do this this is too
sensitive you got hired because people
know what you're gonna do anyways and
and and and all bernie is arguing is
that when you have a billionaire and if
you believe like I think Bernie might
and I certainly do that billionaires are
a policy failure you have a billionaire
they're not going to buy a property that
is in the business of explaining things
to the American people without having
that property fundamentally aligned
with the values he had that helped him
earn supposedly a billion dollars that's
just the reality of it look affarin
we've got to take a break let's talk
more in the next hour Sam cedar ring of
fire radio we'll be right back
