[Music]
Vijay Prashad
this was also on Democracy Now we put we
talked a lot about and he was a guest on
this show a couple weeks ago I'd
recommend everybody read him he's the
director of the Tri continental
Institute for Social Research we talked
a lot about how boring
Trump's UN address was and there was
certainly the extreme xenophobia the
terrorism against refugees and migrants
but it was an incorrectly Bush like
speech with the threats about Iran the
extreme positioning around Israel and
Vijay Prashad really outlines the
Imperial dimension of Donald Trump's
speech at the UN General Assembly here
you know it was a very chilling speech
Trump attempted to suggest that he was a
nationalist you know pushing the agenda
of so-called patriotism against
globalism
that's how Trump tried to define his own
politics of course this is quite
incoherent on the one side mr. Trump and
people like him
used the term patriotism or sovereignty
to defend their right not to participate
in international treaties such as
treaties about climate change about
refugees you know and about the Iran
nuclear deal you had ball sonar oh give
a very spirited defense of so-called
Brazilian sovereignty to allow the
Amazon to be exploited so you had the
Trump for instance here use this
language of sovereignty to remove the
United States from its international
obligations on the other side
quite encounter distinction to this mr.
Trump put forward what can only be
described as an imperialist agenda in
other words there was no consideration
for the sovereignty of Iran or Venezuela
in fact he used language which I was
quite shocked by the term bloodlust for
instance to describe Iranian foreign
policy so you know it
wasn't quite patriotism on one side of
sovereignty on one side and globalism it
wasn't a principled distinction in fact
behind the cover of sovereignty mr.
Trump was saying countries like the
United States and Brazil don't have to
conform to the climate treaties that
have been agreed upon on the
international stage you know we just had
this very powerful climate strike
initiated by Greta Thornburg I think
this kind of thing
this kind of attitude about sovereignty
was a way of setting that aside but on
the other hand as I said incoherently he
lashed out at Iran and you know you've
got to understand that the countries of
the world are not interested in a war
against Iran so that's exactly right and
the parallel he's drawing with ball
scenario is very important because in
fact even for all the talk against
globalism there is real coordination of
these right-wing authoritarian
governments across the globe and you
know yes the abandon is kind of a
goofball and a self-promoter but he's
been seen in Brazil a lot recently
nationalist international there is a
nationalist it's a real thing and the
rhetoric of of the sovereignty is quite
important to interrogate however in a
place like Brazil the you know what Lula
is saying in prison about the Amazon and
protecting Brazil's sovereignty and
borders from imperial US intervention
and the fact that he's almost certainly
in jail because he would not privatize
oil discoveries is distinct from you
know McCrone is correct on the merits
but you have to understand that when
international figures demand that you
know Brazil do something about the
Amazon that's the opening for balsan ro
and for all of these thugs to say well
who are you to tell me what I do in fact
what's been really funny is to note this
neo-fascist Brazilian government using
woek anti-imperial rhetoric
to defend their Amazon record from
people like McCrone so you need to you
know seriously undermine these arguments
with an actual left solidarity populist
approach globally and Lula in prison is
the best articulator of that and I want
to just get to this really important
thing that just was released in
[Music]
yesterday from congressman Raul Grijalva
office he along with Deb Holland and ro
Cana and so forth 13 other co-signers I
will say with the notable admissions so
far of AOC and Rashida to live which is
disappointing hopefully that will be
fixed soon I have put out the most
comprehensive Brazil set and resolution
that's happened so far they call for a
protection of the Amazon rainforest
opposing racism and bigotry and a and
defending rule of law in Brazil it talks
about the labor rights dimension it
talks about a ver a ver AIA T of other
key things a quote now from congressman
Grijalva as a member of Congress we have
a duty to condemn the tragedy has
befallen our Brazilian brothers and
sisters under the destructive and racist
policies of the most narrow government
said a representative Grijalva chair of
the House Natural Resources Committee
bolsa Narrows failed leadership has
brought Brazil to a crisis point he's
curtailed the rights of indigenous
communities openly threatened their
right to exist and is presiding over the
unprecedented destruction of the Amazon
this is not the type of regime that the
you know us should support and I'm proud
to stand up for environmental justice
indigenous communities and the and the
Brazilian people with this resolution
now they also talked correctly the
resolution directs the Department of
Justice to perform a full review of DOJ
activities in Brazil to determine any if
any DOJ employees or supporters
employees supported an unethical conduct
by the lava jato task force or other
Brazilian judicial agents and it calls
on an assistance of us
stopping of US military assistance now
recall bolson ro visited CIA
headquarters when he visited the United
States last year or several months ago
none of this happens without a variety
of moves but the epicenter politically
is the political prism intent Lula who
still sits in jail in Curitiba even
after the lava jato releases and
reporting for the intercept proved
beyond a shadow of doubt that the
charges against him are politically
motivated and corrupt from the inception
now what that shows you obviously is
that this is a political imprisonment
it's not a judicial imprisonment it's
corrupt and illegitimate so of course
he's still in jail because the process
is fundamentally illegitimate and this
resolution also calls for Lula's freedom
and it also talks for about a full
investigation of the DOJ and lava jato
and I will say a point to a recent
interview that Lula did for the Asia
Times where he talks about how his
strategy for the BRIC countries was to
create an alternative world currency an
alternative reserve currency to be used
for developing nations and that he
wanted to use the BRICS and which is
Brazil South Africa China and Russia in
a creative way to counteract the
hegemonic instincts of the United States
and if you look at that in conjunction
with his refusal to privatize key
strategic Brazilian assets and the
history of the United States as an
imperial enforcer of Latin America in
the Caribbean you will see the broader
Imperial designs of his political
imprisonment again this is another issue
where Lula you know you have these great
Congress people Deb Holland Raul gravi
role Khanna on this issue and others
Hank Johnson Ilan Omar and then of
course in the presidential campaign this
is another area that of course you know
Lou Bernie has been the only one to
speak on but this is one that honestly I
mean anybody who has any pretensions to
climate concerns and global democracy
should be demanding this because you
have a demented lunatic who's even worse
than Trump and then somebody who could
be the most effective center-left
statesman
in the world in prison who already and
his first two terms lifted 40 million
people out of poverty so thank these
Congress people the man thank senator
Sanders and demand that more and more
people take action on this it's a really
big deal in all dimensions
dead-ass and on the imperialism tip can
we just give a shout out real quick to
Daniella Rodriguez yes diplomat from
Venezuela talked about that during
Trump's garbage UN speech and read a
book on Simone Boulevard for the entire
duration
I read can I read what she tweeted here
she said this is the book I read well
real Donald Trump desecrated the General
Assembly of the onu with his xenophobic
and imperialist speech long live Bulevar
long live Venezuela long live the
Venezuelan people who do not bow to any
Empire hashtag hands-off Venezuela it's
all squeen she got taken off a Twitter
soon probably that's awesome
nothing but respect for that Trumpy bear
warns reformist while Sanders
