[Music]
here's Ken Cuccinelli who yesterday we
played a clip as he was announcing and
make no mistake about it they are trying
to curtail legal immigration they are
trying to prevent legal immigrants who
are here in this country from using
services intimidating them that our
society provides for the benefit of
everyone it is to the benefit of
everyone that we have people around us
who are getting health care it is to the
benefit of everyone around us that we do
not have people regardless of their
immigration status starving in the
streets and they're using this to
specifically curtail immigration from
countries where people do not have as
much money legal immigration this time
legal immigration in the world and so
someone asked him at the press
conference yesterday so when we have
that plaque on the the Statue of Liberty
that says you know we accept the the
poor your what what is it your your poor
your huddled masses yearning to breathe
free something your huddled masses your
tired
are we not we done with that now and he
didn't he didn't really have a good
answer well he's come up with one folks
he's come up with one all we need to do
we don't have to take the plaque down we
just need to amend it a little bit would
you also agree that Emma Lazarus's words
etched on the Statue of Liberty give me
your tired your poor are also part of
the American ethos they certainly are
give me your tired and your poor who can
stand on their own two feet and who will
not become a public
charge that that plaque was put on the
Statue of Liberty at almost the same
time as the first public charge law was
passed very interesting timing although
you mentioned the American Dream is is
built on this idea that this is a place
where you can come and build on it yeah
I love that it was pretty hard hitting
the response that way second so you're
saying that there's an addendum there's
a qualifier to that you're poor that can
stand on their own two feet what what
does that mean what does that mean I
don't need any assistance whatsoever as
if Ken Cuccinelli is not getting
assistance from the US government never
mind his his job never mind the fact
that is all his paychecks have always
come from government but the mortgage
interest deduction that he takes on his
taxes these tax breaks understand when
you get a tax break what you're getting
is a service a free service from the
government a reduced service not reduced
in quality reduced in cost you're
getting services in kind is what we used
to call it in the show and show business
when you're doing a production so you
could call it a tax break but you're not
having to pay for the services you get
as much as other people you're not
getting it in dollars per se you get a
snap card you're not getting dollars
you're getting the ability to buy some
food I mean and when you get a tax break
you means you're getting all sorts
services you don't have to pay for give
it to a Republican politician I mean
here's the thing about this that I find
frightening it's already very hard to
immigrate to this country if you don't
have money if you have money you go to
the front of the line you just have to
pay like a several thousand dollars or
however much it costs and you can't buy
a green card the fact that they're
making a big deal
this now in their rhetoric is purely an
attempt to whip up anti-immigrant and
anti pour frenzy oh of course
without a doubt without a doubt like the
policy is not going to be a huge
difference from the way it is now
oh no the policy it's this is this is
bad this is very bad
they've already they've already started
to see even months ago you can start to
see that legal immigrants are not
signing up for services that they are
eligible for the this is this is bad
make no mistake about it it's a
continuation but it is it is really
really bad it's it's them cultivating a
more favorable electorate frankly yes I
mean presumably I guess although I'm not
a hundred percent sure about that it is
them cultivating a what they consider a
more favorable citizenry pleasing you're
right it's just hard to imagine
squeezing people more than they already
have been it's totally just they're just
shutting the door that's basically what
it comes down to they're shutting the
door and we shouldn't add that they're
doing it in such a way I mean aside from
it being inconsistent with the history
of this country it was or I should say
to the extent that it was consistent of
this country it didn't work out so well
that as they get more severe some
Republicans become less favorable
towards immigration but the vast
majority of Americans become more
favorable towards immigration I mean
this polarization you know we talked
about this in the context of identity
crisis this polarization goes both ways
I mean most of most Americans frankly
don't want a white ethno state that's
right know most normal people are too
with everyone in their community and
everyone they work with and even if they
don't have like a systemic critique of
like borders and how they hurt the
working class by dividing us they don't
want to see their fellow workers locked
in cages and having their kids taken
away and a lot of people still have you
know stories from I mean my dad he wants
to come up to New York to visit Ellis
Island because he heard about that from
his like grandparents and stuff and
frankly a lot of workers do have a
systemic critique of these things like
well I mean it's I I guess from my
perspective I don't care if their
workers are not workers I mean and they
obviously are coming in and they're
going to be and I don't know that they
define themselves that way but they're
just people who want to live a better
life and have opportunity to care for
their kill their kids care for their
family and what we're doing is inhumane
that's just the bottom line
