from 267 area code who's this where he
called from hello hello hello hi hi this
is yeah Stanford home to a nice to talk
to you yeah I would bring up two things
one I really cook story is that like I
am was encouraged by Mike and Cal
kolinsky to call my representative or a
representative after that whole vote in
Congress to about Yemen trying to pull
us out yeah yeah yeah so I followed
their advice and you know I never done
it before you know called my
representative I was really so I mean I
called but I didn't no one told me that
anyone would actually answer I thought
it seems like an answering machine
they're like I I rent I was gonna rant
you know I really let him know how I was
very unhappy but no so I actually
answered and it's very different to I do
something like that when there's like a
nice staffer who's quietly asked
answering your questions right you know
Kyle was saying like you know like
they're the genocide caucus I think what
was his name for them and so yeah it's I
mean it's an empowering moment and to
actually call you represent it was
something you've been encouraging
yourself in some times before and I
would say look you know the bottom line
is look they these people are during
their their normal people I mean in the
sense that they react to things like
people normally do and so if you call
and you sound like a you know a
responsible you know
individual it's gonna have you know more
weight I mean at the end of the day it's
just a number but if you know there's no
doubt in my mind that these staffers get
off the phone and they go whoa you know
they'll they'll take it down they'll put
you in the computer and they'll say one
call and that call is worth they have an
algorithm I don't know what it is these
days I would imagine you know I don't
know what it is but it you represent 100
maybe 200 maybe 500 people in the
district that one call and on top of it
when you get off the phone you know when
they're done answering the phones at the
end of the day there's no doubt in my
mind they go into the chief of staff and
they're like how did these collars sound
and if that person says sound like very
rational people that that implicates
their thinking on this I mean it just
does I don't know that's gonna change
anybody's mind but it does and so you
know so all sort of the same theory is
that clean for gene movement you know
fortunately society is changed in such a
way that you don't always have to wear a
suit to look like a responsible
individual but thank God yeah but but
appreciate your calling us and so I was
also like going to UM talk about the the
Guatemalan child who died uh-huh yeah so
the big I believe our democracy now who
brought up the fact that you know she
wasn't an indigenous I'm envisioning
armed family and how her whole tribe was
uplifted um uprooted by like the US and
Western extraction policies and how they
actually had to bounce around uh their
tribe to escape this extract of our
policies that we've been implementing
right on their on their land right and
then from there it's kind of like a
like lying also with the violence that
we've spread in Central America you look
at who our drug policy was who i
deceptive practices right and all these
things you know had pushed their family
right to uh to force them some and great
to us right and then the idea that it's
simply a choice right
you know Kristen gel blankets on Fox
News and says you know this is a choice
they made not Kristen Gillibrand I'm
Kristen Nielsen Oh Kristen yes mom thank
you sorry about that to come to uh come
to the border to take along a dangerous
Trek and then she dies and I think
there's a direct line of thinking and
this in this conservative mindset there
were lates back also to your call with
that libertarian gentleman I forget his
name but he had said something about how
you know it was wrong for the North it's
the man to demand that slaves be
released right and how it's so easy to
sacrifice bodies right the bodies of
black and brown people and that like
well we should have gotten in some sort
of dialogue with southern slave owners
all right and then to convince them to
release their slaves or wait for market
market forces to allow that to happen
meanwhile generations of black people
would have been born and died in slavery
under that brutal system but it's just
ok now I just I just you know I the
moves like this a spectrum this long
tradition and the conservative mindset
they're simply sacrifice his body for
the white fox is a white Congress yeah
it's also you could also just say that
there's a lot of racist principles in
the in the way that they operate
appreciate the call stand the
three of the children that have died at
the border were all indigenous and spoke
indigenous languages right and yeah I
mean you can also see it in terms of
like sort of these the the there is some
type of a lot of it also to sort of
comes from this sort of conservative
mindset that it's quasi-religious that
like if you found yourself in a bad
situation it is because in some way you
you deserve it and whether it's like
poverty or whatnot and of course but you
know I just saw the story today we don't
have the clip of it but in Britain there
was a there was a headline something to
the effect of like you know judge says
drug dealers can get off because they're
Texas the texts that they wrote had such
great grammar and I was like the whitest
defendants you could ever find right I
mean that is good days uh-huh where
might that kilo be procured well and
then it also turned out that their
grandma was actually atrocious that's
the other that's the other benefit you
get it's not what they meant by grammar
yeah
