[Music]
turn to this this week has been nuts in
terms of criminal investigations Michael
Cohen has basically and we have some
will play some more audio clips of him a
little bit later he isn't the sort of a
interesting figure let's to say the
least but what is also really
interesting I mean this week feels and
we I feel like we've said this before
but this week feels different in the
sense that the structures around Donald
Trump seem to be sort of like crumbling
a little bit and this clip that we have
and I want you to listen to it's long
but it really is fascinating Judge
Napolitano is on Fox & Friends and that
notion of the the of this structure sort
of follow this is like sort of like he's
explaining that on some level but it's
also we're witnessing it as they all are
just sort of slack-jawed as he's
basically telling them like yeah don't
chop really did something wrong here and
here is the segment I love it they start
with a graphic of a lady to the scales
of justice and Fox outweighs friends on
the scale of justice just so you know I
never noticed that but that's pretty
funny and I don't know who that face is
there's a weird that is a weird graphic
anyways so listen to this will stop it
and if you want to stop it just tell us
when to stop
president Trump's former lawyer Michael
Cohen sentenced to three years in prison
for tax fraud campaign finance
violations and lying to Congress Cohen
ripping into his former boss claiming to
donald trump claiming blind loyalty led
him to a path of darkness to cover up
donald trump's dirty deed anyone on and
on and on here to break it all down Fox
News senior Ju he went on and on and on
yeah anyone on and on and on here to
break it all down Fox News senior
judicial analyst Judge Andrew Napolitano
judge Michael Cohen got off easy
three years it's pretty good he's got to
be happy about that well nobody is happy
about going to jail it's a lot less time
than the government wanted and a lot
less time than we all thought he would
get look I've sentenced over a thousand
people in my career and I've heard
things defendants say sentencing today
is essentially a mathematical function
you're checking boxes you're complying
with guidelines obviously there's some
room for deviation and judge Pauley the
judge in this case gave Michael Cohen a
substantial benefit it's interesting
remember he was prosecuted like
cooperation correct he was prosecuted by
two officers prosecuted by the Special
Counsel in in DC they wanted him to get
no jail time and he was prosecuted by
the US Attorney's here in New York they
wanted to get four years Judge Paul he
gave him three but a very very telling
statement came out of the judges mouth
yesterday after he read all the
documents and heard all the arguments
from the government prosecutors in DC
prosecutors in New York Michael Cohen
and his lawyers and that was about the
president the judge finding that the
President ordered and paid for Michael
Cohen to commit a crime that is very
telecom the intentional deception and
failure to report campaign payments
Trump has said that that was not a
campaign violation because it wasn't
involving the campaign unfortunate
control payment unfortunately the
president wasn't in the courtroom and
the people who were the federal
prosecutors who had a statement from
David Peck or the guy that owns the
National Enquirer said it was for the
campaign the prosecutor said
for the campaign Michael Cohen said it
was for the campaign the president
wasn't there maybe should have had
lawyers there so if you make an honest
mistake in failing to report something
or if you take a hundred thousand
dollars and you're only supposed to take
twenty five hundred you can correct that
by returning the money paying a fine and
correcting the report if you do this as
part of a scheme to hide it then it's
not a civil wrong then it's a crime
that's what the judge found yesterday
well if like for example Reverend Wright
is speaking out making President Obama
candidate Obama look bad and he and
someone walks up to Reverend Wright and
says hey could you stop making the
president the senator to look bet he's
running for president but what does have
to do with the campaign but yet it is
how well that might influence how I vote
positive one second did you hear that
Heather how desperate do you have to get
at this point to bring up Reverend
Wright and to equate going up a random
person not associated with the campaign
walking up to Reverend Wright and saying
hey will you please be quiet and the
it's stunning to me
the next thing they're gonna ask is
they're gonna demand that Barack Obama
be properly vetted and that it what
about billionaires I'm up but here is uh
the judge I mean this is pretty funny
this is sort of like it sort of feels
like I don't know if you were to
actually gather your children around and
say look guys there's no Santa Claus but
wait a second what about who brought us
the yeah no that was uh that was your
uncle he bought that oh great what about
that time we heard the bells on the yeah
no that was just that was our neighbor
and they were just playing around here
we go continued influence how I vote
that would not be a campaign so this is
no difference this is a negative story
the president what happens running for
president I understand the president's
argument unfortunately the court and the
prosecutors who work for the president
disagree with it yeah but they went
after John Edwards for essentially the
same idea because there was a money paid
to a woman who heeded had an affair
had a child that went court that went
trial and he was found not guilty at
John Edwards case actually hurts the
president because John Edwards lawyers
made a motion to dismiss the indictment
saying it's not a crime and the judge
published an opinion saying why it's a
crime now the jury didn't believe the
government and believed John Edwards but
the fact of the matter is any scheme to
defraud the government by failing to
report what must be reported is a crime
unless it's an honest mistake in which
case if you have to serve all three
years no he'll have to serve 85 percent
but if the criminal justice reform Act
that the president wants that Democrats
want that Republicans want from Cory
Booker to Rand Paul passes one-third of
his time will be a removed and helps
yeah it'll be out in about a year and
nine months all right judge thank you
very much the practice law again
no like doubt he'll ever practice law
yeah some people say you never really
practice law I've heard that oh my gosh
that was really rough for the Fox and
Friends they I feel like exactly I feel
like Judge Napolitano not a friend
anymore yeah I'm afraid not but I feel
like that moment like how many of those
moments you know look these three guys
these three stooges on this on this
couch are not that important but there
is there's like metaphorically speaking
that that conversation is probably
happening in people's minds or you know
across the country on some level I don't
think a lot of these people are in terms
of voters and whatnot are gonna going to
walk away for Donald Trump for that but
I have a feeling like people who you
know flax like you know I'll be very
surprised if chris Christie takes his
job although I could see him coming in
at this point like if you come in at
this stage right you probably won't have
to do anything criminal you'll just
watch it all fall yep yeah you he may
see himself as Alexander Haig right the
guy who came in and the latter latter
part of the Nixon administration and
kind of oversaw the end right he sees
himself
that you know one thing I think is
really important to point out about this
this what Napolitano said and and he
kept saying this but he didn't really
explain it that there was a scheme you
know I think people have been up until
now under the impression that Trump and
Cohen and PEG are after the Access
Hollywood tape came out and then you
know stormy shows up and Karen McDougal
show up and I go hey you know we're
about to we're gonna go public because
this was all part of a big you know sort
of churn of a lot of issues around women
that were coming up towards the end of
the campaign and that Trump and Cohen
and Packer came up with this idea to pay
them off you know and set up the shell
companies and do all that stuff it's
just to keep them quiet in you know
until the election now that would be
illegal
anyway what they did and we heard Trump
on tape basically talking about it so we
know that it happened and we know Trump
was involved I mean there's no doubt
about that but what has happened in the
last week is that we found out that this
scheme was hatched back in 2015 this
wasn't something that they came up with
at the last minute everything was a
flurry it was the end of the campaign
nobody knew what they were doing they
were doing this stuff since 2015 we
don't even know how many other
situations like this came up Donald
Trump called it it was reported in Wall
Street Journal a while back and now it
has been confirmed that what pecker told
the prosecutors and Cohen confirmed and
I think there's documentary evidence
plus you know tapes and what-have-you to
back this up Trump called pecker in
there in in 2015 he's standing there was
Michael Cohen up in Trump Tower and said
literally this is the quote what can you
do for my campaign you know I mean it
doesn't get any more explicitly campaign
related than that and they came up with
this idea that what pecker would do was
try and and head off at the past any
kind of these negative information
particularly about about women but it
says in the in the document so the the
press release that it was all among
other things we don't even know what
else was running up right I mean that
may have been some of this apprentice
that that has you know something's come
out in recent days maybe it's drugs
maybe it's you know who knows I mean I
don't know but you know and maybe it's
some of its bogus too you know there may
have been people there looking for a you
know looking to make a quick buck by
selling something to the Enquirer but
whatever this thing was was in place for
you know from the very beginning of the
campaign August of 2015
Trump came down the escalator in June of
2015 so this stuff was going on this was
a scheme it was an illegal scheme where
they were trying to protect Trump by you
know paying money to people who
allegedly had negative information and
they weren't reporting it as campaign
contributions that is illegal and it's a
scheme as Napolitano says it's not just
something well gee we we were all you
know so busy we didn't really know what
we were doing I mean it no one can say
that no one can say that somebody didn't
have an obligation from 2015 on to go
and ask dawn McGann by the way who was
the campaign lawyer for Donald Trump
from the very beginning and who happened
to be a you know an election law expert
he's one of the leading experts in the
Republican Party on election law so
nobody can say that there wasn't anybody
around they didn't know who to turn to
they didn't have any any way of doing it
so I you know I think this is very very
serious for him because you know this is
just one example well there's a kind of
corrupt deal right that he was up to and
and and I would imagine this is
something that he's probably not going
to have to worry about until the the
moment he steps out of the White House
as not the president and I think you
know someone's going to come up and
shake his hand and then slap a cuff
around him or something
well maybe you know I mean one thing one
thing that we should I mean god help us
if we get into another one of these you
know let's not look in the rearview
mirror we have to move forward and they
have a but you know enact our positive
agenda I mean this is going to be
nothing I find that battles are a lot of
us if they decide to do that oh I
wouldn't be surprised you know I really
wouldn't I mean all right so look I I
want to you know we're gonna see I think
there's going to be a lot more of this I
think they're starting with that
low-hanging fruit and then working up
and
and sort of laying out like sort of a
certain pattern of criminality and then
are gonna start getting a little bit
deeper and stuff but who knows and you
know I'm not convinced that the
Republican lawmakers are going to
diminish their support for him all right
