[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program Ben Westhoff he's
an award-winning investigative
journalist and author of fentanyl ink
how rogue chemists are creating the
deadliest wave of the opioid epidemic
Ben welcome to the program thanks for
having me Sam
a lot of news literally today and in the
past couple of days about the legal
cases against the against Purdue Pharma
against ones that we may see against the
sackler 's there is the u.s. the New
York state AG is looking into reports
that sackler wired money out of you know
different funds and whatnot ostensibly
to pay you know some of their fines or
avoid some of their fines or who knows
what this is going to be ongoing and
you're writing about fentanyl which is
what you've called basically and maybe
not just you
I think the CDC the third wave of the
opioid epidemic walk us through those
waves and the vehm bullets will talk
about sort of the history of fentanyl
because fentanyl is of a different ilk I
guess of drugs which is going to be
really the problem of the future yeah
the first wave of the opioid epidemic
started in the 90s and that was the
prescription pills like oxycontin and
doctors began over prescribing these
pills and then when patients their
prescriptions ran out a lot of them
started turning to Street heroin these
were you know law-abiding citizens but
heroin had this met the same kind of
craving and so that was the second wave
of the opioid epidemic now it's almost
impossible to find pure heroin anywhere
you know most parts of the United States
it's all being cut with fentanyl and
fentanyl represents the third wave of
the opioid epidemic it's much more
powerful than heroin about a hundred
times stronger and so when it's cut into
fentanyl people don't even know it's
there and a lot of people die
immediately and we should say that the
over-prescription of the opioids was
there was a bunch of different choke
points where sort of things I want to
say faltered but it really was in many
instances malfeasance I mean arguably
the doctors you know where the the least
malfeasant maybe they were most
misfeasance but they were basically sold
on this idea that this class of opioids
was non addictive because of the way
that it had been constructed I guess
which like you imply didn't turn out
that way and they probably should have
been aware of it when they were selling
millions of pills into you know two
counties with with significantly less
people yeah so let give us this history
of fentanyl and and and it is part of a
class of drugs that is called got it
right here the novel psychoactive
substances first just give us the
history of how fentanyl got introduced
into the country and then let's talk
about the the implications of novel
psychoactive substances fentanyl was
created in the late 1950s as a totally
legitimate medical drug it was made by a
Belgian chemist and it was used in
things like open-heart surgery and it's
still a very important widely used
hospital drug for things like epidurals
and childbirth and colonoscopies but the
fentanyl that we're hearing about mostly
is not this fentanyl the feds know
that's killing people is made illicitly
almost all of it in China
and it's made in labs there and often
it's sent directly through the mail to
US consumers people can just order it
off the internet people you know drug
users drug dealers and it's also
channeled through the Mexican cartels
and they buy it from China packaged it
up and then send it north into the US
through across the border so we have so
how is this I mean when you describe
this dynamic how is it related to the it
seems like there's it's running in
parallel to the opioid crisis and it
seems also that it's in in another
respect it is an extension of the opioid
crisis yeah that's exactly right it is
you know basically the same chemical
structure the similar chemical structure
similar effects to morphine heroin
oxycontin all of these opioids and
opiates we keep hearing about
so it's piggybacking on the opioid
crisis but the problem is it's making
things much worse
so whereas deaths from prescription
pills and deaths from heroin are falling
in recent years deaths from fentanyl are
actually increasing every year so it's
it's a really bad situation I mean we're
talking about tens of thousands of
deaths right yeah there's more than
30,000 deaths from fentanyl alone in
2018 and so what percentage of those so
let's I mean I just want to clearly
delineate these two sort of like
categories of problems that we're
dealing with one is that we have people
who became addicted to opioid pain
medication they they move to Street
heroin and then I guess you know part of
the problem at that instance is a lot of
that Street handle heroin is now laced
with fentanyl and it ends up killing
people it seems the other and maybe
there's like three different version
because that's sort of the high
then that there seems to be one that is
exclusively a function of like people
just taking other drugs and getting
fentanyl and not being aware of it and
then there's also I would imagine still
on some level and maybe this is ended in
because of greater awareness an over
prescription of fentanyl I you know know
people who were prescribed fentanyl as a
you know sort of like a chronic pain you
know solution yeah and you know I have a
someone I know fairly well who ended up
having to go to a clinic and input as an
inpatient and you know when people
around there saw him and the amount of
fentanyl he was taken they're like we
don't meet many people like you who are
alive anymore I believe yeah someone's
tolerance can go up high in fact a
common thing has been for people to buy
the fentanyl patches off the black
market and the patches are for people
with cancer or there are other types of
chronic pain and you know you're
supposed to use one but sometimes
addicted users will put on two three or
more on their body and there's often
Hospital fentanyl that is
misappropriated stolen by
anesthesiologists and other people
working in hospitals but but the biggest
problem the biggest way that fentanyl is
abused is on the streets and the problem
is that most people really don't want it
like you said they want other drugs that
fentanyl is cut into so it's cut into
not just heroin but cocaine and math and
prescription pills and so it's a way to
for drug dealers to save money and
that's how people like Prince died
Prince thought he was taking a
legitimate pharmaceutical pill a
narcotic but it was actually a fake pill
that had fentanyl in it now how does
Prince get a fake pill like I mean isn't
he going is this not a non-prescription
situation was he buying like he just
somebody was supplying him with with
stuff that they got a bad shipment or
something yeah the the guy who got him
the pills was not a doctor who he was
procuring it on a black-market of some
sort but that guy's not really talking
exactly where he got it from but it
happens all the time
because what people do is they buy pill
presses these industrial drug dealers
and manufacturers they buy pill presses
and stamp pills to look exactly like the
real thing so there was another another
big musician Mac Miller a rapper who
thought he was taking an oxycontin pill
and it looked exactly like one but it
was made on one of these pill presses
and it had fentanyl and he died right
away so the the the person who's selling
this they they're thinking like okay
fentanyl is cheaper I'm gonna make it
look like it's an oxycontin pill the the
users not gonna get really a sense of
that it's different and I'm gonna be
able to sell a ton of these they just
don't realize they just don't know how
to do the proper dosage or is it just
that that's that's exactly right yeah
and it's almost impossible to properly
dose it unless you're a trained chemist
pharmaceutical engineer in a lab because
it's such a tiny dose of fentanyl to
make someone overdose it's less than two
grains of rice and so trying to mix that
up into a solution of something else mix
it with other drugs is pretty much
impossible
for someone without training okay so
we've moved into this sort of like a
second or third sort of like track here
of what its problematic and this is the
one that you pursued that we have this
is not as tied into the idea of drug
companies it may have been sparked in
some respect by the demand that the this
opioid crisis developed but it's not
it's no longer it's sort of like the the
solution set for this is a very very
different
one it seems to me because the problem
is relatively like the the problem it
seems to me and and and then I'm going
to talk about what you discovered when
you went to China is that not only is
this a classic case of of you know sort
of outside importation of illicit drugs
but then the nature of manufacturing of
these drugs creates a whole different
set of problems yeah that's correct when
you think about opiates traditional
drugs like heroin which comes from the
opium poppy and that has to be grown in
a field and that takes a long time it's
susceptible to law enforcement
discovering these fields but these new
drugs like fentanyl are all made in a
lab and so it's much cheaper it's much
quicker and as I said it's much more
powerful and so China as a epicenter for
drugs is a pretty new phenomenon you
know traditionally Americans have gotten
their drugs from places like Mexico or
Columbia or Afghanistan but China has a
particularly it's an it's a new problem
because the people making these drugs in
China are not cartel members they're not
big criminal masterminds for the most
part they're just regular chemists their
drug chemists they're businessmen
business women and they're just trying
to make money a lot of them actually
operate within Chinese law they make
stuff that's legal in China but it's
illegal in the US and they smuggle it
over and so that's what I went to China
to investigate I mean walk us through
and let's talk about your investigation
in China but but you just also explained
the dynamic and I guess I was aware of
this as as a college student when MDMA
first came on the scene I think probably
the first time that
I was exposed to it I think it was legal
or very you know are nearly legal in the
sense that they're the way that we
outlaw contraband you know or put on the
contraband list when we talk about
lab-created drugs is basically the
chemical structure but you can change
one small connection between the carbon
atom and the you know the oxygen atom I
don't know what I'm talking about but
but something to that effect and and it
suddenly becomes legal again without a
tremendous change in the impact of the
drug is that right yeah that is right in
the US for the most part we've kind of
got a blanket ban for these type of
manipulations you're talking about so it
doesn't apply in the u.s. much anymore
but in China they have to ban each new
drug individually and so you take
something like fentanyl and you you
switch the chemical formula just a tiny
bit and you've got something now that
still has the more or less the same
effects as fentanyl but now it's legal
and China has his tamp down on that a
lot but but other drugs too like you
said with ecstasy with synthetic
marijuana like fake marijuana like k2
and spice it's sometimes called there
are literally hundreds and hundreds of
new variations of these drugs that can
be made in these Chinese laboratories
and then poof all of a sudden they're
legal and I imagine too that there's
nobody there going like oh you know we
changed this structure a little bit I'm
gonna take it and I can tell you you
really only should take three-quarters
of this pill as opposed to a full core
you know a full pill that we used to
take right I mean there's nobody out
there there's no there's no regulation
even on the China side like what
constitutes the dosage for this stuff no
no there's no human testing at all so
that means that the people taking these
drugs are basically human guinea pigs
so all right tell us what you found in
China because this we're basically just
talking about small businesses that have
an import-export business they produce
this stuff and they probably have a
third party that does the smuggling
right so they just supply it to somebody
and I don't hold in Switzerland and then
that person ends up doing I mean how did
how does it work how like in in what are
the different ways that this fentanyl
which you know is basically it's just
it's it's poison right I mean it's
basically some type of filler in this
context it's just poison filler that is
used either as you know people want to
buy fentanyl or but more likely used as
like some type of sounds like like I
don't know like like the way the corn is
in all our food they just want to put it
in all the drugs because it's cheaper
yeah that's right some people do want
fentanyl most people don't but I kept
hearing that all these drugs like
fentanyl were made in China but no
reporter had ever been in one of these
labs and so I wanted to do that I wanted
to go and so I just started emailing
these different companies and labs and I
said I pretended to be a drug dealer I
asked if I could come visit the lab if I
came to China and they said sure how do
you pretend to be a drug dealer did you
say you know I used a fake email address
I there wasn't really much vetting
that's for sure okay what was the email
address was it something like just drive
at gmail.com or something like that or
no these were just totally if you looked
at the websites for these companies you
would think they were legitimate Chinese
chemical companies and they had they
didn't just have drugs they had
thousands of chemicals on their websites
and they said they would custom make any
chemical you want so that's one sign
that they're they're up to no good but I
they said I could visit and so I did I
went to China last year and I met up
with like one chemist in Shanghai he
drove me he had this kind of beefy
driver this kind of muscle guy who I was
worried was the
you know the muscle of the operation I
was a little nervous but when I got to
the lab I was expecting a sort of
underground you know seedy den of
iniquity with guys and guns
you know guarding the door or something
but it wasn't like that at all it was
basically a suburban office park with a
fountain you know in the middle of it
and we parked and went up the elevator
and the lab was it looked just kind of
like a high school or a college lab it
it was bigger they were making huge
amounts of these different types of
fentanyl and other drugs but it to me
just was not at all what I was expecting
and I you know I didn't buy anything I
didn't give them any money but I did get
a chance to see what these places were
really like so and when they basically
did they give you a tour of their their
products and basically say like this is
how we do it and and this is are they
are they selling you on the quality
control I mean what it like when they're
taking you around they think you're a
buyer what do they think that you want
to hear yeah they just wanted to I told
them I needed to see that the quality of
the lab was up to my standards and so
they were trying to impress me with
their lab and and yeah the quality you
know they print out sheets when they
send these drugs it through the mail and
it says like you know ninety five
percent purity whatnot and there's also
kind of advanced smuggling that that
often goes on too and so they send these
drugs and packages with like that are
meant to look like dog food was when I
saw another one was meant to look like
dried banana snacks and these are to
help get around us customs and they're
they're very effective at you know
sending these drugs through the mail
that way all right and so we and were
you afraid of the Chinese government at
all when you were over there yeah I was
almost more worried of the government
than I was about the drug dealers
because you I could have been put in
jail for some
like doing this doing this investigation
and you know there wouldn't have been
due process there anything like that and
how many other places did you see on
your trip did you go it was at just that
one facility or were there others I also
went to a place in a city called Wuhan
which is a big chemical and industrial
epicenter in the middle of the country
and there I went to a sales floor where
they were selling fentanyl precursors so
these are the most important ingredients
to make fentanyl and so I beforehand I
chatted with a bunch of the sales people
on skype and they told me that they were
sending huge quantities of these
fentanyl precursors to the Mexican
cartels they didn't say the cartels but
they said there were all their sales
were going to Mexico so it's not very
difficult to put that together and but
again I was shocked when I got to this
company because there were hundreds and
hundreds of these sales people in
cubicles behind computers almost all of
them were like mid 20s they were college
graduates this was a sales job for them
and they got good benefits free cell
phones and there they all were just
selling these fentanyl ingredients like
it was no legitimate chemical Wow
so they were basically just taking
orders constantly from cartels creating
fentanyl yep exactly and from my
reporting for my book I concluded that
this company was selling more of these
fentanyl ingredients than any other
company in the world and it turns out
they have 700 employees and branches all
over China and so and so this stuff is
then going to Mexico and presumably in
some labs in Mexico yeah it's a lot less
sophisticated Mexico Mexico doesn't have
the chemical industry they train
chemists to make fentanyl from scratch
but when they get these ingredients it's
already like 90% of the way
there and so the cartels just finish it
packaged it up and they send it across
the border into the u.s. so this is I
mean it is a particularly unique problem
it feels like in terms of I mean that we
have faced in terms of of drugs because
it's not just a question of people
OD'ing on stuff that they're aware
they're taking it's that there are
different sort of seems like classes
that that are problematic with this is
that people are taking stuff that they
don't realize the fentanyl is in plus
they are taking a a substance that you
know I guess to a certain extent you
could say this about LSD which is
created in meth to a certain extent but
this is one which because of the way
that it's created is very difficult to
get a sense of like of how to you know
to self-diagnose what your dosage should
be it seems like there's a whole host of
problems around this that there's really
no mechanism in which to deal with in
our law enforcement structure that's
exactly right and the way I put it in
the book is that the Pablo Escobar is of
today are operating in China without any
fear that their government is gonna put
them in jail and so that's the that's
really the problem is that the laws in
China are such that a lot of these
people are operating totally legally and
that's what I witnessed when I was there
and do you think that if the Chinese
government was to say alright look you
cannot sell you cannot manufacture you
cannot sell the components to
manufacture that that would take care of
the problem I don't think it would take
care of the problem but it would help a
lot and China has already banned these
fentanyl analogues and I think if they
ban defense and no precursors that would
do a lot because like I said these are
just businessmen they want to operate
within the law because it's too
expensive to you know risk getting
caught in things like that and so that
is definitely the first step is it's
changing these laws what would be the
second step I mean it seems like on the
I mean that we can do something on the
supply end it seems relatively easy at
this point in China not we I mean I
guess maybe that would be a point of
negotiation with the Chinese in terms of
the supply because it's just you got to
go back to just knocking off legal drugs
or drugs that don't have the ability to
kill people on some level but what do we
do on the demand side well that's a
really good question and one thing I
really advocate for is something called
fentanyl testing strips and so like I
said most people don't want fentanyl and
don't even know it's in their drugs but
these strips they're very cheap and what
they can do is they can test to see if
fentanyl is in your drugs they're kind
of like a pregnancy test you dip it in a
solution of your drugs and if there's
one line on the strip it means there is
fentanyl if there's two lines it means
no fentanyl and so studies have already
shown that people who use these and find
fentanyl are less likely to use and
overdose so that's that's one thing I
advocate for what what are the different
programs that we could institute that
would deal with it I mean obviously like
at this point right it's you're losing
thirty thousand people a year to this
drug the idea of decriminalizing it at
the very least so that you can sort of
institutionalize and provide support for
that type of simple test seems
completely obvious because it's in
particularly because it's a drug that
people don't even want so the idea of
like of decriminalizing it it's not like
more people going to go out like I'm
gonna try a fentanyl now like there's is
there anyone
in the country he's going like I would
try fentanyl but it's illegal so I'm not
going to huh that's it that's a good
point yeah I agree with that absolutely
you look at countries like Portugal and
Spain and they've decriminalized drugs
and you know even even the strong drugs
even the hard drugs and when it comes to
users in the US a lot of people want to
distinguish between users and dealers
for example so we should give care and
treatment to the users but we should
lock up the dealers but in the case of
the small dealers these are often just
people who are addicted users themselves
and they only started selling to support
their own habit and so I think if you
decriminalize you take away this market
for all these drug dealers to make all
this money and you bring people out of
the shadows you help them get the
treatment they need instead of putting
them in jail where when they get out
they're most likely to to go back on
again
is there anywhere I mean is is it you
know based upon our what you see across
the country is there any any areas that
you're seeing specifically pilot
programs that are working best with this
or yeah actually in New England is where
the fentanyl problem started and that's
where it really hit the hardest now it's
kind of moving west across the country
and it's really bad in the Midwest where
I'm located but in New England now
they're actually seeing death rates drop
from these drugs and that has a lot to
do with these programs are called
medication assisted treatment they're
using low-level opioids like methadone
and suboxone to help people taper off
they've things like the the Medicaid
funding has gone to help lots and lots
of people who need this so only a tiny
fraction of addicted users are able to
get the treatment to get any treatment
at all and there's also even more
radical solutions available that are
illegal in the US but they had they use
them in places like Canada
Europe and this the one I'm thinking of
it's called it's called supervised
injection facilities and that's where
you legally allow someone to shoot up
heroin fentanyl or really to use any
drug but they get clean needles they're
overseen by professionals doctors and
nurses and they get the support they
need and no one has ever died in one of
these facilities but like I said they're
illegal in the US of course of course
Wow why wouldn't they be unbelievable
well it's a fascinating story and I have
a feeling it's gonna be one that is
gonna dominate the the headlines for
years to come not unlike what we saw
with opioids in the past couple of years
been Westhoff fentanyl Inc how rogue
chemists are creating the deadliest wave
of the opioid epidemic we'll put a link
at majority dot F M and within the
podcast description thanks so much for
your time today I really appreciate it
well thanks for having me on Sam
