[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday May 27th 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
actually not broadcasting live today we
are pre-recorded it is Memorial Day and
in fact we do not have a new show for
you but we wanted to leave you with
something we have a deep cut this is
from 2010 when I was no longer at Air
America but still had a studio and I did
one or two spots on the TYT Network
and this is just a brief snippet of one
of those shows but an interview with
Chris Hayes this is back in 2010 it was
are centered around the frustration with
the Obama administration and then more
broadly the sort of the structural
problems this I mean hopefully we are
faced with the same situation again soon
and Democrats react in a different way
but we will see but I just stumbled
across it I found it interesting I
thought might be something generally we
just do nothing on Memorial Day but
we're just gonna we're going to post
this for for you folks
special so with that said I want to wish
you a happy Memorial Day I don't really
know that we should be necessarily happy
but I have a good day off it is it is a
holiday that is meant to remember and
honor people who died while serving in
the US military and look you know the
bottom line is is that the civilian
leadership in this country has far too
often sent people to go and kill other
people and to die themselves and so you
know for those of us who are not in the
military we have a responsibility to
make sure that our civilian leadership
genuinely honors these people's lives
and their sacrifices before they're made
and also understand obviously the
humanity of people who we would send
these people our military to go kill so
hopefully Memorial Day should function
at the very least to remind people that
in the vast majority of instances war is
not the answer
there certainly there are times where I
think it's necessary but less and less
so in this day and age frankly so
hopefully we will have civilian
leadership that will actually genuinely
honor the lives of both the military and
those they are meant to you know be used
against so let's cut our defense budget
instead of expanding it for the second
year in
ro and you know appreciate our vets fund
their healing and maybe send them off
active military off less to need healing
all right in the meantime here is an
interview from 2010 I did with Chris
Hayes on his piece system failure in the
Nation magazine you can find it I think
if you just google system failure nation
magazine from 2010 all right we'll be
back live on Tuesday
[Music]
and you know after we talked to Chris
Hayes we'll talk a little bit more about
you know the frustration that I know
many of you are feeling and certainly
I'm feeling with Obama and the Democrats
in general but Chris Hayes is on the
phone he's written and I have a link to
it at Sam cedar show.com I've linked to
the story it's called the system failure
it was uh I guess it's now a month old
nearly in the nation it is a great piece
Chrissy you there I am here and I
apologize for the racket I am I'm caught
in a Hobbesian nightmare of a
supermarket in Washington DC on the on
the eve of our biggest no storm oh
that's right yeah I understand you guys
are gonna get snowed in so I don't don't
let me Advent you from from from getting
your supplies you needed supplies
provision for seven-layer taco tip very
necessary going in fo weekend and you
hit the liquor store before or after I'm
gonna try to get it after but I've never
been in this line so long cuz I don't
even know how much how much Sam and I
have left in me well it sounds fine on
this and we're you know we're we're
doing this show together today with the
basically gum and duct tape so that
that's fine and exactly and you know I
want to talk about this piece I read
this piece three or four weeks ago and
it's a it's a fantastic piece and I
think you know one of the over the years
we've had the opportunity to talk many
times and one of the things that I love
about your writing and where you fit in
the ecosystem of the liberal thinkers
you you I think get this dynamic of
insider-outsider more than I think any
writer who is genuinely accepted by both
insiders and outsiders
that's yeah that's funny you say that
because I think I sort of particularly
since I moved to DC and taking this role
here where I'm much more you know around
the inside of that I am I see myself as
kind of mediating between the two in a
lot of ways and a lot of it has to do
with the fact that you know I grew up in
a household with my father the community
organizer and you know some of my
earliest memories one of my earliest
memories is a big march through the
South Bronx when they were doing you
know demanding actually more more police
attention during the kind of high point
of the crack epidemic in New York and
and being in neighborhoods that they're
doing bank protests and stuff like that
so I just you know grew up around
organizing and have just tremendous
admiration and respect for the work that
you know for organizers and activists do
yeah and and I I really think that
you're an incredibly important voice in
that way because you you really do
influence and I'm not even talking this
is not at work and and I think you know
the key to your story here the system
failure that I think is so important is
that we're having this conversation not
in the context of a left-right divide
we're having this conversation amongst a
within the context of a divide that I
don't think it's really enough attention
and it's a insider-outsider populist
verse establishment yeah I put dynamic
that's right and one of the and what's
so fascinating at this moment at this
sort of particular juncture in the in
American political life an American
social life generally is we're really
dealing with this moment where there is
this kind of profound crisis of
authority in the country and it's
something I don't think that the the
people who are kind of occupied
positions of authority people who are
kind of in the establishment you know
broadly construed really recognized
enough and and I think that that in some
ways the kind of defining characteristic
of our politics where the health care
bill a perfect example I mean the people
who like the health care bill the most
our health care walks I mean and these
are good I mean that I don't mean that
in disparaging way I mean that in like
these are really good very smart people
who have spent
years studying the stuff and getting
into the nitty-gritty and yet we've
ended up with a bill whose only
constituency seems to be health care
walks it's like that's exactly China
that that is you know sums up the
problem we have and I think that one of
the things you're seeing on the left in
this insider/outsider dynamic is that
the crisis of authority does cause a
party an ideological line for the point
where the more populous left is saying
you know I'm not quite sure if I trust
the healthcare walk all right well let's
back up a little
that's why we put this in general
because you basically say there were
there there were we're facing these two
problems and one is the sort of the the
human economic practical problems that
we're facing the the Wars the healthcare
unemployment immigration the global
roaming arm and then you say the the the
the the second problem that we're facing
is a systemic problem where power is
being concentrated and in some respects
were headed down the road to oligarchy
and then you get into the healthcare
where you know like you say it's it's
the walks that really a preach the pre
appreciate this bill but the real
problem here is is that on one hand
while it addresses some of those human
problems pre-existing conditions
it gives health care for millions who
don't have it it's basically a bribe to
the insurance industries to do well it
exacerbates the second problem which is
this road to oligarchy yeah that's the
central paradox that we that all the way
that the power is consolidated the way
Washington functions and the strength of
the oligarchy sets up constantly these
kinds of Sophia's choices where your
where your your your the only way you
can make progress on the human level and
and that partly human level is real all
right I mean it's not abstract like
people will get health insurance will
help people Medicaid will expand but but
the only way to do it is essentially to
bribe off the oligarchs and to enter for
they're into their power and I compared
it in the essay to you know if you were
a social worker in a poor neighborhood
that was where where the small business
people were essentially having to pay a
protection fee to a protection racket
right and you you were you're poised in
such a way where you could raise enough
money that you can make up the
difference for those members of the
small business that couldn't pay and you
could sort of subsidize their payment
and you would you would you would be
profound improved in their life but at
the same time you're further entrenching
the protection racket that I think is
the kind of central policy dilemma were
constantly facing here right and and and
this you know I mean that's the that I
think is why you see so many on the Left
upset about this about this bill because
it doesn't seem to deal with the larger
problem I mean I guess you know this is
a and this is a very this is a very sort
of scary place to be in because you know
as someone who I voted for Nader in 2000
now to be fair to myself I did it vote
swap with somebody in Florida and I'm
not sure I would have done that
necessarily but I certainly felt in 2000
that this road to oligarchy which has
become far more pronounced obviously and
I certainly you know if I was in a
contestant state would not have voted
for Nader
I doubt then but certainly not now in
retrospect but is this the bigger
problem I mean I mean that's really what
it comes down to and even in the context
of your story um I think that you're
caught in that dilemma as well because
you do say that you support this
Medicare bill and I think at the end of
the day I do too
certainly it certainly at 59 but what
you say at the end and this is what's so
fascinating to me about this at the end
you say you know what the country needs
more than higher growth and lower
unemployment greater income equality a
new energy economy and drastically
reduced carbon emissions is a
redistribution of power
a wide epidemic of Reid amortisation and
that's really what the argument is it's
that sort of uh
a calculus that I think is by deviling
the left right now to the extent that
there's a draft in America I think
that's right I think it's a choice
between these kind of I mean one way to
look at it one sort of the substance and
process right so you plunge ahead on
these kind of substances Browns knowing
that the game is corrupt and it's rigged
and there's all these players that you
have to bribe off or do you say we need
to do things that you know change the
rules of the game and and there's some
small stuff like we should get rid of a
filibuster there's larger stuff like we
should have public elections then
there's other things like you know
employee free choice act or immigration
reform that would actually take people
out of legal limbo and and give them the
power of citizenship I mean there's 12
million people out there that are now
that's not a process II thing I mean
that's been something that's actually on
the table substantively that we actually
might be able to set but if you were
thinking in terms of power those things
would be higher on the priority list
right if you were thinking my terms of
how do we redistribute our something
like ask employees free choice act that
that would empower the greater empower
power makes workers something like
getting 12 million people you know out
of legal limbo you know conferring on
them the both the power and
responsibility of citizenship you know
those that that Lea distributes power
that draws power down and out and you
know those things have been all the
things that sort of alter the power
relationships have been basically put on
the back burner while pursuing these
kind of big substance agenda and I don't
even you know I guess I'm
second-guessing that a certain point but
it's not like it's a crazy thing for the
administration to have done it's just
that I think we're seeing the
limitations of it which is that the
corruption is so so embedded the power
so concentrated that you know it may be
at the end of the day you can't get this
stuff packed you can't get good
progressive legislation through until
you deal with this deeper power issue
right well I mean I guess I mean I guess
that maybe the lesson here it's less an
issue of uh-uh it's less of a choice
that we're making but this is the cars
that
Delp and this is the way that societies
have I don't know if our society is
capable of having a revolution or some
type of up evil I mean uh you know one
of the things that I think is one of the
things that the probe amma got right in
his campaigning was when he pointed to
these moments of historical moments for
reform I mean in 1907 when JP Morgan
basically rides into lower Manhattan and
bailed out you know by himself basically
rescues the US and also probably you
know the globe do certain sin from a
financial panic right and at that point
there's about six men who own you know
control about sixty to seventy percent
of the capital in the entire economy at
that point it seems inconceivable that
you know the Progressive Era and that
sort of you know antitrust breaking the
trust breaking up would happen and that
you would get this sort of small
business economy to flourish later on
right and it's the same thing when you
look at the 20s and compare that the
amount of power that the sort of banks
had in the 22 what happened to them
during the New Deal I mean there have
been moments before where it looks
similarly like the nation had passed
this tipping point of oligarchy and at
each point it has managed to kind of
wrench itself back there has been a sort
of you know populist opposition to it
and so I think you know I remain hopeful
is that we're at such a moment the
conditions are there precisely because
there's so little trust in these
authorities there's the conditions there
to actually really get some real reform
well I'll tell you what scares me is
that to the extent that I'm seeing any
of that I'm seeing it on the right yes I
mean I mean I mean that's that's what's
very that's what's terrifying here is
because I think we all thought and I I
mean speaking for myself I thought okay
this is that moment and that moment
seems like it was six to eight months
ago and and anybody who's come out of it
it's on the right and it's because
Democrats have been almost aggressively
avoiding that populist movement that we
have seated all that territory to the
right to the point where people are
taking tea bag
seriously yeah and that you know you
combine that with this notion and
because the thing is that when that
happens on the right it mutates very
quickly and bah an atavism nationalism
racism and that's become I think that's
become what I'm sorry I think that's
become I think you're exactly right and
I think that's to come obscured a little
bit precisely because there is it has
this kind of visceral kind of pre
cognitive level of connection between
the just like us at all they're all
corrupt feeling that you get from the
Tea Partiers and from the mood of the
country and so what that does is that
connection obscures the fact that the
actual specifics of the worldview of a
lot of these people is deeply deeply
deeply screwed up and deeply reactionary
nativist and racist and all sorts of
stuff you know we all read that daily
Coast poll about what the ability
systems have a lot of Republicans are
and that wasn't even the Tea Partiers
every Republican Party so like this is
really dangerous about that this is very
terrifying because six months ago people
were aware of those underpinnings and
now their message of it's all corrupt
is resonating more than the foundations
of where that message is coming from and
frankly I'm a little nervous because
what happens with these type of
movements on the right is that the you
know I mean this is what's so
fascinating you listen to Rush Limbaugh
talking about this stuff rush limbaugh
at once can both support the Tea
Partiers and support the Supreme Court's
notion that corporations have the right
to basically buy elections and it's
amazing how they can channel this
populist energy you know the classs is
sort of Tom Frank 101 but channel
populist energy in directions of
entrenching people agharti in the most
kind of boldface way so you know I'm
part of part of what you know part of
what has to happen is the Democrats have
to call that a lot more like they did
you know it's amazing they don't do it
more partly because they're so captured
themselves kid we've got you know fears
but but look at you know that's just
small little basically incremental Bank
Act I mean the bank tax would be like
it's nothing
like for you or me would be like paying
a quarter basic wiki right so so it's
like and even that thanks go you know
crazy about a and B the Republicans
won't sign on even even Scott Brown is
in a contested race can't bring himself
so you have to call those Bluffs a lot
more I think because otherwise co-opted
that's the other thing that scares me is
that Barack Obama goes up and makes this
speech that makes the State of the Union
address and he doesn't even seem at this
point and he did this a little bit
during the campaign but he doesn't even
seem at this point to pretend to be
populist I mean you know the idea that
the idea that he's faced with this
situation you know from a from a sort of
a political standpoint that he can't
even express rhetorically like we didn't
hear the word greedy yeah we mean the
worst was when he said I'm not
interested in punishing the banks and I
I tweeted well just for the record I'm
super interested in punishing the back
okay like you know I mean you know they
screwed up and they gave a lot of fraud
and they made it they invigorated a lot
of people and they destroyed a
tremendous amount of wealth and so you
know if that's not worthy of punishment
then what's worthy punishment I mean
there are people in this country who get
caught holding you know a little cocaine
for their abusive drug-dealing boyfriend
who end up doing a year in prison they
get punished so you know what I mean
what's very disturbing to me is that not
only is he not interested in punishing
the banks he's not interested in saying
he's interested in punishing the bass I
mean there seems to be a total
disconnect coming out of the
establishment of the Democratic Party so
what's going on in the country yeah I
think that's exactly right and I you
know part of it part of it's a class
thing part of it is those kind of
blinders of your social networks part of
it is the fact that they're captured you
know and and and part of this is sort of
you know tactical decision that you
can't bash these banks because then
they're going to give money I mean look
that's not
party right you know Democrats get a lot
of money from wall treating someone
someone I know works on Wall Street
recounted a story to me of
someone at his firm getting a call from
a Democrat from someone from the DNC
trying to raise money and the guy said
you know keep in mind all of us think
that I think rightly that White House
has been far too easy on the bank and
yet the banks are still at this point
Brosius ly pissed off at the White House
and this guy answered the call from the
DNC and said the president would have a
better chance of raising money from the
KKK than he would from our firm right
now and hung up the phone and you know
eight I think it shows that like you
know the banks are occupied by people
that I think we can fairly call
sociopathic I mean III really think that
like at this point the way that the
banking elite has acted has been totally
anti-social in like a clinical sense
gende and B I was like well this is
great actually because that like if the
if Democratic donors find that their
calls aren't being returned by the banks
if they get cut off financially then
maybe that will make them less captured
right yeah or maybe it'll make them go
further to to get to get that money
that's exactly the tipping point but a
certain point they're they're caught
right between the dollars and getting
the dollars in good politics and what
they're trying to do is have it both
ways and they're satisfying neither
constituency the banks are pissed off of
them and people feel like they've been
every poll says you know it says that
that the administration has been too
friendly to the bank his recovery
package has had it you know when you ask
them who is it benefited the most people
voluntarily respond the banks even but
you don't get my kind of like you know
multiple-choice so so they're trying to
have it both ways and it hasn't worked
at all so you know at a certain point
they're not going to be able if you
think they have to make the political
calculation that this taking this kind
of sort of vacillating approach where
they try to get money from the banks
they do a softer than they make a
populist turn here and there is it's not
really getting them anything politically
in to the extent the banks essentially
break up with them and dump them I think
that might push them into the place that
the place they should be anyway
well yeah I guess one one can only hope
well let me ask you
because I want to let you check out of
the supermarket I don't want you to get
caught without supplies for the weekend
but you know knowing that you do have
that the the the street activist DNA in
you and and and you know your job is to
is to observe this stuff to to a certain
extent but I mean how is it way at what
and I don't you know I'm trying to talk
in more general sense maybe it's it's
it's somewhat personal but at what point
do you not get completely discouraged or
what is it that I mean you you have a
story at the end of your piece which is
a great story I think or parable but but
what how how is it that you do not get
discouraged by this process because you
know when I see Obama refusing to even
pay lip service to populism and ceding
this ground I just the only thing I
don't think it is like Jared Diamond's
collapse these guys are in a gated
community they don't realize what's
going on yeah look I get discouraged a
lot but but I think the fact that
there's this long historical view I
think helps because you know the country
has been in I mean look the southern
segregationists order never looked like
you're going to collapse right you know
and and the other thing is that like
this is I mean not to get too
philosophical here but this is the
Sisyphean task of the left always and
everywhere in every society is that
you're always fighting the powers that
be you're always trying to make the
hardest changes you're always speaking
up for the people that are most
marginalized and that's never easy work
the odds are always stacked against you
and so there has to be almost a kind of
now I'm getting super easy I think
almost the kind of spiritual commitment
to it otherwise you really do it's easy
to kind of withdraw under this defeatism
so that's why perhaps not so well I mean
that's it's as good as one is that I can
come up with frankly and I'm gonna let
you go I'm gonna tell the peasant
parable but Chris Hayes everybody really
honestly pick up this piece it's uh it
really does capture I think what is at
issue Chris thanks for joining us
human and it's wonderful to hear you I
miss I miss you well technically on
radio but yeah so discrete audio glides
exactly your dulcet tones coming through
a microphone
