[Music]
two clips before we bring in Digby this
one from the State of the Union I was
trying to express this the other day as
we were doing our you know we
pre-recorded the intro to Wednesday show
because Thursday and I got pretty late
and involved a lot of alcohol and I was
trying to communicate the how much
Donald Trump did not seem to be
connected to the words he was saying and
the idea that he had clearly only read
the speech maybe once maybe once and I
think nothing captures that more than
his inability to differentiate between
these two ideas they're just they just
seemed to be all words that he's reading
they have no meaning whatsoever and here
is this just a short clip to illustrate
that point all children born and unborn
are made in the holy image of God the
final part of my agenda is to protect
American security policies faces just
surprised she's like she's like I did
wait what we were saying earlier that
she's like she's basically breaking in
new sin you in her face well incredulous
she is but it started over because this
is how it should be the like delivered
all children born and unborn are made in
the holy image of God the final part of
my agenda
okay posit so it was supposed to be all
children are made in the holy image of
God
new paragraph the final part of my
agenda is national security but because
he's not conscious of what like
he doesn't he has no attachment to these
words he is literally reading this as if
English was a second or third language
to him
he's good at the but it's not you know
it's he has no idea what the words mean
and he's just reading them off with no
intonation because again he doesn't
realize like new thought they can edit
it better they could get get you fix it
post it's like that's how I read ads
exactly exactly razors good razors are
good the final part is the code you
can't even do it you know you can't even
it's almost impossible to like to just
off the top of your head print it
because it goes against all of the
things that we know when we get attached
to language
