[Music]
hey wallpaper I never asked
hey Koski what's going on what's on your
minds I called you like three weeks ago
and told you about some flooding going
on
oddly enough still flooding but I did
actually have a question for you - what
would take a little bit of time together
it'd be pretty straightforward so do you
have a decent amount of time or not
really I would go with the
straightforward one all right so I am a
Republican however I would consider
myself to be fairly on the moderate side
but for a place like Nebraska we are a
red state no question about it so my
question for you is is that wouldn't it
be advantageous for Democrats and red
states or Republicans and blue states to
just bring down the party barrier go for
the other team and then do their best to
affect primaries because I mean there's
absolutely nothing you can do in
Nebraska to get a Democrat I would say
so if I understand you correctly I have
it if somebody said like hey I'm a
member of Nebraska DSA I want to run for
the Senate I'm part of DSA first and
foremost I'm running in a Republican
primary I think that would be cool I
mean I I don't have any problem I don't
have any particular attachment I get
elected to office and implement an
agenda I don't care you know independent
green Republican whatever yes I'm a big
proponent of this I mean I'm from North
Dakota North Dakota has a history with
the nonpartisan League that literally
was formed because it had open primaries
for all for both parties and it's just
we're gonna run in both of them will run
in the Republican we're running the
Democrat and I think that is especially
in places like Nebraska and Nebraska is
like North Dakota work that you did
saying you're Democrat doesn't help you
with anybody wouldn't make any
difference though you think I don't know
I sometimes win here just because it
just depends
the Democrats come out to play roulette
me they play and sometimes swing it but
I mean as far as like the
representatives skill I don't know I
feel like if people were just to get rid
of the party name and just go with the
dominant force they would at least be
able to get the most moderate first man
which I don't know I mean it's it's it
basically blocks a you're probably not
gonna be able to exercise power very
effectively getting in that way but you
at least block somebody from getting in
so I mean I'd be interesting to see it
tried I don't know how feasible it is
yeah I mean it seems to me in some ways
I mean that's I mean I think obviously
people should be thinking about
organizing strikes and things outside of
politics everywhere but that's one of
the interesting things about red states
is like these incredible movements for
strikes which are really you know that's
clearly one of the most important things
you could do happening in a place like
West Virginia that's been dominated by
Republicans I I don't know I don't know
the answer I mean I think you'd have to
tell me more whether or not if somebody
came along and said I'm running as a
Republican or I'm running as an
independent and I support you know
medicare-for-all and I'm running on a
good solid plan a platform well one
thing I've kind of noticed and I kinda
am into politics I probably will be on
the ballot for the houses next coming
primary so who are you - I for president
Thanksgiving who are you gonna vote for
for president like who like how do you
actually vote um as of right now I would
probably be in the Warren camp I think
she's probably the best move for
agriculture okay I'm in the last
election I voted for Clinton over Trump
just because once you start talking
trade wars I know for a fact that's just
gonna break our knees so right it
literally so you're already basically
functionally you're voting as a Democrat
basically now I would sound fairly
conservative but the I feel a lot of
things in progressive like movements
that I think the conservative sides is
basically abandoned on for political
reasons
not basically corruption that's actually
my biggest complaint with the Republican
Party is that they are in my opinion
becoming very Oleg ARCIC so yeah there's
only one way to you have to structurally
attack that right more like a Teddy
Roosevelt like Republican maybe without
as much imperialism but basically small
government but break the hell out of
anybody it gets too big and starts
throwing their weight around on a
government yeah I mean I I think there's
a lot of this I mean my uncle is a
soybean farmer and in in south eastern
North Dakota and he didn't vote for one
or the other he'd abstained from four
from one for president and he has been
apparently talking to my mom
not happy with Trump and the whole trade
war stuff so yeah and I do think yeah
there's a lot of people that are not
happy and I think the only reason they
won't vote against them is because they
find Democrats just I don't know what it
is like elitist we even though that
doesn't make sense did they represent
the working class better I I have no
idea siren song groans and you're
running for office as a Republican and
for the house but you'll but obviously a
different kind of agenda hmm I plan on
being pretty strong moderate basically
I've been making a lot of cases for
things like Medicare for all mainly for
the fact I know it'll be the only mean
see they start rural health care it is
the only white cost-effective way to
ensure that small towns don't lose their
clinics and hospitals so how did you get
into uh how did you get into this show
and you each do you watch do you listen
to my show or match or even turn on
farmer so I was that no I'm just
whatever you just keep it I'm just do
you watch other left-wing shows or
listened to or is it just this one I
generally just like information and
perspective I think too many people get
caught up in echo chambers and
just not healthy I mean I think it would
be far more beneficial for everyone to
just get along and try to work towards a
common cause as opposed to you're just
wrong and yeah it's just not
constructive everything breaks down at
that point I mean everybody has a reason
for believing what they believe in
but this I guess I would rather be
informed and not informed so I find
shows like here is the generally
entertaining because well I don't think
the right really has anything to compete
with right would you uh
curiosity would you be the first
Republican candidate even on a local
level to call for freeing Lula yes is
the closest thing we have culturally to
the United States I think Latin America
is a better partner moving forwards in
Europe or even in some regards like
Canada well I mean we're just physically
closer to them and they're more
important to us than anyone else we got
the water - all right but actually let's
say hey again if you call every color if
you become the first Republican to
support Medicare for all you should make
a little video announcement for that and
we will run that no actually honestly
yeah you're right I lost track there but
in all seriousness if you did a video
you know Republican you know state law
can't a state lawmaker or a state
candidate explains why Medicare for all
is the only way to save rural health
care I think that would actually do a
lot video just for your viewers to
understand this it's a great idea
because it subsidizes rural health care
it's the only way for it to work and if
this government ran overhead bureaucracy
would be reduced not to mention it's the
most cost effective thing because of the
economics of scale plus you're not
building a new organization it already
exists so you don't have to reinvent the
wheel it's just simply cheapest and the
most effective way to do it so why give
billions away to the altar bridge when
we could just give it to the poor so
they don't have to die
sounds pretty common sensical to me and
I mean I just I mean I'm not you know
I'm on both of my parents basically to
preventable health diseases before the
age of 20 so this is China one of those
things where I'm not really wanting
anybody else have to go through that so
let's just do what you know any modern
country would do you know absolutely
I appreciate you call thank you for
talking with us learn a lot all right
all right thanks man have a good one
you too take care good luck all right
yeah good way to go out no more calls
today sorry about that folks that's
fascinating I would be really curious to
see if you could convince me that a
significant portion of it was just
genuine like brand toxicity of that name
specifically so it's a lot of it in
places like that in places that a don't
have a lot of people but B have those
electoral college votes like it's just
Democrat as I don't know what it is but
it's all I've ever known at when I lived
there is like it's a joke to be a
Democrat if you and and I mean kept me
on a federal level it's different
because I think I do think you know when
you start getting into like look
basically when you get into the house or
the Senate who you're gonna vote to
organize as leadership is one of the
most important things you can do but I
mean that seems like a no brain I guess
the same thing would apply for statewide
office but whatever you're going to a
Republican dominated legislature you're
gonna get elected as a Republican and
say that we should support Medicare for
all and breaking up agriculture cartels
why on earth like great be a Republican
don't bother being a don't worry about
that who cares yeah I mean I'm
smart to me yeah particularly if you're
not like a leftist right like if you're
a moderate but I mean the frankly if if
that would work it would be great for
this country it would be great for this
country and I'm not trying to take a
shot at Warren here I'm just saying I I
think objective like look we used to say
a sane political environment would be
center-left Sanders center-right Clinton
and I agree and let's add the center
would be Warren
you know it's funny because he said the
Teddy Roosevelt tradition Teddy
Roosevelt tradition is
where the Republican Party actually
would say that the politician I mean
this with its compliments and its
criticisms that most closely resembles
that tradition in modern politics is
absolutely Elizabeth Warren there's no
doubt about it and that's somebody who
tracks as a liberal Democrat in today's
world I don't think that that would in a
healthy political culture that would not
necessarily be the case that could be a
centrist
