[Music]
just go over of this daca passage
because it is important ultimately this
will get passed in the event that
they'll be there'll be an executive
action in the event that Donald Trump is
voted out in 2020 but vote was 237 of
187 for the American Dream and promise
act of 2019 this would grant dreamers
these are these are people who were
brought to this country as children as
miners by their parents no choice of
their own obviously and they will get 10
years of legal resident status if they
meet certain requirements high school
diploma participation in military
service and then they would receive you
know stay out of trouble in terms of I
guess specific problems with the law
they would then receive permanent green
cards permanent green cards after
completing at least two years of higher
education or military service or after
working for three years and this is the
first time that this legislation has
there's been attempts I think over the
course of 20 years to pass this
legislation it's the first time Senate
rejected for immigration bills I think
at least one of them included
citizenship for dreamers and this is
indicative of this is for 2.5 million
people incidentally who have been living
with a tremendous amount of anxiety for
no reason for absolutely no reason like
I see what it's like to be a 13 or 14
year
kid just the enormous my anxiety you
have just by having to be like a teen or
being a kid and the idea that there's
also this element of like will I get
deported when I walk down the street
will I get deported will I be here in
six months
well my future being I don't speak the
language from the country I came from
whether it was Eritrea or Mexico or
Guatemala or you know Slovenia or
whatever it was and will I get sent back
to this country that is basically a
foreign country to make 2.5 million
people very easy for a lot of people to
forget that there is a significant
portion of our population that walks
around in a constant low-grade sense of
fear or potential doom just by the very
nature of who they are what where they
were born what decision their parents
made for them and it's been passed there
it's not it's not perfect there are
provisions that allow the Secretary of
Homeland Security the discretion to deny
legal status to immigrants with certain
juvenile judgments against them gang
affiliation etc but it's a step in the
right direction and it's indicative of
what's been going on for five months the
house has taken up 51 bills since
January 49 of which they've passed I
think this is actually written before
they passed this this DREAM Act it was
bills that include lower prescription
drug prices protect pre-existing
conditions disaster aid is now passed so
I think that's 51 for 51 they passed HR
1 which had a whole host of reforms
bills to save net neutrality bills too
broad and background checks for guns
calls to put us back into the Paris
climate Accord they passed the violence
against women's reauthorization Act
chemical facility anti-terrorism
standards I mean goes on and on federal
civilian workforce pay raise Fairness
Act basically reinstating the executive
orders that Obama had passed that Trump
has reversed all of which have died in
the Senate now they've run out of bills
hopefully they'll start immigration
proceedings soon maybe there's been a
bull uh you know they haven't done a
great ability of making it about
obstruction from the Republicans on
these things that I think are would be
very popular in and of themselves but
this is what's been going on and
meanwhile you have all these bills that
are passed they are waiting a Democratic
Senate Joe Biden came out with a climate
plan some of it was plagiarized
fortunately some of it was also borrowed
from the green New Deal there are now
there's now broad democratic consensus
over many aspects of the green new deal
including the the the dollar amount and
public
investment 1.7 trillion dollars the cost
that would be laid on polluters that
there would end fossil fuel subsidies
that there would be economic justice
protections for people displaced in the
transition from their jobs they would
end drilling on public lands and
offshore there's been a lot of sort of
like what mainstreaming of these broad
positions not unlike we've seen with
Medicare for all and so there's a lot of
encouraging things that are happening at
least to the extent that you can have
encouraging things happening when you
don't have the ability to do any of this
stuff now I can I can tell you right now
that if the Democrats take the Senate
and the presidency they will not deliver
on all this stuff it's just simply not
the way it works which isn't to say that
we shouldn't insist that they do and the
more insisting the more likely it'll
happen
part of that is going to be a function
of who if the Democrats win the
presidency who that president is a lot
of these things are more likely under
some candidates than others I mean I
think people I think there's probably
broad understanding of that just other
people might just say like well but it's
not that important right now the most
important thing is getting rid of Trump
and I think that is the perhaps the most
important thing but it's not necessarily
the case that by rejecting positions
that are consensus positions among
Democrats that you're going to get rid
of Trump it could be just the very well
be the opposite at least if you look at
the polling so that's where we stand
today
