[Music]
but let's talk about Elizabeth Warren
talking about the electoral college
because that tendency of Democrats that
Beto had in endorsing the Republican
candidate over heard over the the
Democrat who ends up going and losing
losing by a thousand votes and then
having that same Republican say yeah and
now this is not it's not reciprocal well
apparently there are buddies
apparently it's a guy didn't say there
buddy ship was canceled he just said
he's not voting
my love prime is unconditional right but
that oak could have had the same like
he's a great guys one of my favorite
members of Congress Gino Ortiz I look
forward to working with her and I
endorse her cuz we're both them exactly
this we'll have a beer I'll win or lose
I don't find my buddy up to up to DC and
he can check out my office now that he's
gone once Gino Ortiz is in take him out
for a beer after this this dynamic of
the Democrats pushing some type of like
I'm looking for the good Republicans
that I'm gonna meet the Republicans
halfway this strategy has been a
unequivocal failure over the past couple
of decades this idea that Democrats are
going to show up at the knife fight with
like you know a spoon and you know what
I'm gonna try and do first I'm gonna
feed them some soup during this night
fight no it doesn't work and this is
what I like about Elizabeth Warren
talking about the electoral college
let's play this clip
the next question comes from Rukia
Lumumba she's a legal advocate and
community organizer here in Jackson she
also happens to be the sister and former
campaign manager of Jackson's current
Mayor show Quay on Tarr Lumumba her late
father Chokwe Lumumba was also once the
mayor of the city as well a positive one
second
side note we interviewed Chokwe Lumumba
at Netroots nation he is considered the
or self-proclaimed desire to be the most
radical mayor in the country really
interesting guy go back and look for
that I think that was in August early
the first week of August of 2018 but
good once the mayor of this city as well
Rukia good thank you thank you thank you
for being here welcome to Jackson
Mississippi yeah so voter
disenfranchisement is real in
Mississippi they are 23 felonies that
once convicted ban a person from voting
for the rest of their lives literally
limiting their resit ascension and
rights of democracy
moreover residents access to voting is
limited by archaic voter registration
processes and limited voting formats
how will you expand voting rights to the
formerly incarcerated and short online
voter registration and non excuse early
voting
great question but can I tell you one
bigger and that is I believe we need a
constitutional amendment that protects
the right to vote for every American
citizen and to make sure that vote gets
counted we need to put some federal
muscle behind that and we need to repeal
every one of the voter suppression laws
that is out there right now
and I'll tell you one more we need to
make sure that every vote counts and you
know I want to push that right here in
Mississippi because I think this is an
important point you know come a general
election presidential candidates don't
come to places like Mississippi yeah
Bell shall come to places like
California and Massachusetts right
because we're not the battleground
states well my view is that every vote
matters and the way we can make that
happen is that we can have national
voting and that means get rid of the
electoral college okay so the the means
in which to to get rid of the electoral
college either be a constitutional
amendment there is also what is known
and we've talked about on this program
the National pote the national popular
vote compact which is essentially an
agreement amongst states that they will
alter their constitutions in such a way
that they will agree to award their
electors to the winner of the popular
vote and you need obviously enough
states that equal 270 electoral a day
was the most recent to vote this in and
sign it into law at the very least I
don't they amended their constitution or
not but that brings the total to
somewhere I think around 200 there's a
couple of states that are looking to do
this before the 2020 election but we're
not gonna get to 270 anytime soon I
don't know that we'll ever get to 270
because I don't know that a Republican
dominated state is going to gonna sign
on to this for obvious reasons so we're
not going to get a constitutional
amendment we're not going to get
this national popular vote compact is
not going to go through anytime soon
what is the value of Elizabeth Warren in
the context of a presidential election
in 2020 really a Democratic primary but
a presidential election in 2020 what is
the value of her saying this in addition
to the fact that obviously these type of
reforms take years years and years and
years and these are long-term movements
the value of it is also signifying to
both the Republican and the Democratic
Party to the American public that there
is something amiss here that we're no
longer going to just worship at the
altar of norms that are problematic the
Electoral College highly undemocratic
right it's not one person one vote that
just doesn't work out that way if it was
we would have President Clinton right
now if it was we would have President
Gore there may have been no Iraq war who
knows what the trajectory of history
there may have not been a 9/11 who knows
what the trajectory of the United States
would have been if we had actually
followed the will of the people as
expressed by the votes now that's not to
say that it's rigged or that it was a
technical victory although I think in
the case of at least George Bush I could
tell you it was um it was both EFT and
that was a function of the Supreme Court
as far as I'm concerned but this is a
problem it's it's anti-democratic and
every person in the country whether it
is the law of the land or not should be
aware that it's anti-democratic we
should be aware that the Senate is
fundamentally anti-democratic that the
number of people who control the
the policies of our government of the
lawmaking of our government is less than
the people who are at the whim of those
people in other words there are millions
of people more who voted for Democratic
senators than there are who voted for
Republican senators yet Republicans have
controlled the Senate because of the way
that senators are voted each state gets
to regardless of population that's the
way it's been set up whether we like it
or not that is the Constitution we could
change it but we're not going to get to
the point where we can change it but we
should know that it's fundamentally
anti-democratic because that's going to
implicate other politics and Democratic
politicians are no longer afraid of
raising these issues and it is because
they have rightly so sort of you know
are able to begin to see the reality of
the situation which is many of these
anti-democratic features are are not
just a function of a of legacies but are
also enhanced and abused by the
Republican Party right I mean you still
have you have Democrats talking about
reinstituting the filibuster in other
words we will get back into power if we
take over the Senate and because we know
the Senate is an anti-democratic
institution at least if the context of
the Republicans when the Republicans
control just structurally it's almost
impossible for it to be anti-democratic
when Democrats control it because they
will get more votes we will never have
at least in our lifetimes an era where
Democrats will control the Senate where
the majority of Americans have not voted
for Democrats to be the Senate to
control the Senate
and despite that Democrats you still
have Democrats Democratic senators are
saying we're gonna give them even though
that's the Democratic the most
democratic outcome the Senate can exist
we're gonna give the minority the
ability to filibuster to stop us
whereas Republicans who sit and control
the Senate with far less people voting
for them they strip the filibuster and
the naive and absolutely horrifying
words of Richard Blumenthal and this was
about a year and a half ago so maybe
he's wizened up two wrongs don't make a
right
right and and better or Roark
on one hand when he endorses the wrote
Republican or he'd refuse --is to
endorse the Democrat running against his
Republican buddy because he wants to
maintain some sense of of collegiality
when he gets up there and he says you
know I want to bring people together
which incidentally is what Glenn Beck
says it's what Glenn Beck says when he
was apologizing for supporting Trump and
it's what Glenn Beck said the other
night on Hannity when he said I'm
supporting Trump now I'm against Trump
we can heed to bring people together I'm
for Trump we need to bring people to get
us different groups of people bring in
other words crush these liberals or
white now together in the context of
politics is meaningless claptrap
when Elizabeth Warren comes out and
calls for the abolition of the electoral
college at the very least even though
we're not gonna see that policy change
for a long time if ever she's putting
down a marker and saying I know and you
should know there's a fundamentally
undemocratic dynamic that is at work
here and it is highly problematic to
providing people with the material
benefits that they want out of their
government and when that is stymied when
the government is not working despite
the fact that the people have expressed
their will as to how they want it to
work and particularly when you do not
have the arc of justice in your favor
you start to get stuff like
Donald Trump and so that's why I love
the fact that Elizabeth Warren is making
a campaign issue of something that will
never happen as her as with her as
president but then her friends across
the aisle might not want to have a beer
with her later and that might make her
sad it may make her sad I don't think so
I don't think she I don't think she
cares that much about the beer it's not
just about a year it's also about
friendship and friendship is great and
democracy is great and I just believe if
we can have friendship Plus democracy
equals equals MC square and you know
lots of moving around every thing he
says with a note and then if I got
strumming a guitar mat if we could bed a
West Wing a sound track under this that
would really be great all right we gotta
take a break I wanted to get
