[Music]
look it's the holiday season and so
videos like this are for whatever reason
particularly enjoyable for all of us
here at the majority report we'd like to
see people fight we like to see people
we disagree with be on the wrong end of
an argument and there's nothing more
heartwarming and to see it all play out
on national TV with Christmas trees in
the backdrop so and a very questionable
dress choice from one of the peripheral
players that's right yes No so this is
the program called the view and I think
they are obligated to have two
politician daughters on at any given
time so Abby Huntsman and
what's-her-name McCain Megan McCain
Meighan
Megan McCain are on Abbey Huntsman
you'll recall worked at MSNBC then went
over to Fox & Friends and now apparently
has landed on the view and Megan McCain
has worked just about everywhere and is
on the view and apparently Megan McCain
and joy behar are having a little bit of
problems now I've known joy for many
years I used to be on her program on CNN
and then I was on our program at current
she's smart she also does not take much
grief from anyone and so this is
particularly enjoyable they were talking
in this instance about George Bush
Senior now I think I think we've made
our opinion about George Bush Senior
pretty well known on this part
I think the guy was you know I don't
know enough about the history of the way
the presidents are perceived to say that
he was the most overrated of presidents
relative to what he did but I don't know
if that's true or not but honestly the
damage this guy did far outweighed
anything beyond the fact that he
appeared in public to be somewhat
somewhat appropriate so there's that
but here is this debate and apparently
it's sacrosanct you don't you don't talk
about anything but just in a vacuum our
president because he's like our daddy in
a way I would say one thing about him
that was not picked up really because as
a candidate he said those who think were
powerless to do anything about the
greenhouse effect are forgetting about
the White House effect and then he's
signed into law the Clean Air Act
Amendments of 1990 one of the most
sweeping environmental statutes ever
yeah
this president that we have now is
trying to unravel everything that he did
and Obama did and if I ever become a
one-issue voter it will be about
pollution and the greenhouse effect and
we focus on the president please I don't
want to talk about traveling I want to
talk about but we're honoring but I'm
not interested in your one Asia here
with Joey names I'm talk
Christmas controversy a radio station
just banned a holiday yeah there's still
you're arguing H I mean they're they're
great is there not you still arguing
there big the argument gets bigger as
they and everybody is just laughing and
smiling at it has that sort of like
surreal quality of like you know running
man or whatever some futuristic game
show and we'll yeah here they go watch
just watch and she goes fu and and the
other hosts are just sort of like
completely um Meghan McCain's like my
dad would like object to what you're
saying I'm so the the problem that
Meghan McCain has is that she doesn't
want politics in any way Mar are our
honoring of the president and you know
what like this attitude and I don't care
who the president is or was this
attitude that somehow like you know like
this isn't just it this is like a
religious figure this is like the
Emperor right we can't speak we can't we
can't talk about mere mortal things you
want to talk about Chuck I'm gonna talk
about the Pope we can't talk about
politics in the context of talking about
the President and Behar was being at
least to some extent complimentary they
are was paying the guy a compliment for
actually if we're being objective
something he probably should he should
get a positive notch for it won't outrun
his running the CIA or running the
Willie Horton ads but good for him he
signed that legislation and but what's
amazing I mean not only is she wrong but
I mean what an unprofessional brat
I wonder well in and what is your
attention it's interesting that you say
unprofessional brat because apparently
is according to the Daily Mail joy
Behar's publication continue to fume as
the show cut to commercial now
look we could see what was going on
there they both were still fuming but
they want to put this and she said she
would
leave the show if this quote this is
according to the Daily Mail this
doesn't stop she said I can't take this
much more bay heart reportedly said she
she called McCain quote an entitled
ding-ding-ding now look I don't
appreciate the use of the word I
find that to be a little bit gendered I
don't think I'm talk now it's one thing
to say it you know off-camera as opposed
to Fox which apparently just the other
day literally had it said on their air
about Joy Behar and Julie have card
which to say right right in that respect
and and I think and I don't think that
she means it in a gendered way I think
her point is is that McCain thinks that
because her dad was a senator she can
get a job on TV and she's right that's
how she got that job I've worked with
her on a TV show and I can tell you that
I have run into people who are more
talented than her actually I ran into
people who were more talented to her on
that day in in that moment people who
were not even on camera who were more
talented in terms of them being on
camera so the idea that you know Megan
McCain can show up on this show and tell
Joy Behar who's been on the show I think
for a couple decades off and on you
can't in any way divert do you like
divert your attention to the sort of the
present-day politics when you're talking
about a dead president I think it's
pretty impressive I was gonna talk about
how my dad went golfing together and
you're talking about like the green
house and whatnot like you're stupid
you're an old you I hate you oh my god
she's not Jewish
I didn't know that Joy Behar is Italian
I need buddy furs like this is
ridiculous but you know what is what is
interesting is I wonder if it's because
McCain is embarrassed by
her republican party's stance on global
warming I wonder if that's what it comes
down to she has a lot of proxy tension
anytime issues like that right I think
you're right I think that's part of it
but I'm perfectly willing to host a
debate between the two of them we can do
it here and all I can say to Joy Behar I
believe back in the day we would say you
go girl as the moms
