[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday March 25th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today little
programming change
Muller's report drops and we probably
aren't gonna know really what's in it
for a long time meanwhile what's left
multiple ongoing criminal investigations
of the president more democratic
oversight meanwhile in Venezuela 100
Russian troops land to fix equipment
that's nice
Israel responding to rocket fire raids
Gaza massive flooding and blizzard in
the Midwest leave thousands stranded
and the heartwarming story of a nine
year old American girl detained at the
border by our border personnel for
looking Mexican protests pushed the
guggenheim museum to reject the Sackler
shrug money and the d-triple-c threatens
anyone who would help a primary
challenger in the primaries upcoming
primaries in 2020 meanwhile the Congo
suffers it's a second worst Ebola
outbreak or I should say the world's
second worst Ebola outbreak ever all
this and more on today's program ladies
and gentlemen we have a we changed you
know occasionally we do this I'd say we
do this maybe we do this like once a
month maybe we're you know we have
someone booked and some big news drops
and we decide to push the guests because
it would be weird on some level
not to address the news of the day and
actually it's the news of Friday Friday
night when the robert muller
investigation or at least that i guess
specifically the Muller investigation
came to an end
the report was filed and I don't know if
this is gonna be the biggest show the
longest show we've had or the you know
the the most dedicated show we've had to
the Russian investigation we've talked
to Marcy Willy wheeler a couple of times
in the past I think about at least in
some part of the Russia investigation
now there are also you know multiple
other investigations going on that came
out of Muller's finding other criminal
activities in the course of his
potentially criminal activities in the
course of his investing
and we now at the very least have a
sense of the breadth of the Muller
investigation and it was pretty narrow
and he clearly dished off a lot of stuff
to the Southern District of New York and
I suspect also provided some information
maybe for the attorney general's office
and in New York State conceivably other
other agencies that we just not aware of
but in the context of this investigation
it appears to be over and the Trump
folks are saying that it totally
exonerates Donald Trump that is unlikely
and one of the sort of tells that it's
probably unlikely is this clip from
Devin Nunez on Fox this morning this is
a very very odd perspective to take on
an investigation that has taken place
that clears you're the person that you
are surrogate for okay so congressman
you talk about being obstructed by the
Department of Justice the FBI in your
investigation of the situation but what
about president Trump's ability oh I
should remind you the Devin Nunez was
the guy who jumped out of his car in the
middle of like a 10:00 p.m. at night I
don't know if people remember this story
because he got a call from the White
House and ran physically ran to the
White House and got ahold and
intercepted some material back then now
who knows what that was about I guess we
will never know but just to give you a
sense of who Devin Nunez is as he was
the chair of the Intel committee for two
years as a as the Republican leader on
that committee by all the documents that
you were in pursuit of
he has the ability to do that he has not
done it do you think you still should
absolutely that so the mole report you
know a lot of people wanted to say you
know we can just you know burn it up I
mean it is a partisan document so
there's gonna be a lot of calls for that
and the Democrats that we got to see the
underlying information what we really
need to see is what was the FBI's
involvement with fusion GPS who were
they who did they know about what what
and I'm sorry I don't want to gloss over
this for the viewers but fusion GPS was
essentially the Hillary Clinton campaign
they were hired by the Clinton campaign
so we need to see all of that we need
the fiber fully disclosed
we need everyone that Moeller talked to
including his interactions with jerome
corsi who you just had on the show so he
wants to burn the report that supposedly
is exculpate ori for the president that
is a very very odd reaction well you
just want to be fair to that report i
want a revenue no i want to rub it in I
mean if you read a whole report about
how ethical I was and how everything was
so clean then it just makes the whole
thing just it's already a very sensitive
time for people don't want to boast
there's a lot of prescriptions getting
refilled there's a lot of molar effigies
being burned and actually been there
before yeah been you before don't rub it
in now understand no one has seen the
Muller report at this point except for
probably the president United States
well let me play this way no one has
seen the report that we are aware of
except for the president United States
and obviously William bar who is the
Attorney General and rod Rosen Stein who
is the I guess these assistant attorney
general the formerly acting Attorney
General at least in the context of this
of this case so we don't the question is
will the underlying information in the
report and frankly the conclusions of
the report be released obviously there's
some stuff that has to be redacted
because it's a grand jury information
and
the DOJ has regulations in regards to
that but we to the extent that we have
even seen any words from the Muller
report all we've seen is in the context
of with a little bit of ellipses and
changing of the capitalization which is
an indicator indicates that we're seeing
actually like things somewhat out of
context in a letter written by William
Barr who the last big letter he wrote
regarding the DOJ was when he was not at
the DOJ where he wrote a 19 page brief
on why the president cannot be indicted
for obstruction of justice and without
having seen any of the underlying
evidence so there's a lot of question as
to whether he should have recused
himself particularly on the question of
obstruction of justice if you are
secular literally against the idea of
obstruction of justice for the president
then it's very hard for I think folks to
take your assessment at face value that
there's no cause for obstruction of of
justice but we're going to dig into this
today a little bit there's a couple of
things to point out I mean frankly you
know from the very beginning if you've
been listening to this show of the of
this investigation and prior to that
it's been my understanding you cannot
indict a sitting president and further
this was going to be a political process
and there was going to be no way a
Republican Senate was going to vote to
convict on anything so there's in that
regard it's a not a surprise I think to
the extent that I'm surprised by
anything in the context of this report
is that it was so
narrowly tailored at least to the extent
that we understand what he was there to
investigate and that we haven't heard of
that I find it hard to believe that some
reason maybe we just didn't hear about
it that Jared Kushner and Donald Trump
jr. and Ivanka Trump were not we're not
in I mean maybe they were we just never
heard about it but it was never reported
as far as I know that any of those three
sat down and spoke to Muller and even
the president supposedly wrote a couple
of questions answered a couple questions
by writing so I'd be very surprised if
those three were not interviewed in some
fashion particularly given the scope of
how many people were interviewed but
we'll get to that in a moment folks you
remember eighteen and nineteen
eighty-nine that was the year the World
Wide Web was invented did you guys even
remember that it was called World Wide
Web
did you eat we're even where do you know
it it takes less time to say worldwide
web than wwww takes longer than World
Wide Web yep they was that high I'm not
even gonna know but as you know math
despite the fact that people have been
saying www we've come a long way since
then so why does it feel like software
you use every day at work is stuck in
the past
take a leap into the future by finding
the right software for your business on
kaptara
dot-com this is the leading free online
resource to help you find the best
software solution for your business this
is like basically going to it's like a
it's like it's an aggregator that's all
it is
I mean I don't wanna say that's all it
is but it's not much more complicated
than that they aggregate all of the
various business software's in an
extraordinarily large and almost
shockingly large I had no idea I didn't
even know these industries existed never
mind
that there were software for it and they
have over 700,000 reviews of these
products from
real software User's kaptara has
everything you need to make an informed
decision
you can search more than 700 specific
categories of software from project
management to email marketing I don't
even think that's that is wide of a
berth it's just like like veterinary and
scheduling and stuff like that
industry discovery for Sam cedar yeah I
do spend I have like when I'm I do go
around to kaptara and just go like mmm
it's contemplate what my life would be
like if I was like you know using party
management software or something like
that
no matter what your business needs our
kaptara makes it easy to discover the
right solution fast visit kaptara
dot-com slash majority for free today to
find the right tools to make 2019 the
year for your business kaptara
dot-com / majority that's kept Terre CA
p te r r a.com slash majority also are
you trying to drink more water you
should it's hugely important to stay
hydrated liquid IV is not your average
electrolyte drink mix it hydrates you
faster and more efficiently than water
alone and as the added bonus of vitamin
C b3 b5 b6 and b12 it's a healthy
alternative to traditional sugary sports
drinks because there are no artificial
flavors or preservatives
instead it's made with non-gmo clean
ingredients that are vegan and gluten
free of gluten dairy and soy it's
perfect for fueling tough workouts
helping to prevent muscle fatigue and
promoting health healthy post-workout
recovery I don't work out as much as I
should but I do sometimes drink too much
alcohol and I need recovery yeah hello
this is my regimen if I know that I've
over don't take a walk and then I have a
drink and then I walk a little bit more
and I drink a little bit more no that's
Dumble know that I drink I need recovery
no look there are times where I over
indulge and if I'm smart that night I'll
drink a packet of liquid IV I I don't
know if they want this associated with
that but that's the way I use it and
and first thing in the morning if I'm
feeling like I've gotten a little
dehydrated because maybe I've taken a
plane maybe such an incredible product
that you can use it for peak performance
or minimum performance liquid IV is the
fastest-growing hydration brand you can
find
I mean it's what's really sad is what
your peak performance is though even
Costco you can find them at all cut
we're gonna we'll do the boxing let's do
it back to the box
Costco's and you'll check out myself
healthcare I'll look into it let's do
this
I love liquid IV we'll get liquid IV to
sponsor it and I know you will too right
now my listeners get 20% off at liquid
IV calm when you use my code majority a
check out that's 20% off anything you
order on liquid IVs website go to liquid
IV dot-com and enter my promo code
majority to get your savings and start
getting better hydration liquid IV
dot-com promo code majority don't wait
get hydrated today and folks lastly it
may feel like cyber crime is something
that happens to other people but
stealing data from unsuspecting people
on public Wi-Fi is one of the simplest
ways for hackers to make money when you
leave your internet connection
unencrypted you might as well be writing
your passwords and credit card numbers
on a huge billboard for the whole world
to see you can protect yourself today
with expressvpn expressvpn secures and
anonymizes your internet browsing by
encrypting your data and hiding your
public IP address express VN has
easy-to-use apps that run seamlessly in
the background of your computer your
phone your tablet whatever turning on
expressvpn protection only takes one
click and it cost less than seven bucks
a month expressvpn is rated the number
one VPN service by TechRadar and comes
with a 30-day money-back guarantee you
can protect your online activity today
find out how you can get three months
free @ Express VPN dot-com
majority that's Express expr ESS V P n
dot com / majority for three months free
with a one-year package visit expressvpn
dot-com / majority to learn more all
right so let's dig into this letter
that's out there this is a letter that
goes to Lindsey Graham Dianne Feinstein
as ranking members of the judiciary the
Senate Judiciary Committee and Jerrold
Nadler and Doug Collins in the House
Judiciary Committee and bar writes that
on Friday special counsel submitted to
me a confidential report explaining the
prosecution or declination
declination decisions why they declined
to see what what I'm just 11 because
Michaels laughing sorry just go ahead
carry on or declination decisions
what's the matter what they said
declination the first time the
declination back to the bullet report is
you know like I leave home for just a
moment where someone's not saying dad
spell I cup classic like over and over
again the way that it entertains him
he's inherited your sense of humor yeah
he definitely has he's a cool kid and
then every time I have to pretend like I
got caught with something like what okay
I see you people I can't believe that I
you're sitting there giggling because I
said declination cool
my son is cool I'm hoping that by the
time he's Michael's age
declination will not be like he didn't
say declination you said dick Laneige
anyways well let's take it up with the
Bar Special Counsel has also referred he
goes on to say a special counsel has
obtained a number of indictments and
convictions of individuals and entities
in connection with his investigation all
of which have been publicly disclosed so
there's no more work for the Muller
investigation to do as you also know a
reminder the mole investigation paid for
itself in fact I think it actually has a
bonus my understanding the cost of it
was around 25 million dollars it's like
it pays to go after white-collar crime
and I think at the very least they got
it like 43 out of mana for it so that's
a pretty good deal enough of these
things and maybe we could actually deal
with like the homeless situation any
given you know multiple cities around
the country special counsel also
referred several matters to other
offices for further action now we know
this we know this from the testimony of
Michael Cohen that he's dealing with the
Southern District of New York I mean we
don't know what other offices there were
but we know at least one of them was a
Southern District of New York so there's
other things that are cooking and we
don't know exactly what they're in
regards to the inauguration payments
made contrary to election laws we don't
know what else the report does not
recommend any further indictments nor
did the Special Counsel obtain any
sealed indictments that have yet to be
made public so this is it's it's over at
least in terms of this narrow
investigation the special counsels
report is divided into two parts the
first describes the results of the
special counsels investigation into
Russia's interference in the 2016 US
presidential election the report
outlines the Russian effort to influence
the election and documents crimes
committed by persons associated with the
Russian government in connection with
those efforts so the GRU officers that
they incited and IRA as well which is
the internet will get down to it but the
internet research association or
something to that effect so
look we've said a million times I
certainly don't want to relitigate this
that there is probably a dozen but fours
that led to Donald Trump's election I
don't know that anything that Russia did
in any way impacted the outcome of the
election when you're talking about the
very small size of 70,000 people across
three states in an election where 200
and what is it 240 million people voted
who knows what it takes to sway those
type of votes or to depress the votes of
other people it's conceivable this
contributed to it who knows but like I
say I think I can come up with at least
10 other reasons off the top my head
some of which outside of the outside of
the control of of Hillary Clinton others
a function of Clinton's past and and
campaign decisions here is uh here is
James Comey trying to take the long view
the geologic time offers you useful
perspective I mean I personally I would
argue that I mean there's clear data
that Comey in breaking Justice
Department rules and and and talking
about the clinton investigation
announcing that he was reopening it and
then ultimately three weeks later that
it was closing again i there's clear
data that that had a huge impact on huge
within the context of the the margin
that we're talking about and you know he
probably did that because he thought
this or at least the i think this
investigation in particular which was
ongoing prior to muller being there
could lead to an indictment of donald
trump and I'm quite sure he did that and
I think he's more or less said this now
that he was doing that because he wanted
to make sure that he was appearing
impartial
anticipating a President Clinton and an
indictment of Donald Trump in you know
q2 of 2017 so I guess the bank shot of
this may have you know the the Russian
involvement may have done it that way
but there but Comey certainly had an
ability to not do that and then there
are other factors of course as well both
strategic and tactical taken by the
Clinton campaign and you know the fact
that there was a 40-year old industry of
of attacking Clinton's and even the more
nascent ones that are a little more
justified so but we do know that if
you're going to take Muller's word on
any of these things the one definitive
thing that came out of the mauler
investigation aside from multiple people
going to jail for extended period of
times on crimes that at least were
associated with this that there was
criminal interference with the election
by people who are associated with the
Russian government that is definitive at
least you know as much as you know
William bar is willing to tell us and it
would be very odd if he was making that
pronouncement if it wasn't true because
that's gonna be upsetting to Donald
Trump of course whether it was
determinative on the elections not
really relevant to that question do I
have a problem with it yeah in the same
way that I think that we should not be
interfering with Venezuela's election
either I just don't think that that's we
should be doing that and it would be odd
for us not to uphold that principle for
our own elections nevertheless the
report further explains that a primary
consideration for the special counsels
investigation was whether there any
Americans including individuals
associated with the Trump campaign join
the Russian conspiracies to influence
the election which would be a federal
crime the special counsels investigate
right now these are all this is
important right here because people are
flagging this as sort of a little bit of
a bait and switch that that bar is
engaged in here bars words the special
counsels investigation did not find that
the Trump campaign or anyone associated
with it
conspired or coordinated with Russia
in its efforts to influence the 2016 US
presidential election as the report
states then there's a : then there's a
quote then there is a bracketed capital
T which indicates that this is not the
way the sentence starts in the malla
report but rather it is part of another
sentence I don't know if that's relevant
or not just telling you what it says the
investigation did not establish that
members of the Trump campaign conspired
or coordinated with the Russian
government in its election interference
activities now it's important to note
and found a guy on on Twitter who
expressed it well and I'm gonna the the
difference between those two sentences
because this is um this gets a little
bit you know legally and you need to
sort of I think you know I think lawyers
are pretty good at this because they
they that's what they do I mean they're
they get a little bit's niggly on on the
way these things are read and I'm trying
to find it here oh yeah here it is okay
so these two sentences bar says that
Muller did not find any conspiracy or
coordination which of course suggest the
absence of evidence but that is not what
the Muller report to the extent that we
can see this one sentence says it says
it did not establish those are two
different things you can see
evidence but it's not significant enough
to cross a threshold in which you could
legally charge somebody so there can be
evidence of that it's just and so what
I've been told by former prosecutor in
the DOJ is that usually you need about
eighty-five percent to before you'll
bring a case you need about eighty-five
percent of you know assuredness in terms
of getting there to establish it
so bar goes out ahead I mean it's a very
weird juxtaposition to sentences right
because as you know as a literary person
Matt you could have just said the
Special Counsel report states and then
just quoted it as you did there but bar
takes it a little further and it
includes the Trump campaign or anyone
associated with it in bars speaking
right he goes on to say the Trump
campaign or anyone associated with it
conspired a coordinated but the report
does not say that the report says
members of the Trump campaign what's the
difference is that maybe you have
conduits I don't know it's just it's
just a very odd thing for somebody who
has obviously supposedly scrutinized
this stuff intensely right so you've got
that establish you've got also the
narrowness of it and third Muller's
quote only references the Trump campaign
it says nothing about anyone associated
with it and Muller cites the Russian
government in its election activities in
interference activities that's an
important note there because if I say
the difference between what Michael does
as a contributor on this show is
different than what Michael does and
they very specifically talk about
the investigation did not establish that
members of the Trump campaign conspired
a coordinated with the Russian
government in its interference
activities now we can't tell what else
is in the report but it's quite possible
that the first half of that sentence is
we did find that people associated with
the Trump campaign were involved with
the Russian government in getting
illegal permits for you know parking or
whatever it is but the investigation did
not establish that I mean because there
could be a but there and so or could be
however
in regards to our purview of our
investigation the investigation did not
establish I mean so we just don't know
and we do know that bar is trying to
expand the findings there now maybe he's
just you know coincidentally that's what
it said and he just didn't cite the
other stuff but that's one thing to note
the letter also is that there's this
divergence there's a very there's a
narrowness that bar is seems to want to
expand and I'm not clear why one would
do that the special counsels
investigation determined that there were
two main Russian efforts to influence
the 2016 election the first involved
attempts by Russian organization the
internet research agency that's the IRA
to conduct disinformation and social
media operations in the United States
designed to Saudi social discord
eventually with the aim of interfering
with the election you know I again I
don't know how you quantify whether that
was a but for in terms of the election
outcome but that happened the second
element involved the Russian government
government's efforts to conduct computer
hacking operations designed to gather
Indus
information to influence the election
the Special Counsel found that Russian
government actors successfully hacked
into computers and obtained emails from
persons affiliated with the Clinton
campaign and Democratic Party
organizations and publicly disseminated
those materials through various
intermediaries and WikiLeaks including
WikiLeaks
now that is what was determined by this
investigation that the hacking did
happen maybe I don't know maybe they're
just making that up
to cover up for the you know what
happened to seth rich but that is what
this investigation found i mean if you
feel like this in any way exonerates
Donald Trump or vindicates any notion
that there's they shouldn't have
investigated as to whether Donald Trump
conspired with Russians then you also
have to accept the findings from the
same Muller that yes the Russians
interfered in the election by dumping
all these emails which were I would say
I would argue were also sort of you know
relevant at least in the election as
noted above the Special Counsel did not
find that the Trump campaign or anyone
associated with it although that's not
what that sentence said above conspired
or coordinated with the Russian
government in these efforts despite
multiple offers from Russian affiliated
individuals to assist the Trump campaign
so what's clear is the Russians did this
without anyone from the Trump campaign
coordinating it or telling them that
that's a pretty narrow thing because the
whole other part of this is you did me a
solid I'm gonna do you a solid or you
did me a solid I'm gonna do you a solid
so do me more solids that part was not
examined the idea of like hey I know it
was you guys who did the who did the the
the hack in the leak of the emails and I
know it because Roger stone not
affiliated with the campaign told me
that you guys did it and that it was
coming great I appreciate that thank you
and as a token of my esteem let's talk
about adoption or let's talk about
rolling back some sanctions and if
you're so inclined you know to send me
another thank you card you know gift so
be it right like Russia if you're
listening get more get those other
30,000 emails right I mean so but that
what I just described appears to have
fallen outside of what the investigation
was about there's a footnote in
assessing potential conspiracy charges
the special counsel also considered
whether members of the Trump campaign
coordinated with Russian election
interference activities the special
counsel defined coordination as an
agreement tacit or expressed between the
Trump campaign and Russian government on
an election interference so these things
can happen you know I mean it's sort of
like hey I'm gonna support you in your
election just because I know you're the
type of person who will rollback banking
 not criminal I was gonna ask like
there's no law against that
right I mean you do something and I do
something because I like that you did
something and then you do something and
like that's the you know that's that's
like it'll just like a love story that's
not even like there's a reason oligarchs
of any country would want a Republican
President to win
sure of course like it could be bad and
damaging and even sketchy without
technically breaking the law right
that's I'm saying within the narrow
scope of what they're investigating here
none of that happened I don't you know
the
now what the investigation again the
narrowness of the investigation is like
it doesn't doesn't talk about other
things that could have happened maybe
there were illegal dealings with the wee
Trump Tower we don't know that's not
part of the purview of this special
council okay and then the second part of
the the question was obstruction special
counsel did not draw a conclusion one
way or another as to whether the
examined conduct constituted obstruction
special counsel states that quote and
then this instance the they kept the W a
lowercase weird
while this report does not conclude that
the president committed a crime it also
does not exonerate him of committing the
crime of extra obstruction Deputy a I'm
skipping here Deputy Attorney General
Rod Rosenstein I have concluded that the
evidence developed during the special
counsels investigation is not sufficient
to establish that the president
committed and obstruction of justice
offense in making this determination we
noted that the special counsel
recognized that quote the evidence does
not establish that the president was
involved in an underlying crime related
to Russian election interference end
quote
and that while not determinative the
absence of such evidence bears upon the
president's intent with respect to
obstruction so in other words because
the investigation did not find that
Trump was conspiring with the Russians
to hack into the emails that any
obstruction that went on almost
definitionally almost definitionally
could not be obstruction because there's
nothing there to obstruct right well
that narrow thing exactly now generally
speaking to obtain and sustain and
obstruction conviction the government
would need to prove beyond a reasonable
doubt that a person acting with corrupt
intent engaged in obstructive conduct
with a sufficient Nexus to a pending or
contemplated proceeding now that to me
Donald Trump clearly obstructed right
like we saw this trying to get people to
change their testimony coordinating with
people to lie to the investigation as to
whether they're actually cooperating and
it turns out they're not that's all part
of obstruction the question is did that
did that obstructive conduct have a
sufficient Nexus to a pending or
contemplated proceeding now it seems to
me that it's conceivable that the stuff
that I've just talked about floating
pardons telling men afford to be strong
saying that I've hired I fired Comey
because in that I'm calling people rats
on Twitter calling people rats on
Twitter Oh
complaining about Rico as a concept it's
conceivable that the proceedings that
the Southern District of New York that
they could look at the obstruction these
exact same activities and say that they
are more related to a pending I don't
know but and we you know it's it's very
hard to look at this aside from the fact
that it seems very weird that that this
decision was already made before this
guy became even Attorney General right I
mean he had already come to this
conclusion before having seen any of the
evidence just saying as a matter of law
there was no obstruction here and it's
also sort of absurd I think concept I
think some people have an
she with that but part of the reason why
obstruction exists is because it becomes
impossible to establish what the actual
facts were in this situation right and
maybe it's a measure of if you find some
facts but they don't reach the 85% level
or they don't reach the 50% level then
that's not enough to say that there
could be more there but for the
obstruction but that's what he's written
and that's why I think people are
focusing on the obstruction because it
really seems to at that point have been
a question not for the DOJ to the invest
the prosecutor decided that it was still
an open case and William bar decided to
make it a closed case he goes on to say
lastly about the restrictions that are
upon him as to letting folks know about
what the underlying stuff is in the in
the report given these restrictions the
schedule for processing the report
depends in part on how quickly the
department can identify the 6e material
that by law cannot be made public this
is 16 material is the Federal Rule of
Criminal Procedure on what can be
released from a grand jury separately he
says I must also identify any
information that could impact other
ongoing matters including those that the
special counsel has referred to other
offices so that's gonna be the big thing
right there's an ongoing investigation
about all the criminal activity so I
can't let you know about one of the
stuff that he did as soon as that
process is complete they were really
quick though with the obstruction stress
stuff they managed to get through that
report pretty quickly on that regard
I'll be in a position to move forward
expeditiously in determining what can be
released in light of applicable law
regulations into part to mental
procedure policy so my guess is we're
not gonna see anything of any substance
until after the election
nice try Samantha and that election it
could be and that election could be the
20/20 or it could be the 20/20 the the
the 2024 it was a fake investigation and
now we need the real investigation which
was about why the investigation started
we need a real one uranium one uranium
one and Hillary Clinton and but it was a
very terrible thing and you and Rachel
Maddow and all the rest keep going on
and on and on and on did you ever watch
Monty Python that would be exactly the
type of nerdy crap you would watch I I
did do you all remember that night who
kept having limbs cut off it was like
it's not over yet houses lose are
liberals talking about the boulder
report who do you take the take the add
the did you notice that in there was
brackets where Bilbao wrote that maybe
this was and that was indented on a
second paragraph whatever total
vindication fakeness the lake investing
there's a couple of other things that I
think we are still extant about this too
is that you know this is a this was a an
investigation that was launched pre
steel dossier this was there was a FISA
warrant on Carter page a year before
maybe even before Donald Trump declared
literally forgot a bride right
oh man there was some great characters
in this saga there there was an
intelligence community you know decision
to launch this investigation at a time
where you know the stakes were still
high obviously the guy was running for
president he hadn't won the nomination
yet but it looked like he could and you
know it would be interesting to find out
like that data too because
FBI CIA these are problematic agencies
through the years there's been problems
with these agencies and it would be
curious to see and I think it was you
know be curious to see just sort of how
what was setting off such alarm bells in
the intelligence community that got this
investigation going I think what what
really sort of like I mean in retrospect
now it looks like he should just let
Comey keep his job and saved all of us
this you know like talk about a guy
walking around like he's guilty I mean
that's the thing I knew a cop once told
me is like you know the way that we
justify this stuff is like for every
ticket you get you've probably like
committed 50 speeding offenses or
traffic violations or whatnot like this
is one of those classic cases where I'm
sure Trump was like I was covering up
the money laundering and they get me on
this stuff well that's definitely true
and I think another thing that we did
say from the beginning which is like if
you had a more global frame of like what
about Trump's relationship to the
Mercer's to the Saudis to Emiratis to
the Israelis to the everything you know
it would have been a more fruitful
Israel and reading the Commerce rowdy we
don't know that that that there aren't
investigations to that effect right but
I don't I I've heard as much I mean we
don't of course but I'm talking more
broadly as a strategy that a lot of
people did seriously narrowly well
that's the other thing or even a media
frame okay that's literally it's a memo
from a political standpoint it has been
highly problematic to make this the
focus and we've talked about this and I
think part of the reason why it was done
was because it was just more digestible
like you make it you know a a you know
some type of like major not major but
you make it it's it's more simplistic
and I also think we're gonna have to say
that it's more that's true but I think
that also
omnibus conversation about sort of
broader money and oligarchic corruption
in our system would implicate basically
the entire modern political class right
and like that's the other big they don't
want that I was gonna ask why they
limited it to this one very ambitious
thing when it seems like they could have
got him on some more it was the vein
crimes Muir
well Mueller was not he didn't come up
with this idea to do this investigation
this was pressure because they fired
Comey
and this was he was mandated this by
Rosenstein like a you know wasn't
Muller's decision and if I'm Muller I'm
terrified of all of it I know he's a
brave marine and whatnot but I'll be
terrified like am I gonna be the one
who's gonna like I mean he punted on the
obstruction he punted on the obstruction
and that's pretty weak T like you know
either come out and say you found it or
you didn't well it's like the Warren
Commission completely destroyed Earl
Warren justice or a Warren's reputation
too people get very nervous I think in
these instances like you know am I gonna
go down with the ship here and it just
brings up wider issues with the system
itself I think I think we need to find
out what what ultimately like the
Southern District of New York where he
referred what to but there's no doubt in
my mind that there are there are there
were paths that they saw but they didn't
want to follow I mean cuz how could they
not can we I just want to also say like
I think like a pox on both houses at
least from me politically because I
think on one hand there absolutely was
our ridiculous over emphasis on this and
I and I just object to it politically
and people were trying to escape from a
much bigger conversation and outsource
things to a police investigation and I
have a critique of that and then
conversely uh you know frankly even the
quote-unquote resistance which I
critique a lot includes you know all of
those individual groups and
all sorts of incredible organizing which
one the house and have driven the guy's
approval ratings down so you know both
of these things are true simultaneously
well and I think you know Democrats were
smart they did not run on this stuff in
the 2018 election allows right and that
was a big thing that they didn't do that
that was just one last thing you know
the Department of Justice regulation
requires a special council to report all
of the prosecution or declination Dec
Dec the nation decisions and so they're
there in that report and it seems to me
if this is exculpatory then it would
behoove really the body politic to
release that report as soon as possible
I don't think they're going to because I
don't think it's gonna make Donald Trump
look very good he may not have been
guilty of you may not have been
prosecute or prosecutable in this narrow
sense but I get the sense that there's
other things in there they don't want
that maybe why they would want to burn
that report that's just my guess and
we'll take a break and go into the fun
half I mean you know one of the things
that the interesting phenomena is here
is that there is I mean I can understand
the perspective that like the media
oversold this stuff quite a bit certain
aspects of the media
ya know I mean I think without a doubt I
mean it drove ratings and and look
there's a certain amount of intrigue the
investigations going on
I think people got out ahead of the
investigation you know I think like I
said it's sort of why like local news
always covers what the local police
departments do and it's easy ready-made
yeah but the thing is is that we didn't
really have a sense of of what was going
on internally in these investigations at
all
we never did and they they did a very
good job of not leaking it but I do
think that
there is a little bit of exaggeration as
to like I don't think that we ever came
close to declaring war with Russia I
don't think that you know it's one thing
to say that the a huge chunk of the
media showed how ratings driven and how
venal and how out or I should say how
you know the sort of entertainment II
the media can be I think that's a very
legitimate criticism one which you could
have made even without the report coming
back in you know this way frankly
because we just didn't know and I'm a
fan of Matt Taibbi z-- but to compare
this with weapons of mass destruction I
just to be clear of him having him on
tomorrow he doesn't suggest that there
is a fallout or moral equivalency in
terms of deaths of civilians and well
that to me talking about the
intelligence apparatus difficulty that
to me well first off the dynamic was
completely different I mean I don't want
to put you in a position to defending it
don't you want to I'm happy well but I
said my piece it's just obviously
awkward I shouldn't you have him on at
something yeah I will I just I just read
the piece today though and but one the
way the intelligence screwed up yeah I
mean I think it's you know I think it's
he's actually not talking about the
intelligence because that would also be
wrong
because the intelligence women no media
around the intelligence well the media
the media period and the way the media
behaved was I would say it was was was
similar I mean I guess you could also
make the same argument in terms of
Benghazi in some respects maybe Benghazi
didn't get as big but it was certainly
as prolonged seven years Benghazi did
not have
any official area stood the clue here's
what I wrote about Russia gate is
compared to W the WMD mass had a massive
real-world negative impact leading to a
hundred thousand deaths trillion lost
tax paid unless Russia gate leads Newt
we're unlikely to see that level of
consequence still Russia Gate has led to
an unprecedented cooperation between the
government and Internet platforms like
Twitter like Facebook Twitter and Google
all of which are censoring pages on the
left right in the name of preventing
sowing and discord now wait a second see
the thing is though is that this report
if what bar is said is true Russians did
engage in these this activity about
somebody's talking about well you just
see no ton cooperation between
government well wait a second are you
gonna defend this or you're gonna let me
read it because he said Russia gate has
a precedent by cooperation between the
government internet play that is true
right now of course these platforms did
not exist during WMD I just want to know
like why do you cite WMD if the
real-world negative impact is not even
remotely close that we don't have a
nuclear conflict that hundreds of
thousands of people have not lost their
lives weapons of mass destruction did
not involve the government getting
involved with Facebook or Twitter or
Google none of which existed in any
fashion the intelligence was not the
same you had a situation where they were
actively they were there were the
president and particularly the vice
president the United States was actively
seeking specific intelligence to support
their theory in this case no we didn't
have that you had a President Obama who
sat on the information that he got about
about Russian interference essentially
which may or may not have had talking
about things like like the Facebook
partnering with the Atlantic Council to
as an example take down Telus or he's
talking about the broader fallout of
these things that's what he's talking
about well I think the to the extent
well first of all none of that happened
and what with the with Iraq I mean it's
just a very bad
okay that's what I'm talking about is
you can write that we should not have
taken down Telus ores a Facebook page
and I have no problem with that but it
doesn't have anything to do with weapons
of mass destruction in there was a real
desire and they were politicians
politicians but not government officials
per se I mean you had people in the you
know the minority who were not even
running these committees you had people
in the DOJ and FBI who for whatever
reason way before Donald Trump became
president I thought there was some type
of problem under the president who had
said Russia is it's a joke to consider
them our prime it's just it is not it is
shoehorning an idea as a journalistic
failure however WMD was a pimple
compared to Russia gave there's no point
in bringing up WMD it is it is it's just
a poor analogy and that's what that's
the that's the the breadth of my
critique and it's a little honestly like
I feel bad for tellus or they don't have
a Facebook page and I think it's wrong
and I think that we need to break up
Facebook but it really like it's either
like it's if it's not apt in terms of
its journalistic failure and it's not
apt analogy in terms of its a real world
impact then it's just not an apt
comparison there are better ones I
really appreciate the way that you have
come at this actually Sam like I feel
like the way we've covered it here is
very different than the way they do it
in the mainstream media definitely
things because like there obviously is
something there and the part that
interests me is when you go further
further further deeper
and look at the influence of global
oligarchy and corruption and money and
not just in our politics but around the
world and like I guess there was it I
never believed I still don't believe
that Trump is going to suffer any real
consequences from this but there's
always a chance and we've got to use all
the tools in our toolbox the things that
I object to and the thing that I will
always mock is the way the function it
served the psychological function it
served in the mainstream media
especially for liberals who did not want
to look at any of the other deeper
problems that led to Trump winning the
election in 2016 and they didn't want to
look at themselves and they didn't want
to feel culpable in any way for the
political programs that they've advanced
yeah I mean with that said I also think
that you can go too far in that regard
because I think you know when we get
back to the debate as to whether it was
you know economic anxiety or you know
sort of racism that fueled some of this
I think it was probably you know there's
probably some of everything in there but
III I mean I think look there the the
idea of having some type of it's not
like these were made up out of whole
cloth like the electorate was not aware
of this stuff in any sort of dramatic
fashion going in it certainly didn't
take it terribly seriously before Trump
won I mean so you know some of this was
real in the so far as like maybe this
was all just a plot by the FBI and CIA
but it is a little bit weird for the FBI
and CIA and for rod Rosenstein to be
joking about wearing a wire to go in to
talk to the president well I think that
could be applied to again that's that's
also that could be a monuments that
could be he's losing his mind I mean I
could be any number of potential
criminal conduct with Donald Trump
including
but I think it's quite clear the reason
why rod Rosenstein made that comment was
because it was in the air the head may
be Donald Trump was some type of you
know you know agent or something like
that like in in by in the air I don't
mean we watched Matt out last night and
coming to the White House I mean again I
in the DOJ I think we can de set like
even even that I don't want to
re-litigate or argue about the title of
its Taibbi Spees but I think I I'm
probably you know you could persuade me
that that's a misuse of a title but I'm
more concerned I think than you are
about how this is playing out with
things like like to me tell us we're
getting D platformed isn't just like oh
that's a bummer that actually does have
really serious implications as long as
these things are monopolies if they're
gonna outsource their editorial to
essentially literally neocon think tanks
that has major implications I also got
problems with them outsourcing it to
conservatives in general right I think
we're frankly any problem or or frankly
any you know as long as they don't even
I mean let's even be more idealistic and
ridiculous here in a world that will
never exist how about them not even you
know acknowledging the fact that their
media platforms and actually hiring
editors and buns Minh which is never
open i but like so i think their way of
having a conversation about this i that
will Higgs all of these variables into
account doesn't discount any of them
because they're all legitimate i might
contend that that that I am unrivaled in
calling for these things to be broken up
for that very reason that's also why I
don't want government got them
government to nationalize it because you
would get me you'd have the the
opportunity for more of that and except
for they would end up putting it in some
type of like you know National Security
rubric and so III want to see these
things broken up but without a doubt and
I would be very interested in seeing
that piece but and all I'm talking about
I've been able to have you know just all
of the like okay there was sketchy
things about Russia let's see what
happens this is a bigger story about
Goerke in corruption and also there's a
bunch of people whether in Silicon
Valley or the Democratic Party that are
misusing this so as to not do more
serious policy and analysis yes of
course
all true and we've made those critiques
I just my big issue was that there's a
certain amount of hyperbole on that you
know is it's hard to critique the
hyperbole that we saw in the context of
you know Russia Russia Russia with
saying like this is equivalent to and so
I don't know what's left I mean if if if
WFD was just a pimple compared to Russia
gate and it was nothing even close there
and it's also not about the world real
world negative impact I don't know why
you write it except for to imply that
it's like WMD lies and the WMD lies the
the issue if we had never gone to war it
would have been bad for them to imply
that there was WMD but that it led to
the deaths and dislocation of hundreds
of thousands and millions was really
what we're talking about when we see a
WMD and so I just think that like it's
you know people you know I think two
wrongs generally do make things better
do you think people definitely got the
WMD lesson strictly speaking about the
media and how the media was spun do you
think that that pervaded society as much
as this we'll see the thing is the
reason why I think the WMD thing is a
bad analogy is that the WMD was people
being cowed in the wake of 9/11 the
media refusing to stand up and in
challenge a a narrative because of which
in many respects was a much more scary
scenario because there was this national
security thing and it was literally like
you are treasonous
if you in any way argue that we should
not go to war or you present any of that
the reason why we're seeing so much
Russia Russia Russia is because it is
the it's like to me what's more apt is
like the OJ trials like this was for
people a narrative wasn't wasn't based
on nothing I mean you know the DOJ was
doing this they were having an
investigation it was an unprecedented
investigation it was unprecedented
charge the charges were not I mean
theoretically Iraq wasn't based on
nothing either it was based on actual
faulty Intel me wait it's Europe wait a
second no no no it was a global
consensus that when Robin Cook resigned
from Parliament as a member of Tony
Blair's cabinet he said explicitly we
will find WMDs there and I still opposed
the invasion that was a total consensus
when when when the ambassador to the
United States came back to a Britain I
am afraid that the intelligence is being
shaped around the policy that was the
quote in other words the policy is go
awry and they're fashioning the
intelligence around it there was no
there was no consensus whatsoever what
you're talking about
no there was no other there was no there
was absolutely no reports coming
internationally that there was weapons
of mass destruction there there was
literally multiple teams
I know hundreds of people on the ground
but the rings and who I'm talking about
then I'm talking about the day before
shocking who opposed it I thought you
will find some things there that was
unusual to say there's absolutely
nothing there no no and that was that
what look
Reisen in a vow not well I don't I'm
sane but you're saying that there was
literally from whole cloth there and
that what that isn't true it was very
broadly the idea that you know that
piece of mass destruction in in Iraq and
and defined as the ability to to kill
thousand
of people was built from whole cloth or
reports of stuff existing 25 years
earlier yes I stand by that
yeah a big vat of rising okay my point
being that this was an actual
investigation that was started not by
MSNBC but by the Justice Department
when Comey and Comey was engaging in it
and then he fired combing and then he
reportedly said to the Russians I did
that to get him out of the way like this
was not the reaction and the dominance
of this story and a way that people but
it was chasing a story that existed and
the more apt analogy is sort of like the
the the thirst for ratings and and the
psychological purpose that it serves
that got them the ratings well yes I
would agree with that as well but it's
also you know it's like the OJ trial
which dominated everything for years yes
the only reason I asked is I agree that
WMD isn't a good metaphor but just going
on like the lesson the American people
will learn about the media from that
happening
I don't nothing yeah well I don't think
people I don't think the WMD lesson has
really sunk in as much as I think this
one will I think like I a cab driver
when I told them what I do in Phoenix
he's like oh what do you think is gonna
happen with this whole Moeller stuff I'm
like I'm not expecting a whole lot and
he was like very dismissive of it too I
think that attitude is kind of pervasive
and if you were to defend like Tyee B's
I guess I complained about what the
media did here it'd be that like I think
that's gonna sink in more than the WMD
lesson did that's right
optimistic about people's ability to
form judgments and learn things yeah I
mean I don't I I don't know and I'm not
even sure I know what the lesson is that
people are supposed to dissatisfaction
like they discredit the media oh stop
for the moon oh definitely with this
conspiracy theory and they shot way
higher than they needed to and in the
end undermine their own credibility I
don't think there's going to be any I
don't think there's gonna be any lesson
I think there's just gonna be you
you just undercut the authority of the
media exactly and and and I don't but I
don't think anybody's gonna learn
anything from it and I don't think
people the the reason why you're not
going to see it you know in terms of the
I mean because this was basically in
many respects a partisan thing the
weapons of mass destruction the entire
society was on board with this and the
the segment of the population that was
you know against it was completely shut
out there was no Fox News you know a
playing any type of role in the context
or massive talk radio in the build-up to
weapons of mass destruction there was
zero outlet well for dissent that's the
other difference between the two things
right because the the second the sector
of the population that even cares about
the Muller report is much much smaller
than the sector of the population that
you're talking about with absolutely
absolutely
like I'm just thinking back to when pod
save America had that black lives matter
activists on doing if you know what I'm
talking about and they were like
hammering and hammering it the Muller
report the Democrats and she was like
normal black people do not care about
the molar report now I don't think she
was speaking for everyone but I think in
general normal working-class people of
all races care more about their
day-to-day lives and their quality of
life and to be fair to the Democrats
they ran with that in mind I think yeah
good for them 100 percent but there was
a lot of people who are making you know
making careers off of this I mean and I
don't kind of regret not doing the Matt
Miller report I don't what's right
odin's smart I don't think that why did
you get offered that no but like Matt
Moeller report minute and it works
oh because you could have done the other
you could have been the other Matt
Miller wasn't there a Matt Miller who is
like one of those guys oh I don't know
oh well I'm sure that Rachel Maddow and
company will all be resigning and shame
very soon well I mean frankly I think
the
you know I don't think things are gonna
change too dramatically I mean you got
to see the report they're not going to
show the report so there's going to be a
lot of conjecture about what's in the
report and and then it's just going to
move on to the other the other trials I
mean people like if you go if you go to
iTunes and you look at the top news
shows they are all murder mystery shows
and there's a there's a reason for that
do law-and-order molar report right
honestly so all right we got to take a
break but let me remind you that if all
of this is just too much take a break
take a leap into the future with kaptara
calm the leading free online resource to
help you find the best software solution
for your business with over seven
hundred thousand reviews of products
from real software users kaptara can
help you make an informed decision no
matter what your business needs visit
kaptara dot-com slash majority for free
today to find the right tools to make
2019 the year for your business kaptara
dot-com / majority kaptara that CA p te
r r a.com slash majority folks just a
reminder this program relies on your
support now that the Muller
investigation is over we have lost a big
source of our funding which came from
Louise Mitch who like that I feel like
people are arguing against like Louise
Mensch sometimes and I'm like is she
even still wait what's wrong with Mitch
I don't know if like she got a New York
Times column back in the height of this
yeah you know like Stevens has one every
week it so doesn't Barry Weiss
I mean sure yes there's a problem over
at the Times the problem just a reminder
that it's your support that makes this
show possible you can become a member
today at join the majority report comm
join the majority report calm for just
pennies a day you can support this show
and we give you
extra content every day so check it out
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority Michael let me guess what's
happening Tuesday is Matt Taibbi gonna
be on your show
Matt's IEP is we will be taking
statements of yours out of context for
him to get pedantic and whine about and
you can actually play them we will play
well we will play them I will probably
revisit the Iraq Intel controversy as
well Matt Taibbi and Francesca
Fiorentina are gonna join us we're not
gonna just talk about the Russia Russia
Russia we're gonna also talk about a
pact because and speaking of which and
this is something I think we did cover
there was actual Israel collusion is
real Kate do we know but then we
remember that that listen to you know
Israeli Israeli Israel that was an
actual document that one in action oh
now told you this hear me o its garland
you're forgetting your own shows we're
having garland Garland's coming on no
joke I have no idea it's all Bernie all
roads lead back now he's all serious so
excuse me yourself buddy Kent off you me
I think we as a nation need to come
together about what happened with that
game theory tweet because if you look in
the replies like brian Stelter and like
what's his name Farenthold from a lot of
awesome wasn't it was an inside job a
lot of prominent I never read that it
literally wasn't even game theory that
he was doing you know it was just it was
ramblings of a madman was a ramblings of
a mad Jamie tomorrow that's what's
happening patreon.com slash t NBS also
check out the illicit history of Joe
Biden with Zack Carter Jamie this week
on the anti Fattah our current episode
is still out we talked with le valley
writer and illustrator about Jewish
identity Zionism and his run-ins with
Meghan McCain and Chelsea Clinton who
are practically the same person at this
point at I'm also over the weekend we
recorded an
so it on the brexit for anyone who is
curious to know more and understand what
that's all about what's going on and
also we recorded a very special bonus
because we reached our goal of 666
patrons by mayday so we had some of them
call in and talk to us and it was really
special and fun and cool oh and if the
like technically we're done with the
prize packs cuz we hit our goal but if
you sign up soon and you want one too
just let us know when we'll get one out
to you tonight literary hangover is
recording on the soul of man under
socialism by Oscar Wilde it's his only
political essay I can talk about
anarchists and sort of like William
Morris Arts and Crafts sort of socialism
and yep talk about that a being should
we have David griscomb of TMDs will be
joining us that won't come on til two
Saturdays from now but we might release
something for the patrons this Saturday
all right folks quick break fun half six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube frees up their
buggy whipping like he's boss I am NOT
your employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
upset you
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you're idiots we're just
going to get rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur good
exactly I'm happy now so win-win
it's win-win-win hell yeah now listen to
me two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven two thirty-eight 56:27 15.9 don't
you see everybody's taking their dumb
juice today come on dance dance dance
[Music]
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no all right take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there take
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jets elastic I'm feeling more
chill already hood Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you
guys ready to I see some people Shitler
with such No
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly we are back we have we are oh
here we go
sorry we are back ladies and gentlemen
Sam cedar the majority report let's get
into the Colin system bear with us sorry
folks I forgot to call in let's go a
couple im's bul Prague so Scott Walker
died not that Scott Walker though
have you considered bringing on someone
from unicorn riot they've recently been
exposing an identity europa' members and
other white nationalists like the former
nra director Howard Faysal yeah good for
them yes they do do good work I think
identity Europa actually had to rebrand
itself after that rate yeah there the
American identity movement now yeah so
never let it be said that the right kind
of anti-fascist
tactics do not work it though the
outlets that are publishing the discord
Schatz from the fascists really good
work I like seeing those richard allen
asian sam why should Maddow feel any
more shame for her coverage than say
Marcy wheeler she's covered a very
intriguing beat from behind behind to
end so what she's only on for an hour a
day well I mean I think the difference
is is that Marcy wheeler is specifically
a national security writer and
marci would not exclusively cover this I
think I think the idea is that that the
the Russian narrative completely took
over Maddow Show it seemed to me I mean
to be honest I have not watched a lot of
it so I can't really make an assessment
but my sense is that the critique at
least is that she allowed this to edge
out coverage of all sorts of other
things it was some really damning stat
about the entire MSNBC lineup and like
it changed the last couple of months but
the Yemen coverage and a granted look
I'm not naive I know Yemen isn't gonna
dominate MSNBC coverage but like you're
talking about the worst humanitarian
crisis in the world getting one segment
in one year yeah I mean there there are
other you know stories and so I don't I
guess that's the nature of the critique
a teacher Lauren hi Sam yesterday was my
mom's birthday her name is Miriam can
you wish her happy birthday
[Music]
happy birthday Miriam hope she's doing
well rabbis soy boy I feel like there's
an episode of The Twilight Zone now that
this event is beginning to wind down
we're only left with ourselves and how
we acted from the GOP obstruction to MCA
mainstream media hysterics to even
having to listen to Michael Tracy come
out of his basement to gloat like he
just did a push-up without winding
himself this is where we are all sides
have egg on their face this absolves
nobody the darkest days ahead but I'm
hopeful I have the majority report in
the knowledge that two of the Spice
Girls had sex oh yeah okay that really
got buried underneath all the Muller
news what what do you mean with each
other ginger spice they dated they owe
ya I don't know if they dated per se but
they is my euphemism the canoodle yeah
Johnny like we're trapped in a barn fire
to cover the good news - Jonathan
Armstead Sam you've commented on the
past perhaps I'm the only majority
report listener who knew you originally
from your work on the mid-90s African
Americans had come the show well you
recently topped your white guy
fish-out-of-water routine with your
amazing YouTube interview with Jesse Lee
Peterson kudos on busting his chops on
affirmative action white privilege and
Judaism but in all respect what do you
think of the guy what's your take
I talked with hoochie wali about him
sometimes and he thinks he's a
self-hating psychopath I think the guy's
just committed to cosplay of Sam
Jackson's character from de Django
Unchained all right yeah so I'd actually
forgot that I did this and it was only
on Thursday morning and I think that's
why because it was on Thursday morning I
came in did that went home I had to you
know take Saul to a doc or whatever the
only people could hear my laughing I'm
sorry and and you know we got the
request and I didn't really think much
of it I I felt like I heard of his name
but like I'd not you know and then
somebody called in it you know trying to
trying to do an impression of him and I
was like wait a second is this guy
really like this
so I looked at it for a little miles
like yeah okay let's do this
and I didn't know what to expect but
this guy I I don't know what is up with
this guy I I can't help but think that
like I I I think there may be some
self-hate but I I don't know I also like
to think that maybe it's just like it's
a gig I don't know cuz he you know there
was a couple of times so I'm like I'm
gonna try and see if I can make him
laugh about this and here's this clip
let's play this clip and we're gonna
post
I think the we'll post it cuz why not
that's you know that's if if this is
just you know this is about as like
wrestling as it gets like this is sort
of like the IRS scam fake phone call
that we posted to but that was real this
I think was also real actually hear
politicians and others by accusing them
of being racist but Sam how much time do
I have with you you have a couple more
minutes so let me ask posits a that I
think at this point I was getting a
little bit like this you're feeling the
heat frankly for the left I don't know
why we would post this channel are black
people suffering due to the destruction
of the family and the lack of morality
or racism well frankly I don't know that
those are mutually exclusive which are
they suffered from well I mean I think
what's the cause of this up because we
all know in reality I think we all know
in reality there's no such thing as
racism sexism homophobia ism
Islamophobia ism dare be dare ism or
anti 70s um it's all about good or evil
right or wrong we do know that part
right we do yeah I listen well as far as
I know we may not even exist this could
all just be a dream right I mean how do
we know Jesse that were even here that's
a good point we're just maybe this is
just a dream maybe it's not even your
dream or my dream it could be just some
other random person
they as white and privileged posit for
what I just said I said you just showed
him white privilege of that answer
exactly ology it could be just a dream
it you know it occurs to me now that as
I watch that back it could be just the
guy from progressive voices dream it's
just it's all grist for his paw goes on
to talk about white privilege or my
dream it could be just some other random
person such a thing as white a frivolous
is there of course and who do you know
get that is white and they get
privileged because of their color Oh me
you knew but you a Jewish guy well I
keep it under wraps Jesse they don't
know they don't know that you Jewish
well you had to ask when you know why to
me I can tell exactly and and certainly
I mean I have been I have been extremely
privileged and so why don't you give up
all your privilege to the black folks
well I mean I I think that to a certain
extent from a societal perspective I
mean I don't think me individually is
going to be able to do that but from a
societal perspective I think we should
have some we should we should rebalance
things in in in in in many respects yes
say oh well you know will you come again
we're out of town this is really fun I'd
like to talk to you longer and take some
call there everybody and their mama want
to talk to you
yes well there'd be great I would love
to talk to them and their mothers I have
my producer Saturday but I'd love to
have you awful at least it I will take
some calls okay well that's that's a
long time but I will do my best
thank you Sam yeah you know it actually
[Music]
I have no idea kind of slightly off
camera that's me laughing at the idea
that he isn't obviously Jewish you
probably hear me laughing in the
background I understand how you could
buy let's go to the phones come from a
6-1 zero area code who's this where you
come from Sam can you hear me sir yes I
can shout out to the crew thank you all
for all you do I want I wanted to do two
quick things I had one main point but
the thing that that one guy said last
week really pissed me off the recent
episode of and fada Bonjean Raspail it's
a great way of exploring how fascist
psychology doesn't allow you to take a
passive position in to combating them
and and you have to do whatever is
necessary including what unicorn ride
does with daxing people or what that kid
did was begging that time in New Zealand
yep so uh the second thing I really
wanted to talk about is what's going on
with Chelsea Manning have you been
paying attention to the fiddle the last
I saw she had refused to testify I don't
know if it was a grand jury but against
WikiLeaks and I I don't know if she's
she in prison now or they were
threatening her with prison he is okay
yeah she is in prison and they are there
you are detaining her until the grand
jury dismisses or right right well I
know it takes a tremendous amount of
Avery absolutely in fact that's what I
wanted to get but the first thing I
wanted to say just so everyone is
listening to know there's good chance
right now that she's back in solitary
confinement which is what they were
doing to her before
and there's a way to contact her though
the the contact info I'll just read it
out real quick but if you want to find
it yourselves you can find on Twitter at
Chelsea resists the first name Chelsea
and then resist sorry sis TS contact
information William G Truesdale adult
tension Center 201 mill rar 2001 Mill
Road Alexandria Virginia two two three
one four all right yeah so folks contact
her tell her just that means obviously
say what do you want but no I mean it's
impressive that she's oh here's the
address we'll put it up on video her
jail does not accept books or cards you
can write letters with pen or colored
pencils on paper and send newspapers are
there I know there are but if anybody
knows the grassroots organizations that
fight those Jail restrictions on books
and stuff like that that's so gross so
might be the first ivory project
it's it's it's a form of absolute
domination over not just people's bodies
but their minds when they are prisoners
of the state I appreciate the phone at
all actually I'm sorry
one thing I wanted to get to you guys
much still there yeah you're breaking up
I got to be quick Steve okay
okay sorry I just wanted to go in online
the Conservatives all hate Chelsea that
makes sense they're authoritarians
that's in line but what is it with these
liberals isn't a blind cult of
personality around vana and Clinton that
makes them hate her what what breaks in
their brain when they think about this
obviously though brain I think it's I
think it's a couple of things I
appreciate the call let me just answer I
mean from my experience it is the the
WikiLeaks of that day has morphed into
something I think that is different
frankly today and I think she suffers
because of that on some level I think
there's also just like a general a you
know
you know Intel you know a national
security state mentality amongst just
you know that is trans partisan and
impacts I think you know at least 70% of
the people 60% of the people I think
part of it is also the fact that she's
trans is probably accounts for some of
the hostility well the best one the best
tweets that I've seen are from the
Liberals who are like Chelsea Manning is
a traitor and deserves to be a jail for
what she did as long as you don't
misgender her
that's like liberalism in a nutshell to
me well yeah I mean a what she did was
reveal that we were you know what we
were doing in Iraq which and I will say
a lot of that stuff that she revealed
you know we were told at the time this
is probably I guess 2010 maybe 2009 we
were told at the time was irrelevant
information not important at all and
then I proceeded to watch on a daily
basis news stories from around the world
that were written based on that
information so clearly there was there
was in the public interest and now what
she's being held for is refusing to
testify in front of a grand jury which
is not a crime and this kind of
detention is meant to be coercive it's
not meant to be punitive people are not
supposed to take this option it's
supposed to be we can hold the threat of
jail over your head to get you to
testify exactly which is why you know
she's only in there until the grand jury
you know disperses but that could be
years yes don't know this happened to a
friend of mine actually who in a
analogous situation
refused to testify in front of a grand
jury it was against his principles he
didn't have the information that they
wanted but he regardless wasn't going to
cooperate they held him for the better
part of a year and eventually they let
him out because his
made a case that it had become purely
punitive he was and is an anarchist he
was never gonna crack and they had to
let him out so hopefully the same thing
will happen for Chelsea okay I got a
bunch of stuff to get through I don't I
don't think today's the day for that for
that but all right let's uh let's hear
Donald Trump he's very happy that as far
as he's concerned he's completely
exonerated no there's no
money-laundering nothing got a look at
it but the inauguration or the
emoluments or the payoffs or anything
like that I'm completely clean that's
what Robert Muller said he's a genius
now investigation
after so many people have been so badly
hurt after not looking at the other side
where a lot of bad things happened a lot
of horrible things happen a lot of very
bad things happen for our country
it was just announced there was no
collusion with Russia the most
ridiculous thing I've ever heard there
was no collusion with Russia
there was no obstruction and none
whatsoever and it was a complete and
total exoneration it's a shame that our
country had to go through this to be
honest it's a shame that your president
has had to go through this for elected
it began and it began it legally and
hopefully somebody's gonna look at the
other side this was an illegal take down
that fits him and hopefully somebody's
gonna be looking at the other side so
it's complete exoneration no collusion
no obstruction thank you very much he
sounds like he's the spokesman for
himself and he's been briefed but can't
remember everything he was supposed to
say not right exactly it's a real shame
what happened to happen to your
president that that's the creepiest like
most a sort of authoritarian aspect of
it and of course he's lying about the
total exoneration there wasn't to any of
that and he's also the report itself did
not find that about obstruction that was
his hand-picked attorney general who
applied for the job by writing a 19 page
brief on why there would be no
obstruction I mean that worked out quite
well he called it he called it he that's
why I hired him because he could see
into the future Babe Ruth really
stunning pointed to that field really
stunning and but that's it he seems to
be happy will it remains to be seen with
that happiness but I'm still just
completely hung up on the idea of was
Kushner and Ivanka a junior how could
you not interview those guys two of them
were
the room with that meeting with the
Russians I imagine that they must have
been they must have been interviewed
right and it was just kept quiet which
is also sort of stunning like how well
the we have another rich kid nepotism
scandal we mean where the structures
aren't let me give you the cracks good
level drug cartel here a lot more
indictments now the only thing I can
tell you is that obviously there has
been there have been some things that
came up in the course of these cases
that have been fir referred to other
agencies now as far as I can tell we
have evidence that manna fort was
contacted back door through associates
of Giuliani's about pardons right or
Coen I should say was contacted about
pardons here is a bill bar when he's
testifying with in front of the Senate
Judiciary Committee saying that that
would be a criminal act so baby this is
still alive out there I mean who knows
among other things Bush to pardon all
six individuals who were targeted
iran-contra independent prosecutor
investigated matter level that he he
cover up now you and I talked about this
my office and I appreciate you coming by
I found a conversation the two of us had
be one with Wow
do you believe a president could
lawfully issue a pardon in exchange for
the recipients promise to not
incriminate him no that would be a crime
so now Cohen apparently did not have
anything to do with any of the
the meetings with the Russians at all
obviously manna fort probably did but
nothing in terms of coordinating the
hacking and the leaking of the server
the emails on the server and nothing to
do with the setting up of dummy accounts
to influence on social media for you
know to the extent that it was
influential but that doesn't they maybe
they had other dealings or there were
other things obviously that man afford
got in trouble for that would have been
outside of the scope of of Muller's
investigation to talk about obstruction
or talk about a pardon for I guess right
I mean if it's one thing to say you
can't have obstruction for if there was
no underlying crime I don't see how
that's makes any sense whatsoever the
whole point of outlawing obstruction is
that it makes it hard for you to prove
the crime has been committed but I would
understand why if you haven't
established a crime the idea of a pardon
being floated for for change in
testimony in regards to something that
they're not involved in why you wouldn't
pursue that if you were Muller but maybe
if you're the Southern District of New
York you might pursue it who knows I
guess we'll find out going forward but
Sarah Sanders was on television this
morning is the first time that she'd
been on a long time I think he was
leaving is she leaving I had heard that
several months ago apparently not she
was on The Today Show with Savannah
Guthrie and she was asked basically how
how is it possible that a guy who wrote
a 19 page job application all about how
there's no way you should be charged
with obstruction is now in
a position to take and to make the
decision that there was no obstruction
as the Attorney General as to this issue
of whether the president obstructed
justice in this investigation the
special counsel doesn't say and in fact
takes points makes a point to say this
report does not conclude the president
committed a crime it also does not
exonerate him so would you acknowledge
it is incorrect for the president to
call this a total exoneration not at all
it is it is a complete and total
exoneration and here's why because the
special counsel they said they couldn't
make a decision one way or the other the
way the process works is then they leave
that up to the Attorney General the
Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney
General went through and based their
decision on molars investigation what
was it based on just their own ideas our
own thinking it was based on molars
investigation point of facts you have a
special counsel because the person is
supposed to be independent it's supposed
to make this legal judgment in this case
for whatever reason Muller didn't
Attorney General bar took it upon
himself to issue a legal conclusion and
some critics are saying wait a minute is
this on the level he did it in 48 hours
and he wrote a memo six months ago eight
months ago in June last year stating
there wasn't an obstruction of justice
case so the criticism is here's a guy
making a snap judgment who had already
made up his mind about the case and it's
on the record it's not a snap judgment
this is a anybody that knows attorney
general bar including a number of
Democrats who have known him for decades
and have talked about what a great
individual he is and how highly
respected he is in the legal community
he takes his job seriously but let's be
clear it wasn't that he took this upon
himself that's the process of the law
when the special counsel couldn't make a
decision could make a final
determination they refer that to the
Attorney General to make that decision
he made it in conjunction with the
Deputy Attorney General who's been
intimately involved in this process from
the very beginning so it's not like you
have somebody that just showed up onto
the scene making this what about Iowa
what about the idea that
already had judged the case I mean he
wrote a 19 page memo stating there's no
obstruction case against the president
before he saw one piece of evidence look
I think that it is very clear look at
look at Bob Muller's report he could not
cause it we can't look at Bob Miller's
report we haven't assessed by that guy
and I love her answer to the 19 pages
well could have been a coincidence maybe
he's just lucky
look at Bob Muller's report he could not
make a determination in the legal
community when you can't convict
somebody on something your exonerating
the legally exonerated you're not I mean
to sit just as a legal matter to say
that you can't prosecute someone because
they don't meet the elements of the
statute it's not it's not an exoneration
well and they couldn't make a decision I
think the big take it yeah I mean this
is it they're out there spending at
least you know Savannah Guthrie didn't
pretty good job actually of I thought of
questioning her I mean that is basically
what it comes down to that the
obstruction charge is highly highly
dubious and we don't know if it was the
intent of robert muller to maybe throw
it to Congress to determine this because
we do know that you can't be indicted as
a sitting president according to the DOJ
and so leaving this open could very well
have been Muller's way of saying this is
his information here that could lead to
a charge and that's up to Congress to
pursue but we don't know if that
information will ever reach Congress as
Sarah Santa has says Sarah Sanders
suggested read Bob Muller's report I
think everybody would like to meanwhile
or it should be burned or it should be
better the other message because it's so
exciting
you can read it to answer all your
questions but it also should be burned
yeah that way you have the light on to
read it you'll be able to see it more
clearly Oh Bert I want to play this this
is a little bit off-topic but as you
know that one of my well not just one of
but my my bailiwick is social security
and during the Obama years and prior
there was a real push to to cap I should
say to cut Social Security in the form
of increasing the cost of living
adjusting the cost of living increases
to basically not allow cost of living to
keep pace with inflation as a it is
experienced by elderly folk when you are
older your the things that you buy
change one of the things that you buy
that's very important is pharmaceuticals
also you're on a fixed income your rent
increases become more problematic
because you're not in your ability to
move is diminished because you're older
and it's just harder to move so there's
actually a different calculation for
inflation as it is felt and experienced
by older people than other people do I
think it's the Bureau of Labor
Statistics has done experiments with
this but there was also another formula
which would have cut cost-of-living
increases well here is some tape of a
guy who apparently is running for
Congress in 2012 trying to do it by
going even further on the cuts of Social
Security if you and I get it running in
Texas but El Paso is not like the rest
of Texas and he's replacing a guy and I
don't know where a Sylvester raised was
on this I know
the buses were pretty conservative in
some respects but we're six years later
eight years later seven years later and
the Senate certainly in the years to
follow 2012 I think around 2013 actually
maybe it was 2014 a non-binding
resolution that was voted on by the all
the Democratic caucus almost the entire
Democratic caucus I believe voted to
expand Social Security I get very
worried about when people will even say
this in the context of a campaign
because Barack Obama one of the reasons
why he won Iowa was to go in and pretend
that Social Security was in crisis
Social Security is not in crisis there's
a couple of things that we could do to
shore it up and make it completely
solvent and you didn't have to do
anything to it for 75 years if you want
it very easy just get back just raise
the cap where it should be below the cap
off but to go out and propose this for
Social Security is highly problematic
and when Barack Obama just said it was a
crisis to win Iowa he went on and on day
one he wanted to cut Social Security you
can go back and listen to all the shows
I did with digby back in the the old
days talking about this before he gave
up the ghost I think it was in 2015 but
here is or maybe 2013 here is a young
Beto O'Rourke talking about social
security in ways that all right do not
like that's enviable but going forward
for future
for my kids generation five three and
one-year-old right now we need to look
at things like means-testing we need to
look at perhaps a a longer a later age
at which my kids are going to retire
that's a tough decision it's not easy to
say it's going to be politicized by my
opponent but those are the tough things
that you're going to want me to weigh in
on when I'm in Washington DC this is
precisely why the u.s. almost defaulted
on its national debt this son and the
incumbent voted against the compromise
that was reached so that they've
prevented us from defaulting on national
debt first of all let's start from the
end that is not the reason why the
United States almost a felt defaulted on
the debt almost a fault under the debt
because the Republicans were holding the
debt hostage statutorily Social Security
cannot contribute to the national debt
statutorily that is a complete lie in
the service of a horrible policy that
would undermine the political durability
of Social Security by by means-testing
we have a very easy way of means-testing
Social Security if you're very concerned
about rich people getting away with
murder because they're getting Social
Security a you know the the ceiling of
Social Security remember it we just go
up to about 2,400 bucks a month I think
delicious but if you're very worried
about that there's a very easy fix and
you fix that on the front end you get
rid of the cap on Social Security you
tax them it is social insurance tax them
when they have the money god forbid they
get into an accident can't work lose all
their money because of medical costs or
they lose all their money because they
invested too heavily in first sinks they
will still have Social Security when
they are older and prevent them from
slipping into poverty like two-thirds of
our seniors did prior to Social Security
raising the retirement age for people in
like 70% of
the first 70% of income at a time where
the mortality rate in some instances
actually it's like shrunk or I should
say the the age of mortality is actually
dropped or at least gone stagnant but
certainly for people who work in jobs or
in the the bottom of the second half of
the income distribution
they don't live much longer than they
did seventy five eighty five years ago
and so these are really horrible ideas
if they sound like a Republican ideas
it's because they are so this is ugly
stuff back in back in 2012 here's
another quote from Beto it's pretty bad
long term middle term you have to have a
plan to address that debt but it's a
plan that extends from 2035 55 and 75 we
look at the simpson-bowles Commission
that is comprehensively taking a look at
all these issues and offering up some
tough choices that Congress at some
point is going to have to make or we
continue to look the other way you know
what it sucks but I'm gonna not let my
kids pick up the mess I'm not willing to
do that well then you should have been
advocating for getting rid of the cap at
that time and you know it's a Beto quote
because it sucks it sucks
so that simpson-bowles Commission go
back and look I mean it's a very
selfless of Beto to say that his kids
might have to work a little bit longer
just like I assume they won't inherit
any of the real estate cash from his
father and right indeed yeah exactly but
maybe he's singing a different tune now
I'm not sure maybe we should dig up the
ads that rias ran against him talking
about how he was putting seniors on the
chopping block I mean watch this space
here is Megan McCain she attended a pack
because she attended a pack because of
her voting record because she's a huge
Jewish activist Megan McCain knows the
importance of Israel well I don't know
let's hear what Megan Kimmy can have
this to say she's up on the jumbotron
the big screen they got there it's real
many of you know there are people out
there today including in the halls of
Congress who believe that America
supports Israel only because a powerful
that line recalling so many pernicious
stereotypes is a profound
misunderstanding of how American
democracy works Americans don't support
Israel because it back influential AIPAC
is influential because American supports
Israel
[Applause]
what
my father my father's that now it's
weird it's weird that she she says
Congress because I think when Donald
Trump said you're gonna be mad at me
because I don't want your money
and I'm not gonna do what you say cuz
he's not give I don't want your money
I think he was running for president did
she get confused I mean this this idea I
mean she's obviously she's going after
al on Omar again there because that gets
a lot of claps at but al on Omar said
nothing in terms of money and a pact
that Thomas Friedman didn't make far
more explicit and so you know it is just
much easier for her to make Alana Maher
a target than Thomas Friedman because of
course Thomas Friedman is Jewish and
Ilan Omar is Muslim and Thomas Friedman
is a multi million billion
don't forget an American footlocker and
air yeah footlocker
air and ur wife is from a longtime
American male
whereas Ilan Omar is only a short time
American because she didn't come here
the way the Thomas Friedman did remember
when I said the Chelsea Clinton and
Meghan McCain are the same person they
really like to use as an American when
talking about Ilhan Omar for some reason
yeah where is this where is this ad
going on Washington Post washing booths
who's posting the same Liberty oh my god
she's control the world with their money
I mean this is just unbelievable
and Steny Hoyer made a line something to
be effective of well if you want to
question my loyalty then question my
loyalty you know they're there they're
putting a target on her back
yeah I had a pack and it's also I mean
it goes without saying that I'm you know
I'm a bi-national democracy for
everybody guy but if I you know to the
extent at a center-left position still
even exists in Israel and is totally
marginalized
thanks a lot for saying that the only
viable position we're talking about
Israel is a far-right racist gathering
which inevitably will not be bipartisan
I mean if you want to take it in those
narrow terms it's you're totally you
know undermining your projects it's also
Dietrich substituting elected officials
for Americans and the American people in
that now it's democracy
oh yeah it's a cool pivot our this is a
heartwarming story of a of a
nine-year-old girl apparently well let's
listen to this report from channel 7 NBC
the NBC affiliate down there and we'll
then we will discuss new tonight a
family torn apart overnight now reunited
[Music]
mother says customs officers detained
her nine-year-old daughter as she tried
to walk across the border with her 14
year old brother
they are both US citizens with passports
and they both crossed the border daily
to attend school here NBC 7's dannika
macadam joins us from the border with a
closer look at what happened dannika
this never should have happened the
mother says customs Border Patrol
officers told her nine-year-old daughter
that she was lying that her picture did
not match her passport picture so she
was lying about her identification they
were separated for nearly 36 hours and
then finally reunited tonight holding
each other as if they will never let go
again I was scared I was sad because I
didn't have my mom and my brother
I was completely by myself I am very
happy to have my daughter back mother
Thelma Galaxia has not seen her
nine-year-old daughter who Leon para
medina since early Monday morning when
her friend Michelle Cardenas picked up
willya and her 14 year old brother Oscar
for school they drive across the border
Monday through Friday for school
Oscar attends San Ysidro high and Hulya
goes to Nikolov elementary the problem
on Monday morning they were running late
their family met with NBC 7 Tuesday
evening just before she reunited with
her daughter I got to that border 4 a.m.
their line is very chip first off I mean
let's just stop right there
they crossed the border 4 a.m. every day
so that the the kids can go to school
they're American citizens I'm not sure
what the dynamic is but they go to
school just across the border the send 0
I don't know how you pronounce it is
right right across the border and they
are US citizens
I guess they live in Mexico I don't know
obviously not far they go up to they
cross the border every day for whatever
reason if
I am it was really busy so she said walk
up there take an uber cross the border
and call you an uber and so the kids
obviously get get held up I mean this is
how sort of like how sick and demented
the mentality is here but just like can
you imagine just the idea of of what all
of these people would say about a white
kid in the suburbs who gets up every
morning at 4:00 a.m. to go to school you
know like I mean you can you know that's
that's that's the stuff that they make
they make documentaries about and
profiles in the local paper and
magazines and this is the this is this
is the American spirit I don't care what
time I have to get up it's completely
dark when he wakes up every morning when
she wakes up every morning she puts on
those skates or she puts on her you know
gets her schoolbooks because she wants
to excel never see that in this context
you note where we the talent pool that
ice draws from four Border Patrol agents
and then you're basically deputizing all
these guys to like go up to a little
girl and tell her she's lying about her
ID right supposedly she gave a different
answer
I mean if look if you're gonna have
so-called professionals at the border
interrogate nine year olds they should
know something about nine year olds yeah
they just like oh my god are you kidding
it's disgusting
it's disgusting it's part and parcel of
like a whole mentality that is just it's
just demented super super demented all
right let's go to the phones call from a
2:07 area code who's this where you call
them from the life of the Boston area
Eli what's on your mind I want to talk
about the Second Amendment is that all
right with you guys if it's really quick
sure just really quick your thoughts do
you believe in militia is necessary to
the security of a free State
I mean do you believe a militia is
necessary to the security of a free
State probably not
okay so should we abolish the second
amendment is that I would love to about
that sounds about right
sure thank you all right that simple
that was easy
you want him finally cracked the nut it
was easier than we thought yeah I mean I
feel like not even sure what a free
state is exactly what the hell is that
even mean historically speaking like
what is that I don't know what that
means
but do we live in a free state now I
would argue New York State was it a free
state when that amendment was being
drafted mmm so strange they say I don't
know I don't know if that person heard
is this segment we just did while he was
waiting online but like I'm sorry I
guess that got I got overly emotional
this thing that I don't understand how
people could still focus on their stupid
little pet nonsense when you hear
stories what's a weird thing to be like
I'm gonna I'm gonna call it because I
want to get this resolved about this
free state thing in the militia thing
right now like I don't know call from an
a 1/8 area code
who's this where you calling from hi
Eric you gotta talk more closely into
you directly into your phone
yeah parent I have that problem sorry
about that yeah I was they had a time
that I have a problem concision so all
right you gotta get the concision and
the talking directly into the phone down
because I got to be quick and I want
people to hear it got it Michael I was
looking at the whole thing with Colton
Gabbard um now let me say outright that
but most most what I agree with you guys
on on on everything
don't telephone just get right to it
sorry I wanted to just ask the one
question I have is regarding the
the whole thing with with Assad I think
Gabbard has said on multiple occasions
that she thinks what Assad is the you
know that has all right whatever you're
doing are you moving around yeah sorry
all right I'm trying I just say I want
did to be able to hear you but like just
get to the quick of it yeah tulsi
gabbard has said on multiple occasions
that he's a bit that you know that he
has that he's a you know that he hasn't
know that he has committed atrocities
all over the place you know many times
in his country and you know I just want
to wanted to you know get to the idea
that I think that I agree with your
criticisms for the most part of her as a
candidate I do I do think that and I
don't know if you guys have read that
jacket an article on her you know the
Tulsa gallery your friend have you guys
read that yep yes
I love that article I think it really
drew out everything I do you have failed
you have failed just is there a question
or do you just want to tell us your
broad feelings on Tulsi Gabbard because
if it's the latter oh no no I'm sorry
that's not get to the point I just
wanted to know like I said that article
they didn't address the assadist yeah I
wanted to get clarification on where you
maybe I'm wrong but where are people
being too hard on her with regard to
Assad I think that thank you for the
call yeah can we maybe I think that
sorry if I jumped the gun there I think
that when she first went to Syria there
was a very legitimate and serious
questions about who funded that trip and
one of the things that is mind-boggling
about this is like I hold that standard
for everybody I think it's a huge
problem when people go on junkets to
Israel paid for by people like a pack
and I think that it was a whole set of
policies most prominently voting against
refugees
which I have a fundamental problem with
I think in other areas she's clarified a
bit and actually I've been much easier
on Tulsi God in the last couple of
months cuz I think that she's saying
some good things and Bernie's obviously
my preferred candidate let's go to
almost engages me that I don't know well
just it's the quality of the phone that
really drove me crazy calling from a 909
area code who's this
hey this is Davis from Raleigh area
hi David you have a great phone what's
on your mind
hey I've got it focused re so I'm just
want to say first off why guess I'm
starting on is my fourth call in I
really enjoy the show
Ben PI listen for about two years three
years and I thought your coverage today
was was pretty good on what we're
looking at and I call it that means it's
it's not the mother report it's the bar
letter pretty much and we know we've
waited two years we have we've waited
two years for this and uh I think we all
should demand more than this and and
this is all the you know politics is
theater we know that this is probably
the biggest example of theater I've seen
in a long time because see this feels
like they're floating something they're
floating this to see if this works it
will it will be happy with this and I
see a lot of people on our side at least
it appears they're on our side
saying that they're vindicated Matt I
was wrong this was all silly we wasted
our time
I mean all these analysis are yours
has been great and and I don't even I
could argue with anything that I really
hurts
there was only one one small thing and
it was tiny and you said you thought you
thought the media had oversold it I
don't think we can determine that yet
especially considering how it looks a
doctor like you said there's there's
there's not even a full sentence from
what I can tell re nobre said that
there's not even a full quote not even a
full sentence from them other
for it how is this conclusive you guys
that's not you but the people that are
listening and on the chat I see a lot in
the chat that's so I can see how people
are reacting you guys are doing laps
what the is wrong with you there's
no reason to do a lot thing that mad I
was wrong door was right like that
I'm seeing door was right in the chest
door was stuck in the cream out is
thanks for the call Sam mood
approval energy dude I will I will skies
I'll tell you that Jian either day I
think yeah I think it's quite clear that
there's not going to be any indictments
regarding the a conspiracy to get it to
actually get involved in the hacking or
the the social media stuff I think
there's still a lot of stuff on the
table yeah I think if Jimmy door was
right then we should be really that we
should be launching the investigation
into the seth rich murder and into how
clinton is covering up or parkinson's
clearly in furtherance of the russia
investigations and and the the idea that
jimmy dore was right about anything is
absurd
i mean certainly there are some things
he's he's right on but he you know if
you shoot enough stuff against the wall
one of these things is gonna turn out to
be right and the idea that he could have
known there was no collusion is absurd
there was an investigation and you wait
for the investigation
i think the way that the media got out
ahead of it is they didn't wait for the
investigation they tried to build they
tried to build scenarios based upon
crumb breadcrumbs that they got and they
didn't wait and that was the problem
that the investigation started was not a
function of the media by any stretch of
the imagination it was a function of
what was going on in the DOJ and you
know they certainly thought it warranted
investigation so you sit back you wait
for the investigate
come out I can understand some of the
interest in it do you know as to
watching what's going on because you
can't see but beyond that it's absurd
it's absurd not to investigate a guy
fired he fired his head after asking for
a loyalty oath like I know nobody hates
call me more than me one-on-one
interview he sat down one-on-one and
said it was Valentine's Day and he said
them you know you can give me you're not
gonna give me loyalty this is a mob boss
sitting in the White House and you guys
think you're right I'm not so mind you
I'm sorry people are gloating running
West I just want to end by saying this
do we really do we really know if this
guy's an unwitting and unwitting not
criminal an unwitting asset we don't
even know that where is that in this
letter no it
you know I he's an asset for anybody who
wants to see you know and I'm waiting do
you want to see see America no listen
III I think that you can go out ahead of
yourself on all sorts of different
things but I think the idea that there's
no criminal liability that this guy has
is it's hard to imagine but I don't know
that it's a function of being an asset
of a foreign state but I appreciate the
call I mean I think look he's he's an I
don't unwitting asset I mean I'm not
sure I know what that means like he's
he's he's an asset to the Republican
Party he's an asset to a lot of people
but I'm not I'm sorry Rachel Maddow has
been a problem I'm not saying that
people should take a victory lap bla bla
bla I'm not trying to make it it's all
these various petty feuds but it is a
problem to build years of coverage
solely around speculating on this story
that is a problem
they put all their eggs in one basket
right well I mean I think even if you're
you're building coverage even if you're
not just doing that I think it's it's a
little bit of I think
cuz it's Kremlinology they don't know
what's happening just and and frankly I
mean look look I there's so many reasons
why it's wrong not least of which all of
the urgent and real and in front of our
face as Natalie short tweeted the other
day you know collusion or not nothing
will be as harmful as working with the
Republican Party right right what is
this this clip of I was gonna wait till
we have AB Roger Williams was talking to
who I we can wait we can hold on that no
cuz I know what Rush is talking about
today it's not gonna be terribly
interesting yeah let's do that
davon what is the value of participating
a debate with awful people like Sargon
and stefan molyneux they're going to be
representing the right and the debate
that destiny invited you to you know
wait a second I haven't gotten I'm
confused about the whole destiny thing
like if we gotten an email we just got
to reach out to me on Twitter
yeah I'm I let's talk about that later
okay and it would be what is the value
participating the debate well I mean it
doesn't what's the downside I guess and
the value I think what I have like
determined is that as some of his
followers both of them you know I would
say probably 95 percent of whom were
probably 15 year-old boys 14 year-old
boys 13 year-old boys or 16 year old
boys 17 year old boys I imagine there is
a couple girls I would imagine the vast
majority of them young people as they're
going around it is important for them to
see that there are other people who are
not just you know sitting in the frankly
the the circle jerk as it were and and
nodding and agreeing and building upon
each other's sort of some instances
hate-filled the
you know rants and and others just sheer
insanity and so it's important I think
because of the nature of our you know of
our culture and you know to a certain
extent I'm a little bit it's a bummer
but I'm gonna take it as I find it and I
think like putting voices out there that
push back on these things so that some
of these kids when they're going around
and googling and searching these videos
can get a different perspective that's
the value that's the value yeah I was a
skeptic coming into left media that we
were changing people's minds but every
time I hear from somebody who we help
them change their politics of their
minds that's like like all right I guess
we are doing yeah I think it's amazing
it's different when you meet somebody
out like a live show and they're like I
saw your libertarian debates and then
they're like my life has meaning all
right so this guy Fox and Friends yeah
they really rotating a lot of different
people through Fox and Friends maybe
there's the weekends here is a Fox guest
Doug Wead I don't at least come be in
high school yeah I don't know where this
guy is but he's like he's a little bit
old timey I wonder what who is Doug Wead
is he like some temple like I feel like
he's like a head of the Republican Party
and like you know like they can I don't
know like Montana or something like that
or Connecticut
I have no antenna or Connecticut that
first oh look the same as far as I he
wrote game of throw our thorns the
inside story of Hillary Clinton's failed
campaign and Donald Trump's winning
strategy push book here he is talking
about the 20/20 Dems consider
eliminating the electoral college this
incidentally there was bipartisan
agreement that the electoral college was
sort of problematic a couple of you know
at least a decade or two ago that was
before two of their presidents won by
losing the popular vote fact somebody
tweeted the other
it's only been one election in a o'seas
lifetime where the Republican won the
popular vote for presidency and that was
2004 when you had an incumbent in there
and you know all based on the backs of
of a lot of a lot of homophobia okay so
you know we talked about the electoral
college just remind people why this
exists in the first place why did the
founding fathers believe this was so
important balance checks and balance and
to give everybody a vote I mean we could
have the mainstream media in Hollywood
and Silicon Valley all just go to a
ballroom at the ritz-carlton in Santa
Barbara California locked the doors
picked the president and the country
would be at peace but the people in the
rest of the country get to participate
too Doug people just spit hajikko on
second yeah people are you spin out
their coffee because they don't
understand how in the world does the
Electoral College assure everybody a
vote in fact it does the opposite it
changes the value of people's votes if
you want to ensure everybody's vote just
have a popular vote just have just do it
based upon the popular vote and if it's
a question of representation right like
you need to have you know unique areas
of the country need to be need to have
more representation than others because
that's what that is if you have 700,000
people how many people live in North
Dakota is it about 700,000 people who
have the same representation in the
Senate the same say as to who sits on
the Supreme Court as people who live in
California with what is it I don't know
the 10 million more than 10 million
people significantly more New York State
with you know 15 20 million people same
representation and clearly their vote
matters more a 40 million for kills so
what I would like to propose is we do
the same thing with taxation where in
the same way that we give you overvalued
votes we just align your votes with the
tax burden that you have so
do this so that we have taxes dollars
enough tax a light is coming from every
part of the country like a senator tax
you get taxed the more your senator
represents you based upon the you know
yeah
let's just say I get or your senator
exactly we should just do do it that way
I think the reason that they did the
Electoral College I could be wrong but I
think it was to give the southern states
the slave-owning state's credit for
owning people so yeah so it would be
fair it's not giving those people that
they own representation because the
opponent that keeps and the Hollywood
parties it was very snobby oh you own
slaves you can't go to the donatello and
the for Saachi bar because we look down
on you Hollywood elites I mean that is
but the you know that what's great about
that talking point is it's so old it's
such a old guy it's like back to that's
like I mean when I hear stuff like that
it almost gets me sentimental it's you
like to hold up the map and show all the
big giant red areas that are being so
disenfranchised and like land doesn't
vote though so I don't really know what
that is supposed to tell me we we we
should we should increase the rates of
taxes that you know based upon land mass
we should do it on land mass in that way
all right let's go a couple more Iams
and then we got to get out of here we'll
take one more phone call calling from a
3:01
we got a lot of people have been hanging
on for 64 minutes folks
forgive me come for a 3:01 area code
who's this where he come from hello
Barbara
all right hi Barbara where you going
from Bethesda Maryland I'm one of those
liberals okay thank y'all no I'm just
kidding I've been supporting you since
2011
I'm a bit upset about you know the way
things have been portrayed cuz that's
all like I've sort of fall into that
category sometimes that some of the
younger people make fun of Michael knows
who I am by the way
but anyway oh I just wanted to say that
the thing that media got wrong with I'm
a retired attorney it's very difficult
to prosecute or and especially indict
for conspiracy right it's because he
needs state of mind and you know I guess
that's my take on it I don't think it
was a hoax
I don't think the investigation was a
hoax ah and that's that's sort of my
take on the whole thing
but it means certainly it's certainly
impossible to assess it without seeing
the underlying report all right I mean
it really right the the idea that you
could have an investigation and it can
not lead to a prosecution all that that
indicates to me is that it was done in a
fair way because all of the incentives
are aligned to prosecute if you're a
prosecutor and and I'm talking in terms
of like I'm presuming that we're not
being lied to as to what the final
assessment by Muller is but it's clearly
being sort of like tweaked in the way
that it's being presented to the public
by bar and really they're gonna have to
release the report at one point I mean I
don't I don't
it's I would be very surprised if we see
it you know within the next year and a
half though I would be shocked to be
honest with you but yeah but it may take
you know a
a president Sanders or Warren or our
president Gabbard might choose to
release it but but Barbara I appreciate
the phone call and I mean I agree with
you I mean I don't I I think that the
there's no doubt that there were people
in the media and you know I don't know
what they hear in these congressional
hearings that and I don't know what the
you know those folks have been saying
about it maybe they hear different stuff
but the idea that this came out of like
you know was made up from whole cloth
seems also to be sort of a silly
assessment but I appreciate the call
Barbara thank you yeah thanks for
listening okay all right folks that's it
for our phone calls for today apologies
but again we're run out of time all
right I'm gonna do about ten items then
get out of here
secret identity politics hi I'm a
relatively rich expat from Central
America and I have a problem with
Michael's foreign policy takes just
kidding I have a few close friends who
have been deeply invested in the idea
that Muller investigation was gonna
bring down Trump cops are not gonna save
us became a mantra of mine when talking
to them I want to gloat and make fun of
them because their dejected and pathetic
but I suspect they're just gonna go back
to CNN and walk yet
is this a moment when I can turn the
screw and try and convert them to
Marxism or should I just call them
weaken spirit move on I that seems like
a big jump to take at a time I I say you
know I find the way that I get salt to
eat is I put a less on his plate then he
would want and so and then make him ask
for more that's what I find to be
effective I think it could be a
teachable moment in all seriousness and
that's why I'm trying really hard even
though it's difficult not to be a dick
to people trying be christ-like I've
plugged majority report many times but
they say Sam stammers too much I'll take
my answer off the air well frankly they
seem to be hopeless yeah awful concern
change you tune concerned mr. listener
I'm going getting a little concerned
about the influence of big money colors
on the show I hear this high-powered
lawyer talking about the marketing
market izing of the phone messaging
systems how long before the rest of us
get squeezed out Rachel Matt out Sam I
have nothing to do
meet me forgot ah they have all they
have all they all have their squint
I don't think rent glenn greenwald has
slept since friday he's been doing a
victory lap on the russia gate story on
twitter since even praised jimmy
door while he's done that in the past a
square sam really appreciate your
analysis and point of view on this today
especially the part about people like
muller still needing to safeguard their
reputations legacy and money and thus
they'll be careful about how they frame
the findings that said i believe there's
more than smoke here but the report will
be buried what do you think the DEM
should go next i think still push for a
full report but focus on separate
investigations on the serious graft and
corruption of cancer of our bali
politics yes it sounds right kentucky
fried comrade disappointed the result of
the mullah results between the hooters
receipts in the various notes that
stacey seemed to be really getting on
him in a personal level but couldn't
give him her number was disappointing i
don't i don't quite get this lindsey
grahm secret cabana boy help Lindsay had
me locked in his basement since John
died please tell me about the world so
it doesn't have to hide me anymore
ABAP and Michael avenatti charged with
extortion in New York for trying to
extract more than 20 million dollars
from Nike oh my god that's pretty cool
this is Robin Hood
yes blitz mavin are you backup to me oh
right Sam if you haven't mentioned it
yet can you talk about fit smus an event
from the W era similarly anticipated by
liberals and disappointing them yes true
fit smus was one of those as well which
was everybody waiting for the fits
Fitzgerald report regarding the weapons
of mass destruction in terms of you know
scooter libby again you know not as
dramatic as people had thought it would
be congressional baseball fan it has
been noted with certain parody accounts
that have come under legal school
lately so in that light I'd like to
request the fourth with the following
statement be read before my amps
disclaimer congressional baseball fan is
a salt creation of CBF LLC any
rebroadcast retransmit okay forget it
doh
don't be so quick to dismiss the media
coverage which is now the mo d of
right-wing media and politico's now the
media is passing on that bar statement
puts an end to this for our from retiree
Mel Burt would plan it was clearest
digging deep into what's actually there
we need to wait for the whole report bar
summaries clear misrepresentation I have
no doubt that the media will be excited
to move on and and put this to bed and
and and reset the clock I'd like to
defend Rachel Maddow for a second Smoot
court a large part of her coverage has
been about how and over whom in Trump's
orbit Russia has established leverage in
how they might be employing it which as
you explained today there's lots of
evidence for disco Stu having a real
hard time understanding why anyone
should believe the bar memo
remember the Nunez memo and how the
media treated is serious until the full
context came out it was complete BS how
is this any different telling me bar
read a report that could have been
several hundred pages made legit
conclusions in wrote a memo and 48 hours
come on I I mean it the implications of
this if he was completely completely
missing miss reporting it would be would
be huge I think he is more loyally doing
that and I think you know I don't know
if we'll ever see the full context of
the report or at least in terms of like
you know when it's relevant but the only
people I know cared about the molar
report are the same conservatives who
fall Benghazi in the emails and don't
get the irony of that Ian from den I
mean I do feel like the I mean I'm
looking around I think to a certain
extent there was a lot of people who are
not you know hugely invested in politics
who were more invested in the mall
report than those who are invested in
politics who are probably not going to
see
you know Glenn on Twitter but water
board from Kashmir on a dark but
hopefully sobering note fascism enables
and normalizes horrible things lynchings
it starts out slow with police looking
the other way and under reporting to
media and eventually it's no prosecution
because a mob did it to finally the
public saying persecuted oh yeah what
are you complaining about maybe it's
your own inherent fault yeah it's real
and it's happening around the world as
we speak all right three more Louis
seventy-seven I don't know if anybody
cares but Dennis Prager just released a
video entitled the left ruins everything
he listed as his examples universities
the arts literature late night
television religion free speech race the
Boy Scouts male-female distinction
attempted to write a rebuttal and do a
video but having trouble reconciling the
idea that people like Prager a sincere
since there is their objections are so
effing absurd when a peg Craig Sam do
you see Pakman is copying you again now
he's cruising Twitter to pick up twitch
streamers I get the panels or a joke but
you got a flexi copyright on this one
and the final I am of the day I went to
the Bernie rally on Saturday in La Nina
Turner was the speaker before Bernie she
was amazing however in her speech she
kept repeating what the American people
want is simple followed by some of
Bernie's policies not trying to blame
you guys but all I could think of was no
bumps in the road and the heavy
breathing during that part okay folks
see you tomorrow
to get to where I want
no sir
[Music]
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is tickin
[Music]
somewhere the choice option
[Music]
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
