where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam cedar it
is Friday July 26 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today from
the uber blog hullabaloo digby will be
joining us Heather Parton for those of
you who read her column or column and
salon also on the program today
Anthony Fontenot from the needle drop
will be here to give us an update on the
[Music]
scandal involving mr. rocky and and also
perhaps to attempt to slightly broaden
slightly ever so slightly broaden my
musical horizons also on the program
play Mesa based also on the program
today Senate report issued hours after
Republicans halt election security
legislation show that the Russians were
able to access
voting data and roles in all 50 states
in 2016
[Applause]
meanwhile Democrats inch closer to
impeachment automakers the four top ones
in the world
sidestep Donald Trump and make a deal
with California to lower emissions than
are allowed by the Trump administration
meanwhile Trump and Barr bring back the
federal death penalty because of course
Trump slush fund to pay farmers 16
billion dollars to make up for their
trade losses and Susan Collins may
resign if we continue to hurt her fees
Darkman CNN and MSNBC plan a climate
debates looks like the DNC will
capitulate there are two big house
Republican retirements announced over
the past 24 hours the office of refugee
resettlement says that thousands of
immigrant children may be detained
indefinitely federal trade commission
let's Facebook off with a slap an Ilhan
Omar's
potential Republican challenger may also
face potential shoplifting charges all
this and more on today's program welcome
folks thank you for joining us for those
of you who are watching the program on
YouTube you'll see that we have a couple
of the steam guests here with us there
you go waving from the gallery now that
we've set up all the way from Chicago
Josh from Chicago there you go proving
that he's from Chicago thank you for
joining us quite a week ladies and
gentlemen next week of course
we will be covering the debates live on
Tuesday and Wednesday night we'll be
doing so through our audio stream we
will also be doing so I think through
twitch right I'm not 100% sure if we're
gonna do twitch or YouTube but we'll see
we'll figure it out one way or another
got away with YouTube last time people
did get away with YouTube last time and
this time it's CNN and they seem to be a
little bit more a little bit less
concerned but what we'll see and one way
or another we will in fact stream the
the debate and we will give you the
opportunity to watch it along with us
there will be two debates of course the
first night we're gonna see I think it's
the first night is is Bernie and Warren
will be on stage together and then
really a cavalcade of people who will be
dropping out shortly after the debate on
the other night it'll be Joe Biden
Kamala Harris Cory Booker and that is
looking like there'll be some certainly
the lead up between Booker and Biden yes
I think is uh they're both right about
each other which is fun yes distraction
that's why that debate could actually be
very fun so you can join us and watch
that debate with us don't forget you can
become a member of the majority report
by going to join the majority report com
join the majority report calm when you
do you get extra content and you support
this program and of course if you have
any comments on the a.m. quickie please
let us know if you had majority
reporters at gmail.com we're still ways
off before setting that out on its own
in its own feed let's get to this there
was a TP USA summit this is the turning
points USA the turning points is the
organization that Charlie Kirk
it has had numerous multiple scandals
involving explicit racism practiced by
some of its chapters it's all just two
chapters I mean I think there's maybe
one or two guys nationally that's
Charlie Kirk and whoever the Koch
brothers have decided to install next to
him to make sure he doesn't run off with
the money
Candace Owens has since gone on are on
her own I don't know if that was because
she was too Pro Hitler or there was some
upset even among TP USA chapters about
her nationalism comments I see okay now
were they upset that she had walked back
those nationalism comments or that she
had actually said them in the first
place one chapter was upset upset she
said them in the first place I think
they're a bit of a satellite people and
building roads it's great it's I mean
it's hard to it's hard to know where
exactly also we should mention we
mentioned the Koch brothers but Foster
Friess is really the term Foster Friess
right yes exactly I'm sorry apologies
and of course Foster Friess also
considered one of the last liberals
which is why Dave Dave Rubin now works
for these guys nevertheless Donald Trump
showed up now did he - he shows up at
the end
oh he shows up at the end of this clip
okay so first what we're going to see is
the the video right there's about it
we'll play let some clips from if
there's about a 13 minute intro video
that's sort of North Korea like highly
realistic right Trump and everyone there
is pretty excited to see this here it is
these are the Mogga hats
[Applause]
pause it you know what I also sorry
about this but that countdown and the
the grainy feel of the of the you know
what that reminds me of ya triumph of
will or whatever that well yes this is
yes it reminds me of two other things
one it reminds me of the man in the high
castle right you're a baby and also I
think I've told this story in 2002 I
traveled to Cuba with my then wife to
shoot her documentary and there was a
statue of Marti who was considered like
a Cuban for father like like a George
Washington and Marty had his hand up
statue was down from the US I don't know
if we'd they called it embassy at the
time but whatever the US intersect there
or whatever it was and Marty had his
hand up like sort of like basically
saying to the United States stop and in
his hand he held a boy that represented
I thought from a distance like oh like
Cuban youth like the future of Cuba and
it was there was it was it was a copper
statue so there was green all over it I
mean it looked like it had been there
for years marty was a figure from the
eighteen late 1800s and the base of it
was made out of cement but like half of
it was sort of washed away fully
degraded and that boy was Elian Gonzalez
so the the statue could not have been
more than two or three years old at that
point and so they created this effect
that it had been there forever that it
was timeless and I found that
fascinating in terms of its propaganda
value I think the Confederate statues
had a similar thing going on maybe in
America like they tried to make him look
like they've been there forever on some
level but I mean they've been there for
70 years like three years and this was
built
distressed by the way though Elian
Gonzalez is grown and sexy now well that
may also be the case but but
nevertheless that's why you put that
effect on the front of this video to
make it seem like it is he there they're
trying to place him with basically FDR
like when you think of the times you see
that in front of a real it immediately
evokes a certain era and they're trying
to make him look like Churchill I'm
still minutes with church' yeah I was
never no wheelchair
[Applause]
[Music]
born and raised in the borough Queens to
a life of hard-earned privilege he was
the five children born to a hard-earned
privilege Wow there you go in the
borough of Queens to a life of
hard-earned privilege he was the five
children mother Mary and a housing
developer father housing described as a
bigger than he was a human machine just
continually looking around at all these
poor saps who were actually gonna have
to go into the army and I wasn't what's
that this is the part we don't want to
talk over okay okay let's keep looking
we prevalent young Donald's DNA he
apparently loved military school
he likes the kind of OUTFRONT I think
competitiveness of it there were so many
different ways that you could excel and
get medals and ribbons Donald Trump
thrived rising in rank and he was
socially popular with men and women
also gravitated towards or rather
winning in sports I think we saw enough
this goes on to show clips of him
beating up the other people in the
Republican President but so he comes out
and there are well I mean let's watch it
nice guy that's critics
[Applause]
oh that's why they have two presidential
seals because one is animated thanks for
my rap video
capital
hashtag free rock
[Applause]
and there's a Donald Trump walking next
to a seal and you can sense as much you
can see on this clip and then we'll
switch to the IBM only think of sassy
Trump when I see him in this kind of
mode just like literally sitting there
like saying thank you thank you
he looks so appreciative so uh
apparently someone at turning-points USA
either purposely or probably just
sloppily found a second president United
States seal that turned out to be
created by this guy Charles Lizotte he
is a 46 year old graphic designer he
threw it together after the 2016
presidential election he used to be a
Republican voted for George W Bush I
think it's gonna take maybe maybe this
seal does it where it showed up but he
made this seal it mocks President Trump
because it the eagle has in his hand
instead of instead of arrows he has golf
clubs he replaced the United States
Latin symbol that is slogan a logo a
motto I should say with apparently what
is a Spanish insult and that's it assume
pendejo I don't know what it says I
think so
and it replaced it replaced the
two-headed Eagle Imperial bird logo or I
should say it it it included a
two-headed Imperial bird which
apparently is from the Russian coat of
arms and apparently like the Washington
Post realized like hey wait a second
that's a fake logo nobody noticed the
golf clubs which is really shocked like
you know like I can't see the logo
that's just like an update of the seal
for Trump's personality yeah we actually
make that the seal
I like that actually that works first
hat fire that we're joking but I think
we should do this so no.1 no.1 at
turning points USA caught it and
Patriots oh I guess instead of e
pluribus unum it says 45s own TT air
which is a 45 as a puppet it's all
Russia no that yeah no puppet
you're the pan you're the puppet the one
who be greeted the seal you're the
puppet you're the puppet
so apparently turning points a USA said
that the incident was a last-minute
oversight the result of a quick online
search to find a second high-resolution
photo of the presidential seal to place
behind Trump said the mistake was
unacceptable and you're fired
well we've all been there yes and we did
let the individual go the spokesman said
I don't think it was malicious intent
but nevertheless there you go that's the
way I like that that's the way but
nevertheless we dropped the axe on this
guy we do not allow for mistakes that
don't involve racism in this
organization if you're going to make a
mistake it better be racist or you're
fired
folks can you describe your look in one
word how would you describe well I know
I mean I'm looking around here it's
pretty straightforward how to describe
the looks around here
summer goth cat lady right energy that's
what I would have said that's not more
than that's more than one word but and
then I would just go from well I I think
Brendan actually is probably the the the
best dresser in here he has a look I
don't know what did they would he call
that in high school you can clamp very
casual we used to call it Trier in high
school it's oranges Sam I just
yeah I mean what has gamer Brent
Michaelis is just as basically adidas
sponsorship not only true but you're in
our own way however you dress except for
maybe Michael cuz I don't know if they
just have exclusively a did I need to
stay within my sponsorship agreement
stitch fix has the expert personal
stylist that can help you look your best
stitch fix is an online personal styling
service that delivers your favorite
clothing brands right to your door get
started just go to stitch fix calm slash
majority you answer some questions about
your preferred style your personal
shopper will ship you a box of clothes
shoes accessories there's no commitment
required you only pay for what you keep
shipping exchanges returns always free
super easy
plus the $20 styling fee is
automatically applied toward anything
you keep from your box so you get a
credit so it doesn't cost you anything
to have someone who basically can ask
you important questions and get you the
clothes that you like you'll never have
to think about looking good again with
stitch fix personally for me this is
perfect because I cannot get high stitch
fix it's I honestly like it is helped me
there is I I don't like to go shopping I
DEP well look you are one to be talking
about during a fashion heat well I
absolutely am one to be if you
understood fashion you know I would be
one to be talking adidas only that's the
way I roll
and simple no bumps in the road right
well I like to wear something that you
know adults wear and eventually when you
grow up Michael you would too and this
is good because I don't know frankly
what it does unit 40 MBS on to I know
that's one you can find out with it I
don't know what adults wear and it's
this has been incredibly helpful for me
but you can get started today at stitch
fix dot-com slash majority get an extra
twenty five percent off when you keep
everything in your box
that's stitch fix dot-com slash majority
stitch fix calm slash majority gonna
take quick break when we come back
we're talking at Digby
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen it's Friday
in fact it's Friday July 26 which I had
marked in my calendar to play this song
[Music]
not a lot of words but it gets the point
across
Digby welcome to the program thank you
for having me Sam happy Friday happy
Friday
indeed I think we should move to
three-day weekends in this era frankly
but I don't know that we could I mean
we'd have to get Trump to sign off on it
I think he would but we all need
executive time yes exactly so all right
just give me I mean we did live coverage
of both hearings the judicial and the
intelligence you know obviously robert
muller not so spry although i'm not a
hundred percent convinced that part of
that wasn't you know part of the plan on
some level just you know to you know
just to not answer a lot of questions on
purpose but but but but give me your
sense of what we heard over the course
of those i don't know six hours well I
mean I just talked getting the Muller
performance part out of the way because
it's really not the most important thing
you know I think he probably is out of
practice obviously rusty and he seemed
to obviously to be a reluctant witness
and I don't think it was just because he
you know was afraid that he wouldn't be
able to answer the questions or that he
was out of it it's be it's because he
truly believes that it's it's out of
place for a prosecutor to do that kind
of analysis in public you know there was
a lot of criticism of Ken Starr for
doing that what he did back in the 90s
there was a lot of criticism of Jim
Comey for doing what he did the
prosecutors or you know law enforcement
officials in his capacity going you know
and talking about a case that he doesn't
bring charges on I think may have just
been something he just didn't want to do
and he didn't did you know it was clear
that he was reluctant so I agree with
you I think some of it probably was that
he was out of practice and not as spry
as you put it but I think that there was
also a strong sense that he just did not
want to be involved in this whole thing
and it would truly in a real the
oversight hearings you would have the
actual witnesses that don McGann and
people like that come in but of course
the White House stonewalling so they
ended up you know the prosecutor ends up
being the voice of the investigation
that's not how it should be done but
it's sort of what the Democrats have
been stuck with so far having said that
what wait let me just stop there to for
a second because I cuz I feel compelled
also to say this I think that Muller
behaved cowardly I mean frankly I I
think I mean with all that said any you
know physical infirmities or you know
reluctance like the this guy went up
there and and Comey had the same disease
as far as I'm concerned they think they
know better then even their own policies
that they have promoted for an extended
period of time
the in part of this comes out the most
in the Shaun Maloney questioning of him
as to why he did not subpoena the
president to sit down for an interview
he claimed that he didn't do that
because because of time constraints on
the on the investigation well everyone
would have known that it was that it was
the Trump administration's fault if he
would not sit down for an interview that
that would be public it would be in the
courts and and secondly the this is he
had said he threw out the report that it
was crucial to have the testimony of the
subject right that it seriously
undermined the ability to get to the
bottom of this but then he also said to
Shaun Maloney which I think was very
which is was crucial and completely
underreported
that he weighed they make a decision
where they weigh the necessity to to
interview the subject against how much
evidence they have already accumulated
and if they find that the evidence that
they've already accumulated would be
enough for a conviction was was sig was
sufficient I think he the word he used
then they they would make the decision
not to pursue the subpoena because of
time constraints so in other words he
found that there was sufficient evidence
to indict for a for obstruction of
justice but the office of legal counsel
says you cannot criminally indict a
sitting president okay all well and good
right there but he states in the first
three pages of the document of the
report that there are constitutional
means to do that well he should have
referred it to the Congress he should
have actually taken that affirmative
step and said I've found there
sufficient evidence to indict there's
only one way to indict a sitting
president and that is Congress doing it
so I refer it to you he should have used
those words
I refer it to you and he didn't and had
he done it
the Cowardly Democrats would have would
have picked up the ball and so they're
both cowards as far as I'm concerned but
go ahead well I I don't disagree with
that at all and I honestly think that
you know look we're in an emergency
situation here I mean at which his
report lays out and you know you and I
and everybody listening knows there's
even there's way more even beyond the
report that is you know an astonishing
abuse of power by the President of the
United States
ineptitude you know the ABS you know
dead
traitorous behavior I mean it goes on
and on even beyond what Muller was
looking at so the idea that someone in
his position had the chance to go before
the Congress and this is he's no longer
a member of the government he doesn't
work for the Department of Justice he
could have easily said if he didn't want
to put that in the report itself because
he was still an employee and he didn't
feel like he could refer something to
call
he most certainly could have done it as
a private citizen yes I intended this to
be referred to Congress I assumed that
Congress would be the body that would
take this evidence and follow it to its
natural conclusion he could have said
that he didn't and you're absolutely
right it's just it's like the he and Jim
Comey are two sides of the same coin
this idea that you know look we are here
the protectors of the institution well
the institution's are broken they don't
work anymore and and largely because
people like Comey and Muller both of
whom you know I'm not criticizing them
as people of integrity or honesty or
whatever but these people are just
they're they're blinders they're not
seeing what's happening I mean look at
William bara he's you know he's one of
he says he's a he's a Trump basically a
Trump henchman now working you know
solely on behalf of protecting the
president and and the presidency from
encroachments from the Congress so you
know this is a national emergency and
people like like Muller and Comey
are sitting around talking about well
look I'm above all that this is all
that's right they're doing I'm doing
they're right taking themselves and
they're attending like they're
protecting the realm that's what they
and they're not they're actually
degrading what little is left of it by
refusing to just kind of be
straightforward this it's all in there
it was all in the Muller report those of
us who've read it and I did slog through
it you know it is it's in there it's
obvious what happened I mean we know
that and you know I think that just
getting back to the hearings themselves
that Muller in the first hearing before
the Judiciary Committee you know he
again because of what we just talked
about he had made a decision that he was
not going to make that statement that he
believed that Trump had obstructed
justice well it's obvious to the you
know a ten-year-old that Trump
obstructed justice and we saw it in real
time anyway on his Twitter feed he's
dangling pardons and calling Michael
Cohen a rat I mean that you know there's
this this was no mystery about the
obstruction there were some new facts in
the report but basically Trump was
obstructing justice in plain sight the
entire time we knew that firing Comey
being the most obvious and first step
in the obstruction case but it was the
second hearing that was far more
interesting and I think that Muller was
a little bit more forthcoming not so
much about Trump yeah you know about his
his involvement but about what actually
happened and I suspect and I this is
just me making an assumption that he was
much more engaged in that part of the
investigation that the obstruction side
that probably his his staff had put
together that part of the report and put
together all the details we all knew it
and maybe Muller just said yeah course
he is you know this guy's been
obstructing just put it put it in the
report but that the Russia part of it
the election interference the national
security implications and most
interesting to me Muller was was
forthcoming on a subject I actually
didn't expect him to be which was the
idea that Trump was subject to blackmail
that he had been compromised he didn't
say it outright because he couldn't
actually that's a that's a classified
counterintelligence investigation that
he claimed is ongoing which I you know
was surprised to hear him say that I I
don't know if he actually knows that but
he said it and the fact that he you know
the under questioning from Adam Schiff
basically agreed that anybody in Trump's
position who was you know it may not
have been illegal for him to be doing
business in in Moscow during the
campaign and lying about it but it sure
as hell did compromise him the same way
it compromise Michael Flynn to be lying
you know publicly about talking to the
Russian ambassador and you know having
the Russians know that he was talking to
the Russian ambassador
that's compromise that is that is the
kind of thing that happens and we don't
even know the extent of Trump's business
dealings in Russia or any of that stuff
and it turns out that Muller didn't
investigate a lot of that stuff he
didn't look into the money-laundering
you didn't look into the finances I mean
he admitted all that so that subject is
still out there and when we look at
where we are right now staring down the
20/20 election and the revelation of the
you know the Senate Select Committee on
Intelligence yesterday that the the
extent of Russian interference in 2016
is far
greater than anybody knew until
yesterday I'm in 50 states all 50 states
had been probed by there by this this
Russian you know cyber hacking unit this
is a very big deal and that is the part
of the Muller hearing what we heard
there Trump being compromised the idea
that this you know is a much more
sophisticated and ongoing operation and
we realized and and he's apparently
unless build bars you know ended the
counterintelligence investigation which
wouldn't surprise me but now we know
that this has been an ongoing thing and
and that we are you know looking who are
very close to another election that is
not going to be any more secure and that
the Republicans are blocking all the you
know although any kind of election
security legislation basically saying
yeah you know we're welcome glad we're
with you yeah bring it on ready now it's
it's fine do it again and anybody else
who wants to help us we're here to let
it happen all right well yeah all right
so let me go back a little bit and just
I think a and and and we'll get to the
to the to the report in a second but I
think my sense was too is that it wasn't
so much that Muller wasn't involved in
the obstruction from my mind because it
was weird that he brought his
essentially lieutenant as it were for
the Intel stuff versus the judicial
committee right like he didn't bring him
for both he just brought him for the
Intel and I think it was that the
judiciary was more about impeachment and
criminality right and I think that's
where he was like I'm not going to say a
word about that right but in my capacity
as an investigator about
counterterrorism issues which we are not
actionable in any way I guess right like
the the there's there's no I don't think
he finds any type of impeachment fodder
in the second in the second hearing and
I think he felt much more free to talk
like he was literally
more glib he looked like he was not as
befuddled you know maybe I don't know
maybe they shot him with adrenaline or
maybe it was just like oh now I don't
have to be worried about every word I
say there was one point and I can't
remember which hearing it was in where
he was being asked about the that that
that that question of constitutional
mechanisms and it was a it was a
congresswoman and I can't I can't
remember her name but she was saying
what what are those what are those
constitutional mechanisms and he said
well there's you know there's some and
she says are you saying it sounds to me
like you're saying that it's impeachment
that impeachment is that constitutional
method and is how he said to he said
well it was yeah it was the one that you
just mentioned it was crazy it was crazy
because he didn't want any footage on
television of the word impeachment
coming out of his mouth which which
there would happen if you know there
would have been a question what is those
other constitutional methodologies and
he would have said impeachment and it
would have been all over television as
well it should be and it just seems to
me that it's not his responsibility to
do that
he thinks he's not being a political
actor but I'm sorry when you say that
there's other constitutional mechanisms
and someone says you what are they and
you won't say what they are I Got News
for You chief
you're being political and and so I
don't know I found that incredibly
annoying but and let's be clear about
what the Russians what the what let me
put it this way what we know the report
says because it's heavily redacted and
this is the report that came out in the
Senate yesterday that Russian hackers
infiltrated local or state voting
databases in every 50s in every one of
the 50 states and as far as we know
there is no evidence that they changed
any votes I have not heard the same
blank
assertion as to whether they simply took
people off the voting rolls which as we
know is a fairly effective tactic if you
do it the right place there's a reason
why we have X percentage less voting
machines in districts where their people
are heavily african-american because
they tend to vote you know for Democrats
etc etc we don't know that my
understanding is it's unlikely they did
anything because at the time they would
have been very concerned about American
push back that they were probing and
that they knew that it had they done
anything more active in that regard it
would have been considered extremely
literate belligerent and and I think
they may have anticipated like chances
are we're gonna have Hillary Clinton in
office and you know who knows but we
don't have that same checks and balances
this time around right like now now
maybe they would prefer I don't know
Elizabeth Warren or Bernie Sanders or
you know or people who to judge to be
President as opposed to Bush I mean a
bush excuse me Trump but we don't know I
mean frankly uh I'm looking out there
and I want to put a call out to any
foreign adversary who thinks that they
can get in there and flip the switch for
you know Bernie or Warren I would take
either one if they're gonna do it by
cheating let's just let them choose
whichever they feel more comfortable
with I don't know who get France or
Sweden to do that would one of the the
the Nordic countries do that but but
this is a big problem and the
Republicans specifically quashed
legislation to deal with it well it's
clear that I mean it's I don't know how
you can look at this any other way at
this point the Republicans literally are
welcoming and and actually want the
election interference I mean that it's
obvious I mean you know do mcconnell
actually said it he said well the
democrats believe that there will be a
political
benefit too he said to use the words
political benefit to securing our
elections yeah because it would make
them fair and free and as a result it
would be of benefit to Democrats I mean
he gave he said the quiet part out loud
right I said that if there are free and
fair elections in the United States of
America the Republicans are in a
minority and they will lose and that is
actually and then they have discovered
that this particular method of
suppressing the vote if that's what
they're up to maybe changing votes
whatever is likely to benefit them at
least as long as Donald Trump is running
right I mean he I think that it's a lie
as you say other countries could attempt
to do this but we do know one country
that is you know has attempted to do it
and one of the things in this SSCI
report was that while we they don't
think that they were probing these
election systems to actually do anything
in 2016 for the reasons that you cited
that you know they zoomed that that
would be considered an very hostile act
of aggression under the democratic
administration and subsequent
administration if Hillary had won but
they got a lot of information which you
know there is they they mapped out
essentially the network's what they need
to do the next time you know what I mean
they they got a lot they did all it got
a lot of information and what we have
done to prevent it in 2020 is basically
nothing they have not done any of the
things I mean there's been some money
spent they've done a few things but
truly I mean in the if you are looking
at this as sort of a cyber warfare kind
of situation they were not on a cyber
warfare footing at all they basically
have just thrown up their hands and
McConnell is giving away the game he's
just saying we're not going to do
anything about it because it will
benefit Democrats to have a free and
fair election the end goodbye we don't
need to know any more than that which by
the way is one reason why I am so
agitated about that the Democrats
refused to do impeachment yet so far and
you know I mean who knows but that
they're refusing to hold impeachment
hearings put all this information out
there not having Muller
you know eluding you know vaguely to
what might be thing but I mean really
put it out there because it's with Usher
yeah and and we have no guarantee at
this point I mean really don't have a
guarantee that they're you know their
solution to the Trump problem ie winning
in 2020 and then you know we can put
this national nightmare behind us we
have no guarantee that that's going to
work because we have above all the
selection interference that they're
doing nothing about you can't rely on
that to be the you know they need to
pull out all the stops to stop Trump at
whether or not they could get a
conviction or not they have to put out
put out everything possible in order to
reveal for the public what's going on
there has to be a massive you know
turnout in 2020 to try and you know
overcome whatever these machinations are
and we have no guarantee of having free
and fair elections in the United States
at the moment none in fact it's pretty
clear we're not going to have them and
the idea that the Democrats are going
well we just need to beat him at the
ballot box and then we'll be you know
and and then it'll it will be back to
normal that's insane and it's not you
know that I the idea that they think any
of that's going to work or that they
don't need to throw everything they have
at this at this situation that they have
they need to get this stuff out there
and let the American people know that we
are in this national emergency that goes
way beyond Trump Twitter feeds
this is not just about Trump's horrible
personality I mean that's bad but this
is about something much much more more
serious I mean at the end of that
hearing the intelligence hearings not
the Judiciary Committee even with all of
Muller stumbling and bumbling I was a
little breathless because I'm going okay
you know this is this is what had Muller
agitated even he was willing to go you
know slightly beyond his own sense of
rectitude here to say something serious
he said it's still happening as we sit
here and you know and Christopher Rea
those FBI director had said the same
thing the day before and yet we're just
you know carrying on and Nancy Pelosi
going well we just need to beat them and
I've got to protect my people in the
you know in the Trump districts that you
know one in 20 and you know this is and
I'm going what you know you're it dare
is diluted in their own way in my view
as those people who are watching Fox is
Fox News you know propaganda is in their
own way they're presenting a reality
that is not reality and and and who is
presenting the reality you know I mean
it's like this is crazy I mean you see
it on TV a little bit people like you
and me there's some you know Twitter and
bloggers and you know people like that
but but they're you know institutionally
the country is not you know I don't
think that most people are aware of just
how serious this thing is I mean I don't
mean to sound hysterical but this is a
pretty big deal I mean you know 50
states the and this came out of the
Senate Select Committee run by Richard
Burr who you know maybe he's one of the
slightly better Republicans but he's not
exactly a hard he's not just in a mosh
but I mean right so he signed off on
this is meaningful right the the the
narrative that somehow all of this stuff
about Russia is and look I think I I was
never under the the sense that Donald
Trump was some type of Manchurian
Candidate but the the narrative that the
this stuff about Russia was simply
cooked up to create I mean the this
would be a pretty big
well bought into lie that Russia did
this stuff if you have Republicans and
Democrats in the Senate all agreeing and
you know the Intel agencies I mean this
would be pretty this is pretty big stuff
this is I mean to believe that is I
think akin to you know you're in
Bilderberger territory and that you know
there's a one-world government and we're
all just here and we're we don't realize
it but we're all just basically
batteries for some type of major weather
machine that is going to be unleashed
and I'm not quite sure where it goes
from there but well want to be clear
about something too
you don't need to get into 50 states
worth of voter data to impact an
election every person who works in you
know electoral politics with some depth
of understanding will tell you there is
literally five states and probably I
don't know ten counties if that many
where to eliminate ten percent of the
the eligible voters you've won an
election right I mean I it's probably
the numbers are probably smaller than
that and it's probably less
sophisticated than that I mean we saw it
three states Michigan Wisconsin
Pennsylvania I'm not saying as
suggesting that's what was done there we
see the Republicans do that voter
suppression in public right the voter ID
the voter ID law could very well have
made the difference I'm not saying that
Wisconsin should have been that close or
whatever but the fact of the matter is
we have a highly polarized society in
2000 George Bush won the election by 500
votes and 500 votes out of 2,200 million
people who voted and so we have a highly
polarized country and the idea that you
could take five or ten thousand people
off the voting rolls in a state like
Wisconsin because of voter ID that's why
you Institute voter ID if you're a
Republican that's why you do it if
you're in Michigan the EU that's why you
put polling places in difficult to reach
places for people living in poverty or
perhaps you know living you know are
struggling in in the middle class and so
these techniques they don't have to just
exist on their own you can have an
inside and an outside kaif on this stuff
right I mean we'll do we'll do five
percent of the work publicly you do five
percent of the work you know privately
and there we go
we just won three key states five key
states whatever it is and I'm not
suggesting that this happened in 2016
but if they probed it and they don't
feel that there's the same deterrence
you know the idea that it would you know
that that the president let's say would
be upset about it you know the idea that
this is beyond you know Donald Trump etc
etc and and and these folks III think
it's just I don't understand how anyone
could contemplate that I mean these are
these people are you know they're
two-bit criminals if we're lucky they're
two-bit well exactly and you know in
fact last night on Chris Hayes Walter
Dellinger the former Solicitor General
you know great legal expert and you know
academic he'd say he made the point and
you know as much as Muller didn't want
to go toward impeachment what he talked
about in the intelligence side of it and
that Adam Schiff who I thought did an
excellent job by the way I should at
least point that out I think he really
prosecuted the intelligence case quite
intelligently to the extent that week
they could even reveal what they know
right I mean there's a lot that's
classified and and that we don't know
about but you know what what he pointed
out was all these things the idea that
Trump was compromised and we know he was
because of the Trump Tower Moscow maybe
other reasons that he's compromised and
the fact that they have refused he and
the Republicans have refused to do
anything about this particular problem
he pointed out that there doesn't need
to be a technical violation of the
federal criminal code in order to
institute impeachment or to convict a
president impeach and then convict him
and he said and I just really struck me
he said that a president who consciously
fails to defend a us against a foreign
military intelligence attack or his
political benefit is surely impeachable
that has nothing to do what happened in
2016 it has nothing to do with the
Muller report you know per se it has
nothing to do with what Trump did or you
know failed to do or his welcoming the
help or any of that stuff it has to do
with what he has done as president and
what he has not done as president he is
failing he
Oh in every way by completely denying
debt you know it's as if Pearl Harbor
happened and Franklin Roosevelt came out
and said yeah it didn't happen I don't
know what you're talking about here
I mean we're it's this is an interesting
time m'p raise it that way I want to
talk about let you're making the case
you're making the Civic ethical I don't
want to say moral necessarily but the
Civic and ethical good government case
as to why Donald Trump should be
impeached and it seems to me that the
there what's what I find just sort of
stunning and let's just take the the the
the conservatives out of this right
because it really has nothing to do with
with the Republicans at this point or
the Conservatives just broadly speaking
half the country is not involved in this
conversation it seems to me because
ultimately if if the Democrats impeach
then they should leverage it against the
Republicans in the Senate but but leave
that aside for the moment the argument
about impeachment is happening between
the center through to the the the left
in this country and it seems to me like
you know I was just watching you know I
like his work but Doug Henwood on on
Twitter Doug Henwood and Twitter and
Nancy Pelosi seem to be in the exact
same place yeah which is it's irrelevant
whether there's a civic reason to
impeach this guy the concept of holding
anybody to account is irrelevant
we shouldn't impeach him because we
should focus on getting elected now I
think henwood and Pelosi probably have
different perspectives on how to get
elected and whatnot but that element
seems to be completely taken out of the
equation which i think is wrong I think
we should hold people to account I think
the reason why we had you know
iran-contra was because we didn't hold
Nixon properly to account frankly even
after impeaching him he was allowed to
be walked and I think we see this on and
on and on
for Weinberger you know pardon did we
see the savings-and-loan everybody
washes their hands I mean I think these
things keep happening because there's no
accountability and that's problematic
but it also occurs to me that
politically speaking even if you don't
want to look at that this is complete
malfeasance because we have already seen
what they're going to attempt to do
between now and the election time and
from a political mouth you know
political purely political perspective
you should do this because it's going to
damage Republicans and the president and
then from a good government perspective
you can alert people to legislation that
we need to protect our elections and I
would argue it will prevent the Trump
administration from exerting effort on
stuff like rolling back the the the the
federal death penalty or exerting you
know we're gonna put they're not gonna
have as much time to spend in the White
House figuring out how they can make a
legal argument to close down Asylum if
it's all hands on deck we've got to deal
with impeachment hearings I mean this is
just bait like on every single
perspective you could have about the
question of impeachment at this point
civically politically and in terms of
like material benefit for people or
preventing material harm to people
it's the each of those boxes are checked
off I could not agree with you more and
to me the political argument is exactly
what you say and it's obvious look
Donald Trump and his people by the way
you know are I mean they are obsessed
with this stuff if if they impeach he
will not be a he will be impeded in
moving forward with his agenda and with
you know Stephen Miller's agenda and the
rest of these you know these you know
far-right and otherwise you know
horrifying people he's got in his
cabinet war anything you know this it
they need to do everything they can to
stop him and I will say and then part
and impeachment is part of that it's not
you know passed we'd need to pass
messaging
bills that show that we really care well
I think everybody knows that we've got
presidential candidates out there every
day talking about all their plans and
what the Democrats want to do if they
gain power this is not a conversation
that isn't happening what we're done
with the messaging bills they've done
all the ones that Nancy pullin antsy
Pelosi wants to do more messaging bills
than put Medicare for all out there she
won't do that we're done Oh Dave Dave I
know you told it today they've put their
agenda out there we know exactly she'll
ever believe in and stand for so great
okay we've done that but I gotta tell
you I don't think that that 2018
happened because they everybody was just
really hoping that they pass a bunch of
messaging bills that was not why those
Trump districts flipped either that is
not the reason they flipped because they
wanted to Democrats they wanted
something to stop him too at the very
least you know put some kind of a
roadblock up to his agenda and stop
things like you know I mean we came one
vote shy of repealing Obamacare putting
you know 20 million people suddenly
without any health care and nothing to
replace it I mean that is people
understood that and that and they wanted
him stopped so they wanted his agenda
stopped and they wanted him stopped and
the idea that somehow or another doing
anything I mean they want to act as if
Trump doesn't exist they think well you
know we just really don't need to give
him all this attention well I'm sorry
he's the president of United States
there is no there's nothing else you can
do to you know kind of distract people
from Donald Trump with a bunch of
messaging bills that aren't going to be
signed by anybody and Mitch McConnell
just sits there kind of chuckling in the
corner going yeah go ahead enjoy
yourselves you know play play over in
the corner kids because we know what's
really happening and and again I go back
to this idea that what the Democrats are
basically doing is kind of indicating
that they're in a bubble and they're
ignoring the actual political reality in
this country which is exactly what you
just said
and we don't have any choice it's not as
if they can't create their own reality
in which you know I don't know it's you
know Obama is going to be President and
we're gonna say yes we can and
and golly hope and change I mean that'd
be nice but we're in a different world
and we can't do that so they need to be
coldly rational about doing absolutely
everything they can to stop Donald Trump
and that and and it goes beyond just not
passing a bill to repeal Obamacare this
is about doing everything they can to
hold them accountable put this stuff up
forward and I didn't even understand
this messaging stuff because like I said
we have a full conversation going on
next week we're going to be watching
debates with with the present they're
not going to be debating impeachment I'm
not even sure it'll come up it didn't in
the first one going to be talking about
all the stuff they want to do it's not
as if nobody knows what the Democrats
stand for we're having a huge
conversation about how far left we're
gonna go what the big plans are the
Republicans are calling everybody
socialists I mean that conversation is
happening and Nancy Pelosi needs to
understand that's not her job at the
moment there's a bunch of candidates out
there that are doing that job she is a
different job she has an institutional
responsibility I think it's a perfectly
rational strategy but guess what we can
now look at it and assess it and it's
not working and in and want to make one
more point and then we have to go
we are only three-quarters of the way
through this this administration the
people who are there now who are still
there right we've lost 50 people from
the Trump administration there's there's
very few Act there's very few actual
cabinet members you know who are not
acting the people who are there now are
actually the competent ones they're the
ones who have figured out how to to wade
through this without stepping the
tripwires and I think bill Barr is one
of the most dangerous people that we
could imagine in our government because
he is obviously smart he obviously knows
where you know who he's playing against
right like he he ran circles around
whatever Robert Muller thought that you
know you know Robert Muller had this
notion of him
Lancelot you know walking down there you
know being some type of quasi deity and
I'm not going to deign to dirty my
fingers at all and believe in the
faithfulness of the Department of
Justice bill Barr lied the hell out of
his thing and and and and and Muller
told us that in not so many words two
days ago
and Bill Barr is going to do whatever he
is a henchman but he just also happens
to be a very smart one who got in there
with a lot of connections and obviously
a lot of credibility on the right and
there is a lot of dangerous things that
can happen I think over the next year
and a half the people are under
estimating because you now have a a
lunatic madman you know who is the
president who now has somebody who can
execute what he wants and there's no you
know sort of like Don McGann's in there
who are like hey wait a second there
could be a time after this and I don't
want to I don't want to be in you know
in jail or on the outskirts of it there
there is a now I think we're at like
we're it's time for us to just act like
there's no tomorrow in in this
administration I think it's a very
dangerous time and I think Nancy Pelosi
is completely and and and I just want to
add everything I say about Nancy Pelosi
goes ee4 Chuck Schumer cuz I'm not
convinced that Nancy Pelosi the person
that she thinks that she needs to
convince to get in gear is is Chuck
Schumer like I'm not convinced that
Nancy Pelosi isn't afraid that she's
gonna lose 15 votes from the Democratic
caucus in impeachment which would be
devastating and I understand that that
would be devastating for the Democrats
in the house we all presume that she's
afraid of Republicans saying no of
course they're gonna say no the question
is would there be 10 or 15 Democratic
senators who vote against impeachment
and that would that would I think sink
the Democratic majority in the house so
well we saw it on the border bill it
actually happened yes indeed
and I think that is a a real concern
but Digby we will have sadly more time
to talk about this or maybe happily more
time to talk about this in the future as
always I appreciate it folks go check
out what Heather is writing over at
salon as well as hullabaloo thanks again
Heather appreciate it thanks for having
me Sam have a great weekend okay you too
bye
buh-bye
alright folks I guess I'm a little bit
worked up about this but I really think
this is this is an extremely dangerous
period of time and I think you know with
the idea of I as much as I you know this
was about Nancy Pelosi I think Chuck
Schumer is really I could very well be
the biggest problem that we have the
single biggest problem because if Chuck
Schumer was out there I mean I would
just remind you if Chuck Schumer felt he
had all the votes and was willing to
whip all the votes in the Senate has he
said a word about impeachment I mean
this guy Charlie Pierce wrote a piece
about Schumer as well I hope we start to
see more of this Schumer is horrible and
I don't know what we do in June
eighteenth Schumer wants to wait months
down the road on impeachment decision
and that was June 18th Oh June 18th okay
of this year of this year okay June 1829
teen he wants to wait months down the
road for impeachment I mean I think it's
also conceivable because you know we all
assume right that Mitch McConnell would
not bring this up for a vote in the
Senate I don't think that's the case
Mitch McConnell knows he's gonna get
every single Republican vote I think he
would probably try and make the the
Democrats vote for it
and it's quite possible the Chuck Shumer
is so pathetic so weak that he can't
even get his own Democratic caucus to
vote for impeachment against this
president it's a it's a real concern
he certainly screwed over Nancy Pelosi
in that border bill without a doubt
without a doubt well we know this about
the centrist Democrats they're gonna be
making compromises and accommodations
right up until the second they get the
wall what compromise he's not even
getting anything yeah I guess compromise
is a strong word for that it's not even
it's like compromise implies that at
least there's some type of negotiation
going on Chuck Schumer is just laying
down and I don't know that it's
ideological although maybe it's just you
know maybe you could tie a broad-based
sort of argument that people who lack an
ideology just enter into politics
exclusively for their own power which i
think is probably true but it's not a
centrism that is doing this this is I
mean this is a completely partisan a
ideological fight he just wants to make
sure that he's just kept out of the line
of fire basically doesn't care he just
wants to maintain his position and the
way he I think like instinctually
perceives it is if I do nothing I can do
nothing wrong well ideology certainly
plays a role in that in his entire
worldview I mean I I guess I mean I I
mean I think like I say you could be a
centrist Democrat and say I'm not going
to let Donald Trump win I'm you know
Harry Reid I think he was probably to
the left then most people understand
when he left but he was not I don't know
that his politics are dramatically
different in terms of ideology than
chuck schumer's their voting records I
would bet would be identical but he
believed do you fight that's the way
that you win Chuck Schumer I think is
just like well I've
gotta argue that you don't necessarily
need to fight to win it just depends on
how you define down winning there are
different flavors of centrist for sure
different tactics different strategies
but you could not imagine a progressive
Democrat behaving in this way
no and no because I think you know I
think I think if you have an agenda I I
think if you were a conservative
Democrat it's hard to imagine like
anybody with an agenda would do
something like I don't think that you
championing bills about the legroom in
coach if you have you flown any time
recently you you smug prick if you if
you have an agenda you will fight for it
I just think that his agenda and I think
that a conservative Democrats you're
gonna Democrats in there will be like
we've got a fight tip oh it looks like
you lots of expired have been fighting
and you know we can't protect Sam's
coupons anymore
and I would say that but we're gonna get
the wall first so I kind of do the wall
never mind
what do you mean like you know fascism
when fascism comes to power and all the
Liberals get murdered I think she's
saying that Pelosi and Schumer are
collaborators which I think they should
prove the opposite if it's not true
exactly well I I would agree with that I
just think that they're collaborating
less because of some ideological
perspective and more because they just
they're they just care about their own
position in their own little and other
telemarketers in your face
all right we can take quick break when
we come back Anthony Fantana the needle
drop
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program
Anthony Fantana he is the internet's
busiest music nerd obviously uh known
for his youtube channel at the needle
the needle drop anthony welcome to the
program hey how you doing thanks for
having me yeah
thank you for for joining us all right
well this was very fortuitous because in
addition to needing some help to expand
my musical horizons there is a musical
controversy this week which I could use
some help on who is this mr. rocky that
I keep hearing so much about hey Sarah
why why is he spell his his first name
with a line through the S what's that
about how many questions well well a
sock does stand for it's a philosophy of
his of his of his crew the ASAP mob it's
always strive and prosper and so that so
that's sort of like there's a little
motto there acronym so you know there
are other members of the ASAP mob like
ASAP 12 E ASAP ant I'm sure I'm sure
you're also familiar with ASAP ferg is a
very good record called trap Lord I'm
sure you've heard a couple of times you
know Anthony Anthony it's a little
embarrassing because Matt and I played
all of these records when Sam did his
divorce celebration party but he doesn't
remember any of them yes no I was i pre
loaded and I was almost unconscious by
the time I arrived at the party in my
the Juno Oh you're exactly the
politically so wait a second wait a
second so there was a there the Aspire
what I'm sorry what a ASAP all we always
always strive and prosper always strive
and prosper now is this and I assume
they're the strive is to get some cash
but is this some type of like is there
is there some greater ideology behind
this is this like what is
that the prosper gospel they're just a
rap collective oh not too much
unlike the wu-tang clan in some respects
okay fair enough and obviously very
different style very different sound and
everything but you know they're not
their rap collective alright and so uh
rocky from the always strive and prosper
a crew it's sort of like TYT right The
Young Turks sorry very buddies like that
exactly - I teach a kid to ID okay so so
uh rocky heads over now did rocky head
over now he's in Sweden what what D head
over Sweden yeah the whole crew to make
me make a bit of a cultural comparison
here it's it's just consistent branding
like with the Ramones you have Johnny
Ramone Joey Ramone you know each one of
them is a Ramone just like each member
of the ASAP mob is an ASAP you know okay
alright fair enough
and so so rocky goes over to they travel
together or do they they just over there
is he just on vacation they're not
always together all the time because
there are quite a few members of the
ASAP mob but he most likely had some
associates with him when he went over to
to do some performances yes oh ok so
there was the he was it wasn't just
vacation he was over there and they got
into a fight now I've watched the video
actually a couple of times I know people
are gonna find this surprising but I did
watch the video and it looked like there
was some guys coming over just trying to
be I don't know they were being in they
were they were definitely there as
nuisances Sam was watching them that he
was going world stuff that's right I was
yelling lunchtime so but tell us what
happened I mean your your
characterization of the video as far as
you know my my view of it is pretty
accurate you know it's just sort of an
unfortunate thing that I'll put it this
way there there are a lot of rappers out
there and ASAP Rocky is is definitely
one of them who you know brag or talk
tough and their music we're just not
there's nothing
with that I mean there's a long storied
history of doing such things in hip-hop
it's just kind of an established trope
or norm at this point but unfortunately
there are some people in the hip-hop
audience I guess on the Dumber side of
the audience who think that that is like
an invitation to test that person's
toughness in in real life they happen to
see them face to face and that tends to
you know lead to some scuffles lead to
some fights lead to harassment lead to
Megan and harassing and you know calling
people out or whatever and unfortunately
it sort of seems like that's what was
happening in this moment and ASAC Rocky
instead of turning the other cheek and
just kind of going on about his day
probably just fed into it more than he
needed to
I mean I think that happens with Michael
to actually when he's out and about he's
projecting all that image had you the
TYT joke I was there when the Vice party
turned violent with the ASAP mob I was
that right back yeah it South by
Southwest it was kind of nuts I mean
there's an old story right I mean it
happened even with like Houdini Houdini
would perform and always saying like how
he could have people punch him in the
stomach and then somebody went up and
did it when he wasn't looking and then
he ends up passing away because of it
it's very different but that's pretty
depressing yeah it's not that different
I mean you you project image you project
an image and you know casual you know
the the civility the civvie popular is
really appreciating some like odd
looking guys in Brooklyn going so but
this is where it starts getting weird so
he there the Swedish officials charged
ASAP rocky and I imagined some of his
crew that were with him with assault
because he did beat up these these guys
you know and then what happens
well it seems like he's facing some
pretty serious time now and a serious
charge and I think what I I would like
maybe four rappers to understand I'm not
I'm not obviously an ambassador for the
hip-hop community or anything like that
but as the profile of hip-hop has grown
to such an international level
when these offers do occur where you can
go overseas and you can perform you have
to understand that the judicial system
over there the racial biases that are
over here also exist over there and on
top of that I would say they exist
doubly because not only are there going
to be treating you as a person of color
but they're going to be treating you as
a foreigner as well and I mean there are
already sorts of all kinds of biases
against Americans and European countries
not to say that some of them are
unfounded that we're relieved that we
don't know how to handle ourselves that
you know I mean just generally
anti-american sentiments of just
Europeans being annoyed with us and
obviously those attitudes are going to
be taken out in a place like the
courtroom and you know so what I would
try to try to argue is that look when
you're over there something like this
does occur does happen it's not worth it
I mean recent video that came up of just
this random European dude beating up I
guess one of the bodyguards the rapper
future and you know unfortunately this
is just kind of like a nasty reality
that I think some of these rappers are
having to deal with you know the idea of
a rapper being jumped in public is
nothing new you know it's happened to
some of the best of them even voices
like 2 Chainz but uh you know I would
say the the dangers of responding to
such an attack or even greater when
you're in a country that's not your own
interesting part 2 Chainz on Nancy Grace
was the best thing ever and I think we
should all watch it today all right well
okay so the the so these he's looking at
some real time in solitary confinement
oh it's already like over the past
couple of weeks it's already been an
incredible you know a pretty extravagant
violation of his rights and
like in the UK a couple years ago like
there was something with Snoop Dogg and
his Pete like and they let them out of
the country I mean this is I agree this
is a broader problem but the Swedes have
handled this in a pretty shockingly
draconian way well it's almost feels
like Donald Trump decided to jump in on
this and say let's see how bad we can
make this so what happens
so Rockies you know facing severe jail
time and how does Donald Trump weigh in
on this I mean I I know what the theory
is that Donald Trump wants to show that
he's actually a friend of black people
yeah if we remember the first tweet that
initiated this from all of him we we
have to recall that that the message of
this according to Trump came from Kanye
Kanye somehow got him on the phone and
and Trump described the whole situation
the situation of Kanye says his friend
ASAP rocky he's over there and this
needs to be handled this needs to be
taken care of
and in the connection between Trump and
and Kanye is is already something that
the hip-hop community is and has
consistently been groaning over for a
very long time and even though there are
people in the industry that would very
much love to see rocky free because he's
still a very popular artist who you know
he continues the Drakh record is set to
continue making millions and millions of
dollars and generate tons of money for
the record label and other people in the
industry most people in hip-hop
community are looking at this
quote-unquote attempt by Donald Trump to
get him out they're looking at it very
skeptically they're seeing it as a
transparent attempt to try to win them
over and they're not buying it as much
as they would like for it to happen and
I feel like on some level this is gonna
like this is not it's not gonna help
lucky to have Donald Trump publicly out
there making it up do you think it is
going to well I mean
I arguably there's been certain things
like with the Pakistanis where or even
to some extent I think something like
this when it's an incredibly low-cost
thing for them to do to have him not be
a relentless pain in the ass about other
potentially larger things yeah it could
help yes
interesting I also I'll say that even a
little bit of Trump pressure to try to
get him out I think is better than
absolutely no pressure whatsoever which
is essentially was being applied before
this but given his track record of
making deals I don't think anybody is
sort of really holding their breath on
Trump like basically going full
negotiator or even like sending some I
don't know some some seals over there
zero dark thirty style and like just
breaking him out did you see the latest
tweet he sent out he wrote for I won't
the first thought is is ridiculous but
I'll read the one that's just pretty
funny wrote do you have a SUP which he
spells correctly by the way Sam gave a
second with the dollar sign yes ok I'm
saying give Aesop his freedom all
capitalized we do so much for Sweden but
it doesn't seem to work the other way
around but Sweden should focus on it's a
real crime problem hashtag free Rakhi
does he mean Muslims by that he's doing
multiple yeah he's probably he's doing
multiple free Rakhi hashtags there's
Nancy Pelosi on this right I mean
actually honestly frankly I don't know
who ASAP Rocky's Congress person is but
where is a sob Rockies Congress person
why this hurts like State Department
actually going and saying hey like they
would for any you know private
individual I wonder if it hurts because
the more I think sort of like a
publicity it gets the more pressure it
puts on the Swedes to actually not
capitulate to Donald Trump I would
imagine right I mean that's I kind of
train this into a media yeah so it just
kind of goes to show how I'm serious is
about the whole thing because the
likelihood of it panting huh
in this very public way is going to be
Sweden look like they're teaming in in
week we're as good patient were quiet
behind those doors and as you get the
two of the while ago you said a
congressperson over there you know you
know good states you know I feel like
that approach would be more likely to
get the outcome we want but Donald is
unequal to approach things in that
manner Anthony we're we're having a
little bit of problems with your phone
if you shift back over to where you were
leaning just moments of God am i oh now
you better now you better all right well
I guess we'll have to wait and see I
don't know personally I think that if I
had the opportunity to maybe Kanye I
would call up Kanye and say dude get
your buddy to just back off a little bit
because I don't think people I would
hate to have my my future tied to Donald
Trump's in any way that would be I think
slightly problematic for most people but
all right well let's let's turn I have a
broad question before we get to my sort
of my my musical makeover a little bit
as where did where where are we in terms
of like of music being political of the
moment I mean I think you know in the
context of of rap and R&B I think you
know it's been political for it's barely
been it seems to me largely the I don't
want to say the only source of political
music because I feel like during the the
Bush years there was music that that you
know bright eyes and Dixie Chicks and
Cowboy Junkies I mean I seem to remember
some you know things that were sort of
overtly political and I think obviously
in really that we also have the I don't
know Mike or Jamie remember these but we
also had the the the Fat Wreck chords
rock against books bush compilation
indeed okay also also Green
American Idiot yeah can't forget that
yeah I mean during the call now yeah
awesome
every day Green Day was a little bit
modern for me yeah but these guys are so
cool uh but but but where are we now
like I don't feel like we have I mean
III you know I don't I don't know I
don't pay attention to music enough as
to what's but where are we on that I
imagine that's sort of like that cycle I
I think I think it's there and it's not
I mean you have artists out there who
have essentially made it their brand in
a way to discuss social issues in their
music whether it be a Kendrick Lamar or
a childish gambino I mean his song this
is America last year was my single of
the year so these issues are definitely
being discussed by prominent musicians
and artists and figures but
simultaneously the music industry and
music careers in general are so volatile
especially in the age of streaming that
most musicians don't want to take the
risk to talk about issues that they
think or that they know are important
because they don't want to put
themselves in the situation where they
either say something that they get
backlash for because you know obviously
all the mono avoid the whole cancel
culture thing but simultaneously they
don't want to they don't want to risk
their audiences tuning out and they lose
money they lose their record deal
because a lot of these artists they
aren't being signed for both the album
deals anymore you know it's it's it's
really just kind of like on a relevancy
basis these days because artists are
fading in and out of the picture all the
time and trends are moving at the speed
of light thanks to the internet so as a
result again I feel like a lot of
artists not only just politically but
also musically in a lot of respects or
he's very risk-averse how does how how
has the how has the the the business of
music changed in this in this era
because you know it's funny because I
mean the only thing I have it to compare
to is sort of the comedy world
and the comedy business has changed
dramatically because of all this like
there's a lot more streaming services so
there's a lot more opportunity for work
it's not you don't get these big paydays
that that we got back in in you know the
late 90s where it's like hey this is
like winning the lottery but the ability
to make a decent middle-class living
seems much more within arm's reach
because you can monetize yourself online
with like YouTube or you could you can
you can't or there's just more ways to
sort of like be entrepreneurial what is
that what's happening in music in that
respect I would say generally much of
what you just described in comedy has
also occurred in music I will add on top
of that what's also occurred is that the
record labels for a long time like cried
wolf over streaming and digital
downloads destroying the industry and
ruining music and this is going to be
the end of the industry as we know it
but now somehow because obviously
they've gained the system and they have
you know worked out the kinds of deals
that are preferable to them with
streaming services the major labels are
now making billion-dollar profits and
and making record profits so that there
is that simultaneously it seems like yes
there are more artists who are in the
underground a relative underground that
are making maybe more modest livings but
there are a lot of artists still in the
underground that are struggling and
can't really seem to get ahead because
there's really only a certain kind of
song and format that works really well
in the streaming age you know what I
mean if you're an artist that writes I
don't know 20 minute long songs or like
long classical pieces or really long
ambient pieces or something like that
the likelihood that you're going to make
as much money as somebody who's like
writing 12 three-minute pop songs and
slapping amount of record is not likely
because you're getting paid per stream
these days so if you write really you
know experimental or long-form music
you're you're kind of
be capping yourself in a way oh so you
don't get paid per minute no no you get
paid per stream that's why these days a
lot of these a lot of these rappers that
some of which we were talking about
earlier what they're doing these days
and this is kind of a weird crazy
incentives they're dropping these like
90 minute 45 30 song projects this is
like one track after another that
they're busting out in the studio maybe
spending 20 to 45 minutes on each track
because they know they're going to make
more money if they put more songs to
string on a record regardless of how
they play together as an album that's
sort of like the difference between me
and Marc Maron he's just he's just
basically playing to the to where the
cash is and I'm just but that's that's
fascinating I mean it's so you know it's
interesting it's it's fascinating to see
how the way things are monetized in a
very sort of practical sort of agnostic
mechanisms implicate the the art that
gets that gets created yeah and you know
it's if we could go back and analyze it
more thoroughly it's probably always
done that to some degree but these are
the noticeable ways in which I can you
know sort of recognize those changes
happening because I'm living through
these changes and observing them from a
point in time when streaming was not a
thing and to now we're streaming is the
dominant format through which young
people you know consume the music that
they want to listen to so it's
interesting that you say that politics
haven't been real big in music because I
mean I I was always in more of the indie
sphere but I do still get some press
emails from my previous life as a music
journalist and I feel like a lot of at
least indie artists are trying to kind
of cash in on this sudden resistance
fervor that everybody's feeling right
now it may be kind of a nut nut shallow
but like a bit of a naive way people who
weren't really that political before I
do you have an example I mean I can
think of maybe a few I mean I really did
like that um that weird Hillary song
that like leti gray came out with a
little while ago tell me if they're like
another prominent exam like that Anthony
so just be a little polite no I listen
to that on a loop and that's my in fact
that's my entire Spotify playlist oh my
god I got a Sara Lee did I like Hillary
even it's just the spirited I recently
got a chance to see bikini kill play in
Brooklyn and I almost couldn't make
myself go because leti grrah had
released that I'm with her video yeah
but I did I did go and I enjoyed it very
much that's sort of like my generation
right I mean is that what the the
problem is my generation again I will
say I think like certainly in the punk
world people have been making some
really great I don't even I feel like
resistance has been ruined but like
resistance art for quite some time now
and Zach Lopez has talked about this a
lot too
you probably know him Anthony like the
people who are doing well at it right
now are the ones who have been doing it
all along and it's not just that they've
picked up like downtown boys priests and
idols are three really good punk bands
who have strong leftist political themes
and I really like them a lot yeah joy as
an active resistance was one of my
favorites of the of the year I mean punk
music commenting on politics it was just
sort of a constant no matter right
political administration you're under
you know yeah right that seems to be you
know I guess you know the the question
for me is like sort of popular music
like the music that my daughter listens
to which I can't I don't know the names
of any of the people like I know the
songs probably by heart now because
they're constant but I have no idea
whose sayings this I mean hey was big on
the Hillary Train that was the smartest
thing she ever did in her feud with
Taylor Swift in my opinion I don't know
if my life I will I will say that it is
kind of shocking speaking of pop music
and just popular artists it is kind of
shocking out down for Bernie cardi B is
but I'm here for it right it's name
heart is the best we have right she's a
working class
woman of color or she came from the
working class she said really well for
herself she hasn't forgotten where she
comes from like she should be supporting
Bernie but is there yeah also happens to
be really just you know like if someone
like Nicki Minaj comes from a lot of
those same roots as well and it seems
like she couldn't give a crap well
here's the difference is cardi B is
actually very just happens to be
personally extremely politically been
historically oriented and she has just
honestly her reading habits and what
she's engaged in and interested in I
mean that's also some of the you know
luck of the draw that that's also
changed right like you don't necessarily
have to manifest your politics through
your music anymore because there's so
many other channels in which to
communicate that are that that are no
longer that are just not as subsidiary
as they used to be I mean if I was a
musician 25 years ago my fans would you
know maybe read about me in a fanzine or
spin or Rolling Stone and you know every
now and then I'd have an interview but
it was basically just the songs that I
put out now you can have as an artist an
ongoing conversation with your fans that
has nothing really to do directly with
your art no that's true I do think that
the fact that artists do have access to
such a convenient medium to tell their
fans whatever they want whenever they
want it does kind of allow them to I
guess let off some steam or just let off
some pressure on issues that they might
have an opinion on and this also
manifests itself in hip-hop in terms of
just the trends of the history of diss
tracks like in hip hop right now there
aren't as many prominent or significant
or important diss tracks as there used
to be there was just that Pusha T draped
beef which was really significant but
part of the reason it was significant is
that you know sort of direct
head-to-head track on track going at
each other type of thing is not really
as prominent a I guess a practice as it
used to be now a lot of that steam is
being led off on Instagram where these
guys like going at each other and one is
during video after another I wish that
killer Mike would make a diss track
about Joe Biden oh I also I also Vic
menses another guy he's campaigning for
Bernie and he's done a lot of stuff in
Chicago that's another very prominent
political orientation he was right he
recently - he's always pretty
politically motivated well I don't know
but let me ask you this I mean do you
think that that diminishes the work a
little bit like I mean I you know I know
that that we have these sort of like
disposable ways in which an artist can
communicate with its audience so that it
can relieve some of the you know those
things that that that drive artists and
they don't necessarily have to put it in
the work they're they're sort of the
primary art I mean I I just like I mean
I'm just thinking of myself back when I
was in that sort of type of field where
it was like I would do some sitcom work
and needed to balance it out with you
know some some stuff that I did on my
own that I thought was you know better I
don't know that it was or not but my
point is is that for me as an artist to
fulfill myself I needed to do certain
things and express certain things and it
would force me to do certain projects
whereas we're living in a world now
where you know for musicians they're
they're trying to express feelings that
they have through their music right I
mean that's what's definitional about
them but if they can actually let the
air out of the tire in some areas I
wonder if that diminishes their work I
mean what's your sense of that I think
it does kind of loop back to the
sentiment I expressed earlier about
things being a little bit more sanitized
and risk-averse and I think that um
social media as you're kind of
indicating here does contribute to that
in in that if you really want to get a
message out there
I could either a put it in a song that
for the health of my career I need to
hit I need to chart I need my audience
to like it
but I don't know if they're gonna want
to hear this message I could do it there
I could put it there or I could put it
in a tweet or in an Instagram update and
while yeah maybe in a sense we do lose
the potential of hey we could have had a
really great song about street violence
or police brutality or a host of other
things simultaneously writing songs
about this stuff isn't always the most
effective way to convey a message when
at the end of the day you don't just
want people to hear a song you want them
to get the message and I think the
social media and the fact that people
can access really robust opinions on a
lot of leftist issues is more
significant to the political
conversation than just merely being able
to have maybe a hit or a popular song
about a particular issue and you know I
mean just for example when when I used
to go to protests or you know involve
myself and leftist groups when I was in
high school or in college the kinds of
conversations that just people like hey
señor Bernie have brought to the fold
now is is really only the types of
conversations I would hear there now
those conversations are kind of being
had everywhere you know after the
democratic order now copying that stuff
and and that's thanks to the discussion
that the internet is allowing not
because you know a song there's kind of
open people up to the idea I mean music
and the political messages it can convey
are important and you know a lot of the
records that I tend to praise year in
and year out do have like a political or
a social angle or a message I mean I I
praise that I love that I celebrate that
but um you know it's it's not like a
make or break for music and in my view
you know it doesn't dictate whether or
not music is actually good and the
artists who really kind of have a
message in their heart that they have to
get out there that does have a social
edge to it they're going to communicate
it in their music whether it's going to
sell or not you know like Jamie said
earlier you know the band idols you know
they were making the kind of music and
conveying the kind of messages that they
were before they were a popular band you
know what I mean and if that's what
you're going to do that's what you're
going to do consistently whether you're
successful with it or not yeah it's it's
it's interesting I hadn't really
occurred to me but you know years back I
had several conversation
Fran Lebowitz where she was insistent
that that political change has got to
come from the from cultural sources like
musicians and whatnot and she was not
seeing it and I wonder she also was at
least at that time and I imagine this
has continued extremely reluctant to
engage in any technology and I wonder if
that if our if if social media has now
rather than draining from music its
political import has just simply
expanded upon what an artist puts out
there and is just a slightly is a sort
of an adjacent medium to to influence
politics because social media I mean
clearly is you know is part of our
culture and a I guess you know things
have gotten much more political I've not
you know it's it's hard to sort of read
as to what would have happened if we had
if Hillary Clinton was in office would
we continue to have an in you know this
level or a significant increase in the
sort of politicization that we see
amongst artists I'll add to your your
friends description of you know politics
and music and the relation to culture by
saying them yes politics is certainly
downstream from culture and and and I
will agree that music itself is culture
but generally I would separate music
itself from popular or commercial music
especially music coming out on major
labels because there are so many degrees
of separation between the rawness of
what your average person is thinking and
a hit record that may have been combed
through dozens of times before it
actually ended up seeing release I would
argue that you know commercial music is
downstream from culture as well and a
lot of respects commercial music is a
reflection of what the public wants
because what does and doesn't land on
the chart in what is
isn't being released on commercial
labels is a reflection of you know
trends and you know consumer trends that
that labels are keeping track of every
single day you know I've had this
argument with people a bunch of times
because like I really hate well I don't
hate all of it but corporate pop music
is not my thing
and like there are people who think if
you don't like the kind of music the
kind of commercial pop that's crammed
down the throat of like teenage girls
that you're somehow like sexist an
ageist and I just not I just said I just
I can't imagine like I would rather the
industry respect teenage girls enough to
give them something to listen to it's
not too little guard Oh teenage girls
want to listen to Tracy Chapman yeah
sure whatever keep up with the cool
music it is it's like the coolest I'm
gonna enjoy this moment where I'm a
little bit hipper than Jamie about
what's going on in the young teenage
girl music wait a sec that brings up the
point here let's get down to brass tacks
Anthony I need to impress folks when I
go out and bout you know I don't say my
dating pool but you know I need to go
out and impress people with my musical
acumen but I have a limited narrow
perspective on what I like and I think
brendan has I think given you a sense of
what that was as part of our
pre-interview process that we do around
here so what what do you recommend that
I could listen to that would project
someone who is not so stuck in you know
admired in the the music that was
formative for him
cinema I could I could I could throw
some real hip stuff that yeah that that
maybe you uh that maybe you would abide
with if you really just want to try to
pretend that I'm vibing with it I mean
I'm capable yeah you know listen you
know listen to the new Tyler the Creator
album Deewar that would be really hip
with you
wait a second why is everyone laughing
if all you want to do is be hip and be
relevant just listen to the Tyler the
Creator album Igor and it's a good break
it's a good break up record - so Tyler
creator Big Sean also has a good break
is that Tyler Creator is that his last
name or is it Tyler the Creator is his
last name
hi it was just i lured the creators okay
let's say you want to take it down a
notch and not be so hip but maybe I want
to just be able to listen to the music
without having to sort of like
consciously project that I like it yeah
I think um you know given some of the
stuff Ben told me in an email before the
it's like stuck in like sort of 90s I
mean I my musical tastes started I think
I started to engage in music when I was
in seventh grade which started with
Velvet Underground and I think ended
probably when I was like you know I
stopped seeing shows more or less in my
early 30s and so more or less ended with
like Velvet Underground and the solid
recommendation for you was I would
recommend that maybe try out the the new
album from purple mountains have you
heard of this record Oh brendan is very
upset because that's what he told me to
the numero purple mountains okay yeah
purple mountains its self-titled it's a
band led by a singer-songwriter whose
name is David Berman and he used to be
in a group named silver Jews who I don't
know I mean being a 90s dude have you
heard of them before uh we were just
talking about them the other day I
didn't I didn't really know them that
well no yeah they're they're more on the
obscure side they're kind of like a low
fee indie rock and folk group David
tends to write these songs that are very
dry very witty very wordy very I guess a
lot of a lot of observational humor and
some of his lyrics as well and of
I believe a Stephen Malkmus from
pavement was was affiliated with silver
Jews for a little bit well so there's
you know kind of that deep 90s indie
rock lo-fi kind of connection there but
a little bit like earlier earlier than
that like maybe like I mean the the
album I probably listened to more in my
entire life and I still listen to it
would be let it be by The Replacements
that's basically it like I still listen
to that album on a regular basis when I
can't think of anything else to listen
to I can't think of any rock bands like
that have come out with records this
year they're like really embodying that
replacements esque
kind of vibe and the replacements are
such a unique group because they were
just like so on I mean really in a lot
of respects they're kind of like proto
alternative rock you know what I mean
right
so it's like they were sort of like in a
weird creative limbo period where they
were on the cusp of something that
developed into something else you know
what I mean but still I mean given that
you are into some of the artists that
then told me about I do think you will
dig that that purple mountains record I
think you might also like the new Bill
Callahan record it's really just
singer-songwriter Bill Callahan yeah and
also a an Australian singer-songwriter
wreck songwriter just came out with this
really great covers album that I
personally think is amazing it's called
return to Center and his name is Kieran
Jake Allen Anthony Anthony I'm sorry I
just there's something that's been
bugging a lot of us for a long time Sam
was a pure 90s thing claims the annalisa
basses you believe that that's kind of
hard to believe that sort of like not
knowing the Savage Garden is if you're
kind of like who's savage garden's
for a while yeah no I I thought a sub
bass was that the the the the white
rapper got like those guys well I
thought it was
no no not snow I can't remember base
third base I knew yeah that's the Ace of
Base you know I've never heard that
nothing okay honestly don't bother man
trust me we've been down this road yeah
[Music]
well I've got that down so right now I'm
doing Tyler the Creator if I need to
really get out and purple mountains and
return to the center the Bill Callahan
thing I already have so that's pretty
good yeah yeah if you get to the end and
you want more it's always a good idea to
listen to Death Grips just saying death
grip I mean I have a few recommendations
for everybody else I have Michael needs
to listen to the new Freddie Gibbs an
ad-lib let me give you an absolutely
okay
yeah you got a listen to that if you
haven't already Jamie I don't know if
you've listened to a drab Majesty yet oh
yes yes they're new records good also
have you heard the new black MIDI record
Shagun Haim no they're like a really
good kind of dark post-punk II math rock
band from the UK that's and I know Matt
and Matt rocks kind of annoying to some
people but this is totally different
also you've probably already heard this
but have you listened to the new
language not a record yet no but you are
not the first person who's told me to
listen to it you have to you have to
listen to it it's like insane hey man my
man my son I'm so out of the Lord with
music these days I used to be a music
writer and now I just listen to podcasts
because politics have completely broken
my brain and so I rely on my friends and
folks like you to tell me what to listen
to now so thank you yes listen to the
new language not at Caligula it's pretty
intense
Matt I saw did a tweet about moshing and
Pelosi's office so I just I just got
together some records he can wash - okay
the new pet that it's not new but
a really good record power trip
nightmare logic it's really a trash
metal record with you to mold album
planetary clairvoyance is a really
badass
death metal record with a lot of great
riffs on it and it's Japanese band
called Oh to Boca beaver each Acoma hits
it's like it's really great noise pop
and you know experimental punk record
with a lot of shouty like female gang
choruses they sort of sound like a cross
between a like a speedy punk band and
like a Japanese cheerleader group hmm
and Ben's rule you then need City
screaming little nods brandied three
industry low-mass x's old town roads so
that it's number one and it continues to
be the longest-running number-one single
of all time
oh yeah hard cosine on that and just to
be clear before I let you go Anthony
bono is not dead is that right Bach
Bono's alive okay Michael Michael Stipe
is still alive Moby is still alive he
interviewed Michael Stipe back in the
day on the majority report yeah he came
in he was friends with Jeanine that's a
big gun and I saw them they played my
Spring Fling at college back when they
were just coming from Athens before
losing my religion right oh yeah no no
this was this was no they were just
touring band playing colleges as I was
the only song in 1980 so this was like
86 I think okay yeah that would that
would have been their first couple of
records and they were just sort of
considered a college rock band exactly
exactly
that's basically it that's the
wheelhouse well Anthony this has been a
pleasure I really appreciate it man
folks can check out can find you on the
needle drop at any time apparently yeah
at any time it's the YouTube channel
runs 24 hours a day there you go that's
pretty good a good job with that
incidentally we got to figure out how to
do that with ours
Anthony thanks so much really appreciate
it
thank you
all right folks we got a little bit of
time for fun half gonna take a quick
break
head into that fun half just a reminder
you can support this program by becoming
a member by going to join the majority
report there you will have the
opportunity to become a member of the
program for just pennies a day pennies I
mean it's a very wide open amount of
pennies it's plural the most versatile
currency exactly exactly you can get it
you can get super granular with pennies
and for just pennies a day we give you
extra content every day and you support
this program and you get it all
commercial free join the majority report
com don't forget to listen to the a.m.
quickie it's on your majority report
feed the audio feed you can check it out
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority as always you can always check
our show notes for any type of coupon
deals or discounts that we get from our
advertisers today is Friday which means
that Tuesday is some other day and
either happened or will happen Michael
we had on excuse me sir we had on
crystal ball we talked about the anti
Bernie bias MSNBC and the
professionalization of the Democratic
Party and why that makes them such whis
bags and Joshua Kahn who is is the guru
he's the Guru
he's a frontline organizer we did our
second lessons in the actual tactics of
movement building activism he told some
incredible stories including from work
they did in Arpaio's Arizona which is
the prototype of what's happening
nationally in terms of anti ice and
detention actions really quick we're
doing obviously a Monday show because we
have two debates Tuesday and Monday
Tuesday and Wednesday night so CMBS will
be Monday at 7:00 Brook Thomas from TYT
and then I just recorded an interview
with Celso Ameren who is Lula's foreign
minister and Dilma's defense minister
there's a lot of thoughts on the rise of
the global far-right and what the
political strategy is to synchronize
against it an insight as to what's
happening in Brazil right now so
patreon.com slash T mb/s Michael Brooks
show on YouTube
Jaime this week on the anti Fattah we
had on
Cinzia roots ax and TT Bhattacharya two
authors of feminism for the 99% a
manifesto to talk about feminism in all
its current forms a topic very near and
dear to my heart and why if we're going
to be truly feminist we also have to be
anti-racist and anti-capitalist and why
that's all connected and I'm really
stoked on this episode and I hope
everybody listens to it
we also poured went out for Ozzy fest
which was sadly cancelled this past
weekend
boo hoo what was canceled de Blasio de
Blasio actually kiff he was just like
Ozzy fest it's a blast was like you know
what that sounds like you know what that
sounds like to me
ticket sales suck do we need an excuse
that sounds like the Blasio's getting
serious you make an ad public it'll be
traffic problems de Blasio canceled it
yeah yeah he actually did he said it was
it because of the heat it would be a
public health theme I had no really it
was just like I heard that that little
 bado is coming to my city also the
ratio they were commandeering a public
park for I believe 9 days beforehand to
set it up so that rub some people the
wrong way
oh yeah ads on the radio for Ozzy for
these the that site it is just like how
much money it's a corporate sy up do
they have too much it's honestly like I
didn't hear about it they've been around
for like five or six years right yeah I
didn't hear about it until you went last
year and then like I start to hear the
ads and it's always this like how many
pancakes does Japan put out every year
find out facts like this and more on
hace reports it's news you can use and
it's just like weird sort of like really
clever you know it's just noise
contrarian corporate sort of like fact
it's a loss leader for neoliberalism i
would say i guess basically just needed
to use people's time while they continue
to consume it's stunning
and the the like what past as news like
you know like what did you know the
number one import of canada is not you
know the export of Canada is not maple
syrup it's just like weird I don't know
yeah before I found out that it was de
Blasio who canceled it I just figured
that the festival had you know read my
piece from last year and taken my
critiques to heart and thought about
their life and thought about their
choices and packed it in just sounds to
me like there was low ticket sales or no
ticket sales and they just went to de
Blasio and said cancel it on us and he
was a slave that's why would I do that
you invited beta O'Rourke I'm I'm
candidate DeBlasio which means all of a
sudden I'm not a weird Bienstock guy I
actually have some balls it was
incredibly hot last weekend but I like
your theories better Saturday literary
hangover we're doing the pioneers part
one of two-part episode because this is
a really rich book basically about how
commodification is a necessity before
people will allow settlers to settle new
land basically yeah James remar Cooper
check it out so first of the leather
stocking tale so if you've familiar with
the last Mohicans
this is a better book than that one is
all right folks see in the finale
alright folks see you in the fun half
folks six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty see you in the
[Music]
who sent us this alpha males are back
and the alpha males are back back just
males are back back back back and the
alpha males are back back back just want
to degrade the white man alpha males are
back alpha males are back back
almost has one you
and the alpha males are back I am a
total
can we bring back DJ Tanner song yeah or
a couple you put them in rotation DJ
dance well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough with a break
that's
reminder I do not have more concerns and
the alpha males are like
Oh
[Music]
the back
on the back
back
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
locked
alpha males of
Oh
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100 game plan
it's my birthday happy birthday to me to
you boy
I have a thought expenditure foil and
the alpha males are alpha males
someone needs to pay the price request
way around here I am a total
 was
although I honestly I could listen to
that all the time but that's not as good
at dinner parties as the new song
recommendations I have good shoes you
got tapping your step
oh yeah you don't just played anarchy
your house parties well I used to you
could play that song like you can play
that that song actually we're not on
repeat but like that can actually work I
think that's been the problem I tried to
do it on repeat and it's better the
sixth time let's let's go directly to
the phones got in right at the top me
this guy calling from a 509 area code
who's this where you calling from him
this was Ronald Reagan look at you
Ronald Reagan you're really just
standing there completely ignoring all
the work that your clients need you to
do well I wouldn't say that necessarily
but thanks for that intro I wanted to I
wanted to
you've been talking a lot about what
happens when there's a vacuum like if
the Democrats aren't talking about
impeachment then that will be filled
with something else
right correct like right so I want to
talk about a particular vacuum that
exists as of this week which is the
resistance mom sex an old vacuum which
exists now that robert muller is sort of
like been revealed to be this may be
like sundowning old guy right right
who's not very impressive a bit of a
paper tiger like have you heard of the
exactly so have you heard of the podcast
Moeller she wrote yes I have actually
good of course that's a real thing with
it it's so the the description is molar
she wrote is a binder full of women
unraveling the mister
the mole investigation so anyways
there's this whole like subculture right
that exists and now they need somewhere
to turn and I just feel like they're the
perfect resistance mom sex symbol oh and
and this sort of dovetails perfectly
into 2022 you're you're you're run
against Chuck Schumer so I'm just trying
to figure out and I'll take your answer
off the air some ways that we don't
really start to get you out there and
promote fan theater
so so wait how do you propose that I
assume my position as the resistance
moms what did you call it
resistance mob sex and well sex symbol
he hung up all right I feel like you
might not be the best equipped person to
answer this question maybe you should
get like a personal brand consultant
wear more adidas college football you
can't yet for others is the position
where you can wear more adidas 406 area
code hi this is nice into the show
mister Wow Houdini thank you um actually
wanted to ask you your socks I don't
know if you've heard it's actually huge
news maybe I'm making it a bigger deal
that it needs to be but um Portland has
pushed forward on their plans to ban
masked protesters like Antipa in an
effort to crackdown on quote-unquote
violent clashes this all comes basically
a year after one of the
many people who's advocating for this
masked protest band is daniele outlawed
the police chief in Portland a year ago
roughly she was talking about how
basically after another one of these
clashes happened that Antipa protesters
were whining and complaining because the
police officers quote-unquote kicked
their butts so I just thought maybe
there's some personal things going on
here that that might actually be
conflicting also and what the heck is
the point in banning the masks anyways I
don't think that'll help much well I'm
not sure what it's supposed to help I
know they did this during I think it was
the RNC in 2004 I think they did that in
New York I'm pretty sure they did it in
Minnesota
I mean they've done it in different
places and I think I mean look I I think
you know I understand the desire for
certain people when they go out there if
they're doing counter protests or
protest period to not be recorded by the
police the police should not be doing
this in my estimation any of the
fascists or or you know or anybody
obviously but like to believe that the
police and the fascists they're two
separate entities right but I look I
think you can't stop private citizens
from going around with their video
cameras and taking videos right but you
should be able to stay to the police hey
wait a second there's no possible reason
why you should be videotaping protests
like I know that they have in New York
library full of videos of protests and I
like to what end like how is that well
we know but I'm saying to what possible
legitimate end would that be now with
that said I I think people are gonna
probably figure out a way going around I
mean look you're allowed to wear makeup
right they're not going to make it an
outlaw to wear you're not going to
outlaw you to make make wear makeup in
Portland and I
my people imagine what's witty mom's for
clipboards very woke I mean I actually
did see an article the other day about
how Juggalos makeup is actually
scrambling the government's like face
recognition technologies so maybe our
future lies through joining the the
Juggalo gang
I wouldn't be surprised if we start to
see like more makeup in that situation
and things like you know fake mustaches
and you know there's no way ultimately
you're gonna be able to find stuff it's
not gonna be quite as convenient it's
not going to give you the protection
maybe a would from like you know teargas
and whatnot but you keep a bandanna in
your pocket I imagine I'm just
speculating as to what they're gonna do
but yeah that kind of stuff I find
troublesome I just think it's on that
the police chief is you know been
consistently siding with the police over
an Tifa you just say that you think it's
odd that the police chief has been
siding with the police over antiva but
it shouldn't be it shouldn't be well
they're not just studying with Tigers
they're siding with the fascists right
well listen I appreciate the call I mean
I I get I get your point but I mean I
don't I don't think it you stop siding
with yourself people say you don't do
that people say oh like these these
fascists that are doing really scary
stuff especially in the Pacific
Northwest right now oh they're just
LARPers they're distraction and don't
worry about them I'm worried about them
for a number of reasons but probably the
most disturbing one is the degree to
which the police and you know the
official arms of state power are aligned
with them yeah yeah that's disturbing
Dahl Trump was at TP USA as we discussed
earlier in the program and this is a
little bit disturbing well I mean look
we've seen him do this before but he
stopped for a couple years and
now he's making this claim again and I
will say that you know when I've been
reading into the this Senate report
there's very little that's out there in
terms of the Senate report and one of
the things that people felt in the past
that oddly protected our election system
was the fact that we have so many
disparate systems across the country and
I think at the end of the day that's a
rather at least in terms of national
elections a pretty
I don't know narrow and naive
perspective because again it's really
very limited number of places where you
could impact the outcome of election we
you know we saw that in 2016 in terms of
just how close things can be and how
targeted if you want it to be I don't
know if that they were but targeted you
know target specific areas of the
country that are going to be in play it
occurred to me that one of the things
that the Trump administration was trying
to do was to centralize voter data rolls
in one place that might make things
convenient I mean they had their own
agenda which was also basically to
disenfranchise voters in specific
locations I don't know if Russia or any
other entity that wanted to break into
our things would have that level of
savvy I'm being facetious of course they
do and if they didn't have it then they
would have been given it by people who
do have that savvy but I raised that
only because for a couple years Donald
Trump was on talking about how it was
millions of legal immigrants
according to him voted which would
brought about the Kris Kobach attempt to
disenfranchise voters across the country
apparently he's back on it and for those
people who are trying to make an
argument that
Trump is not going to leave the White
House if he loses the election quietly I
think this is more evidence in that case
I don't think he has the you know the
the military might to stay in office but
Bill bar may file a couple lawsuits I
mean who knows where this could lead but
here he is in front of the college
students explaining exactly how it was
he didn't really lose the popular vote
[Applause]
California and their race on a car to
race on it we're going to vote again man
going through the circles I'm gonna do
my second lap around the circle never
had
don't worry about worry put on the
Groucho glasses you vote again we are
going to drive up that a popular vote
totals so much yeah I know they were
trying to get us to go on a bus the
Wisconsin that she went the moral
victory I have like a smaller game I
have like a synthetic memory now like a
droopy dog cartoon where he he's like
running a election he's like watching an
election and like people are going
around the block he's like wait a sec
exactly wait a second why are other
people around those blacks look so
similar that was the same one as before
you got a top hat on mister we were
talking about impeachment here's Nancy
Pelosi this morning addressing this
question of impeachment I don't I I mean
for the life of me I have no idea what
where she's going with this
there are now 96 96 Democratic
representatives who have come out one of
them is Katherine Clark she is in the
leadership at least of the Democrats in
the House I mean not necessarily you
know I think with the reelect campaign
nevertheless she's a she's a democratic
leadership member who apparently has
been released by Nancy Pelosi or not
there's a lot of reports that Jerrold
Nadler is getting into more and more
heated exchanges with Pelosi over this
he is beginning to feel the heat himself
as there is a primary candidate who's
been who's announced and has at this
point been primarily running as far as I
can tell on this question of impeachment
and this came up I think in our
conversation with Sean McElwee at
Netroots nation this is another value to
two primary even primary Congress people
who are more or less okay right like the
whole idea is you want to deploy your
resources where they're needed the most
but I think there is a very strong
argument that primary and candidates who
you may even like basically keep them I
don't want to say honest but we'll give
them at least a another arrow in their
quiver or another reason or an incentive
to pursue policies that you want to see
implemented here is Nancy Pelosi for
some reason wearing mistletoe at the on
the house tonight I'm Brad
some of my colleagues believe you're
simply trying to run out the clock on
excuse me that's not true no I'm not
trying to run out the pot let's get
sophisticated about this okay okay we
won't proceed when we have what we need
to proceed not one day similar and
everybody has the liberty and the luxury
to espouse their own position and to
criticize me for trying to go down the
path in the most determined positive way
again their advocacy for impeachment
only gives me leverage I have no
complaint with what they are doing
but I know the mother what president
would I keep calling him special counsel
mother mr. Muller said the other day
confirmed confirmed in the public mind
that the president has obstructed
justice you know what he said it could
be could exoneration people whatever
didn't but he was not able to
investigate the president's finances
personal business or otherwise and that
is what we are doing in the courts so
I'm willing to take whatever heat there
is there to say when we run the decision
will be made in a timely fashion this is
an endless and when we have the best
strongest possible case and that's not
endless either I mean it may be endless
in terms of the violations of the law
that the president is engaged in but
that's what I say to you I in all
honesty I feel like I could sit down
with that piece of video for an hour and
a half and not be able to tell you what
she's talking about
and I don't know if she's being
deliberately evasive in that like she
clearly thinks that there is some
threshold of information that has not
been crossed she can't possibly think
that she's going to get that threshold
through the courts if if the Democrats
wanted to see Donald Trump's
they could see Donald Trump's taxes from
New York State yesterday they could see
them richard neal didn't want to they
want to look into the finances they
could do that they could have done that
yesterday if they are worried that their
subpoenas are not being
pursued with any vigor or taken
seriously by the administration
there is one recourse for them to start
an impeachment inquiry which the courts
have already made clear it advantages
subpoenas over subpoenas that are issued
in a non impeachment inquiry so I mean
in part I think she's just sort of like
lying but she can't even see it where
we're at the point now where like there
doesn't even CBA it seemed to be an
effort to offer a cohesive argument
against like I don't know what it is and
it's clearly they're trying to run out
the clock now maybe maybe from her
perspective maybe the requirement is I
need assurances from Chuck Schumer that
we're not gonna have ten or twelve
Democratic senators voting against
impeachment hearings or in voting
against the articles of impeachment if
it shows up in the Senate or maybe the
idea is that like oh we're gonna start
impeachment proceedings in you know July
of 20-20-20 so there'll be no time to
vote on I don't know I just think I
don't know either but I just think you
know like keep it simple in the sense
that they are clearly they're obviously
trying to run out the clock on any
number of things I think that they're
quite confident and cocky about beating
Donald Trump and they are absolutely
risk-averse and incredibly cowardly
and timid and so these other factors
might be a consideration but I just
think it's as simple as like they have
their limited case studies they're
probably probably are thinking of
Clinton and 90
even though it's really not a good
comparison at all at all it's like a
shockingly bad comparison I'm a little
bit more skeptical in Peach Minh but I'm
not as gung-ho about it as other people
are at all but that's a stupid
comparison in my opinion I think that
they just they want nothing that could
disrupt gliding into 2020 that's it but
all these other things though about like
I'm saying like yeah I guess what I'm
trying to just say is I just think we
can't you know short like Schumer's he's
just so ludicrous but Pelosi and Schumer
are unit I mean she's not trying to
protect I don't know if that's the case
it's in calm the evidence arguing that
they're not a unit would be the border
bill right because she certainly thought
that they were going to fight the border
bill and they passed one that they liked
in the house they sent it to the Senate
and that border bill died they brought
up Mitch McConnell's it won something
like eighty nine to eleven which means
that thirty some-odd Democrats voted for
it there's a no Schumer came out and
said I'm shocked that the House passed
it he said the same thing well weeks ago
but the house has to pass I understand
your Senators I get it votes against the
bill and so that is evidence to me
that they're not on the same page and
that she cannot rely on on Chuck Schumer
now I haven't seen any reporting to that
effect and it may behoove her to not do
that because obviously there's nobody
complaining in the Senate but I'm more
focused on reining in an AOC and doing
that that she is in this the short-term
struggle I mean if she running Nancy
Pelosi I'm trying to describe it dynamic
if she sees that she's not able to do
anything because she's hampered by Chuck
Schumer it is much easier for her to
pick on four freshmen Congress people
make that the story of the day rather
than trying to go after Chuck Schumer
who she cannot she cannot success
there's no success in that yeah I mean I
just want to say quickly like we know we
don't know what's in the mind of
but we do know what a priority is the
staff that she has with Drew Hamill
indeed and the staff of Hakeem Jeffries
happened it is to go after the left
that's like what and what's yeah I mean
what Grimm said Grimm said look these
people are more interested in not even
running the house but internal control
of one half of that I think if she
really really were smart about trying to
get internal control though she would
not be playing into their hands like
she's kind of right there are only four
votes they don't have that much power a
lot of their power comes from their base
and it comes from social media and it
comes from the attention that they're
getting and by making that a story she
is seeding that ground to them and I
feel like it's only gonna help them in
the long run in the long run it may but
I think you know in the short term she
just I think it just gives her something
to talk about like that's like you know
that I need content baby exactly like
she was trying to run our clock out on
that statement just now no kid I need
some content
speaking of which right like can we get
sophisticated here so I'm about to say
something that's completely incoherent
but I want to make it clear to you
upfront the reason why you don't
understand it is because it's
sophisticated if you don't accept it
it's because you don't understand right
so not completely unrelated
there is a sophisticated critique of
Olano Mar that she is a a you know is
racist towards white people and to Jews
Alon Omar she with all white people
should have ankle bracelets on them
until we figure out what the hell is
going on we know that that in her
response to the introduction of federal
legislation that would force anyone
doing business with the federal
government to sign a pledge that they
would not protest against Israel she
said I don't feel like it's right for me
to have to sign a pledge we know that
she was smeared then with this critique
of calling for that
she was claiming that Jews had dual
loyalty she was talking about herself as
a person who's not Jewish or anybody for
that matter who's gonna do business with
26 states that have legislation to this
effect or the federal government that
they should not have to sign a pledge
that they're not going to protest
against well Israel or any other country
for that matter or any other business I
gotta you know it would get federal
contracts I have to pledged not to
protest against Walmart let me give me a
break well here's the latest version
Ilhan omar was on with Mehdi Hasan on
al-jazeera English on Maddie's program
and out front and here is the video that
Marco Rubio who's still hurting probably
because his federal pledge legislation
is not going to be law Marco Rubio
shared this is where Ilhan Omar claims
or supposedly that we should monitor
white people which I reserve the right
to say is maybe not necessarily a bad
idea but a lot of conservatives in
particular would say that the rise in
Islamophobia there is a lot of hate but
a fear a legitimate fear they say of
quote/unquote jihadist terrorism whether
it's Fort Hood or San Bernardino or the
recent truck attack in New York what do
you say to them I would say our country
should be more fearful of white man
across our country because they are
actually causing most of the deaths
within this country we should be
profiling monitoring and and and
creating policies to fight the
radicalization of white men so there you
have it she has said she stated the fact
that in terms of domestic terrorism at
least and then I would imagine you know
in other areas but specifically a
domestic terrorism we should be afraid
of why
people which is simply effectively true
more people have died at the hands in
the past ten years of of domestic white
domestic terrorists then than anything
else
probably domestic terrorism for in
modern era we should be concerned about
white Americans and then she went on to
say that we should monitor and surveil
white people now that seems to be a
little bit hypocritical because I would
imagine she wouldn't say that we should
be doing that for other people we should
not be monitoring and spying like that
on any group yeah it's a little bit
hypocritical but I did notice there was
a white flash yeah it was in between
there and sometimes that becomes I don't
know if that's uh for a while I thought
that was just a sign that my name had
been cut out of something but it
apparently it just suggests that
something needs a hopless and cedar here
we go and others here's here is that
comment actually as it was relate to
Mehdi Hasan a lot of conservatives in
particular would say that the rise in
Islamophobia is a result not of hate but
a fear a legitimate fear they say of
quote unquote jihadist terrorism whether
it's Fort Hood or San Bernardino or the
recent truck attack in New York
what do you say to them I would say our
country should be more fearful of white
man across our country because they are
actually causing most of the deaths
within this country and so if fear was
the driving force of policies to keep
America safe Americans safe inside of
this country we should be profiling
monitoring and
and and creating policies to fight the
radicalization of white men but most of
the posit for one second so I just want
to be clear what they cut out was her
introduction to that point about
monitoring white men which was if we're
going to allow fear to dictate what our
policy is that's what we would do and
then whose fear well just fear but here
now I don't support monitoring at a
 fair most of the funding and
attention even under Obama obviously
went towards Muslim communities one of
those communities is in Minnesota your
stately somali-american community in
Minnesota where I think over the past
few years more than twenty young Somali
Americans have left to go and fight for
ISIL or Al Shabaab or one of these
quote-unquote jihadist groups abroad
that's a real threat obviously no one's
pretending it's not a threat so what do
you do about it but I mean I think like
I said the the focus of our policies
should should be about keeping Americans
safe keeping us domestically safe and
and and where we actually find a
solution it's looking at our foreign
policy looking at how we are engaging
with these the members of these these
communities and and and and the kind of
rhetoric right like that is being spewed
out of leaders within our city halls
within our state capitals and and and
within our nation's capital so there you
have it so Queen
I was really want you know I was I was
wondering because she wrote I think she
actually has a piece in The New York
Times saying it's not enough to just
reject Trump's racism we need to deliver
for economic justice basically for
everybody and and so I was very I was
when I saw the misleading the lying clip
I was surprised because I would you know
she doesn't make this kind of
essentialist hit for that argument she
makes really smart arguments and of
course it was a distorted fake clip it
would be kind of cool though this is the
nation Muslim Obamacare which was going
on
I L on Omar proposed a complete ban on
construction of new Red Lobster's until
we figure out what the hell is going on
Super Bowl parties will be banned and
chicken wings not delivered no I don't
hate white people but they're bad people
and we don't know some as I'm sure some
of them are nice people but many of them
are listening to Kenny Loggins let's
let's play this clip this is pretty
stunning I don't know you know I haven't
seen this in context let's do the the
Trump first where he's telling Sean
Hannity that he has decided to share or
bill bars decided to share Intel
documents with the minority leader on
the House Intelligence Committee not the
necessarily the majority new Ness is a
minority Union
he's the Attorney General of the United
States he's got a lot of very good
people under him that I guess are
involved and I gave him a total release
so all of it's been released and he has
all of it I've also given him
authorization to release it to whoever
he wants whether it's his people or
frankly perhaps people like Devin Nunez
who is a star what he's done and the
amount of suffering he's gone through
you know what they did with him where
they tried to drive him right out of
politics and probably worse than that
he's done an incredible job
so basically busily going to give this
stuff to Devin Nunez I don't know why
Devin Nunez should get it as opposed to
Adam Schiff I mean there's just a you
give it to black identity well actually
maybe I do here is a clip put together
by by The Daily Show it's two people who
seemingly talking almost in unison it's
Sean Hannity and Devin Nunez welcome
everyone to the last gasp of the
Russians of collusion conspiracy theory
or whose only ygs effusion GPS funded by
the DNC and the Hillary Clinton came a
warrant to Scottie
Trump campaign his lover basically media
operation conspiracy theory is now dead
is dead boom there you go that's so
creepy yeah it's a little bit creepy
it's not terribly surprising you could
probably do that with almost any single
talk show host and Donald Trump all
right we got time for two calls and then
we'll get out of here
let's see Josh I'll let you do the
honors
why don't you we don't have numbers on
anymore
pick a number pick a number between
eight all right fair enough
call him from an 8-3 one area code who's
this where you come from eight three one
it was a very bad number tough stuff
a31 going once
there eating mayonnaise go they're
watching reality TV shows having sexual
relations and I'm sure some of them are
nice people
a31 yeah yeah who's this I love
when people answer like that yeah you
need you know yours hockey of your show
what's up
who's this
goodbye well the other night another one
we got another one eight six three you
come from an 863 area code who's this
where you come from better answer quick
this is Asheville Florida ash from
Florida what's on your mind I would like
to thank you guys for convincing me not
to watch Jimmy jor anymore oh well
you're very welcome
good job John good afternoon thank you
for joining us yeah it was actually I
was watching a really old debate you had
about the 2012 election and you framed
voting as a decreasing suffering the
goal of it instead of like getting
everything you want right away so I
think that's what convinced me Wow well
that was that with Matt Stoller we had
some of those debates 2012 where people
wanted to you know sit out the 2012
election yeah yeah I remember his name
don't but all right well yeah thanks
again you're welcome thank you for
calling and saying such a nice thing
today on a Friday you're sellout
now you're lying about adrià area code
66 area code who's this where you come
from
hello this is Michael from Colorado
Michael from Colorado what's in your
mind yeah well okay I have a warm-up
question first so you use the word
implicates a lot yeah and I'm familiar
with that I'm familiar with the
definition of that as like implicates in
a crime but sometimes it seems like
that's not what you mean so I was just
wondering if you could define it for me
sure
pedantry in your face it means to convey
or indirectly through what one says
rather than stating it explicitly it
imply is the and that implicate roots
imply or but I also I mean I think I
might use it in the sense that just
involves you like how are you
you'll alright how it sounds appreciate
it okay real question you've said on
your show that life and status
especially if the word you used is a
zero-sum game right social status on
some level yes is zero so yeah okay so I
disagree with it and I feel that by
elevating someone else's social status
I'm not losing any and I'm wondering I'm
glad that's the case I'm glad that you
feel that but um tell me your give me
I'll give you an example
give me your demographics white male
white male how old are you 27
okay now you may not feel this because
you didn't grow up with this but when I
was 27 nearly every single television
show that I saw as a child you know what
the lead was gone white guy now actor
yeah the lead actors or the stories now
there was a couple of shows where and I
can name them which I think almost
proves my point where the leads were not
white
that was the Jeffersons good times okay
that's it and then there was I think a
couple of spin-offs of those shows wait
what was what rerun on what's happening
what's happening so there was three
shows come on well my point being that
the fact of the matter is that's not the
case at all anymore
and there's a perfect example of how our
culture has not centered people like
yourself in in television it's also true
with commercials it's also true with I
think probably in terms of literature in
many respects you think because of that
I've lost some status yeah you know you
not you there's no debate about this
kind of a pedantic discussion of the
definition of the word status because
status is definitionally relative you
can improve someone else's situation
without taking away from your own but
status is our status relative to other
people and I think the cultural example
is actually kind of a bad one to use in
this case because having cultural
representation on TV is not something
that improves the material circumstances
of anyone but that's not the point the
point is the point is does having a
dinner you know is is can you is
diminishing one's cultural status in
terms of how much in the culture they
are represented is that a zero-sum game
and my answer is yes now is it possible
if someone controlled all of our
cultural representations that they could
expand the number of representations but
the but the bottom line is the
percentage which is hierarchical and
then becomes not hierarchical that's a
zero-sum there's no way around that and
I'll also say that where we want to make
it seem like it's only zero-sum and
culture it's out there's also a zero-sum
dynamic economically because if you look
at what happened in Brazil and you look
at what the complaints about what Lula's
anti-poverty stuff did people rich
people were complaining that they were
making airports look like bus stations
right so there is definitely a zero-sum
element to this I don't know how this
debate has yeah I don't know you don't
know how it's even remotely now now
Jamie wait a second before you say that
none of this stuff is important the only
thing that's important is material
that's fine I'm not saying it's cereal
is more important that's fine that's an
opinion and it may be valid but it does
not
implicate this conversation and by that
I mean embroil bashing it's the example
that you used I mean no no he asked me
the question yeah and you answered it
with this this particularly said saying
in cultural representation what are you
talking about in terms of status social
status so I I thought you meant how
others perceive you in a society no I'm
talking about how you perceive yourself
as represented in the culture in the
society okay there are less white male
Congress people there are less white
male senators there are less white male
I would argue probably state legislators
I mean all like I don't know there are
less white male doctors there are less
white matic every single aspect of
society maybe there's some of it's not
the case maybe teachers teachers have it
hasn't changed but in in all facets of
our culture white men have lost status
as defined by representation as defined
by position and whatnot now that may not
be relevant to anything I happen to
think it is used to be relevant to how
what real estate but I mean those are
the sums you're you're measuring to see
whether they go up in proportion with
the other yes of course it's it's you
could do it by percentage or you could
do it in real numbers but my point is
when you look around it's just different
and it's it's zero-sum in that way it's
not about how you feel about necessarily
about how you feel about yourself people
different people can react to different
things I can feel very comfortable with
the idea in fact I do but there's a
significant but the reality is the
reality and there
yeah and that reality helps your status
because for example other people now
seeing you aren't going to say oh you
know what he's just in that position
because he's white and now right they
still can to some extent but it's less
so but I think that you know but that's
not status that's that's just an
assessment of your merit or your status
no status is a position it is I it is I
mean you know it's it's a thing it's not
a it's power zero-sum game
I would probably argue yes yeah and and
the deconstructing hierarchies is also
zero some I mean this is I think okay
maybe I know where he's going with this
potentially correct me if I'm wrong
caller the idea that by improving the
situations of other groups of people
we're not losing the privileged are not
necessarily losing anything right like
the relatively privileged to society
right like say isn't that definitional
like privilege just means relative to
other people you get something that
other people don't like we're getting at
this kind of mass politics I think and
some people take offense to the idea
that I don't know historically
privileged groups like white people
would be giving something up when what
we're getting hopefully is some sort of
social democratic program that helps
everyone except the 1% I don't know what
your that's the context that I've always
used always be helped and and I I think
I agree with you I'm not sure that that
I wanted to get at this I guess yes
but yeah I would say even the 1% would
be helped by a more democratic social
strife no chance in hell 1% involved so
for instance they might have feel more
secure in the knowledge that you know
maybe their great-grandchildren will
actually survive on the planet or they
might think well you know the masses
won't rise up and kill me to know you
know pretty well happened
right now though that is not how they
think they that is greatly forward
comment or not I've always been class
traders they're few and far between but
there certainly exist but just the fact
that they're mean the the they're there
they're operating you know they're
hailed because they're operating
supposedly against their best interests
the let me know here's the thing the
left needs to not act like it has
something to offer Bill Gates it doesn't
that's not a god no gates really I think
it does like I think a truly communist
society where we regrow these social
bonds like even rich people have rising
depression and anxiety right now because
we live in such a messed up world where
we're all atomized and we're all
separated from each other and I think
yes they would be giving up their status
relative to other people but they would
also have all of their material needs
provided for so its status would seek to
mean anything in terms of your material
circumstances and I think they'd be a
lot happier now would they agree with me
about this probably not but I do think
almost sure not all I do they were not
everyone I was a they would not like I
do think that this would be the best
idea lines might not but Bill Gates
might be with you I'm quite sure Bill
Gates would not be with you but for now
we need to and ESA can start a
one-percent outreach right I mean look
helped by it I think I didn't mean
they're not gonna fight it I linked it
it is unhelpful to assume greed that
that with a moment of clarity people who
are trying to prevent yours or whose
assessment of what your plan is will
come around I think it's just the bottom
line is you want society to be one way
they want it to be the other and the
question is who's gonna win in terms of
their vision for society and the fact of
the matter is there are people who have
lost status there will people who will
continue to lose status if there is a
more egalitarian society that is
definitional to the whole point of an
egalitarian society
when you have one that's naughty Gallic
like the Megan be whatever whoever it is
it doesn't matter they're going to
people who you are sympathetic to it
could be people who you are sympathetic
to the bottom line is pursue you know
what you seek for society without having
to convince yourself that it is that
that it is that there are people who
just don't understand that they're
actually not losing something they are
going to be losing something and that
okay so I'm not saying no one will lose
anything I'm saying that it's not true
that you can say that you can point at
someone's race or gender or whatever and
say this person will do something I
think that that's my point
let me ask you a question there's ten
people who are voting they're all white
men okay now I'm going to allow eleventh
person because we've decided to allow
women to have a vote when there was all
white men you're one of those voters how
much of the vote did you control ten
people yeah I mean I get ten percent
right 10 percent now if you're one of
eleven how much does your vote control
yeah nine and that's a little less than
ten huh exactly exactly
may I finish with the tweet appreciate
the call my friend knurl underrated
account neoliberalism on Twitter his
pinch tweet and I quote is started at
the bottom but because status is
relative and we live in a time of
increasing inequality now I'm here in a
much lower place okay I'm not sure I
follow just thought it was a nice button
status conversation it's a Drake
reference Sam oh is it oh oh my god I
had no idea I can't I mean I don't know
why I'm surprised at this point that Sam
doesn't get musical references I had no
idea it is I know Drake is a musician
crickets
I know Drake is a musician for sure
oh my god I've definitely heard a
alright we got one more call I'm sorry
folks I'm sorry I know this is really
annoying for everybody but this person
is holding calling from a 2:08 area code
who's this where you calling from hey
how are you Sam is Jason in Idaho Jason
oh welcome to the program I'm a big fan
of yours they play your show at the
supermarket I shop at so I hear pretty
much every day they do what supermarket
is that oh one of the big ones anyways I
know you used to be friends with Marc
Maron is that right that's that's right
yes I heard a rumor I don't know if this
is true but I heard a rumor that he
named one of his cats after you is that
true by any chance could it be true I'm
not I'm not sure I don't I don't know if
that's the case it could be well I mean
I just think it might be because you
know you're the biggest boomer
I've ever felt in my life oh see you
later so we did get him on a Friday yeah
that is that was from the guy from not a
show right I'm not even the show even a
shows Chris James yeah there you go that
was a good way to add now Brandon really
really stuck a like a like just through
the lure out there he said go to this
number
it's a libertarian that's why I faked it
up otherwise I would have hung up I
didn't know that here's like more than
what most people don't realize that Marc
Maron's cat's name is boomer so there
you go
oh so you were avoiding asking what the
name of the cat was to go right into his
trap I think well I mean I I was you
know I wasn't sure I wasn't sure where
he was going yeah not even help out I
that was a weird little flashback
because I was watching not even the show
last night check it out on YouTube folks
incidentally I'm not a boomer I'm
late-late gen-x no you're like the most
gen-x person who's ever lived
well thank you I appreciate that get it
why would you gotta be alright folks see
you on Monday in that sig goes to get
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made
[Music]
still get paid
rubber bands
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you yeah
[Music]
