I want to touch on this story about
Jeffrey Epstein I don't cover as a rule
criminal cases broadly speaking when
when when when things get to court from
a public policy standpoint more often
than not that's basically where I sort
of say okay let the the court
proceedings happen but this story about
Jeffrey Epstein is fascinating and
important for a multitude of reasons the
the first is is that this is a guy a
billionaire people are very unclear on
how he made his money but we can return
to that this is a guy who was convicted
or at least I should say pled to
multiple counts of basically running a
prostitution ring with underage girls in
Florida these were this was an
investigation that was brought initially
by the FBI and by the feds in fact the
US attorney at the time made the plea
deal with him and in according to
reporting by the Miami Herald called it
an incredible sweetheart deal this is a
guy who was being investigated by the
FBI for federal charges he pled to this
this prostitution a lesser offense and
got 13 months in a County Jail where he
was able to go out and work every day go
to work was a billionaire now so it's
not like he's you know who knows what
he's doing in his office he had to
register as a sex offender but it also
cleared all of his co-conspirators who
never had to serve any jail time and the
big thing was that this US Attorney
never cleared the deal with any of the
36 victims of this basically child
predator and a federal judge based upon
this reporting recently in February said
that the law was broken well it turns
out that that US attorney is now this
Secretary of Labor this guy Acosta
so that has political implications but
the other thing is is that Jeffrey
Epstein has had relationships with some
of the most powerful people in this
country and one of them was Donald Trump
in fact Donald Trump was sued by a woman
now a woman in California and then was
refiled in New York although she
withdrew it in the run-up to the
election because she was afraid
supposedly uh on the basis that that
Donald Trump had sexually assaulted her
in Jeffery Epstein's home years earlier
so all this coming to a head when the
New York the New York US Attorney office
has indicted Jeffrey Epstein and this
thing could go in a myriad of places
couldn't it Digby
oh it's it's huge I mean and it is
setting aside all the details that you
just put up including you know I mean he
was friends with with Bill Clinton as
well and basically apparently gave him
use of his plane to do a lot of and
accompanied him in some cases on a lot
of Clinton Foundation's business back in
the early 2000s and Clinton has denied
that he knew anything about any of this
underage stuff and says that he had
Secret Service people within the whole
time and what-have-you but that those
connections including Clinton and Trump
and you know people like Prince Andrew
and God knows who else you know just
what it says aside from the horror of
the charges themselves which are really
awful I mean the stuff this was a sex
trafficking ring that he ran recruiting
young girls to you know service him and
his friends Alan Dershowitz the famed
lawyers one of the primary people
exposed you know implicated in this
accused by one or more of the women now
who were young girls at the time of
being involved in this whole thing and
who also defended it
in his case in Florida that you know
that what this says about you know our
culture at large I mean you know this
goes beyond the normal corruption I mean
this is not something that you can sort
of attribute to well all the big-money
guys they kind of you know they're kind
of working together and there's corrupt
dealings and what-have-you all of which
is awful but this says is that you can
literally do anything and that you can
find protection and it does seem as
though Epstein was from the very
beginning finding ways to protect
himself by you know cultivating these
powerful people and that plenty of these
powerful people were willing to sort of
lend their names to to him or at least
be involved with him I mean Trump said
back in 2002 when in a profile of
Epstein he said I've known Jeff for 15
years
terrific guy he's a lot of fun to be
with it's even said that he likes
beautiful women as much as I do and many
of them are on the younger side I mean
he knew obviously I mean he clearly knew
that Epstein had a thing about you know
beautiful women on the younger side and
you know he basically and you know
through this not like Epstein's troubles
with the law were a secret I mean that
came out in the mid 2000s and the late
2000s he hired you know Trump hired
Acosta and they this came up in the in
the confirmation hearings not that
anybody did anything about it but you
know it came up in the confirmation
hearings and Trump knew about Epstein
and he knew that Acosta was had been one
of the assistant US had been the US
attorney for the Florida region who
actually let you know let Epstein off
the hook so he knew all that and what
this says is just that you know and a
certain level in this country apparently
you can get away with anything I mean I
think isn't that the pursuit of
pervading sense of what's happening in
the Trump era well that is I mean I and
it's the the pervading sense of what's
happening in the Trump era and the the
maybe perhaps the era leading up to it I
mean I think
the idea is that in this and in this
instance it's pretty narrow but broadly
speaking this notion of people who are
so powerful that they can buy and in
many respects live outside of the law is
a serious problem that we have in
society and you can apply this dynamic
not just in this sort of narrow instance
but broadly as well I mean the idea that
these people would allow a billionaire
to get away with what we consider to be
the greatest offense you could have in
our society I think you know is
basically it is pedophilia I mean it
gives you a sense of like what wouldn't
they let a billionaire get away with in
our society I mean what would they stop
them at and I think it's it's very
little to be honest with you all right
well we've got to take a break we'll be
back with more in the next hour from
Digby
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
