[Music]
meanwhile on the other end of the
spectrum apparently Eric Trump is rather
upset by George Conway who is George
Conway well he is Kellyanne Conway's
husband and he has since very early in
the Trump administration been public
about the problems he has with the
Donald Trump administration it's a
little bit strange it's a little bit
strange
George Conway basically said on Twitter
that President Trump has committed
witness tampering and obstruction of
justice that was a function of Donald
Trump basically saying you know hang in
there
two-man afford I just know Roger stone
knows what time it is right and Roger
stone you're my guy wing people Inc just
relax and so Conway said this is this is
this witness tampering and Eric Trump
really family man that he is came out on
Twitter instead of all the ugliness and
politics the utter disrespect George
Conway shows toward his wife her career
place of work incidentally Eric Trump is
the son of Donald Trump in case you
couldn't contextualize this and
everything she has fought so hard to
achieve
might top them all Kellyanne Conway is
great is a great person and frankly his
actions are horrible now of course
George Conway did not respond to this
because Eric Trump sub tweeted him by
not putting his handle however Reza's
an tweeted the following wait did I miss
something did George Conway pay money to
have sex with a porn star right after
his wife gave birth and that was
retweeted by George Conway always nice
to be able to other people's tweets do
your fighting indeed ladies and
gentlemen indeed obviously George
Conway's retweet not to be taken
literally that would my didn't seriously
yeah exactly
some retweets are in fact endorsements
all right tweeted it I meant it
