[Music]
this is also pretty funny the Jacob wall
you'll recall this is the the young man
who had the bombshell that robert muller
had sexually assaulted somebody and he
got as far as calling a press conference
on behalf of the woman who was going to
announce that she had been a victim of
these and he went to the press
conference and she never showed up and
he just said you know and it's not there
and he's been asked about that ever
since and he says well i'm not talking
about that anymore win some lose some
and so this is this is pretty upsetting
Jacob wall received death threats just
because this guy is a joke doesn't mean
that he should face this kind of
activity right it is wrong to receive
death threats wall and fellow I don't
know exactly how to characterize her
Laura Loomer the woman who locked
herself chained herself to Twitter
because to literally the building that
housed Twitter because Twitter suspended
her from the service went to Minneapolis
last month to investigate whether their
quest to prove representative Ilan Omar
married her own brother was true and his
videos apparently wells videos to his
fans were premise taun the idea that
what he was embarking upon going to
Minneapolis as you know was incredibly
dangerous because there are all sorts of
narrow do wells in Minneapolis no-go
zones yeah no-go zones who wanted to
take him out apparently he often would
wear a bulletproof vest because of the
danger in Minneapolis they call it
Target Center for a reason he received a
this is really he received some death
threats one of which was I hope you
effing know and the death threat or
didn't say effing I can assure you know
that if I bump into you in Dinkytown or
anywhere else in my city I'm going to
shoot you sort of polite threat and I
booked the help opened on your effing
bodies some some Twitter account I told
him how the left get that F out of my
city you piece of s now that's more like
it
this is from a Twitter handle called
Drake homes six one two well oh where
Jacob very and very smartly went to go
report mr. Drake homes six one two to
the police and here is a video he shot
of himself doing so
hi there we're what journalists on town
for business for a report we're doing
and we received a couple of death
threats yeah we watched it progress over
24 hours to what you're seeing now and
that's a steady stream coming in every
couple hours now apparently this Drake
homes 612 here's the police report
victim one wall jacob alexandra threat
terroristic threats completed homeland
security offense completed and
apparently and the other victim was ali
abdul razak Akbar that's who he's doing
the documentary doing the documentary
with now this Drake homes I guess is a a
diversity
what is it let's see what does he say
honest he's a Drake homes is a diversity
coordinator born and raised in
Minneapolis
the problem is Drake homes is also a
really really bad speller and he
misspelled his own last name in his
username which is weird
and it turns out that Drake homes is a
creation of one of jacob walls fake
accounts it doesn't mean that diversity
coordinators are tremendously dangerous
people i think we can all be an election
if diversity coordinator we're that hard
and the dm's for real i might be kind of
a breast yeah there you go
and apparently wall deleted the account
because somebody cotton gotta got wind
of it so jacob wall
my understanding is wasn't wasn't there
some controversy recently about somebody
who created their own fake death threats
or attack or something just a small way
see smaller so so wanna point out that
he says hater of racists homophones and
bigots fighter by yes so like homophone
doesn't like words that sound like other
words drake homes
so like could just be a really bad
speller that could have been the
character that Jacob well I think you
said Arthur objects to the euro
standards obscurely hates if you say I
threw the baseball through the tunnel
so Jacob wall may end up serving a
little bit of time in Minneapolis which
is pretty hard pretty hard
it's ba√±os it's weird that he didn't
serve any time for the whole Moeller
stun would be funny of L on Omar like
actually she's just like it what if her
like like like walks down the hallway
and she's being harassed by some idiot
from fox or something she's also like
and also Jacob wall should watch himself
in the prisons like if I was him I'd be
very mindful in the corridors of the
prison maybe take your lunch in the cell
like I would eat privately and a hashtag
no new friends
[Laughter]
