we see this dynamic where ostensibly la
is a in a blue state and theoretically
it should be dominated by people on the
Left who have a certain amount of
respect for public schools and I want to
talk about how it is that there is this
threat and why there is this threat to
public schools in just a moment but I
just want to you know have you reiterate
the point we made at the end there is
the the implication of charter schools
even when they are shown to perform
better
it's almost analogous to medical
insurance when you when you talk about a
risk pool if you give me the top 10% of
of a of any type of system of performers
and I put them together and segregate
them from other people they're going to
perform probably a little bit better but
what we're going to do is we're going to
hurt the other 90% of students because
of the nature of the way that people
learn and the the the lack of
integration among students not to
mention the implications of draining all
of these funds from those public schools
because we're setting up some type of of
competitive almost like Hunger Games
situation here and so how is it though
in LA that we are facing these questions
like how like what is it the system of
the the Board of Education or how is it
that that la is actually the the public
school system is under threat why would
that be well I mean I think it's not
actually so puzzling if if we take a
step back and just consider the forces
that have been really leasing the
Democratic Party for a long time which
which is to say that the people like Eli
Broad Reed Hastings these billionaires
who are donating to the Democratic Party
are openly doing so because they
understand that the Democratic Party
really just as much as the Republicans
for years has been committed to the same
policies of
patience oh it's not it's actually not
surprising the Obama administration
pushed forward policies in favor of
charters and so when you're looking at
Los Angeles it's not an exception in
many ways it's the rule but what's
different about Los Angeles I would say
at this point is that the process of
pushing to really dismantle public
education is going further than
elsewhere although to be honest it's
advancing quite quickly in a lot of
cities including in Oakland and other
places where there might be strikes the
spring so the the mechanism through
which we've gotten to this current
strike was pretty simple it's that
billionaires paid for the single most
expensive school board race in history
they paid nine point seven million
dollars in the spring of 2017 to
basically buy the school board election
for a pro charter majority that new
school board in turn selected Austin
Beutner who has literally zero
educational professional experience
he's a former investment banker to head
the district and the plan which was
leaked actually last fall to the LA
Times was as I mentioned before
basically they dismantled the district
by creating all about 32 competing
networks what they call it for those of
you want to look into it more this is it
called the portfolio model it's like a
portfolio for an investor where you have
you diversify your portfolio so you'd
want to instead of having one system you
have a whole diverse ecosystem of
different competing mini networks and
that's the end game the end game is
really talking about 50% 60% up to 90%
charters and then everybody else is left
to you know to fend for themselves and
that is the context in which the Union
is fighting for lower class sizes and a
whole range of policies to improve the
public schools because they realize that
is that are able to improve the existing
schools that's going to be the single
biggest bulwark to stop the kind of out
flow towards charters and my
understanding is that one
some of the demands involved you know
having a nurse at every elementary
school and having a librarian at every
middle school and that to a certain
extent of those demands have been met
because of increased funding from the
state but that the promise of those
those demands is only lab is only valid
for a year which seems like it
specifically meant to be window dressing
yeah the district in Buettner have not
been bargaining in good faith their line
is more or less pretending that they
support what the teachers are demanding
they they don't try to say you know what
they're saying is unreasonable that
their line is these are good demands but
there's just not enough money the
reality though is that there's the an
unprecedented surplus and a reserve in
LASD there's almost 2 billion it's about
one point eight seven billion dollars
right now in reserve and the teachers
know that money is there and that's
really what they're demanding it's why
their demands and their grievances at
this point really are focusing on as you
mentioned a really improving school so
it's not primarily about wages and it's
it's really articulating a vision what
kind of schools la would students
deserve as they call it and as you as
you noted the district has only under
pressure conceded a one-year fix and so
clearly the idea is do this would
attempt to mollify teachers try to get
them back to work and then once the year
is over go back to the status quo in the
plan and there's no indication that
teachers would accept that type of deal
or that the Union would so for the time
being
think that we have just a minute left
and you're you're on the ground out
there give me a sense of the Solidarity
amongst teachers how many teachers are
we talking about how how how much
solidarity is there I mean this is
coming in the wake of the Janis case
which is theoretically was
to hinder of the the power of unions and
it seems to have maybe in some respects
at the very least energized certain
segments of the Union right the depend
on the ground is really a little Marco I
would say parsley partly because it's
been raining really really hard which is
very rare in Los Angeles and denied that
there's just been massive turnouts what
we're talking fifty thousand people
converging in LA both yesterday and on
the first day of the strike on Monday
and large turnouts again today on the
picket lines the the mood I would say is
really determined it's it's hopeful and
people really are convinced that they're
going to win it's a question of how long
it's going to take there to stay out but
for this perceivable future in the next
coming days and weeks people seem ready
to stay out as long as it takes
well it's fascinating we'll be keeping
an eye on that over the next you know
days or weeks and and we shall see but
this is a big fight because like say
they you know we're talking about one of
the biggest school districts if not the
biggest in the country and you know a
lot of trends start in California
Eric Blanc thanks so much for your time
today really appreciate it
