[Music]
and things are moving rather quickly or
they appeared to be at least in terms of
public and congressional sentiment
regarding impeachment this is something
as you know I've been hammering away at
for some time and it feels like between
the corey lewandowski testimony and then
this report that i guess it was now
about a a little more than a week ago
when Adam Schiff was on Meet the Press
on Sunday a week ago Sunday saying that
there was a whistleblower complaint that
the Director of National Intelligence
refused to hand over well that guy John
McGuire Tobey Maguire is the actor
correct John McGuire is the acting DNI
he will be testifying in front of a
House Intelligence Committee publicly on
Thursday he will be meeting with the
Senate Intelligence Committee behind
closed doors is my understanding it's
unclear who the whistleblower is the
Trump administration yesterday floated
the idea of well we'll put out the
transcript of the phone call but not the
whistleblower complaint which leads me
to believe that the whistleblower
complaint is probably I mean they could
be lying about putting out the
transcript of the phone call but it
leads me to believe that the
whistleblower complaint is a little more
comprehensive than just a a secondhand
version of a phone call in the meantime
over the past I don't know 36 hours more
and more details have come out and it's
quite clear that Donald Trump tried to
blackmail Ukraine
into finding something that he could use
against Joe Biden in an election and
used the money that the Congress had
appropriated for support to Ukraine as
the what he was blackmailing would be
honey I'm back tears there you go
tremendous deals and the pieces of this
first of all I I mean I wouldn't put
Rudy Guiliani out there but here is Rudy
Giuliani claiming that well now remember
there were stories months ago about you
Rudy Giuliani heading to Ukraine to do
to dig up this stuff now it's one thing
for political operatives to be sent to
go dig up dirt on another op you know
another candidate I mean it's it's a
little bit unseemly to do it when you're
the president and to into sort of like
send your personal emissary because it
implies that maybe you're using your
influence and leaning on them but now
the implication is gone its hull seems
to be very very explicit so here is Rudy
Giuliani and what they're all trying to
do is they know at one point these facts
may come out so what they're trying to
do is backfill an explanation for them
and so they're trying to describe what
they feel will ultimately come out but
they're going to it pre interpreted it
mean it's not terribly different than
what Bill Barr did with the Muller
report you can't see it I'm gonna tell
you what it says so by the time this is
released we all know the story it's an
old story but wait a second it slightly
doesn't say exactly what you had said
that first time but here is Rudy
Giuliani still saying something that is
rather incredible he's not addressing
his trips to the Ukraine he's just
claiming that he'd been enlisted with
just one phone call because apparently
the State Department they don't have
anybody who has any relationship with
Ukraine at all and so Rudy Giuliani's
the own
only person and they maybe they knew
that he was being sent there by the
presence they figure well well you know
we don't have a phone number for anybody
he speaks Ukrainian and so here is uh
Giuliani telling this story on Hannity
because remember now the danger for
either candidate whoever the Democratic
candidate is they're gonna have the same
danger the danger for both these
candidates when they run for president
is going to be whose base is going to be
depressed in terms of turnout like who's
not going to be fully maximized and so
it all becomes how can we maintain that
we are above the fray in some fashion
did our State Department asked you to go
on a mission for them they they did I
you were by the sit and you went the
State Department called me and said now
I gotta say that was very adaptive
Hannity to know dude ask that question
cuz I would have never thought to ask
that question even like did the State
Department ask you about this it was a
State Department mission for our
security against Ukraine being ripped
off and Joe Biden who here can we who is
going who's my biggest lapdog
Pompeyo okay then it was the State
Department that sent him go did our
state Department ask you to go on a
mission for them they they did I
question you went the State Department
called me and said would I take a call
from mr. year Mac who's number two or
three to the president-elect now the
president I was put together with mr.
year Mac I talked to him he gave me
enormous ly important facts I conveyed
them all to the State Department
unlike the media lies fake news I was it
so let me just see if I understand what
what the deal is the State Department
says hey will you take a call not what
you initiate a call but they're gonna
call you and give you facts and then
relate them to us and the reason why we
want you is because you are so familiar
with what's going on in Ukraine that you
know that this guy was calling you is
the number two or three he's somewhere
he's you know that he's sort of
important and
that way you are much better positioned
to take the call to get the facts to
relate them to us okay I just want to be
clear that I understand he gave me
enormous ly important facts acts
conveyed them all to the State
Department
unlike the media lies fake news I wasn't
operating on my own as operating yes to
the State Department for that I have to
tell you Sean I knew this back in
November John or John or whatever I knew
I knew this back in November I don't
know what it is that he knew back in
November cause him John I'm not sure if
he even knows in case it all goes bust
you just call them John so here's
Giuliani trying to sort of backfill I
don't know exactly what this story
they're trying to make here but here's
Donald Trump also trying to do his back
filling because now it's been it's clear
the reporting is clear that Trump a
small veiny hold off on the four hundred
million dollars that Congress has
appropriated to the Ukraine and hold off
and tell them tell Congress that you're
holding off on it because the say that
the delays were part of an interagency
process but to give them no additional
information that was a pattern which Inc
which which went on for two months so
this started in mid-july the money was
due and this is according to three
senior administration officials so
somebody is trying to stick the knife
into somebody and I would bet those
senior administration officials are
probably coming from the vice
president's office or maybe they're some
vestige of somebody who's left who's
upset and I'm trying to think of who
that might be somebody who's got what do
they call that a hairy lip is when you
get a little upset or mustache you know
that's Bolton all right go
we actually do the washington post a
story about you supposedly a skin and we
move in or holding your fan page for you
tomorrow with them as well
so here's the story very simply we're
watching Venezuela very closely as far
as withholding funds those funds were
paid they were fully paid but my
complaint has always been and I withhold
again and I'll continue to withhold
until such time as Europe and other
nations contribute to Ukraine because
they're not doing it just the United
States we're putting up the bulk of the
money and I'm asking why is that
and I want Europe and it's always been
this and everybody knows it every single
reporter knows that everybody in the
administration knows that what I want
and I insist on it is that Europe has to
put up money for Ukraine also why is it
only the United States putting up the
money and I and by the way we paid that
money but I always ask why aren't other
countries in Europe especially putting
up money for Ukraine okay so just so you
understand that the the Venezuela stuff
he really wanted to get that out of the
way he didn't care it about they needed
to address this and his argument is the
reason why I would held the money for
two months and lied about it to Congress
even though they had appropriated it was
because I was mad that the Europeans
haven't paid up
which is why then I just gave the money
on September 11th I never publicly said
I withheld the money because of the
Europeans and I gave it I'm doing that
in retrospect because that's the most
effective way to do it and I would
withhold again even though I didn't
withhold until I used any of the
leverage from the withholding which of
course is no leverage against the
Europeans if I don't give the money that
the Congress has already appropriated so
they have yet to figure out how they're
going to answer this question and I
think the answer is just going to be
complete stonewalling however we will
have a better sense on Thursday when
Maguire has to go in front of the
Congress and the reason why we'll have a
better sense on Thursday one Maguire has
to go in front of the Congress is
because
it now appears that the dam has broken
there have been about ten more over the
past 24 hours Democrats who have come
out publicly for impeachment the latest
are seven freshmen Congress people they
are
I guess all Nash they consider
themselves national security Democrats
I'm not sure exactly what that means but
I have a feeling that means Democrats
but we like killing Yemenis that's right
regardless they I don't know if they
were all they're all vets I guess at the
military or the nation's offense and
intelligence agencies according to them
they wrote them as a megabucks winner
and one is a megabucks winner and they
are all more or less so-called
front-line Democrats I think five of
them beat Republicans in 2018 the other
two were in districts that could go
either way or with dealing with a
retirement so these are supposedly the
poster Congress people for why Nancy
Pelosi was not pursuing impeachment and
here is Roe Kahana this morning right on
on c-span on Washington journal
basically saying that he thinks the
train is about to leave the station with
an op-ed in Washington Post about this
issue of impeachment these seven members
of the military and intelligence
communities before they came to Congress
where do you think the the caucus line
is right now I saw that late last night
that op-ed and I said to a friend that's
a game-changer these are extraordinary
members of Congress they have the most
credentials when it comes to national
security or military issues they are off
many of them are in districts that Trump
carried for them to come out and say
this justifies an impeachment inquiry
really as chain
the tenor in our caucus you had a number
of progressives like me would call for
an inquiry now you have moderates and
people on Frontline districts calling
for it I can't think of something more
significant than that up at significant
enough to move the speaker to pursue
impeachment investigations I would be
surprised if she doesn't officially
endorse impeachment investigations at
this point obviously you'd have to ask
her but given the breadth of support for
that in the caucus that would be my
expectation now the real question is
going to be like I say when the Director
of National Intelligence shows up at the
House Intelligence Committee Thursday
and either gives them the whistleblower
testimony starts to commits to allowing
the whistleblower to testify to the
committee or not and there is now talk
again about Congress's power to hold
people in inherent contempt up to this
point all of the rebukes by Congress's
subpoenas have been pursued in the
courts and still awaiting resolution and
it's a very slow process and this was
deliberate on the part of Nancy Pelosi
but Congress also has the ability to say
okay you're gonna you're we're gonna
hold you in contempt and we have the
ability to find you money or we can put
you in our jail that is in our basement
they literally have a jail there and
they can put you in jail in their
basement be like being put in the
dungeon I imagine there's gonna be just
finds and that will be when that happens
you know this is for real I tweeted last
night at one point
I am looking forward to the column
saying that Nancy Pelosi played this
geniusly
lulling Donald Trump into a false sense
of security so that he would though go
in blackmail a a country to get them to
produce lies for his campaign and it
worked
so are you take a victory lap Nancy and
and a call for impeachment the
psychological needs of people for Nancy
Pelosi to be good for certain people are
deep uh it's not out there yet but I I
find hard to believe I think it will
companies we will check that out
