[Music]
in the Sudan there has been an agreement
that has tentatively been announced
between some members of the opposition
movement and the military transitional
council now this is really it might be a
step forward
certainly the African Union envoy is
saying that however and I believe
actually one of the people speaking here
from the military transition council is
the head of the Rapid Response Unit
rapid forces this is the remain renamed
jianshui militia which is the militia
that was responsible for the crimes
against humanity in Darfur
the Sudanese government when it was run
by Omar al-bashir and this is common
practice and the Balkans and Latin
America governments will when they want
to commit atrocities and want some line
of plausible deniability even if it's
being directed by the government or the
military they'll employ militias and
other groups to sort of subcontract it
you see this in US backed mass killings
in Indonesia as another example so this
agreement does not include all members
of the opposition and it doesn't
necessarily have any sort of serious
economic plan which is actually what set
off this latest round of demonstrations
they were about austerity Sudan has a
powerful labor movement even still even
after all these years of repression
let's play a brief report from it on al
Jazeera the agreement stipulates that
each side will have five representatives
in the sovereign council with an 11th
member to be agreed on by both sides it
is with pleasure on this morning to
bring the good news to the Sudanese
people that we have signed the political
document between the transitional
military council and the freedom and
change Alliance it is historic moment in
the history of the Sudanese people and
their journey of struggle it's a new era
of partnership between the brave Armed
Forces and our partners in the free
and change Alliance and the Sudanese
people this document is the fruit of the
efforts of the people and us as well we
honor the fallen martyrs the bereaved
mothers in the youth the fuel of this
revolution the revolution started in
December with anti-government protests
and turned into protein macro system at
the army headquarters in April that came
to an end when the military raided it in
early June killing at least 100
protesters the agreement signed on
Wednesday still lacks many details which
the two sides are continuing to discuss
so general Mohammad honden who and I'm
quoting now from the MPR who was a
signatory for the military at this
power-sharing deal the New York Times
has reported that protests leaders were
uncomfortable with the prominence of
general Hamden and his rapid to support
forces which excuse me it was rapid
support forces which has emerged as the
as the bit as dominant group and in
byzantine security apparatus they are
held responsible and were responsible
for killing hundreds of demonstrators in
the last couple of weeks so it might be
some slight progress but this is still a
very charged and very problematic
situation and we know that you won't
have the real sort of serious transition
without a dismantling of groups like
this and their power
