did you see this bernie gifts I did not
yeah oh if you're looking at the sound
 I included a link to it I'm gonna
put it up on screen here I mean I think
it's all the argument he needs to be as
for ours who's the candidate should be
for 22 yeah this is the ultimate
endorsement right here I will take a
look at this this is him basically for
people who are listening he's on Wall
Street and is basically reporting I'd
say I think you see yeah I mean he's
recording one of his videos
you know presumably something to do with
bank regulation or maybe the transaction
tax to fund the student debt relief
student debt cancellation and a UPS guy
just walks by him yeah
and gives him a pat on the shoulder and
it was actually a little pump of the
fist and I mean and and I you know I
believe her when she says it you know
Bree said to me like this is this is
quite very much the normal response that
Bernie gets from you know basically
people with jobs across the country
people in you know waiters yeah and so
on I've talked to a bunch of people who
have gone to the deep south with him go
into you know I don't know like not an
Outback Steakhouse but some restaurant
like that and literally like half the
kitchen staff comes out to just say hi
they're the ones we want to meet the guy
yeah and he doesn't flinch it a bit
either it's awesome
ya know he just kind of yeah it's very
natural you hitting me all the time I'm
always getting a pat on the shoulder
from the UPS guys
