CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any ELISA
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it's Thursday January 31st 2019 my
name is Michael Brooks and a Michael
Thursday and this is the five-time
award-winning majority report were
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program lori
wallach she's the director of public
citizen's global trade watch we're
talking about trump's NAFTA what's in it
where does it need to go from here from
a labor environmental and environmental
perspective what ii asked specifically
of the 2020 candidates to move to a
trade regime based on solidarity and
values and not corporate exploitation
she's gonna be joining us
Foxconn speaking of corporate
exploitation is reconsidering its
Wisconsin Factory after receiving
billions in subsidies to go there it
looks like that's not working out too
well the European Union has figured out
a alternative economic mechanism to
bypass US sanctions against Iran as that
hopefully will go into effect soon the
Trump administration blew up the Iran
deal which the Iranians are still
actually observing CNN in a rebuke to
trump showcases Mitch McConnell's
urging of troop deployments troop
increases in Syria and Afghanistan
some scumbag on scumbag violence there
of course mitch is wrong we do need to
dry out of both countries
almost almost keyword almost entirely in
the case of Syria where we need to
maintain solidarity with the Kurds
Venezuela continues to descend into
chaos Maduro is deploying secret police
union units in a crackdown as the United
States threatens military action and
Guido gets an opt-out space in the New
York Times to declare himself president
essentially I look forward to my offer
next indigenous movements and unions
march against austerity and Ecuador as
the sellout London Marino government
continues its undoing of the leftist
legacy of its predecessor AMLO declares
the war on drugs over Brazil's
prosecutors who in a vicious move
against political prisoner Lula da Silva
broked Brazilian law by not allowing him
to attend his brother's funeral have now
acknowledged publicly for the first time
with everybody else knows which is that
he's not quote-unquote a normal prisoner
which is one way I guess of referring to
a political prisoner ice ran fake
colleges to target undocumented
immigrants proving that evil does really
exist and the Homeland Security chair
raises the possibility of a subpoena for
the department of homeland security
chief Cascio Cortez is set along with
Edward Markey in the Senate to unveil
green New Deal legislation and Howard
Schultz still steaming ahead here
probably should have done this a little
while ago he deleted tweets that he
tweeted out of a column calling Warren
Foca antis and Harris shrill interesting
if I was Howard Schultz I would have a
little bit of a timing conversation with
Bill Burton and Steve Schmidt that
probably should happen a little bit ago
I mean I know this business people off
but I am NOT above Warren bass jokes
around the Native American thing that
one's really lame and Kamala Harris
Kamla Harris who I have plenty of
criticisms over I actually would
recommend the new woke Bros dropped
today woz and I did a deep dive on her
as well as Howard Schultz and Davos I
mean I think it's no mystery what I
think for a political profile but to
hear her as shrill would be like I don't
even know like actually the only
comparable example I guess I'll make it
serious would be like the type of people
who would say like Barack Obama just
sounds so angry yeah like you're hearing
yourself yeah and what you're hearing
from yourself is sexism when you say
that yeah like how do we get the least
benefit of the doubt right now that
we're not just being sexist I know
shrill I mean it's just unbelievable
that's just isn't I mean look because
sometimes you know frankly like you know
Hillary Clinton received a huge amount
of sexism but is it an accurate
statement to say that she is not
charismatic in the way that that word is
traditionally used and understood yes
and some people don't like to
acknowledge that reality but like Carla
Harris shrill hmm okay she's so
emotional she is none of these things
and actually I think when I read about
the and if you look at the New York
Times piece on her prosecuting record
called Carla Harris was not a
progressive prosecutor and you read
about her arguing to uphold and almost
certainly false conviction III felt a
lot more emotional than she did about it
that was some cold-blooded stuff so
anyway that's what Howard Schultz said
Howard Schultz on the one hand you have
belligerent men who talk about
assaulting women and putting children in
cages and then on the other hand a
calmly Harris is on her period which is
why I need to run as an independent
an independent man with a well-balanced
nervous system all right let's make fun
of Howard Schultz some more this is
gonna be all fun and games unless the
Democratic Party nominates Bernie
Sanders or Elizabeth Warren potentially
even sherrod Brown and then he will
continue his race and they will pump a
huge amount of money into a delusional
oligarch campaign which will not perform
well but could serve as a spoiler here
he is on MSNBC though I mean until that
event I think we all can definitely I
mean just keep laughing and dunking away
here he is talking about his two
favorite presidents one favorite
president it makes sense his reasons for
it are hilarious and the other favorite
president well he should keep that
presidents name out of his mouth
Republican president in the past 50
years best him I've great respect for
Ronald Reagan just came from the Ronald
Reagan Library the thing I took away
from Ronald Reagan aside from all of the
wonderful things he did that really
struck me especially compared to the
current person who is despicable in the
Oval Office Ronald Reagan never took his
jacket off in the Oval Office in eight
years why because of his respect and the
dignity of the office that needs to be
restored
how much democrat FDR how much
resistance MLK that's exactly right
he may have voted against my birthday
and supported apartheid but he never
wasn't snazzy in the Oval Office
I heard that Nancy told him that the
astrologist said that he would be cursed
if he took his jacket off but
nonetheless he did it and it was the
right thing to do
now his other favorite besides the
laughable Ronald Reagan line was FDR and
I believe it was it was FDR's uh
birthday was it yesterday I think we had
an FDR birthday recently and I said
would always say about FDR which is that
we already we know and there's serious
critiques to be had of the really
obvious things like the internment his
appeasement of segregationist in his
party and also a critique from the left
we know all these things Anytus and
that's important and then conversely uh
I'm not gonna throw the baby out with
the bathwater here I mean this guy was a
very successful
and there's a I did a lot of good things
for a lot of people things that are
still benefiting people today like in
2000
his 1930s legacy has a more positive
impact than almost anybody in modern
politics in 2019 and here he is um this
is this is the economic royalists speech
and think of this as an indirect
response to the the coffee guy the
average citizen is guaranteed equal
opportunity in the polling place he must
have equal opportunity in the
marketplace
[Applause]
[Music]
in other words Howard Schultz keep my
name out of your punk mouth before I
have to take my cane and slap the taste
out of it
my wife will kick your ass too now go
get us an overpriced over fat disgusting
latte which we will buy grudgingly so
that we may use the bathroom at the
airport
Howard is just an utterly content list
person like he might want to make it
look like he's creating some kind of new
synthesis of like all the greatest ideas
of the past but like no you picked two
pictures off of Wikipedia and you said I
like this guy and I like this guy like
it reminds me of a capitalist realism by
Marc Fisher I want to paraphrase the end
because it's kind of long here but he
wrote the power of capitalist realism
derives in part from the way that
capitalism subsumes it consumes all of
previous history one effect of its
system of equivalents which can assign
all cultural objects whether they're
religious iconography pornography or Das
Kapital a monetary value flattening them
all into decontextualized
artifacts well and that's why when a
Hillary cited FDR as her favorite
politician and Bernie cited Winston
Churchill as his favorite if foreign
leader it was kind of embarrassing for
everybody Yeah right every time just
like everybody's wrong here and being
really ridiculous but to paraphrase Marc
Fisher further how about we synthesize
my fist on your stupid face if I could
have designed public housing programs
that made it illegal for someone who
grew up in
one of them to open up a overpriced bean
chain that exploited laborers in the
developing world and those at home I
would don't ever mention my name again
Howard FDA probably opened up a lot of
those markets for coffee beans that is
robably sure that is probably um good
neighbor that is true although the
illicit history that we did with Derrick
Davison was and it was very practical
right like Roosevelt was actually decent
on anti-colonialism in some ways because
the patent was being passed from a
different world order from the British
Empire to the American Empire which is
branded differently right if painful
heartburn or acid reflux keeps you up at
night try med Klein it's a new natural
solution problem it's a new natural
solution to a problem that affects
thousands of Americans med Klein is a
comfortable acid reflux pillow system
for your bed that keeps you in the best
sleeping position for natural relief no
more sliding down a wedge of putting
blocks under your bed frame no more
dangerous medication and no more
suffering the Med Klein system is
available in three sizes
and has a patented arm pocket so you can
sleep comfortably on your side without
pressure on your shoulder the soft
supportive body pillow keeps you from
rolling to your back so you can get the
rest you deserve if you're suffering
with nighttime heartburn you have to try
met Klein tonight with their 100-day
relief guarantee you have nothing to
lose the system strip chips free with
this special offer and comes complete
with a full set of pillowcases for more
information visit
goodnight heartburn calm or call one
eight hundred six one oh one six oh
seven and just a code majority a check
out for fast free shipping
that's good night heartburn dot-com or
call one eight hundred six one oh one
six oh seven one eight hundred six one
oh one six oh seven to learn more and
try med Klein today we will be right
back with Laurie
polic on the majority report
[Music]
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
lori wallach she's the director of
public citizen's global trade watch and
a 25 year veteran of congressional trade
battles starting with the 1990s fight
over NAFTA I did want to say I I just
because in your bio I mentioned in the
office this morning during prep that
when I was I think well I was about yeah
I was about 15 or 16 years old and I
went to my one of my first you know
major protests and it was a World Bank
IMF protest I think in 2000 and I
remember I was probably like reading
some of your articles in the nation
thanks for being here I was only 12 when
I wrote those no I know you were
precocious you were known as they called
you the child prodigy of global trade
critiques I remember that so now you're
now yeah I mean I it was embarrassing
actually because I said my god she's 12
years old and five years older than her
and she's already writing great
critiques of the general agreement on
trade and tariffs in the nation ago she
ate it and now here we are with Nancy
getting renegotiated can you give us a
history of NAFTA before we get to the
renegotiations where is this trade
agreement come from where did it start
what was agreed to in the 90s the short
version of it is that NAFTA effectively
hijacked the the concept of trade
agreements and used that branding to
implement a set of binding international
rules that created a whole set of new
rights and powers for corporations and
limited government right to regulate a
lot of things unrelated to trade so when
senator Elizabeth Warren talks about
corporate rigged trade agreements that
is precisely accurate in that prior to
NAFTA trade agreements dealt with
cutting border taxes called
on physical goods that would cross
borders so any imported product with
NAFTA the corporations who under us
procedures have a special insider role
there are more than 500 official
corporate advisors to the NAFTA
negotiations and it was a closed-door
process Congress from the press and
public relax out they effectively
hijacked that process no one was paying
a lot of attention to border taxes tell
us we thinking about it to insert a
whole different agenda so now she became
this incredibly elegant Trojan horse
where for instance the pharmaceutical
industry inserted new monopolies
anti-competitive rules in a free trade
agreement to give them protections
against competition from generic
medicines to keep drug prices high or
the agribusiness industry can rules that
that got rid of the policies that had
been in place for 50 years that said
imported food had to meet US standards
not anymore under NAFTA and all the
companies that were looking to outsource
production to exploit low wages in
Mexico got a whole set of special
investor protections and privileges that
basically made it much less risky and
cheaper to outsource jobs and that whole
package got sold as trade and the
results sadly have been even more
devastating than the coalition of
environmental and labor and family farm
and consumer groups and progressive
Democrats who fought NAFTA in the early
90s predicted so can we just that will
get back to specifically NAFTA in a
second but I mean this is also a part of
a whole kind of broader set of global
trade regimes that were particularly you
know prevalent in the 90s like I'm
thinking of of GATT general agreement on
trade and tariffs but then also
very similar to the Obama administration
pushing TPP and I want to just put one
other thing on the table just briefly
because your work I think always showed
this because you were and are so good at
basically yeah I mean translating
technical things that seem really boring
but actually have a big impact on
everybody's life and that is this new
scholarship from a Quinn slobo Dane
Slovo Dean excuse me and I'm forgetting
the name of his book but he his argument
is basically that when we say when we
accept the neoliberal or nays lays a
fair idea that they're advocating for
less government less interference in the
market that's a fundamental
misconception because all of these trade
systems and all of these way the rules
of the road of things like the WTO are
highly bureaucratic highly technical
highly government involved they're just
written in a way that explicitly
benefits like you were just saying the
pharmaceutical industry so I'm wondering
first I mean does that kind of make
sense as a way of understanding the
thing the the broader thing and then
like how do all these trade systems fit
together is it really just like writing
the rules of the road to benefit the
corporate sector across the planet
that's that's it in fact that you know
Quinn's description of it is exactly
right it's not that the agreements are
eliminating regulation and government
interference they are rather imposing
one-size-fits-all a set of rules that
explicitly privilege big corporations
and stick it to working people the
environment and frankly undermine the
principle and practice of democracy
because trade agreements shouldn't be
locking in the parameters of what
permissible domestic policy is on access
to affordable medicines on the
regulation of banks on the inspection of
food for safety those are issues we need
to fight out in Congress local issues
about land use and zoning agreements
like NAFTA try and make sure that for
instance a community can't limit big-box
store
why is in here back in a trade agreement
that should be fought out it at City
Council with everyone who's gonna live
with the results involved so the whole
idea of basically hijacking the trade
agreements was to create these Trojan
horse instruments that would shift
decision-making away from those who
would be affected and lock-in rules that
privileged
global corporations and you know
speaking of good books robert kuttner
Bob Kutner has a new book out that talks
specifically about the fundamental
incompatibility of these kind of rules
and democracy it's called kin democracy
survive global capitalism and it sounds
like it's a companion to Quinn's book
because he basically points out yes of
course we should have trade rules trade
can be good but we have to extract all
of this corporate protectionism from the
trade agreements and this is by the way
to jump back now to the future this is
exactly where what progressive
organizations and unions and Democrats
in Congress are now fighting for with in
after renegotiation differs with what
Trump's business
Trump's worldview about this is these
trade agreements are about other
countries sticking it to the US we were
dumb and how we negotiated them or other
countries take advantage of us that's
not the deal
the deal is actually that these
agreements were hatched in the US after
being marinated in corporate influence
and we the US helped impose these
corporate rules on everyone it wasn't
we're the victim we were one of the
reasons these bad rules got hatched and
so the results that Trump spotlighted
very bad results to appeal to voters in
Wisconsin and Michigan and Ohio and
Pennsylvania
those are real results but the reason
those results are there is not because
Mexico's stuck it to us and NAFTA it's
because a bunch of big corporations
mainly in the US but also in Canada and
Mexico got a set of rules that
like that have been a losing proposition
for people in all three countries so we
do diddily with lack law the labor
council for Latin American advancement
that's on our website trade watch org
that prevents the empirical data that
shows actually the biggest victims
people most penalized by NAFTA are
working people in Mexico and Latino and
African American workers in the US US
workers have seen almost a million
specific good manufacturing middle-aged
middle-class wage jobs certified by the
US government is outsourced to NAFTA
under these special protections that
promote outsourcing Mexico Canada have
paid hundreds of millions of dollars to
corporations who attack
domestic policies using the outrageous
NAFTA investor state tribunal system
where corporations can extract taxpayer
money attacking domestic health and
environmental laws claiming they violate
their new NAFTA investor rights all of
these outcomes are directly attributable
to a set of rules that basically put
corporate interests first and so when
Trump is renegotiating NAFTA you know
his view of what the problem is
Mexico stuck it to us is not related to
what the actual problem is now happily
the guy this is lead negotiator is a guy
who's worked with the unions for a very
long time
and he actually managed to get some of
the fixes exactly right so we have this
renegotiated NAFTA that was signed in
November 30th and part of it got fixed
so those investors state tribunal has
got largely whacked which is amazing
that's some of the side you should feel
great about that
can you just briefly get into the
investor state because those are those
are really big can you just give us a
little bit of details on those in a
minute and then explain where the
renegotiation failed you bet so what I
want to say before I explain investor
state is the way I would look at it
right now is some important thing has
got fixed things the progressive in
banding forever
some new bad stuff got added new rights
for Big Pharma to lock in hi medicine
prices that has got to go and then
there's some really important unfinished
business there's some improvements on
labor standards but not enough and
they're not yet sufficiently enforceable
the environmental standards still need
to be strengthened and made more
enforceable and right now progressive
members of Congress organizations are
all united basically thank goodness
because the Democrats now have a
majority in the house saying hey you
want this agreement to pass you got to
make the rest of the improvement you got
to get rid of the big pharma stuff you
got to add the labor and environmental
enforcement and strengthening and then
there might be an agreement that could
stop some of NASA's damage the agreement
you signed is not going to cut it
so isds one of the things they did fix
is this regime that was first tasked
with NAFTA because NAFTA really was the
model for all of these other bad
agreements including TPP TPP was like
NAFTA on steroids so at the heart of all
of those agreements is this regime
called investor state dispute settlement
where multinational corporations are
empowered to attack countries domestic
laws and attack them not in domestic
courts but in front of tribunals of
three corporate attorneys and the
corporate attorneys are allowed to order
the government's to pay unlimited
amounts to be paid by US taxpayers for
any domestic policy law regulation Court
decision government action that the
corporation's
claimed undermine the investor
protections and rights they have in the
agreement and these three private sector
attorneys who rotate between being the
not really judges and suing governments
for corporations these guys rotate some
incredible conflicts of interest and
their decisions aren't appealable and
this sums they can make us pay unlimited
so 390
two million dollars has been ordered
paid in isds NAFTA attacks against
zoning policies water policies
timber policies energy policies tax
expands and that system in the revised
NAFTA is totally eliminated between the
US and Canada which is a big deal
because the sad story is the majority of
the attacks have been US corporations
attacking Canada's superior
environmental and health laws so that's
totally ended in in NAFTA 2.0 and then
with respect to Mexico the broad
corporate rights that have been the
basis for these attacks and
environmental laws are eliminated the
claims that can be made are for what's
called expropriation if the government
takes your property and doesn't pay you
back and their limits on how much the
damages can be there's a new rule that
says no rotating for the panel the
tribunal us and the people who sue
governments but most importantly under
this replacement for ISPs the the
corporations have to go domestic courts
they have to spend two and a half years
in domestic courts and get a ruling from
the highest court in the land or get no
ruling before they can even start the
process under the very limited claims
available that's huge progress there's
one loophole the broad rights are
preserved for the seven US oil and gas
companies that have nine existing
contracts with Mexico's hydrocarbons
authority and that loophole Democrats
and progressives are fighting to get
narrowed but that was an important
improvement that people been fighting
for forever in contrast you know the TPP
expanded ifvs it covered in TPP it
wasn't just the whole old bad system it
also allowed to tax on financial
regulation policies so that that is a
step big stuff big step in the right
direction also some horrible NAFTA rules
that forced countries to export natural
resources that they wanted to conserve
was removed some actual trade rules
that allowed a lot of products basically
made in China to sneak through under the
NAFTA duty-free benefits were tightened
up that's important an interesting new
rule is added that for products to get
the NAFTA benefits a portion of a
automobiles value has to be made by
workers making 16 dollars an hour or
more that's a first time that wage
levels had been linked to market access
that's super important another big fix
was a big pom on the original NAFTA
basically requiring trucks from Mexico
and Canada that didn't meet US
environmental or safety standards they
had to be allowed on us roads backup
removed so now the safety standards and
also the worker driver that work a
driver our or safety rules all that
stuff can be reapplied so those are
important improvements the problem is
that the environmental and labor
improvements needed to get rid of to at
least lessen the incentives to outsource
jobs are not yet sufficient and they
added new monopoly rights for Big Pharma
so I want to get yeah we'll get those I
want to actually before we get to that
what are specifically the new monopoly
rights for Big Pharma
so here is what the agreement did it has
it has rules that would guarantee for
pharmaceutical corporations that
basically forever because trade
agreements generally don't have
termination periods the new NAFTA does
have a six year review provision which
is important corporations
hate it there is a way that it can be
sunset it's not easy to use but the
current NAFTA goes on forever and an
improvement in the new agreement is
there is this review and possible sunset
but basically unless a country got out
there would be forever
a requirement that all governments
provide to pharmaceutical companies the
exact policies now in place in the US
that caused the high prices so for
instance ten years of what's called
marketing exclusivity for what are
called biologic medicines those are all
the cutting-edge new drugs that are used
to treat cancer diabetes a lot of
autoimmune diseases plus a bunch of
vaccines and these drugs now in addition
to their patents which is a monopoly for
twenty years have these marketing
exclusivity x' which which basically
says even if you don't have a patent you
just can't sell this drug for ten years
as a generic so that has led to prices
for these kind of biologic medicines
being hundreds of thousands of dollars a
year per patient just totally I mean to
put this in perspective biologics are a
relatively small portion of total
medicines but they represent 70% of the
growth in medicine price expenditures in
the last five years so they're they're
super expensive that's got to change
lots of legislation in Congress would
whack back those exclusive exclusivity
period another thing the new NAFTA would
lock in is what's called evergreening
these are a whole basket of different
policies the pharmaceutical companies
used to extend their actual patents
behind 20 years so that is for instance
the new NAFTA requires government to
allow new 20-year patents
on known chemicals one that's already
had a patent if the company finds a new
use
so like viagra was originally a hair
growth medicine and this other effect
was reported so a second patent for the
other use of Viagra besides growing hair
could be registered for another 20 years
or for instance by combining a patented
drug with something else you can get a
new 20 year monopoly that kind of stuff
has to go that means you know drug
companies get more than 20 years in
monopoly so those things get locked in
so those are some of the things that
have to come out it's stuff Mexico and
Canada didn't want the US negotiators
push that stuff and now the Democrats in
Congress are very unified saying hey
whatever you think about trade we're not
going to sign an international agreement
that takes away Congress's ability to
make the changes necessary to bring down
medicine prices and and forgive me if
I'm wrong but I for when we think of
what industry spends the most on
lobbying in Washington and we think of
defense and oil companies and obviously
financial services in Silicon Valley but
if I understand correctly it is Pharma
Pharma has the most lobbyists or most
money flowing to Congress if I
understand that correctly so that's that
show that but here is the one thing
that's happened yeah that's the chance
to get this fixed everyone in this
country Democrats Republicans has come
into a state of rage about current
medicine prices and we saw a lot of
Democrats who are now the new majority
in the House elected on this issue so as
much as Pharma has lots of money
sloshing around Washington there are
also a lot of members of Congress who
realized the public is like ready to
come after them with pitchforks if they
don't deal with this and even the
president has been screaming the press
has been in the last two weeks screaming
at his own advisors about what are we
doing to bring down medicine prices what
the first thing they shouldn't do is
lock in high prices so this seems to be
one if we do the work we can get this
fixed absolutely so I and I also if
you'll indulge me for a second
my comedic mind when you talked about
the other effect the viagra I thought of
like a scene in Sopranos but it would be
like pharmaceutical surprise hey tone
there's another effect we can get an you
can get an extension all right now that
I've indulged myself there for a second
so so okay and actually I want to just
put three things on the table and and
one of them will be a bit longer so if
we I hope we can go in at least another
couple of minutes but just first briefly
I've just noticed I mean you've been
calling this NAFTA 2.0 not um I don't
even know what Trump has been calling it
but just to be really clear that the
spin from the administration that this
is a totally new thing is nonsense
and wrong and this is with both its
improvements and it's and it's actual
worsening z-- this is another version of
NAFTA this is not any type of
reinvention which you know Trump would
have you believe yeah it's a rebrand he
is trying to make the claim that he has
totally replaced NAFTA this is not the
transformation or replacement of the
NAFTA model it should be called NAFTA
2.0 the question and the test in the end
is can we get the additional improve
improvements made so about this
Agreement its revised version it's amend
can be a deal that can stop some of
nafta's serious ongoing damage so if
this were a blank slate like with TPP
where you either had a new agreement
well you didn't have a new agreement
this agreement would not be something
people would be fighting to make better
necessarily differences we got a NAFTA
in place it's causing ongoing damage
every damn week every week more
middle-class jobs are being outsourced
and here's the thing we don't begrudge
people in Mexico a good job the problem
is NASA is like a machine that turns
middle-class jobs into sweatshop jobs
because jobs in Mexico pay a buck fifty
to two dollars an hour for jobs that
folks in the US were getting paid
fifteen
20 25 dollars an hour for and by the way
it's not just manufacturing I mean the
newest thing is like AT&T is putting a
big call center no Verizon its Verizon
it's putting a big call center into
Mexico City 5,000 seats and they are
recruiting people at the airport who've
been unjustly deported knowing that they
found people who speak English and they
can pay them a buck fifty an hour to do
the same job that was they were in the
u.s. they be represented by a union CWA
Communication Workers and have a good
middle-class wage benefits etc so it's a
race to the bottom in wages so that the
reason for instance here the last
leftover thing besides getting the farm
and stuff out the environmental and
labor standards need to be improved and
made subject to Swift and certain
enforcement and here's why real wages in
Mexico are down the median real wages
down three percent since NAFTA went into
effect and it was not a survivable wage
I could feed a family you could work two
people could work full-time and not be
able to support a family of four under
the the wages that were available before
NAFTA and now it's down so just to put
this in perspective Mexican
manufacturing wages are now forty
percent cheaper then in China so for
people in Mexico getting the rules
strengthened so they can have a real
union have higher wages is a moral
imperative so when a lot of people say
how can you stomach trying to work to
improve and maybe pass a trade agreement
with this administration the answer is
if you're a progressive person and you
look at this new NAFTA draft there is an
annex in there that says Mexico agrees
to provide secret ballot votes on union
contract and in four years to replace
all of the fake what are called
protection union contracts those are
contracts not allowed into Mexican labor
law or before work even gets hired a
branch of the old political party Dupree
that calls itself a union goes into the
boss for a certain amount of money they
make a contract it protects
the corporation they register it under
law because the Mexican Constitution
requires union representation now there
is a contract the workers didn't approve
it they don't know about its low wages
workers come in realize they have crap
pay do a strike and they'll get fired
for violating the contract that they
never approve and if they try to
recognize an independent union they get
fired and go to jail for violating labor
law so if we could really make those
rules in the revised agreement that for
the first time would let Mexican workers
have independent unions I really fight
to raise their wages that is something
we have to try to get to become reality
as well as other improvements that are
in that agreement that is something that
is not just critical to stop the poll
that Mexico's low wages have to
outsource US jobs but that's also really
important to making the standard of
living in Mexico the wages paid their
decent otherwise again middle-class jobs
whether they are being filled by Mexican
or US workers turn into sweatshop jobs
and it is not acceptable that race to
the bottom 100% right and I and this is
really really crucial because you know
in the press coverage particularly in
2016 the lazy and I will say corporate
media narrative was well I mean they
drew a lot of false equivalencies
between Sanders and Trump but very
specifically on trade the way they would
say Trump's sort of like general just
kind of xenophobic bellicosity and all
these conspiracies and nonsense about
somehow Trump you know Mexico getting
one over on the United States versus
Bernie Sanders you know principled call
to have trade agreements that reflected
a broad set of needs labor the
environment living standards and
allowing for you know the obvious trade
that comes to people's minds I mean
that's a big problem you say trade these
people want you to think like oh right
this means like you know you get you get
your coffee from Colombia and you
get to watch a move you know your
favorite kung fu movie from Hong Kong
and whatever that's trade like what they
mean is as you've been outlining is
actually very technical very
bureaucratic agreements written to
benefit corporations track any
corporations so it's real I love that
you you connect those dots not only
because it's right on the policy but
because we actually need to really
debunk the lazy discredited media
narrative that there's any equivalency
between a left critique of things like
NAFTA and the the right-wing xenophobia
but of course at the same time no doubt
if we can get a better NAFTA with
whoever's in there we absolutely should
a hundred percent and I and that leads
me to my last kind of general question I
want to ask you it seems to me that
every single time there's a new trade
agreement that a Democrat pushes I
looked into Clinton and I obviously you
know was here for Obama they always say
that whatever fill-in-the-blank new
trade agreement is has unparallel side
protections for the environment labor in
public health and it's gonna do great
things for you know union workers in
Indonesia and to protect the world's
oceans if it's TPP or if it's NAFTA you
know Bill Clinton talked about putting
rigorous side agreements on and we know
from the merits in the substance of
these of these agreements both in the
written form of TPP which thankfully
hasn't been implemented as well as what
we've been living through at NAFTA
thanks to analysis and reporting from
people like you that you know this is
just simply not true
but it's highly technical it's hard to
figure out and so my question for you
and this will be you know definitely
geared towards Democrats or people
likely to be voting in a Democratic
primary which I'm sure is over like
ninety five percent of this audience how
do we get really specific in the sense
that we could say look Bernie Sanders
and Elizabeth Warren yes they're
probably I mean Bernie definitely is
Warren seems to definitely be she has a
shorter career obviously but I think you
could confidently assume they're on the
right side of these issues a sherrod
Brown gets in he's definitely on the
right side of these issues
and then a you know pretty clearly joe
biden's consistently been on the wrong
side of these issues but four candidates
and frankly I guess this for any of them
they're all gonna say that these that oh
I'll only support agreements that have
great green and Labor Standards but
because it's so technical and because
Democrats always say that what are the
kind of specific questions that as an
example if you're out at a candidate
Town Hall or something like that to
really narrow down what a candidate
actually means when they talk about
their stance towards trade so we can get
highly specific and know where people
are actually coming from on these
agreements very good question so the
first of all one of I think the the best
sort of overviews of what is a
progressive set of rules of the road for
a trade agreement and this is not to
toot my own horn but something that I
wrote with Jared Bernstein who after
after he had been a couple years after
he was Vice President Biden's chief
economist he and I were having a
conversation about you know what would
be the thing we should be calling for
let's let's help summarize that so it's
called the new progressive rules the
road on trade and it's on Jared's blond
so if you look up Jared Bernstein you
can see this new rules of the road
progressive rules that role for trade
and that lays out in you know 15 pages
what it looks like the trigger questions
folks can actually get talking points
sent to them with those questions
specific to NAFTA the renegotiation
but broader if you go to our action page
which is w w replaced NAFTA dot org
there's a sign-up form where it says you
want to be part of the team that makes
sure we replace the corporate rig Trade
Agreement and we actually are helping
people lots of people did it in this
last election cycle go to town hall
meetings and ask the right questions
that's wwa snappa dot org sign up on the
Action List because literally you can
sign up and then you can say what you
want you can say I want to know what
questions to ask that the short answer
is the things that
that can differentiate clearly between
who's for real and who is not is a
question about investor state dispute
settlement hmm
will you look hos any trade agreement or
if you're president will you ensure
every future US trade agreement does not
have investor state dispute settlement
that's a bright line question about
corporate power same thing if you are
elected president will you ensure that
our trade agreements do not contain any
new monopolies and powers for Big Pharma
bright-line questions you either have
the patent rules or you don't have the
patent rule on environment and labor
specifically the question to ask is will
you ensure that environmental and labor
standards in the way it's written is
tough environmental labor standards can
be triggered automatically so that
enforcement is Swift and certain and
that sounds like a complicated question
all it means is the difference between
having standards that can be actually
enforced by unions or the public
bringing up a problem versus having to
rely on trade officials to start the
process and there are a bunch of
commercial rights and trade agreements
that can be triggered for instance
here's what this means practically a we
have these intellectual property rules
and trade agreements and domestic law
gets changed so that is a copyrighted
product if a pirated you know CD comes
in if a pirated a fake knockoff of a
movie comes in there can be that can be
stopped at the border and if a product
comes in that is supposed to be made in
Germany but really it's from China and
it's it's a lie the way the customs
forms are filled out to live that can be
stopped at the border what we need is a
system where products that don't meet a
trade agreements environmental and labor
standards can automatically be stopped
at the border that you don't need to go
through a whole special rigmarole to try
and enforce those standards
that's the same level of enforcement
like intellectual property rules or
other trade rules that's that's what it
boils down to but how you ask the
question again sign-off at WWF a
Schnauzer org and we will get you the
specific talking point awesome and of
course we will link to all of that on
our homepage of majority dot F M lori
wallach you are so important and this
work is so important I really appreciate
I hope everybody will follow up on all
of those fronts and if you are
participating in this primary in any
capacity get really really specific
because these trade agreements are I
mean it's one of those things it's
definitely a 1% vers 99 percent issue
unless you're on a boardroom for you
know Pfizer or something these
agreements are not good for you they're
bad
so lori wallach she's the director of
public citizen's global trade watch lori
thank you so much for doing this I
appreciate your time a thousand thanks
to you and folks if you feel you want to
get more comfortable at the details the
other place to go is trade watch.org
and we literally have as a as a report
card what the demand was from
progressives and then how the agreement
measures up and it's in language for
civilians you do not need to speak now
to ease so please get involved and thank
you so much for doing the show I
appreciate it
they are really a priest they are really
counting on you being afraid of speaking
NAFTA ease it's a whole other you know
it--i've talked a little bit about Paulo
Freire a who wrote pedagogy of the
oppressed it was this radical Brazilian
educator and if I recall correctly he
would teach people literacy through
learning how to read the newspaper
because he would join together basically
like the practical skill of reading with
like what are the stakes were in their
lives in terms of the politics their
moment and there's just so much garbage
policy and garbage ideas that get
shuffled through techno speak to try to
intimidate you out of following your
common sense which
most people really have I mean I've used
this example a million times but it's a
good example of that uh Wall Street guy
that I'm like you know literally running
at the treadmill and he's a loudmouth
whatever nice guy we're talking we
getting some argument about derivatives
or something and I used the mat tight he
was and he was doing all this like well
you know I mean look you're smart guy
but you know I worked a little blah blah
blah for ten years or whatever and I
finally gave him my probably a Taibbi
example of like yeah dude I I look yeah
sure I don't have an MBA I don't work on
Wall Street but it sounds to me that the
thing you're talking about is like the
scene in Goodfellas where they torch the
restaurant and collect the insurance
money and I'm saying that that should be
regulated or eliminated and he's just
kind of yeah that is what it is it's
like right so don't try to like come at
me with your gobbledygook and it's the
same uh NAFTA and somebody like lori
wallach is so smart in such a clear
communicator she breaks it down so I
would just say yeah follow all of her
work on global trade and as as the
hysterical professor from Canada would
say be very precise with the candidates
about it alright folks we are gonna go
to the fun half momentarily and it's
gonna be very exciting fun half frankly
become a member of the majority report
today majority dot F M slash become a
member that's how this show happens
that's how you have in-depth
conversations and discover the vital
work of people like lori wallach you can
do that by going to majority report
homepage clicking on membership or
support and getting yourself a
membership do it today
just coffee dot co-op of course today's
sponsor if it's relevant to you check it
out
yet the deal subscribe on youtube all
the rest of the ways that you can help
keep this show growing and humming of
course keep the Michael Brooks show
growing and humming we are fifty patrons
away from our 2,000 patron goal let's
get there
help sustain obviously and expand our
work and also will lead us to do this
food bucket challenge which I thought
was a much better idea when we were
about 700 people away from the next
school but it will be fun of course
tonight we're live usually we're on
Tuesdays but because of frankly because
of the government shutdown has affected
our workflow it's gonna affect our cuz
we're gonna do Thursday again next week
because we're doing majority before
coverage at from store the Union address
that's not too excited let me just say
preemptively huh I'm sick
no I'm just playing I'll be there I will
be there a Tuesday night but tonight we
are live so we're also starting an hour
earlier because we need to do the final
bit of preparation for our first EMBs
live show tomorrow night at the Bell
House so we're starting earlier at 6:00
p.m. we are obviously got a lot to cover
on Venezuela and then the great Bill
Fletcher jr. joins us we're talking
about uprisings that are happening right
now in Zimbabwe and the Sudan that
circle around labor austerity global
trade regimes and then we're gonna talk
about the legacy of the revolutionary
Michele Cabral and Africa in the leftist
imagination Bill Fletcher jr. is a
former president of trans Africa forum
and one of the most important people in
the game today kind of a mentor to me
tenant live tonight 6:00 p.m. the
Michael Brooks show YouTube channel and
of course become a patron and get the
whole thing two to one content at
patreon that is two more postgame and
elicit histories plus the full main long
show which is quite an endeavor and of
itself at patreon.com slash t MBS
patreon.com slash TBS I'm not sure about
the ticket situation but there's a link
so go check it out on the home page and
see we look forward to seeing everybody
there Jamie what's going on yeah so this
week on the anti Fattah we speak with
the always on point
Lesley we the third elected leader third
a lot he good guy he's funny and smart
he's so funny and he's so smart and I
would call him a hater except he really
likes the things that he likes as well
he's got great taste and he's like
really funny and mean about stuff that's
bad and like just really likes genuinely
the things that are good
so like comic books and Nation of Islam
Obama sure no he is a big fan of Nation
of Islam as well as the purge movies
which I had slept on for way too long so
we talked with him about the purge
series as well as The Handmaid's Tale we
finally talked about The Handmaid's Tale
I know people have been asking me when
we're gonna do a show still on uh I mean
I'm not gonna watch it anymore I think
I've seen enough but uh it's it's coming
back apparently and we we talked about
it sort of in the context of what it
means to like resistance lips and all
the horrible memes people have made
based on it like this one that I think
you're gonna find funny it's a picture
of the hand maids dressed up in there
you know like rape slave garb and one of
them's like oh I know but I just didn't
like Hillary it's like you don't vote
for Hillary now you're living under
theocratic fascism it's so hard to pull
off the dialectic of disputing dumb
moralism voting which is voting for Jill
Stein in a swing state with on the other
hand this like resistance like well you
voted the wrong way and Hillary Clinton
was a perfectly good candidate and there
was no problem in society and Obama and
her and everybody would just have Amazon
Prime
but you wrecked it and there was never
any problem before until November 2016
yeah I mean yeah so presumably you guys
knocked that dialectic out of the park I
like to think so so good yes she's good
folks he is very good and I think this
weekend Sean and I are gonna be on some
sort of twitch thing that the chapo
folks are doing for the Super Bowl what
what I heard it oh I thought I heard
some I heard an exclamation behind me
but yeah it's uh it's gonna be weird
probably it sounds weird Matt also the
seven gables we unpack what might be of
interest to this audience of nerds we
unpack a reference just going in on the
audience a reference Hawthorne makes to
Charles furrier who was a French utopian
socialist a pre marx socialist mmm
in Hawthorne now it actually named drops
him in the house of seven gables and we
go into them nice um he's gonna come on
later in the fun half to visit us on
camera for a couple of minutes but I
should say the infamous Jeff from
Georgia is visiting us he's in town and
so I'll take this opportunity to say to
go to patreon.com slash is it slash
dissident peasant and check out his work
over there in the plug section of the
show he's gonna he's chomping at the bit
alright folks see in the phone half
[Music]
you
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
boss I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you're nervous you're a little bit upset
you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you're
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes do you feel
like you are a dinosaur good
exactly I'm happy now so win-win
it's win-win-win hell yeah now listen to
me two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven two thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9
billion
Wow don't you see why don't you get a
real job instead of spewing vitriolic
hatred your left wing will involve
everybody's taking their dumb juice
today come on Sammy
dance dance dance
Rand Paul had my first post-coital
seafood I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment No all right gonna take
a quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber lastik I'm
feeling more chill already hood Donald
Trump can kiss all of our asses hey Sam
hey Andy
[Music]
[Music]
just flush this out a little bit I mean
look it's a free speech issue if you
don't like me thank you for calling into
the majority report damn we'll be with
you shortly bullfrogs bullfrog did that
this is Matt's Myka hmm okay um very
funny very funny very smart uh Dan
Coalition in 2011 what's hold see
Gabbard it was a Honolulu City Council
member she wrote the first law she wrote
one of the first laws bill 54 that
specifically went after to Occupy
movement letting people seize their
personal property oh really she's a
 progressive she's a pack
ratchet wait what was that Wow it
apparently would allow people to howto
it would allow the police to seize the
personal property of the occupy of
people in occupy for protesting yeah I
guess I mean I I mean I I want to go off
on a joke on this but I don't really you
know we need to research that more I
also want to be really clear that like
the problem I mean first of all there's
a difference between politicians and I
would say even people personal like
everybody evolves and everybody changes
and I think we need to be welcoming and
have a big tent and not be purists and
all the rest of that in general and even
with politicians so the the beef with
Tulsi Gabbard is not every single thing
that she's gotten wrong right like
everybody's gotten things wrong or
previous positions the beef is actually
there are certain things like the
connections to Modi that are
contemporaneous and still a problem so I
want to just draw that distinction I
also think like frankly I think between
us and TMDs you know we've we've uh like
if she has another uptick and she still
doesn't address some of the concerns
we'll go back to it but I think like
we've put in our I guess I'm not
interested in a pylon on tulsi gabbard
in the same way I am route like Howard
Schultz particularly the week she was
good on Venezuela right exactly like
tulsi gabbard this week was in my feed
for making the right call in Venezuela
precisely Scientology Howard politics is
broken risk of the risk the imagination
of a new type of possibility I forget
who said it on Twitter but somebody
called it an ancient billionaire proverb
which I thought was really funny Greg
from Oklahoma hey Greg I hope you're
doing well I turned 21 next Tuesday
should I play a drinking game while
watching the State of the Union next
week on my birthday joking good I'm glad
you're joking you should be out with
friends having fun and definitely not
watching that State of the Union
on your birthday
also my Congress MERS person Kendra horn
from Oklahoma from Oklahoma's fifth
became a member of the Blue Dog
Coalition this week in the house very
disappointing yeah probably not
people are still becoming official
members yeah I didn't even know that the
Blue Dogs still existed yeah I actually
like like in my mind I don't think
they're really like this but I like like
the idea of Blue Dogs more than like New
Democrats because like New Democrats in
my head I have like a picture of like
basically just like some from
Westchester being like look Howard
Schultz has a lot of ideas but like a
blue dog I kind of think like my daddy
now went hunting for generations and we
also got to put all the people who found
at Halliburton in jail now like that
person doesn't exist anymore and the
Blue Dogs are just like corporatists but
I have a soft spot for you know also
like North Dakota politics we had Dorgan
and Conrad for a long time and the whole
point of Conrad is like someone like
Dorgan shouldn't be possible in North
Dakota yeah I was gonna say Dorgan was
real different than Kyle yeah exactly
Dorgan was kind of a prairie populace
yeah he called the financial crisis
famously and but yeah and he was
actually he would be the type of person
that at least
things like Laurie Wallet talked about
he was all over critiquing those trade
agreements yep and that was another
thing that I remembered you you could
you could look in some like alternative
weekly rag and it would be like why like
you know NAFTA is corporate plunder by
like rainforest wild deer you know
eco-activists and then it would be like
those trade agreements ridiculous hey my
senator byron Dorgan he was all over it
that's all I really know about him I'm
not sure he was great on everything but
he was definitely better than Conrad
which is how well Conrad was a
corporatist Conrad was like the Conrad
was like the kind of guy who bomb the
wood fetishize he's like the kind of guy
who'd be the third plate that like Ezra
Klein Paul Ryan lunch right right
exactly and Ezra like rhymes just like
all night just my favorite guys the
vapor is meeting oh my god they're
talking about readjusting Cola again all
right let us take a few calls you're
calling from a 301 area code who are you
where are you calling from you know from
Maryland how you doing I you don't you
sound a little bummed I hope you're not
buddy you all right laughing along with
you guys about this Schultz thing then
okay better watch it
I'm watching this guy on TV right and I
just started getting pissed off yeah
here's a guy here's a guy that has a
lack of self-awareness that is stunning
I mean he comes on and starts talking
about I'm a self-made man and I grew up
in the projects in New York in the 50s
and I I couldn't believe that nobody
thought to ask him or say you know it's
kind of ironic that that housing subsidy
you received in the 50s was paid for
with a 91 percent top marginal tax rate
you know what I I not only do I like I
agree with that a hundred percent I just
want to add one other thing too and it's
an
it's not as important as what you just
outlined there and he should be
beginning asked that every single place
he goes but it's like I also and I'm
being really nitpicky here but like the
guy is lower middle class and grew up in
public housing and that helped you know
and he's a complete class traitor
hypocrite no doubt but I have to say
like he didn't in the popular
imagination projects mean something that
he did not experience right like grow up
like he grew up when my social safety
net okay off-white ethnics an
opportunity and funded them well to be
in decent public housing which is which
should be expanded which was racialized
needs to be expanded to everybody it's a
good thing I'm glad he had it and
everybody should have it but when you
say projects and the popular imagination
primarily because of racism and racial
anxiety but just as an objective fact
you're bringing something up that sounds
like he had a much more thorough growing
rough time of it than he did and I just
I mean I think it's relevant because
it's like even there it's like you know
it's honestly enough to say I grew up
working class and became a billionaire
like okay that's a certain trajectory I
don't know if you drew the right lessons
from it but when you say like I grew up
in the projects like okay Howard sure
and really you were surviving
I guess he wrote an article I forget the
name of the name of the guy but it was
something to the effect of the revenge
of the plutocrats and basically what
he's saying is he goes what's going on
here really is is this guy saying you
know this day I was a lifelong Democrat
alright
now he sees the party changing and he's
like well you know if you guys start
getting these big ideas you know then
I'll just have to you know throw a
wrench in it for you because I'm I'm
willing to put up with four more years
of fascism over all of my money of
course
you know we've been saying
very agents and also bear I mean also
for it's worth I mean the guy is you
know just because he has less money and
because of how he looks and sounds and
speaks and carries himself but the the
diamond resort international guy was way
ahead of the curve here he said over a
year ago he's like keep it simple
remember that guy clue back yeah that's
the same they're the same person I mean
and I wonder why people want to end up
you know this is this is why you know
you listen to people like this and then
it's like you know so people like this
one one day it's good that people are
going to get these people end up like in
gulags or re-education camps if they
keep you're like exploiting everybody
and I don't know it's it's really
depressing but anyway soundboard you're
broken I was going to give you fanfare
for that your mouth to Allah's ear you
know where's Jamie this guy no thanks
brother this guy is the living
embodiment of that old economy Steven
meme you guys know what I'm talking
about
maybe we should remake it with him is
the guy I think people should get to
work
I think that graduates college gets
hired in my day my first job was fifteen
thousand dollars a year that would be
forty seven thousand dollars a year in
today's money you get the idea I also I
also was pointed out to me on woke bros
that uh he also he sold I think the
SuperSonics because he had a tantrum
about like not getting a subsidy he
expected as well like yeah I mean that's
what Amina supports owner does that's
what every right but it's like but every
sports owner as an illustration of why
everything that he represents is wrong
you're calling from a 5-1 OH area code
who are you where you calling from hey
does that mean yes this is you could you
say your name is calling from please
yeah this is ISA from Indiana I had
called in once before talking about
tulsi gabbard oh okay mmm-hmm I guess
just kind of going away from that but
in general i michael i listened to the
conversation you had with Sowmya Shanker
on Sunday Oh 40 mb/s okay mm-hmm yeah
because because you had unlocked it
online and I I don't have a Twitter or
anything but I just read that article
from the intercept and I really really
strongly wanted to push back against a
lot of the stuff that she said you know
because I'm part of the American sister
organization well it's not really an
American organization its international
and its Hindus go and say books songs
it's not RSS and it has nothing to do
with nationalism and also I think you
had another journalist on corey pain or
pine and he said that RSS translates to
like national patriotic organization
which isn't true
Austria means nation and then slam save
us means literally giving yourself in
service and some means unity so it's
about you don't think that's a fair
translation of that into English really
know because slam stay buck like has
nothing to do with like it's not just
about like nationalism and patriotism
like the word favor in Sanskrit means
service I understand I know that I know
it's saving me I I know but I'm saying I
mean I all right I don't want it
obviously you know the language better
than me but it doesn't I mean you don't
have I just you don't have a slam-dunk
there in terms of translation the
language like I visited orphanages they
operate it's great there's my question
for you so okay and just and just and
I'm not being like I want to be really
clear here I don't mean this oh this is
I'm not sure this will be taken right
but just like okay things like
orphanages and things like that the
Muslim Brotherhood does that Hamas does
that Hezbollah does that there's a lot
of organizations that we might have
other very serious yeah I don't even
want to comment further on RSS because I
don't really want to speak on stuff that
I don't know all that much about but in
terms of like her saying that she's
finding names from quote-unquote Hindu
Nash
organizations like in that case you know
I'm listed in event announcements which
is what she cited okay now I went to you
know a fundraiser for tools to gathered
back in 2012 and yeah there were a lot
of Indian Americans there there are a
lot of Hindus there they didn't have
like a connection to Modi and I think
it's really sticking generous for her to
say like Hawaii looked through names and
they're tied to Hindu nationalism I mean
she's an oxymoron each I got a oh no
problem um so just to be clear just okay
she wrote a piece documenting Tulsi
gabbard's connections to the far right
and Modi government in India and part of
that piece which she talked about
fundraisers and and donors and she
actually had some very specific
individuals including ones that she
interviewed for the piece who do also
support far-right forces in India so it
wasn't just um
names generically although to be honest
with you I liked the piece and I respect
her reporting but I think that um the
that should have been made even more
specific in the articles I think that's
a fair criticism but she did make those
connections the second part they should
he should just really quickly issue just
quickly go just go with me I'll get
right back to you the second thing
though I just want to say to be really
really clear is she herself is a Hindu
she's an you know Indian immigrant in
the United States and we said repeatedly
in the conversation that there is not
only is there no problem with a greater
involvement in Hindus in American
politics but actually that's a welcome
um if you know if they're progressive
because we have progressive politics
obviously so in the same way that I
object to Jewish politicians who have
connections with la cude forces in
Israel
that's a very big problem to me but I
would love to see somebody you know who
was connected with Moretz or peace now
or the joint list so
I think what's the trouble here is maybe
we could get to like the specific of
what you actually think she's getting
wrong about the far right okay yeah I
would want to say you know this is at a
time when they're like Pakistan is
actively funding terrorism so all of the
ridiculous tropes that right-wingers
come up with in the US but like you know
neighboring countries are exporting
terrorism into the US and you know it's
batshit crazy what they say but you know
there are elements of truth to that when
it comes to the conversation around
India you look at the ISA so okay and
these are these are like show-worthy in
and of themselves but first of all okay
I don't think and nobody of course the
Pakistanis fund terrorist groups ISI has
operational connections to groups like
that that sometimes attack India and
operate in Afghanistan well no it's not
because that's not the issue well okay
the cast is amiss cast ISM I'm gonna
object that because of my politics you
can i I'm just saying that organization
doesn't engage in that at all
well I that is contrary to every single
piece of reporting on this and also
here's the other problem but let's let's
no we gotta take issue we gotta take one
thing at a time when you talk about
there is a let's let's actually make a
US parallel okay so yes it's different
when you say India and also I know that
this will probably get take us down
another rabbit hole as well which we
don't really have time for but do the
Pakistanis support groups in Kashmir
that commit attacks absolutely and do
the Indians commit obscene human rights
violations in Kashmir absolutely so
that's a complicated issue that
implicates both sides that being said
the difference is is even in the United
States if somebody said really
specifically al Qaeda is a terrorist
group or Isis is a terrorist group that
attacks civilians in the Middle East in
Europe and maybe wants to try in the
United States even though they usually
fail that's an object that's an
objective claim that's true just like
the Pakistanis have some connection with
groups that engage in terrorism that's
true we know that as an example the
Pakistanis were operational in the
attacks on the Oberoi hotel and the mass
murder in Mumbai in 2008 like this is
the objective reality no one is
disputing that what people are disputing
is a politics that says that India is
for Hindus or Brazil is for Christians
or America is for Christians or by the
way yeah Pakistani or well away hold on
hold on or Pakistan is for Sunnis so
what no one has been you're saying
things some of which I think are more
complicated like Kashmir or other things
I completely agree with you on but what
you're not addressing is that incidents
of the abuse of Muslims and Christians
have increased under Modi the Gujarat
killings of which he was at the most
gentle way okay so far right and the far
right nationalist politics that
underlines the BJP and the RSS these
people really were literally the people
that assassinated Gandhi in fact I saw
an RSS a video a video the other day
that okay but the political and the the
predecessors and people should read the
class clash with in by Martha Nussbaum
and you can look into Gandhi's
Association I know you said you joke
about how you know some people are
critical of his relationship with Muslim
folks it's not that it's that he early
on was affiliated with people who later
on joined a Pakistan separatist movement
and it's yes they were all by India they
were all part of the Congress party
that's it that's very okay one black
thing Shankar mentioned the mosque the
Babri Masjid and she said oh it's a
really important 15th century mosque
what she fails to mention is it's widely
credited to have been built by a guy
from Uzbekistan was it not was it not in
the 1990s used by the Hindu far-right to
destroy and also help demonize the
Muslim community in India I think a lot
of politics in India is more dumb-dumb
politics and they do a lot for political
expediency but you know she's not going
to talk about the Indian Congress party
and they're problematic leaders
connected to the attend Congress party
that's wait for the next president but
there's not someone running for
president connected with the Indian
Congress party so that's not the point
no I know but like if you look
historically at Indira Gandhi Rajiv
Gandhi either so now like I'll do here I
should we gotta go but I'll do I'll do I
will do an illicit history of the Indian
of broader Indian politics I will deal
with Indira Gandhi who told saghafi
Tulsi gabbard's can operate in the u.s.
I'm a part of the organization a lot of
us have very progressive ideas a lot of
us who believe in having more
conversations about intersectionality
and having progressive conversation so I
[Music]
think a lot of people have progressive
ideas like I know people who say you
know they're from Brazil and they oh I
love a ocm Bernie but they want to
imprison h/ss us look up what they say
they have nothing to do with the like
political ideology I will look into it
you're not going to convince me on BJP
and RSS but I will look into HSS and you
become a patron of tea NBS and I will do
more India coverage patreon.com slash T
MBS Asia if you can afford to contribute
to Tulsa T's campaign you can afford to
become a patron of the Michael Brooks
show thank you so much for the call why
should I care what happens in India that
was gonna be my question for her I don't
think I you know it's it I I mean I
think we have a pretty fundamental
disagreement but I I appreciate I mean
if there was look the last thing I'll
say about this is if this was the 1980s
if we lived in the 1980s and Indira
Gandhi's was assassinated by Sikhs
and the Congress party was in power and
there began a pogrom against Sikhs in
India which happened after she was
assassinated and her son said something
like when you poke a great I'm
paraphrasing but basically essentially
like every action has a reaction as his
signal of like we're not doing anything
about this you can go kill whoever you
want and there was a prominent Indian
politician United States running for
president who shared a donor base with
the Indian Congress party and affiliated
with politicians
condoning the mass murder of Sikhs I
promise you that I would have covered
that aggressively that's not what Tulsi
gabbard's deal is tolsey gabbard's
connected to the Hindu far right in
India and you know I I understand I i've
even stipulated in the conversation that
nationalism arising in a historically
colonized country is a different thing
100 percent but I still oppose it right
like Israel is more understandable
historically because of this situation
of the Jewish people the Iranian
Revolution and a lot is super
understandable and sympathetic but I
still oppose nationalism and religious
based government and you're just not
gonna convince me that that's not what's
happening in India I'm sorry all right
let's do some some sound
I would probably vote for Narenda Modi
over this guy Mike Bloomberg uh-oh
Modi's not great on economics either so
I had to give my key some credit the
other day because he made the obvious
point that Howard Schultz's narcissistic
delusions about running for president
could help him the white house the
Donald Trump
then it was as if on cues like I'm
getting praised in progressive circles I
need to remind everybody of what an
 I am and so here he is talking
about why and this is at a campaign
event in New Hampshire and and this is
the I I know it's a very you know it's a
racist cultural trope but Tonto and The
Lone Ranger would say who we white man
and this is definitely a who you
question that Mike Bloomberg is asking
here about who can afford Medicare for
all I think you could never afford that
you're talking about trillions of
dollars I think you can have Medicare
for all for people that are uncovered
but because that's a smaller group and a
lot of them are taking care of Medicaid
already Medicare but to replace the
entire private system where companies
provide health care for their employees
would bankrupt us for a very long time a
very long time it just simply wouldn't
work
who does he mean by us I mean when you
say you could never afford that is he
talking to me I think he's talking to
about literally a couple of thousand
people across the planet what's so funny
about it is that and I think again we
don't even need to pull up the tweet but
I'm pretty sure it was an on Jared
artist who's just like just you know
he's just like in machine gun mode right
now he pointed out that like Bloomberg
his commitment to give to philanthropy
as well as political campaigns well
exceeds what he would be taxed at under
the AOC proposal and the point is though
and if this correlates perfectly
yesterday with the conversation about
art which is like what these oligarchs
are actually saying it's like first of
all just dismiss they can afford it
that's that's a lie that's
nonsense anybody who says that is not
being serious or their definition of a
Ford is like I might only have five
homes instead of ten nonsense but what
they're actually saying is like I'm
willing to do some good things
and I'm gonna hold you hostage for it
so there's like a fundamental delusion
and threat under it yeah at least when
it's the government administrating their
money it's theoretically a more
democratic system than just billionaires
deciding who gets their money the
problem with government is that it's not
Democratic enough yes but that's you
know that's going into the complete
opposite direction of what you people
are you know what those people are
talking about and didn't Bernie I think
I'll be getting into it more tomorrow
but didn't he announce some pretty big
well tax thing his wealth tax kind of
blows warrants out of the water
do-do-do-do-do - that's why I said
Warren should it weren't you - Jack
tears up a little bit more even she
definitely should I mean it is radical
right like and it's probably with a
Gorsuch court they're gonna challenge it
constitutionally sure because of how
much the income tax was challenged but I
mean why that's what I'm saying like the
whole I Tony Blair but you do like
leftist policies like exactly talk as if
you're just going after the tippy-top
but you can even use that mute c-word
language let Bernie go whole hog be like
yeah we're just gonna take it now I
actually like the idea though Tony
Bosley I mean look it's written about
less than 0.5 of its population I mean
so you hear a lot of melodrama from
places like Davos Michael Bloomberg but
really I mean it's very modest proposal
I like the idea like that that would be
my if I ever run for office and runs for
office it's how he's gonna talk yeah I
like the idea of very wealthy people fig
trying to figure out how they're gonna
meet their wealth tax obligations each
year
that'd be a fun little thing to put them
through that would be beautiful better
sell some stuff but I guess so so and
now here or and you know it's also funny
ironically for all of the like whining
about charity you like I don't know I
guess you should give more tax
deductible stuff away right because that
you know that certainly impacts people
actually have to pay a chunk of their
income in taxes not just couch change
and but the whole premise of this the
that is actually really in
amazing this sound is relevant for it is
there is a conspiracy amongst a fraction
of the population to go out and say that
what they represent is the quote-unquote
center of politics now if we're being
real I would say if you took my politics
I actually think maybe a terminology is
gonna be different right I only people
you go into middle America and call
himself a socialist all right but I
don't care about that as much but I
would actually say that most people if
you polled them and you get specific
they're on a pretty there they're ready
to soak the rich to say the least to pay
for things like Medicare for all and
while I do not think most Americans are
reactionaries I think that is a
Republican phenomenon I do think that
they're probably more socially to the
right than someone like me and I think
that you know we can get into the
details of what that even means I don't
but I think it's a fair assumption
especially actually less so in arguments
about like things with marriage equality
but maybe conversations about like
immigration as an example so I'm totally
willing to have the intellectual honesty
and stipulate that I think that there's
a lot of areas in this country like
Medicare for all where my views actually
totally exemplify the mainstream and an
emerging mainstream and there's other
areas where I have work to do to
reconfigure politics in the direction I
want but if we looked at most mainstream
and there's a lot of polling that
actually validates this there was a 2016
research that was done on I think it was
released in the Washington Post I don't
remember which consortium did it but
basically like it's for grids and
there's a cluster of numbers in each of
these grids that represent people on the
social and economic spectrums which is
the usual dichotomy that they split
people up doing these things and on
every part three out of four parts of
the grid socially liberal and
economically liberal right-wing
economically and right-wing socially I
might question what people actually mean
by that when they answer in a poll but
whatever I'll knit
about it later all of these areas have a
huge amount of yeah we have it right
here people and this is bipartisan are
overwhelmingly in these grids a a menial
amenable to a economic left argument
though I don't really this isn't great
though because we don't even know what
these grids represent the they represent
um social identity dimension most
liberal conservative okay say you know
Mike the y-axis is your social and your
x-axis is your economics okay
conservative of to the right and
conservative up okay so as you can see
like normal people who identify as
conservative its clustered in the social
that's why non Oleg arcs vote for
Republicans it's white identity politics
we all know this if you go into the
lower right which is the cluster that
represents the you know you might have
never heard this before but I'm a fiscal
conservative and social liberal nobody
is there okay like this is a political
dead zone this is an abandoned strip
mall this is this is the pretenders the
Ohio song about everything is gone which
Rush Limbaugh has scumbag Lee used for
his bumper music nobody is there except
for the most credentialed
overcompensated socially and financially
capitalized people in the country which
is why every time you turn on Morning
Joe every time you turn on some idiot
cable news panel every time you hear
somebody trying to sound smart at some
function they go to I'm socially liberal
fiscally conservative which actually
like all these other things in the poll
doesn't mean anything and sometimes you
might meet a normal person on the street
who says this and then you drill it down
and they're gonna be actually on to the
left of economics cuz some people just
mean think it means like don't waste
money but when the elites say
what they mean is I think gay people are
fine I don't have a problem with
abortion as long as I don't have to pay
for it and I want tax cuts now yeah and
I want austerity yeah that's what they
mean and there is no political
constituency among lawn elites for this
in the country none and while we shall
heed but yet who I would you know and
and and yet this is still like this is
the premise of Howard Schultz's
candidacy this is the premise of every
single lazy you know middlebrow pundit
hackery it's still the easiest line to
write in the world
there's even echoes of it in um the new
versions of this stuff like you Barry
Weiss and the IDW it's the easiest
pseudo-intellectual hack line on the
planet and it's so and it is it's it's
Maggie McCain Meghan McCain exactly it's
religious I mean it has cuz it's it's it
it literally it it's max data in the
face I'm like a dad is disputable on you
know especially with politics I'm not a
quant guy because I I just don't think
you can really measure politics that way
by and large you can measure technical
things but not politics but that being
said I mean the fact that there is no
constituency for this is as close to a
sky is blue statement that you can make
about political attitudes in the country
across the board finally someone is on
cable news to say it and that is well
lead shaheed he is on Chris Hayes with
Michelle Goldberg and he explains why
the billionaire centrists are the actual
fringe group of American politics Howard
Schultz Michael will bring in others
when they refer to the wealth tax and
when they talked about Alexander Acacio
Cortes is 70 percent marginal tax rate
it's like they don't even know how to
argue against it because they their view
is that it's self-evidently preposterous
but they clearly think it's good
politics for them are they wrong
waleed I mean it's great for the
progressive movement the populist
movement in the Democratic Party to have
people like Shelton Bloomberg be the
face of the anti wealth tax campaign
I mean honestly what's happening is that
centrism
refers to itself as the rational middle
really it's a fringe movement trying to
defend the economic preferences of the
1% but right now what we're seeing is
that these corporate friendly centrist
politicians are incredibly out of touch
with the Democratic Party electorate you
see people on the Left particularly talk
about you know medicare-for-all polls so
well or a wealth tax poll so well which
is true but that's also in like the
untested chamber of combat combat right
like those ideas are gonna get flexed
and they're gonna get frisked and
they're gonna get worked over and it's
possible that they're not as popular
after they have to be fought over as
they are when their abstractions I mean
look right now in the polling they are
very popular but there was a time when
repealing Obamacare was very popular
there want to be clear there was there's
also been a time where Medicare was
attacked by Ronald Reagan Barry
Goldwater and George HW Bush as being
Soviet style socialized medicine as
socialism there's a time from the
Affordable Care Act was also its factor
pink so gets time we'll see the exact
same attacks this time around we're
already seeing them and I think we've
we've overcome those challenges ok so
just just to say her I mean look I'm not
gonna you know I think is actually a
good example of like don't freak out
about Chris Hayes asking a question
that's a totally fine cable news
question but the Obama care analogy is a
ridiculous because the reason that the
numbers flipped on Obama care it's
basically like you live in a bad
apartment but it's 10 degrees outside
the heat kind of works and the landlord
sort of makes repairs occasionally and
the apartment sucks and it should and
can be a lot better then somebody comes
along and says I have a solution to your
apartment problem you're homeless
tomorrow your perception of your
apartment is gonna increase radically
and again I'll I'll make this kind of
visceral I experienced evictions growing
up and i lived in plenty of places that
weren't the worst place in the world but
they were very much nothing to write
home about and when you saw that letter
on the door you got to be gone and the
terrorist shoots through your body
your home became a lot more welcoming to
you so the pulse which on Obamacare is
simply that Republicans came along and
said we're ready to repeal it no more
health care you die add to which
particularly Trump when he was running
and lying when he talked about replacing
Obamacare and again with no specifics
blah blah blah blah blah but his talking
points were to the left he said you keep
your care it gets better nobody's
uninsured so obviously which you're
gonna prefer that to getting forced into
a subsidy system for bad private health
plans add to wit if you actually follow
the Obamacare numbers to a logical
conclusion
it's another argument for the popularity
of left proposals I would like to see a
similar chart for could not just voters
but like constituencies that can
influence the Democratic primary because
I think they would look a bit different
and you know probably unfortunately for
the left wing of the Democratic Party a
wealthy suburban moderates did play a
role in the midterms might not be the
biggest role but they played a role and
it makes me a little bit concerned that
it's gonna be a whole lot harder for a
candidate like Bernie to win a
Democratic primary than to win a general
election I think that's true though I
actually even think what's about so my
experience does anecdotal but I mean
first of all the numbers are there I
would be interesting if they expanded it
to people who don't vote but would be
potential Democratic voters but even
with the way they do it now there's
nobody in that grid as we saw from the
numbers and I would also say anecdotally
when I've talked to people that are more
like in that suburban Democratic mold
who might respond rhetorically to that
line when you get specific they do
support things like Medicare for all the
again I really do think that the
constituency of gay marriage is cool and
we need to gut Medicare is really like
Howard Schultz and Michael Bloomberg and
actually honestly people like Paul Ryan
is an
other point was made like yeah Paul Ryan
if you got him off the record he doesn't
care about banning abortion he doesn't
care about harassing gay people he cares
about destroying what little is of a
social safety net and increasing poverty
and inequality in this country that's
what he's doing well
I mean one potentially good thing that
Trump may have done is to destroy the
alliance between the religious right and
the free-market
neo liberals whose market capitalists
right he's at least showing how naked
this and sort of opportunistic that
alliance is right like yeah you guys are
right like guys like Howard Schultz are
and how much they're right like dave
rubin yesterday talking about this
abortion stuff like then and then that
is their that's their attack right like
the democrats they want to get rid of
private insurance and they want to let
you abort a baby right before it's born
and that's gonna be their play for the
next couple years yeah
I'm just concerned that the Republican
Party is going to realign into this kind
of national Bolshevism that people like
Tucker Carlson and Ann Coulter are like
all in for now right they're like
they're making some nods still like
unions in the welfare state and I don't
know how sincere they are but like well
you're not powerful rhetoric and it's
already worked as rhetoric for Trump but
where's yeah where's the power that's
not theirs no one's gonna fund that
that's why you see media personalities
do it and also why when Trump gets into
office he doesn't do any of it well no
he has no intention of doing it but I
think they are trying to put some kind
of policy or intellectual heft behind it
and if the Republican Party at large
picks up that kind of realignment and
it's a choice between like this national
Bolshevism social democracy in one
country for white people strong borders
on the one hand versus this like totally
bankrupt a socially liberal fiscally
neoliberal Democratic Party even if
there's not a real constituency for that
like they've still got a whole lot of
heft behind them right they've got
Hollywood they've got the mainstream
media they've got a ton of different
moneyed interests in the political class
it just it
seems like two very bad choices it's
like the pen versus McCrone all over
again I think they can make rhetorical
moves toward it but is lot when they
have to actually sign cheques I just
don't think they're gonna do it yeah I
think that's the real like the
difference between I mean I think
rhetorically it's super potent and
dangerous and it already does have a
terrible effect on this country even but
yeah that the Czechs won't ever be cut
and the difference between like lepen
can have that position in France because
France already does have a actual social
democracy that exists and you don't need
to rely on oligarchs to fund you in the
same way there so it's like to me you
know and it's also just evidenced by
could you name again not media figures
but another any national Republican with
a profile who's talking about income
inequality and giving nods to labor
unions I mean not counting I mean Trump
talks about that stuff so Trump right
but besides Trump who I get again it
because it has nothing to do with his
policy except for his his NAFTA
negotiator as we heard he and you could
really could think of him just as
another media figure so who else yeah I
mean nobody hello this is MIT Romney
Jared someone's gonna come on
who knows maybe Mitt Romney will have
some kind of political awakening and
it'll be the free markets I just don't
think I don't see it any any like any of
the material reasons right exactly I'm
saying like oligarchy the especially the
oligarchy that's aligned with the
Republicans they they're gonna hear that
and they're gonna be like well who's
gonna get to put the toll who's gonna
own the tolls on the eldest
infrastructure right it's possible that
the same political and economic forces
preventing the Democrats from realigning
are also going to prevent the
Republicans they're even worse and also
I don't know that the Democrats are
realigning I don't know if they are but
I don't know if they aren't it's like
the thing is like you early to tell
right but there's actually a contest
inside the Democratic Party right now
inside the Republican Party they're all
double down on core
criticism and white nationalism and then
you have a couple of media pundits that
are exploiting the lane that you're
talking about but have no political
power so yeah I think like the action is
in the Democratic Party right now and I
agree with you that there's no guarantee
that goes the right way at all but it's
it's it's in play I mean there's a
reason that I mean contrary to what a
lot of people who are you know weird on
Twitter want to think Bernie Sanders is
still the most popular politician in the
country
AOC is by far the most promising and
dynamic politician in the country so
like and that's it like that is both a
signal of what works nationally and also
um the the fighting line in the
Democratic Party and the last thing I'll
add really quick before I get to you
Matt is it I think it is actually really
interesting that you know the
establishment wing for lack of a better
word they've got in common law Harris
they have an incredibly formidable
serious you know opponent and politician
but it's interesting to me that in the
Millennial cohort there's no analog like
all of the Elan Omar gets more and more
progressive Rashidah to live as a
community organizer AOC is the is the
most prominent young politician in the
country could you I mean I guess you
could say I don't know Connor lambda
gave attention who Buddha geek from but
he's cuz he like wrote a dissertation on
Bernie Sanders in 2002 yeah I was gonna
say I don't even know if Boudicca I
think Budig is probably and also I don't
I don't even know if he's Third Way and
he's obviously the only reason he's
trying to get national we said it the
other day is cuz well as he listened to
Kamala Harris I think he's in that in
that Lane is you know policy was I think
so I don't know either on we'll see I
think it's I think it's unclear which
way he's going to bend I think if he's
smart he would endorse green new deal
with Medicare for Kathleen and for what
it's worth he isn't I mean who's not in
those policies though right now but
there's a way you can endorse um and you
can and I mean bet oh sure
but he's always like there's he even
even that being said he's not a fraction
as important as AOC
is whatever way he goes that's what I'm
saying right well there is no analog
just in terms of like talent and
importance Third Way likes to quote
these stats that there was as many
moderates elected in 2018 as there were
you know left-wing progressives right
but guess what
nobody can name a single one of them and
again also some of them like at least
the way Connor Lam campaigns and of
course I have strong disagreements with
this but Connor Lin campaigned as I'm
pro-gun anti-abortion and was like Union
made Union Hall Union Union Union Union
Union so it was like okay there's your
moderate he's the opposite of everything
you're shilling for corporations every
day in Washington you know I've just I
mean I don't want to be a doomsayer and
I don't pretend to know what's gonna
happen in the future but I do think just
like Carlton sucker Carlson's really
smart and we shouldn't underestimate his
ilk well this is how Republican politics
operates right they have no ideas of
their own and then they come in wait to
 on Democrat ideas and then control
things back well it's fascist
opportunism that's what's so scary about
them their total chameleons yeah they're
lying in wait right no value see what
happened cliff shake though all right I
don't I will read this because you got
me hey Michael how's john cusack doing
never mind I just wanted to call
attention to my name to his clips to
Victor I I do always reward immaturity
in this show all right well we're going
to let's do two more quick pieces of
sound and then we're gonna bring Jeff
out here because I want him I want you
know I want Jeff here for the Bernie
sound I think he'll enjoy it
um you know how I always say um when I
do my Rachel Maddow impression I go
Russia Russia Russia Russia Russia
Russia Russia Russia no dead on I it's
actually horrifying dead on and I am NOT
I mean we stipulate this every single
show
talking about the projection of Russian
policy and its own Monroe Doctrine in
Eastern Europe and its use of
politicians like Gerhard schröder and
yes even in fact in a place where it can
its occasional threats around the energy
distribution to a place like Germany I
mean these are valid conversation topics
they're not they shouldn't be the main
conversation United States because we
are in the seat of our own empire and
that should frankly be our first and
foremost piece of attention and people
are also hysterical and ridiculous and
filled with nonsense conspiracy theories
about Russia but I don't make any like I
have no you know Russia's a mid-ranking
P really I'm totally not impressed and
there's plenty things to critique and
talk about there there is a coup going
on in Venezuela that coup is backed with
the threat force of the United States
John a Guido was given a op-ed piece in
The New York Times and Maduro while
giving some very good signals on
negotiations is definitely deploying
secret police and engaging in brutality
these are all are happening
simultaneously and the and people hate
whenever I outline broad reality like
that but the bottom line is and the
still simple takeaway is is we need to
oppose coos and we need to oppose
imposing a right-wing government in
Venezuela which will have all of the
problems that currently exist without
any remnants of the accomplishments of
Chavez and we need to support diplomacy
and I would say that you know Rachel
Maddow who actually I didn't read the
book but supposedly she wrote a book
several years ago on the
military-industrial complex and US based
systems abroad I mean I don't know what
to say I would imagine that you know
this would be something that I'm sure
she understands she's obviously a very
smart person but I find I mean her her
fear-mongering and in this on Russia is
that well this one even this one stood
out this is Rachel Maddow last night
talking about Russia and the energy grid
what happen if Russia killed the power
in Fargo today
right what would happen if all the
natural gas laughing that that service
Sioux Falls just poofed on the coldest
day in recent memory and it wasn't in
our power whether or not to turn them
back on I mean what would you do if you
lost heat indefinitely as the act of a
foreign power on the same day the
temperature in your front yard matched
the temperature in our and on in
Antarctica I mean what would you and
your family do i download MSNBC yeah I
would call atom shifts office I would
call yeah I'll II save me I would say
like my powers going down get this tweet
to Ted Lou I want him to ratio Trump
some serious Glenn Beck vibes going on
here I mean yeah and so and look and
just what is extraordinary to me is like
okay first of all there there are
problems in the energy grid which we
need to deal with what if you actually
had a rational conversation about Russia
Russia Russia Russia for a second and
you said that Russia just like the
United States is an adversarial power so
and and interferes in other people's
domestic affairs and elections and it's
much smaller degree mostly than we do
because they just don't have the
capacity to do the amount that we do but
as an example could Russia to one of its
immediate neighbors or potentially even
a Germany where it does have a very
large part of its natural gas you know
it could it turn off the tap and like I
just I wrong size of political power
probably not to Germany there's too many
stakes and that to do that maybe to a
regional neighbor and it's sort of own
mini sphere of influence and imperialism
which we should oppose just as we should
oppose again something I don't ever hear
Rachel talking about like us supporting
a coup in Honduras she didn't asked
Hillary Clinton about that she's not
talking about what we're doing in
Venezuela which far exceeds even if all
of the conspiracy theories about Russian
interference in 2016 are true and then
let's just get real politic for a second
I can understand why I'm not the valid
evaluating the truth of any of these
claims I'm just saying like if you told
me hey
Russia would like to have a president in
the White House that backs its agenda
and is friendly with its Oleg our class
I would say yeah that makes a lot of
sense the same way that the United
States would like a regime in Russia
that supports deregulation it's all the
guard class like we did in the 1990s in
Russia when we literally brought the
life expectancy rate down from lower
than the Soviet era okay that makes
sense why the would Russia wake up
tomorrow and decide in an unbelievably a
provocative act with the out with
another nuclear superpower to just turn
off the energy grid to with old
people in the Dakotas what strategic
basis would they have for doing that now
maybe they are gonna say because they
don't want us to invade Venezuela and
there's some I don't know I mean but
even the most bellicose voices in Russia
have suggested a repeat of the Cuban
Missile Crisis which is put a flotilla
in front of Russia and say in front of
Venezuela and say no and Putin has an
indica by the way Putin's been the
Russians have been rhetorical but they
actually haven't really put any muscle
behind Venezuela at all so like just
thinking it like again if you stipulated
all the conspiracy theories and you
stipulated all of this stuff why the
 would Russia do that I understand
why they would steal data I understand
why they would interfere with elections
I understand all of that why other than
just massively pissing off a country
that could by the way certainly do
similar things to them to say the least
and the payoff would be you you you by
the way and if Trump's the secret
Russian agent you do it in the Dakotas
you would kill some like Magga heads
most likely yeah you're gonna make a lot
of Magha guys to turn into resistance
yeah is that the real conspiracy this
Rachel Maddow want more Malka people
watching her show it's the liberal
version of chewing on she's really wild
it just doesn't even make it that just
even within its own universe no but you
know how like in script writing does it
make sense either it makes sense in its
own universe totally the different
absolutely
one difference is that q9 is optimistic
like you're all gonna be saved this is
right around the corner the the the pet
like paranoia we have is gonna get us
well they need a lens through which to
understand the world and they don't have
Marxism they did this by the way and
make Irish a debunked story a couple
years ago after Trump got into office
about one in Vermont
it was just debunked that was the thing
that people ran with for a couple days
they've took down a power grid in
Vermont and it turned out to be like it
was hacked it was hacked the Russians
was like no it turned out to be
electrical failure because by the way
America's whole grid like it's a
disaster that we have not investigated
invested in in decades that's where we
literally have bridges collapsing so
that's another thing to say too about
all this Russia stuff it's like even if
everything is true what kind of poisoned
immune system in the United States is
Russia able to exploit an immune system
of corruption and equality racism and
yes a totally failed electric grid which
Rachel Maddow could do one of her like
it was 1974 on the PG&E company that'll
be great why don't you do 20 minutes
about how Republicans and Democrats have
totally failed to upgrade our energy
infrastructure and the next president
needs to do that I bet you can come up
with some amazing wonky questions to ask
the candidates on MSNBC but instead we
go to Putin's just sitting there like
well Trump give me all the meeting notes
from his meetings and the next step is I
want to kill people yeah I lost the
character with pal greed even the glue
Serie C series on the right are more
inspiring than in the radical Center all
right here's what we're gonna do uh
let's let's uh bring Jeff from Georgia
out you wanna you don't want them to sit
next to you the camera said well why
don't you just push here just do what I
do when there's a guest which is just
push that chair over and put my mic in
front
you know Jeff Jeff just get right there
just get right there and from that mic
yet stay right there and then just push
that one over no no you gotta get in
that chair Jeff push that one over all
right folks
Jeff get that mic in front of you and
hit the button so you already have that
on nah none push-to-talk right Otis okay
go underneath it Hale and we'll met okay
that works all right Jeff dissident
peasant how are you I am fantastic I
just arrived in LaGuardia I guess a few
hours ago there's a super bus coming
here to see your show Michael of course
which I just want to say before I forget
it and this is like kind of sappy but
and I was saying this before it this
this is my favorite group of shows all
of them are great I love them I fell in
love with Sam and Michael and Matt
bender when he was here a long time ago
and so it is really a dream literally a
dream come true to be in this room with
these so awesome and these people
I couldn't be more thrilled to be here
awesome
how is by the way is this the first time
you ever been in New York I think it's
like 13 so that's literally over 20
years ago now and obviously I was like
13 so I wasn't really some trouble yeah
exactly I was pretty much being minded
by my church choir director the whole
time mm-hmm well welcome um let's play
this vintage Bernie Sanders sound cuz I
want I think Jeff will enjoy being in on
this one do you want to maybe Brendon I
guess you just put the speaker on so I
could hear it because I know I know what
it is oh yeah you know Matt knows what
it is all right so there's a weird
account on Twitter I don't know who's
behind this weird account
we need to say no I'm not gonna say what
it is I'm just I mean telling him where
where this person's coming from I don't
need to I'm not gonna say the name of
the account my point is there's a lot of
theories about it and the most
persuasive theory I've heard is from
Brendan Sutton pretty bad lefty which is
that it's a Bernese coms director who is
unearthing brilliant clips that show
that Bernie's had consistent positions
for a long time like maybe they're just
trying to get this all out before he
announces and also make him look awesome
and also make him look office awesome
this is Bernie Sanders this is he was
running for governor of Vermont in 1986
and he explains why he's a socialist
mrs. kunen
mr. Smith lots of the capitalist
economic system they're not running as
capitalists they're running as Democrats
and Republicans socialism to me means
democracy with a small D I am not
affiliated with a political body I am
independent what happens to be a
socialist I am outraged about the system
that we're living in when you have
corporations and millionaires and doing
it as dominating the entire society and
as a socialist I want to see a radical
redistribution of wealth and power in
this country so the average working
person the average farm the average
woman has a fair shake we're not getting
that socialism to me is a philosophy but
I'm not affiliated with any particular
Socialist Party that's begging to be
made into a thug life meme video and let
me just also say really briefly you know
for people who concern trolled in 2016
about him calling himself a socialist
and saying like oh well why not just you
know use a less threatening word a blah
blah and and I'm mostly I'm actually you
know I'm not invested in verbage
arguments mostly but that's a pretty
great example of why it's great that
he's been steady with his democratic
socialist self designation because
that's who he is
you're never gonna be able to ace him on
a video like that because it's steady
state I just love a talks about
democracy I've long thought that's
something in America we have we've long
lost you know we've never
really had it fully for everyone we know
this but the idea that we've have a
decision to make how are we gonna do it
should it be the guy with the gun who
decides the guy who says God tells him
that he is the right way
no it's skip all that the best way is
probably to vote on it right like
generally speaking like this is how
sophisticated humans make decisions in
advanced political bodies and Bernie
Sanders is talking about socialism in a
way that I mean loose bridge knees with
me because I love the idea of expanding
democracy to all people down yeah and
demanding democracy to the workplace to
most people can't vote on what their
boss does how cool would that be that
would be that would be very cool be
delicious you're calling from a 708 area
code who are you where you're calling
from
this is Jang a player 19 calling from
the supposes heartland of america at
downtown brooklyn USA you have arrived
welcome to Brooklyn is this your first
time in New York it's not my first time
in New York though I will admit I am a
bit lost because your guys don't really
have like this body of water with like a
celestial body in it which is really
helpful for me in Chicago so um wait
well you say celestial body is that a
joke that refers to a certain prediction
by a certain potentially crypto-fascist
[Laughter]
there's a polar vortex in the Midwest
and that's literally because of the
overflow of water from Lake Michigan
just sweeping across the entire Midwest
freezing everything at that so that is
actually pretty ironic well welcome to
Brooklyn
do you have anything else to to share
with us yeah two quick thing so first
off as yourself and Jeff will do two
there are a bunch of left is best fans
in New York right now so if anybody
wants to hang out do stuff go to the
live show please contact myself during a
play 19 on Twitter or
this 2020 or Kentucky Fried convert on
Twitter so that we can organize that as
solid area comrades and all that awesome
great okay
second thing on yeah I'm a slightly
lighter note I would like to talk about
Kamala Harris 2020 okay yes go ahead
oh so when people arguing about Kamala
Harris and stuff one of the things you
hear like really focus on is like
especially with people who like aren't
necessarily as political as we are like
focusing on stuff like like democratic
values like you showed you should show
people those two videos that are going
around and like ask them like is this
the person that should be representing
the Democrats like should we be a party
of like carceral education like punitive
education because I thought that that
that her stance on education is punitive
like you should be punished for not
going and like literally go to jail like
that's literal prison are still the
Prison Pipeline out there very long and
also like another like I think like
somewhat like underappreciated point in
that other video where she's talking
about like jeez like like being very
elitist and condescending about
protesting and like being an activist
you know did anybody like notice in
2017-2018 that we literally had like
millions of people protesting holding up
little signs like less jails more
education I just I just want to say
really really briefly just just
literally one sec just cuz it's apropos
and I guess we missed this call on this
but ro ro ro mind Rome Romines he says
it was a a no 0 instead of no but he
said I got disconnected but just let you
know that lift and Juno lawsuits stopped
increase of ride shares in New York City
is set basically lifts and Juno drivers
are talking about doing a strike in New
York so just feeding exactly what you
guys are talking about hell yeah
yeah that's great yeah I'm like like but
you just have like all those like
teacher strikes like literally like
trying to secure more funds for their
student because like that's what they
care about so like it's amazing like how
out of touch like that that clip is
where she where come-ons like just
basically saying like hey you guys
aren't sophisticated you aren't nuanced
on this issue
hi this prosecutor has nothing to do
with education I understand it more than
you person who has a sign in your closet
and it's the same thing nafta 'is that
lori wallach said don't ever trust
somebody look I'm not saying obviously
there's things to learn and sometimes
there really are subtleties but as a
basic premise if some lawmaker or a
corporate sector person tells you like
oh this is just your basic moral
objection and ability to do some basic
analysis on something doesn't match my
sophistication or technical expertise
they're trying to they're scamming you
it's don't listen they want you
to think that it's too complex for you
to understand yes and it's not I
appreciate it okay and real quick just
one final point on this is the other
thing you have to understand is like
when when uh a lot of these people are
like to find those like points about how
like oh she like she had to be like you
know tougher because of like the work
environment and like this is like the
path but you know women of color and
stuff had to take in order to you you
know succeed in this environment there
you know that's just an insulting
talking point because one what you're
saying is that instead of like a person
who like like once I get that power like
actually works and make the system
better to like make it so that like the
next generation of people like you are
able to actually participate and like be
a part of the system instead of doing
that she's just propping up that same
system that supposedly she had to be
tossed in order to enter into I want to
but just give a slight tweak on that
right because I think you're right
substantively but there's no question
just again this is just like objective
fact that when she was coming up in
politics and first of all people this is
a really short time for him everybody
had to have some version of talking
tough-on-crime quote-unquote tough on
crime buying into that now and
that's
implicate every single candidate every
candidate including senators has had a
bad vote on this and most candidates
have had bad rhetoric Biden and Harris
stand in her own category because Biden
wrote the crime bill and Harris put
people in jail for nonviolent crimes so
that's its own category as far as I'm
concerned but there's nothing wrong with
acknowledging the reality that when she
was rising in politics there was no
question that that was a smart
calculation and some might even consider
quote unquote necessary but the flipside
where I think there's validity is that
some people are to make that point and
say there shouldn't be double standards
and criticizing her is valid and
important but when people make the
argument more broadly to essentially say
that this is somebody who can't even be
assessed as a public figure that is
condescending that is essentialist and
that is actually yeah I mean
condescending and essentialist because
I'm gonna say look I understand the
racial and gender dynamics that are
specific the common law Harris and I
also recognize that she's an incredibly
talented politician and one of the
frontrunners and so therefore I take her
extremely seriously and taking any
candidate seriously means taking the
record seriously and that's where the
record speaks for itself it's it's a
disturbing record to say the least can I
ask a quick question before you go have
you managed to have any tasty New York
pizza yet boom when I was in Chicago
unlike some people in this room I did
try the Chicago people I know I did not
I stuck to good food in Chicago yes that
is one of my missions is to peer into
that like coastal Lido we just harsh
cultural marxists you point on pizza I
will try it and I will probably dismiss
it but that is one of my plans dragan
thanks a million for the call and see
you tomorrow all right we have we're
gonna play one more piece of sound and
take a one more call and a few more
items and we'll get out of here all
right this is Mitch McConnell
who was completely out of sight the
whole time he was allowing Donald Trump
to shut down the federal government in a
desperate act of theater and racism Cory
Robin had a great tweet recently he said
look people should really take in the
fact that Trump tried to make the
midterms referendum on white nationalism
and he lost and he tried to make the
government shutdown and on white
nationalism and he lost that's really
important to internalize in terms of
aggressiveness and what you view about
the American public indeed this is Mitch
McConnell who was put his head back out
there yup it's a turtle joke and he is
gonna mock keep in mind I mean federal
workers had to take out loans they had
to take out same-day loans they had to
the pawn shop business surged people
were missing payments on things serious
human suffering that Mitch McConnell has
zero connection to and has spent his
whole life his whole career in public
office increasing here he is mocking
those people who work more in a day or
contribute I should say Mitch McConnell
does a lot of work contribute to the
good more in a day than he has in his
whole career of harming people holiday
for government workers and created an
additional brand-new paid leave benefit
for up to six days for any federal
bureaucrat who decided they'd like to
hang out at the polls during any
election just what America needs another
paid holiday and a bunch of government
workers being paid to go out and work I
assume our folks on our colleagues on
the other side on their campaigns this
is the Democrat plan to restore
democracy a brand-new week a paid
vacation for every federal employee
would like to hover around while you
cast your ballot Oh Matt he's really on
that right wing 90s talk show
so the context I give was mocking the
suffering of government workers but of
course what he's doing there is
propagandizing against an excellent
piece of legislation that Democrats have
introduced in the house to try to
address voter suppression and entrench
democracy in the United States which is
one of the most urgent issues we face
and look all of these abstractions and
dumb conversations that people get into
and we saw this the other day the actor
from Empire was assaulted in Chicago and
they tried to put a noose on his neck
and people said there was literal report
saying racially charged and possibly
homophobic dashed tinged the inability
in this country to call things what they
are is horrifying and disgusting and
ridiculous and delusional but there is
another way in which it's like you don't
have to get into any arguments about
anything other than to say one major
political party has gutted the Voting
Rights Act and opposes legislation to
make it easier for everybody to vote
therefore whatever the justification
whatever the conspiracy theory whatever
the nonsense they are a white supremists
party because of that action period and
for most of them its strategic I would
actually totally stipulate with you that
a fair number of these people don't have
any personal animus in the way that
people like to narrowly define racism I
think certainly people in the Trump
administration do but I'm sure if you
talk to staffers who work for maybe even
someone like Mitch McConnell I don't
think they have that in the in that
narrow definition but they are apart
itest s-- because their policy set is
voter suppression and it doesn't matter
what the motivation or the conspiracy
theory is and that's it that ends the
conversation yeah there's nothing else
to add to that yeah we really need to
expand the definition of racism or white
supremacy from like this individual
conscious animus to something that is
structural that you can uphold without
even realizing it and that can expand to
but this is having short of that this is
short of that this is like yeah this is
an action because I cuz I agree with you
to to annex
then for sure but that can get
complicated in some ways that's like a
an important it's like you get into the
realm I like I was saying where it's
like a hundred percent of white people
are racist because we're in cultured in
a certain way and probably if we made
the distinction of like group identities
and whatever like everybody has identity
affiliations and all of that is
important and all of that needs to be
hacked through and dealt with but on a
really basic level the middle ground of
pushing the debate between like hey I
don't personally use slurs and wanted
discriminating against people versus
like yes but you are supporting
legislation to build a wall to
put children in cages and to block
people from voting I mean that's there
for you you have to look at the outcome
policy right outcome of a policy upholds
white supremacy that policy is a white
supremacist policy right and for what
it's worth conversely you know if you
have whatever personal beliefs you have
I'm not impressed I'm not happy about it
but if you're voting and legislating and
doing the right thing I don't
particularly care frankly yeah that's
like where that's where it is I don't
care can I just say briefly that for
anyone working for a living whether they
work for Uncle Sam
or not uh this demonization of paid time
off for them it's really funny to me
yeah
I actually tend to know that the United
States population is one of the most
overworked and miserable with their jobs
in the world it's not just because we
all have crappy jobs it's also work too
often at them we don't make enough but
that's another story I mean any really
literally almost any excuse for just
giving anybody a holiday and what could
be more important than Election Day
democracy here right or or do we get any
sense wu-tang clang please stop when a
callers talking over you and moving the
goalposts just hang up on them I will do
that from now on I wanted to give each a
call cuz she had clearly taken in a lot
of content but yes I will stop doing
that and I appreciate by the way cuz a
lot of people get very whiny about how
tough I am on callers but I appreciate
some reaffirmation of a little bit of
 tight ship around here all right
speaking of which let's take the final
call of the day you're calling from a
five one six area code who are
where you calling from very good better
be good thank you Jeff this is you
Brooklyn
sorry say that um I'm es que I like the
sport okay
from Brooklyn pink into your phone
you're going in and out just speaks tan
literally bad reception in my apartment
okay well now give me better now yep go
ahead okay one did this is kind of a
side question but did you ever work it
out Jazeera because we're somehow
connected on the one place I can ever
think about being connected no it's kind
of a weird question but vinod al Jazeera
Bunch but I never worked there no I did
see a conspiracy theory what's that uh i
i'm an al al jazeera operative that was
cool but no I never worked there alright
we're gonna need to upgrade my operators
phone call don't do not like that and
calls for future reference my friends ok
what's the question yes my question is
since you introduced me to Dave Rubens
subreddit which is fantastic is it more
or less possible that the whole him
leaving patreon over Sargon is really
just a ruse that him and Peterson and
some of the other Augie W idiots came up
with really as a way to grift more money
out of the system because it sort of
seems like that was definitely my very
heavy guess and I and also I want to
just say to be clear here and I you know
I'm not being vague about this on
purpose I really have no idea but I
don't like in general the proposition of
people saying like I want a platform
that's like a right-wing patreon or a
left-wing patreon I don't have a problem
with like I don't think it's like
there's nothing necessarily patreon
certainly worked very well for me but
like I don't have any there's no there's
nothing wrong with there being America
police in that space but I mean yes I
mean look I would say every time you
hear some sanctimonious nonsense from
those people always look
and what the business angle is 100% yeah
thanks for the call man it's gonna be
because we want to keep more of our
money not because we're pretending to be
persecuted for our ideology that's
really what they want they want that
make that percentage on the top right
well let's get there I would just - I
was well I was really hard to keep going
after Sargon was taken off it's like I
was like the distinction I'm not gonna
relitigate this but like what I actually
found really funny was like some people
who who like criticize people like Matt
and I for raising like longer-term
concerns about this with like any type
of actual like oh I'm so worried about
sorry guys ya think get the out of
here I mean I I would suggest or caution
that I mean I think they probably all
have lost a fair amount of money in the
short term on this I think this might be
more strategic than about like
short-term monitor no no I'm saying no I
think yeah there could be another look
setting up your own business is a smart
long-term decision that is strategic but
there's a degree of risk to what they're
doing I guess is what I'm saying there's
definitely a degree of risk to what
they're doing that's like like decision
to see how much money that they left on
the table it's I mean it's funny I don't
know about Peterson but I think Rubens
got a pretty nice I have no clue
Peterson's still at the top of the New
York Times best selling less but sure
you're right furious there's no doubt
that they're leaving a lot of money on
the table that's important and but I'm
sorry job to make sure their new venture
fails
all right name's Darwin hey Michael when
people call in and offend to fend or at
least soft-pedal Hindutva
and sight box on the reason maybe remind
them that Pakistan is very existence was
at least partially the result of Pro him
due to a forces in the 1940s of course I
mean I don't know I I try to give people
who call from who have a particular
background directed to the place more of
the benefit of the doubt but like yeah
you got to do better at least with me on
the and I or maybe not even that I just
we just have disagreements I just look I
just don't support right-wing
nationalist politics of any variety
full staff they I I was gonna make like
about how oh we should argue more about
let's argue more about stuff that
happened on TPMS but I actually do think
this is an important topic well it's an
important topic it's important topic to
like actually get ground on versus just
be all over the place and name a bunch
of things that most people don't know
and and yes a lot of goalposts shifting
like I don't want to yes like if we're
talking about Tulsi Gabbard in BJP and
there's no analog bringing up Congress
party in the eighties is redic I was
glad to give a little history lesson but
it's really off topic um all right uh
let's see three more im's buried Weiss
nice tracksuit Misha but shouldn't you
be squatting and eating sunflower seeds
see you tomorrow well see you tomorrow
and how do you know that I don't squat
need sunflower seeds from rest
Chester don't drag me into this Howard
Schultz thing I'm voting for Warren well
then you're definitely not the kind of
 from West Chester that I was
talking about on all West Chester's oh
yes we need to tweet this out I
wish I could send this to you bread then
hey folks this is this should be the
last I am of the day Brock from VA hey
mr today's the last day to vote for Lula
for the Nobel Peace Prize
we need about four hundred K to meet the
petition goal can you guys share this
link yes I'll be sharing it all over my
social media it's important no other
president in the 21st century took 40
million people out of poverty and
eliminated hunger in a country and as a
political prisoner
alright everybody six o'clock tonight t
MBS on the Michael Brooks show live
stream and we are all back here live
tomorrow Jeff tell everybody to close
out where they can find your stuff and
all that good stuff thank you
if people are interested nearly as good
as the fine people surrounding me but I
do my best
no stop you can go to distant pens comm
I post everything there first
you want to support me of course at
patreon.com slash just a peasant you can
check out everything i do there i talk a
little bit about a lot of things a lot
of
three some contemporary politics and
some fun stuff to feel like sitcoms you
got you got my latest episode thanks
Michael warms the cockles of my heart
all right folks
see you tomorrow in that state goes back
to get to where I want
No
[Music]
I was
[Music]
yeah
take it man
I could see where the choice is made so
the option where you tell get paid
their fans
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
