um in New York this is a big thing there
are over a million rent stabilized
apartments whose protections will expire
on June 15th now this is a major thing
obviously because there's already a
housing crisis in New York as there is a
housing crisis across the country with
real estate speculation and wealth
inequality driving it but this is one
remnant of vital legislation that is
protecting some of the last remnants of
middle and working class New York and
it's terrifying here you look at the
amount of people who lose their homes
and go from one town and one borough to
the next to the next people who have
good solid middle-class jobs communica
muting from bleak expert expert back
into New York City where they work or
maybe they've lived for generations
it's a massive crisis and I'll read now
from a report in The New York Times the
conflict over New York City's rent laws
turned raucous on Tuesday as hundreds of
thousands of tenant activists flooded
the state capital leading to a scuffle
and dozens of arrests for activists for
months activists have been casting have
cast the looming rewrite of New York
City's New York's rent laws is a
once-in-a-generation battle the state
that regulates almost 1 million restate
rent stabilized that part apartments
expires on June 15th with Democrats and
controlled the legislature for only a
third time in more than half century
progressive lawmakers are pushing for
more tenant friendly provisions now with
11 days remaining the fight has
increased in intensity as one bedroom
rents in the city of hit an all-time
high at a time when New York as the
largest homeless population in the city
that's the crisis those are the stakes
find out who your legislature is who
represents you in the New York State
Senate we should follow up on this and
put a guide and push the hell out of
this over the next several days and I
also we also wanted to highlight that
New York's new public advocate and if
this is any indication he's gonna be a
great one Jumaane Williams was arrested
along with the protesters so that's
excellent let's play some footage of him
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Applause]
and that's money that they've printed
with Andrew Cuomo's face on it if you're
watching Andrew Cuomo is one of the when
Andrew Cuomo who I believe is supporting
Joe Biden one of the worst politicians
in the country one of the most harmful
to working people he might sign the
legislation though he will read that
they had the votes in the Senate and he
has said that if the Senate passes it
he'll sign it that's the other flipside
of even the worst Democrat because of
the nature of coalition politics might
be forced to sign of essential
legislation people's lives and this
needs to be a first step for breaking up
the real estate industry public housing
good excellent high quality look up
Vienna public housing and massive
Universal rent control so and that's
real leadership from Jumaane Williams
that's excellent if that's an indication
of what he's focusing on is public
advocate then he'll be a great public
advocate and I'm excited to vote for him
for reelection and for other offices he
might be interested in including well
left start talking about the mayoral
race soon but finally getting a mayor in
New York City who's gonna go to war with
real estate and not beg for them for
some wits for some crumbs while they
donate to his campaigns and that's why I
can never take de Blasio seriously as a
presidential contender absolutely this
is what a public advocate should be
doing like literally advocating for the
public and I got to give a little shout
out to the state senator for my district
Julia Salazar because her Just Cause
eviction bill is probably the most
radical in this whole this whole raft of
legislation that taken together is being
referred to as universal rent control
just cause eviction says that the a
tenant cannot be evicted or denied the
renewal of a lease because they wouldn't
pay an unconscionable increase in rent
and what that means is it's indexed to
something called the Consumer Price
Index which is decided by a variety of
things but it would effectively cap rent
increases at three point three percent
at virtually every single unregulated
New York City rental apartment which
would chain
all of our lives absolutely
