we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it's Wednesday June 26th 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks he's the five-time
award-winning majority report were
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program Murtaza
hussein reporter for the intercept we're
talking about an Iranian activists who
wrote dozens of articles for right-wing
outlets here's the secret turns out it
wasn't a real person
it was a multitude of bots that were run
by a group called the M ek a group that
has paid political figures from john
bolton to howard dean to help instigate
an invasion of iran we'll connect that
with the states of the current situation
with Iran that the Trump administration
has instigated over the past couple of
years Iran says that the door to
diplomacy is closed permanently also
Jared Kushner he finally had his Bar
Mitzvah no excuse me he unveiled his
solution to the crisis in the Middle
East and it's basically bribed a handful
of Palestinians and tell the rest of
them to in the words of a New York Times
editorial recently committed national
suicide of course nothing wrong with
that according to contrary in views of
course this
plan not well-received by the human
beings of Palestine in Queens way it
looks like we have a great new DSA
district attorney if you're a landlord
slumlord or an employer or an ice
official be worried hell yeah
excellent news with Tiffany Caban
terrible news in Brazil where the
politically driven Supreme Court have
rejected a habeas corpus bred by
political prisoner Lula da Silva we'll
get into that or the Oregon climate bill
is dead Senate Democrats say after
Republicans went to some pretty extreme
measures to kill it we'll talk about
that
robert muller is set to testify to
Congress drama Bernie Sanders is using
his massive email list to warn
immigrants about ice raids along with
get funding to abortion clinics Wayfair
employees plan walk a plan a walkout to
oppose furniture sales to migrant
detention facilities an appeals court
says the consensus case is not over even
if the Supreme Court upholds the
citizenship question and repeated
mistakes in a phone record collection
program led to NSA to shut down the
controversial program nice to note there
was a lot of mistakes there congressman
Duncan Hunter used campaign funds to
pursue Affairs and was literally in bed
with lobbyists you know that the
political guy that got to write that
piece was super stoked Democrats a
monument lawsuit against Donald Trump
can proceed a federal trouble the
federal judge rules president south
korean president a moon says that a new
u.s. north korea summit possibly in the
works
and the NRA has killed off and the NRA
has taken aim and fired at NRA TV too
bad actually we didn't even use them for
clips anymore
that's how irrelevant they were but
maybe they will give us a couple days of
Viktor gur material so that'll be fun
maybe Sam will get some video equipment
on the cheap
that was Sam's very very own brand move
we doubt that he would like some video
there was some type of fire sale I can't
believe Grant stinchfield 1776 it wasn't
enough of a talent to build a television
network which one was Grant's stench
field oh yeah Brendan says shots fire
shots not fired and yeah and cereal huh
yeah trigger locks put in place Wow
there's also a McCain brunch angle to
that story very excited the best thing
that came out of NRA TV was definitely
the Meghan McCain brunch angle but let's
start in a in a you know on a hopeful
note in a great way it as of now Tiffany
Caban has an over 1 percent lead over
the Machine candidate Melinda Katz who
was endorsed by hack and blowhard Joe
Crowley who of course lost the seat the
AOC and fuses together
Wall Street machine politics so if it
stays over 1% there will not be a
recount and Tiffany Caban will win this
race this is hugely significant
obviously first and foremost for the
people of Queens we're all of a sudden
you'll have a public defender someone
who actually cares about justice and
humanity in a prosecutorial position
look at some of the really significant
things Krasner's done
remember the photos of the cleaning shop
in Philadelphia I'm stoked to see those
same feeds coming out of Queens but also
nationally I mean when people like
Bernie Sanders put together serious
packages on criminal justice reform
they're gonna need DA's to cooperate
and implement this stuff across the
country DA's races are absolutely some
of the most important parts of electoral
politics and Tiffany Caban immediately
becomes a vital national leader here
here he is here she has excuse me at her
victory last night in Queens
while the wealthy continue to be
undermined their Constitution the right
to the presumption of innocence
you to criminalize mental health issues
and we listed best in treatment and
support in the pages
and we can't stand by as bad landlords
unlawfully a big tenant
employers who steal wages communities
we can be that said every community
deserves justice
that every community deserves their
treatment under the law preparations
excellent so this is an incredible
breakthrough you know between her and
crasner and other candidates across the
country this is huge I mean this is
gonna be the actual material breakup of
the vicious prison and punitive
sentencing policies and prosecutorial
policies that have dominated this
country for decades and it's also an
opportunity on the other hand while you
claw back and reverse those things to
actually really reinvent what this job
actually is maybe this job is about
going up against landlords maybe this
job is about going up against companies
and employers and other people that
actually cause harm and communities a
huge amount of potential here huge
victory awesome for Tiffany Caban and
for Queens and actually for all of us
there's definitely national implications
from her win hell yeah and I just want
to note the woman standing next to her
up there is bianca cunningham the
co-chair of new york city DSA which
played a major role in canvassing for
Caban endorsing her very early and I was
really excited that we got to be a part
of it in North Brooklyn we're very close
to Ridgewood Queens and we sent a lot of
people to canvass awesome we were a
superpower we are now a hyper powered oh
my god how did you did you leak notes
from the recordings from the DSA board
meeting
whoops well that'd be awesome if North
Brooklyn DSA like when people when
people were out like they're all they're
like tatted and Ernest they're like he's
getting rid of prisons we need to go
talk to the community and or and they're
like privately they're just like the
next phase after Tiffany Caban is to
accelerate our power position my god I
told you that in confidence we need a
mix of Machiavelli the only way to keep
the race forward with Julius to read
from the book of rings the samurai
manual of Wharf
I'm not saying AOC Salizar and come
on oral the deciding factor I think
ultimately all those races are these
canvassing operations so huge
implications and it's what's amazing
about that type of grassroots effort is
that's the the logistics and maybe some
of the like style is different but at
the end of the day there's not a massive
difference in a broad principle of like
going somewhere in the middle of note
like I've canvassed in places where
you're literally on dirt roads and you
walk it might even be like a quarter
mile between houses and also like in
multi-story buildings and the bottom
line is is you knock on somebody's door
and you tell them about the stakes their
stakes in the election and what they
care about what they're interested in
and why you know hopefully who you're
reppin is gonna deliver for them and
that's amazing for all of the
complexities of campaigns and all of the
other things that you have to do that
that is such a huge deciding factor and
you can't do that without movements and
organizations and candidates that
actually represent something like
Tiffany combined yes so that's a huge
huge signal and it's also a signal for
people like some now more and more
people been calling in saying like
they're doing things like running for
their City Council or whatever do that
do that it involved in your local
whatever you know whatever you're drawn
to DSA just as Democrats even if you
think that the Democrats are gonna work
against you in some sort of Kabbalistic
fashion at least you make them do it
right like and sometimes out there
resource and by the way sometime een
look you might the Queen's Democratic
machine is a pretty I mean you know we
laugh now of people like Joe Crowley but
until he lost the AOC that's a that's a
person who ran a machine in Queens and
was a top Democrat nationally in the
House who had this sort of machine
democratic stuff which is you know
depreciating because of
Jesus and capital and so on but also had
a funnel from Wall Street and real
estate this dude okay you could say he
was upset in a one-off this is a
personal rebuke to him so the thing you
know among many other more important
things but so that's the other thing as
you yeah sure they'll work against you
there's no doubt but it also could be a
situation where you get a couple hundred
people even could be enough to
completely knock them off course I mean
in and amazingly enough in a place like
Queens in New York City which is
obviously a massive city you're
literally talking about like 10,000
people 11,000 people I mean it's not
that many to take on and and and see you
know that there's a lot of glass jaws
out there that haven't been properly
challenged and the machine is still
quite powerful like I don't want to say
that it's not the four major unions in
New York City endorsed her opponent cats
because you know they're making a gamble
they don't want to go up against the
Machine they know that if the Socialists
somehow wins they're not going to punish
them but if if they don't support the
Machine candidate and they win they're
absolutely going to punish them but I
hope between this and a OSI I hope some
unions take a second look and not
necessarily for ideological reasons
although I want everyone to have a
socialist ideology but even just for
pure reasons of power and self-interest
realize that it is in their
self-interest to endorse candidates like
Caban there's no doubt about it and yeah
they won't be punished and the structure
of the policies Caban supports will
obviously be way better for people who
work and so therefore unions but you
know you're you're not gonna be in the
room in the same way yeah
and start thinking you know and again I
I sympathize why unions are thinking of
like what small turf they can protect
because they've been under assault for
decades at the same time if you want to
survive and you want to win the coming
battles for survival you actually need
to think in broader terms in terms of
what you actually can win and actually
deliver for and that's represented by
candidates like come on and one more
thing
because I know we've had some
conversations here we've had
conversations in DSA about how we are
prison abolitionists we don't just want
dakar serration we don't just want to
reform the system right we want to
change it and replace it with a new one
and a better one so for that reason some
people were hesitant to support a DA
because they are part of the carceral
state regardless of what they're going
to do once they're inside of it but I
really think like I have to believe that
we can walk and chew gum at the same
time we can support this da because this
is the tool that's available to us right
now to improve people's material
conditions in a very real way and not
turn our back on our fellow New Yorkers
and ourselves while at the same time
looking to a much more radical
abolitionist horizon definitely today's
sponsor is Skillshare and anyone who
goes to sk l dot s h slash majority
report for is gonna get two whole months
of totally free access to skill shares
entire library of super quality online
courses and tutorials Skillshare is a
vibrant online learning community that
offers courses and everything from
design to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
and everything in between there are
skills share courses for everyone you'll
have no problem finding courses that
will be useful to you in both your
personal and professional life whether
you want to sharpen your skills with
something you already love doing or you
want to learn to do something totally
new Skillshare has you covered
they of course is for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages photoshop you name it I've
been starting to check out the
Portuguese course and I wish I was a
more talented language student but I'm
finding it incredibly accessible and
easy to use so maybe that will help lead
me in the right direction and it
certainly is the most usable interface
for language learning I've ever
attempted by far you can get two entire
months free access to every single
course offered by Skillshare by going to
sk l sh slash majority report for just
think of everything you'll have at your
fingertips for two whole months again
that's
sk l dot s h / majority report for and
i've put a link underneath this video if
you're watching on youtube we'll be
right back with Murtaza hussein
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Murtaza hussein he's a writer and
reporter for the intersect
Murtaza how you doing I'm good it's
always a pleasure
Murtaza obviously things I mean things
have been escalating with Iran ever
since Donald Trump took office and you
know this very hard right approach in
terms of tearing up the deal stepping
out of our international obligations at
the same time there's obviously some
hesitation inside Donald Trump and
within some kind of sectors of the far
right around him obviously and there's a
lot of reporting that tucker carlson has
actually been you know pretty strongly
lobbying against this and it does seem
to me that there's some parts of this
authoritarian right-wing base that is
that's war-weary i think that that's an
actual thing what's your and then of
course but you got Pompeo and bolton and
the usual you know hard right
establishment pushing forward on this
disastrous course what's your sort of
read on where we're at from the US side
so took a coffin I think is standard
bearer we've become a standard therefore
this pattern Canon style conservatism so
it's not progressive in any sense yep
but it does endorse a sort of a
withdrawal of the United States from
entanglements in the world whether they
be Wars or alliances or any substantive
engagement essentially they'd like to
turn the United States from an empire
into an ethnos state you know
pacifically a white ethno thing and in
advocating that position there are
certain tactical positions they take
which align with progressive ideas now
and then but I think that the overall
ideology that he's referencing to
especially when he's getting advice from
just Carlson is a very hard right
ideology it's a manifestation and
domestic politics if they've ever
reached
stage of ascendance would be bad bad for
progressive causes without a doubt um do
you but but inside that relative context
right I mean in it you know and because
even just like practically as an example
like you know ro Cana teaming up with
Matt Gaetz right one of the most just
you know extremist sort of out of his
mind members of Congress what do you
think though that in this context that
that formation that people like Tucker
Carlson represent along with if there
can be I mean we see obviously
leadership from Sanders and leadership
from Cana there needs to be a lot more
just sort of grassroots left anti
intervention anti-war organizing on this
what do you think is it gonna take to
kind of pull us back we're actually
doing this you know I guess in this
immediate context yeah I absolutely
think that in the context of stopping a
war which seems to be imminent
tactical alliance very enthusiastic on
this issue is called for it's wanted and
it's something which is certainly
defensible and I think that it's
happened in the past to like you know
people I disagree with about everything
like patty conferences I find to be
correct about issues like the Iraq war
right so and he's not even just correct
he's a very eloquent look into elkwood
opponent of imperialist wars Ron Paul
was very similar but can this be said is
what I'm saying even beyond just the
ethics of it I mean do you think that
there's a way of stopping this stopping
like I sorta Larry action on Iran oh you
know I see I find that the
decision-making in this administration
is so unpredictable and it's so
haphazard the administration does not
speak with one voice
forget the government speaking with one
voice which is rare and almost never
happens this while I was having the
political establishment but the
administration
different individuals a radically
different things on different days
President himself so radically different
things different days I find oh the
prospect of a war to still be unlikely
although he president Trump and his
administration are really cool the
United States much closer that there
have been before I think that he knows
that it will be a disaster he does not
want a war but I also think that his
advisers are trying to box him into a
situation where war becomes inevitable
whether he wants it or not
the Bolton Pompeo wing you're talking
about the Bolton Pompeo wing and the
thing that I think differentiates them
and makes them more dangerous than Trump
is that unlike Trump they've been
thinking about this for years and years
John Bolton is wanting to have a war
with Iran you know one of the major
themes of his career Donald Trump does
not have very deep knowledge or bleep
about things other than his own
popularity and getting reelected in 2020
and I think that when you're faced with
people who are very knowledgeable in
their own way and very committed to a
certain ideological project and you have
someone like the president who it seems
very malleable and I have strong
knowledge of strong beliefs there's a
great risk that they can succeed in
maneuvering into some him into something
which he doesn't necessarily want what
about the Iranian side I mean obviously
the Iranians have reacted very sharply
and it seems to me that at least into
one sense that you sort of can maybe
glean from Trump because he does have no
knowledge understanding many of these
things but that he doesn't get like the
basic difference in terms of North Korea
that there was an innate goal in having
the North Koreans have some type of
direct meeting with an American
president that was a major mission the
Iranians don't share that mission they
don't need it they're you know they
actually have a lot of good
relationships internationally and they
have a very different foreign policy
making process and and and sort of
a presence on the world stage so inside
Iran like even as rouhani and Zarif have
had to shift after being the kind of
like main proponents of diplomacy with
the United States and obviously
rouhani's use some very provocative
language recently to talk about Trump
which is kind of funny what is happening
inside Iran I mean does this mean is
there like a right-wing tendency in Iran
that you know wants to close off any
relations with the United States is you
know it what what's happening there on
that side of it from your sense the
engagement between the United States and
Iran was very controversial inside of
Iran for precisely the reason that you
mentioned that there are very powerful
factions in the Iranian government who
were against any negotiations with the
United States so to engage in that
two-year process is negotiating the
nuclear deal required a tremendous
amount of political capital on behalf of
rouhani and Zarif and you could say the
civilian wing of the Iranian
establishment and they had to make the
argument that the United States will are
negotiate in good faith against the
counter argument which is that United
States cannot be trusted and they're our
enemy and if you look at what happened
since Trump came to office would be a
sudden annulment of a nuclear deal and
the escalation of threats and sanctions
even though the Iranians have held up
their side the right wing in Iran has
been validated and to say that we are
going to negotiate now on some totally
new terms
there's just no political capital for
that and the Iranians in a sense it's
different from North Korea because there
is internal politics that there are
internal politics in Iran there are
factions there are you know the visible
factions and no one wants to be
humiliated and no one wants to lose
faith and that's for that reason I think
it's extremely unlikely that there will
be any negotiations unless the first
step is that the Trump administration
announces its returning to the nuclear
deal and it doesn't seem to me that
Trump and even
understand what the dealer particularly
cares because he keeps emphasizing that
his requirement for Iran is that they
not develop nuclear weapons and the
point of the nuclear deal was to ensure
that doesn't happen and to impose very
strict surveillance on their nuclear
energy program so the idea that it
doesn't surprise me at all that the
reason these other people are taking a
hard line towards chopped out because
they don't have any choice right there's
no way they can engage in negotiations
with him unless he starts from going
back to the jcpoa and he's not going to
do that and i think for that reason when
i can see any movement in terms of the
comas feet at least as long as this
president is in power and if he someone
else is working 2020 and they want to go
back to the jcpoa i think that the
iranians probably could do that the
issue is they really even if they lose
face they need to go back to some sort
of negotiation with the Americans at
some point because economically their
current situation is not credible
right but right so that makes sense I
mean the sanctions are hitting them
really hard people aren't getting vital
things like even cancer medications but
like what I mean all Democrats and I
think there's obviously varying levels
of actual commitment to this and there's
still a lot of kind of closeness among a
lot of Democratic candidates to AIPAC
and other you know right-wing lobbies
but what if a demo tape more though like
wouldn't an ex-president have to say not
only are we gonna restore this deal but
we actually have to make up for the
complete sort of elimination of our
credibility and your ability to trust us
like what are the safeguards that need
to be put in place I think it's a very
good question I think that even this
method mister she comes back and says
that we will make a deal with you and
also we will return to our deal with you
what will happen with annex
administration right there's always this
question I think this irreparable damage
has been done to the United States
ability to do diplomacy by the behavior
of this administration and its
supporters was very
extremist behavior because they've
basically annihilated American
credibility or they have given the very
strong impression that the u.s. is
institutionally incapable of doing
diplomacy complex sensitive diplomacy
such as the jcpoa because of their
political system they can't manage their
side of the deal so the rationale or
perspective from the iranian perspective
is to hedge your bets and even if in
four years of the next administration
you return to the deal and maybe some
sanctions are lifted you probably still
move towards the nuclear weapon at some
point every country in the world has
gotten a very strong message that
nuclear weapons are the only insurance
and you could ask Kim jong-un or the
Pakistani military some bin Laden was
found in Pakistani territory that it's a
great insurance policy you can ask
Gaddafi or now potentially Iran what
happens we don't have nuclear was Saddam
Hussein and it's not to say that Saddam
Hussein it's not fair that nuclear
weapons good which do you want to your
world with nuclear proliferation just
that because of their decisions because
of their destruction of nuclear
diplomacy in this case the US has made
that the rational choice for any regime
that it's institutionally hostile
towards so let's talk about this
unbelievable piece that you reported a
couple of weeks ago and Iran because I
think this actually is very important
both in terms of the propaganda and the
really extremist influence is pushing
war on Iran but it's an Iranian
activists wrote dozens of articles for
right-wing outlets but was he a real
person what is this Murtaza break this
down for us
there were very prominent or I would say
a very loud Iranian activist writer
online hashmat olivey pushing for the
most strenuous most well strict policies
from the United States towards Iran
calling for heavy sanctions on Iran
calling for war with Iran obliquely and
also attacking anyone who comments on
Iran and trying to character
assassination against them if it don't
fit with this person in touch much
preferences for what should happen US
policy towards Iran now a few months ago
someone contacted me and told me that
this individual doesn't exist and not to
say that they're not writing these
articles for Forbes in the Daily Caller
and the Federalists and several other
right-leaning outlets and tweeting every
day dozens of times but that they are a
actually a team of people three to five
people with a commander in a unit of an
organization called the m EK which is a
iranian opposition group which only has
the distinction of being the one group
that the iranian regime and its other
progressive opponents equally agree are
horrible and are not a progressive
alternative for Iran why does everybody
here and you me oh so here go ahead yes
okay McKay has its roots in the Iranian
Revolution but it was one of the
factions which was defeated by the
Ayatollah since of power later on maybe
developed a post like personality cult
of personality around the certain
leaders who still lead the organization
but most controversially perhaps they
sided with Saddam Hussein during the
iran-iraq war very traumatic period in
Iranian history just because they were
so focused on coming to power in Iran
any cop a very authoritarian group very
shadowy in their ties to Saudis and John
Bolton and many many other people so
essentially the m EK was behind an
accountant they operate out of a base in
albania is very interesting they have
huge bills in albania presumably and in
DC where they do lobbying and france but
they have this huge operation with
hundreds of computers focused on
spreading their message
commenting on every poster a tear on
social media and also trying to get
articles planted by Iranian activists
quote-unquote and harsh morality was a
project or is a project of this
organization and its online operations
wing and it succeeded in getting
articles published in American
publications and they also these article
to be read in the White House because
the White House was citing hashmat
articles to justify its own decision to
exit for the nuclear deal what um we
have any idea of how the m EK is funded
or how they get their money I mean
they've also I mean they've pay john
bolton they've paid howard dean they've
paid a bunch of other prominent people
rudy giuliani I believe is taking money
from them where did they get their
funding from oh good they have a lot of
money it's very strange because they
should be you know on Kickstarter mode
that's the level of possibility they
have and the Iranian background in Iran
there's lost actuation so there's
speculation that they have friends in
Saudi Arabia and the Gulf countries
speculation that new conservatives or
new conservative institutions support
them and it's also known from defectors
from the organization which were some
estimates are fifteen thousand members
that people who are part of the
organization effectively forced give all
their income or all their assets so the
organization's leaders so if maybe if
you are in the m EK they'll ask you to
take a mortgage to take a second
mortgage and given the money back and
your own credit doesn't matter because
you're part of the organization sort of
called like a via you know it's one of
the big questions which remains about
them i would say probably the answer is
all the above when you think about how
they get funds so you have a fake baat
account which got published in forbes
federalists it turns out it's not a real
person it's an online operation run by
an extremist cold political project that
has connections with I think also
Israeli intelligence
the golf neoconservatives they are
closed across the board in Iran and this
fake literal fake news was partially
laundered in the Trump administration's
public justifications for generating the
current crisis were in with Iran that's
right and I think that there are
probably more accounts like this and
more fake people and authors out there
doesn't it doesn't mean that there are
no real irani opposition activist or
dissidents by any means it just means
that people have been taking advantage
of this epistemological crisis which has
been generated by the Internet to
manipulate public discourse and the most
troubling thing is not that I mean one
of the many troubling things is that it
was also engaging in very vicious
harassment and character assassination
against people who really are Iranian
dissidents or critics of the government
or supporters of diplomacy rather than
war or in the Iranian diaspora so
account and this person is making life
hell for them right and what that does
is it makes a real a genuine
conversation about US policy towards
Iran more difficult it makes it hard to
you know find a nuanced policy that
accounts for human rights in Iran but
also does not lead to war or
administrate people there to sanctions
and also deals in the areas where the
u.s. because have legitimate competition
where they were on you know we can't
have a nuanced discussion because people
are flooding the discourse on the
subject with also to misinformation
hysteria and propaganda this is just the
most vulgar example of that it happens
in all all sectors
let's take a few minutes to talk about
this Kushner plan that he just unveiled
in Bahrain it was boycotted by the
Palestinians I mean basically this is
the big thing that we've been hearing
from the beginning of the Trump
administration that on top of all of the
oppression and insults of the
Palestinians for so long that now on top
of everything else you know Donald Trump
has sort of put this this ridiculous
trust fund baby figure in charge of
solving well we always say it's an
intractable conflict I mean the truth is
is how to solve it is actually fairly
simple but there isn't the because the
asymmetry of power and the dynamics
hasn't been solved and nobody's willing
to put pressure on Israel least of all
obviously the Trump administration but
let's just play this clip of Kushner
outlining it and then I'll throw to you
Murtaza I mean this is if the
implications weren't so bad for the
Palestinian people there is I mean this
is a real this is very like this is a
very en new chief think of it sort of
vice thing like well let's let's put
like the idiot kid who married the
daughter of the president in charge of
the most major area failed diplomacy for
decades here he is numerous well
intended programs investments and plans
have been derailed by violence political
instability and the lack of a resolution
to the long-standing core issues of this
conflict to be clear economic growth and
prosperity for the Palestinian people
are not possible without an enduring and
fair political solution to the conflict
one that guarantees Israel's security
and respects the dignity of the
Palestinian people
however today is not about the political
issues we'll get to those at the right
time the goal of this workshop is to
begin thinking about these challenges in
a new way let's try to view this
conflict and the potential of the entire
region through a different lens and work
together to develop a concrete plan to
try and achieve it for a moment imagine
a new reality in the Middle East
imagine a bustling commercial and
tourist center in Gaza and the West Bank
where international businesses come
together and thrive imagine the West
Bank as a blossoming economy full of
entrepreneurs engineers scientists and
business leaders imagine people in good
it's flowing quickly and securely
throughout the region as economics
become more integrated and people become
more prosperous this isn't a stretch
this is actually the historical legacy
of the Middle East specifically of Gaza
and the West Bank it is a legacy of
great cultures coming together as a
center of commerce innovation and
prosperity I just want to add I mean
this was at the peace and prosperity
workshop hosted which was in hosted in
in Bahrain and Mahna Mahna Mahna moi
which I'm totally butchering for some
reason and as Christine Lagarde who is
of course the managing director of the
IMF she said that the piece was missing
from the economic workshop I mean
Murtaza what are your thoughts on this
farts yeah so essentially they're trying
to cushion ER is trying to substitute an
economic solution for a political
solution although in his speech and his
remarks there he did say something about
political solution but he didn't say
anything about what it would be that's
the main problem me you know he once
bragged about the fact that he doesn't
read books about the subject or he
dismissed the ideas everything books
about the subject
nothing really shows in his analysis his
proposals because they totally divorced
from reality and they also don't make
any sense because he's been spending a
year or longer him and other Trump
administration officials just heaping
insults on the Palestinians or putting
pressure on them taking away taking
subjects like Jerusalem off the table
completely and now you're having this
conference which you know presumably you
should have done all this trust with
them by this point doesn't make any
sense it just it's a completely handed
attempt that I don't even think is what
we see just seems like trolling right um
he just said his analysis it's like I
think the average person could probably
do a better job at trying to solve this
issue someone who doesn't have any
understanding of the issue at all I
think that he's worse than that it's
trying to resolve the issue and I
I would give him a chance if I thought
that he had a real idea he doesn't have
any idea the PLO of course rejected it
but just I just one other thing I want
to touch on before you go though is this
is a real testament to this incredible
linkage between the Trump administration
and MBS and Saudi Arabia because the
Saudis who you know you know I don't
think obviously there's not there's
never been a sort of sincere concern for
Palestinian rights or interests but even
going back to the old Saudi initiative
of over of like the Bush era which
basically would have been an actual
two-state solution in exchange for a
broader Middle Eastern recognition of
Israel that still meant at least some
actual autonomy and political gains for
the Palestinians in this case the Saudi
Minister on the ground who was at the
workshop said that they think that the
plan could succeed I truly believe it
can be done and the peak and if the
people do believe that it can be done
said mohammed al sheikh at the workshop
and the way to make people on the ground
believe it is to give them hope and this
will be that this will be sustainable
and that this will be everlasting and
that the ultimately there will be
prosperity and there will be sustained
development and this sort of
motivational globalization speak but i
mean what do you make of that level
between saudi and and the trump
administration maybe even potentially i
mean obviously the back door between
saudi arabian and right-wing forces in
israel i actually picked through the
2002 initiative which is reiterated in
subsequent years actually a pretty good
plan for ending the conflict right I
think it's very disappointing that
Israeli leaders didn't respond to it
because it on paper it seems to give
everybody an accessible out recognition
to Israel and protocol economic
integration with the rest of the region
what I think is a good thing in the
context of a peace deal it gives the
past means independence and a share of
Jerusalem and so forth
unfortunately someone's has changed
since 2002 and mostly for the negative
the region has just completely gone into
chaos and now the null states their
concern is with Iran and with staying in
power economically managing the economic
staying in power in terms of managing
their own population they are not
interested in the thousands anymore they
have bigger fish to fry in their own in
their own perspective and they would
like to work with the Israelis more
openly on the issue that they have
shared interests there's probably some
resentment towards the Palestinians now
it's all of them so the 2002 deal was a
non-starter for Israel 2002 so there's
no indication that they're gonna change
their mind now there's no reason to
horse and you know now
given that reality Casal used to want to
work with them so let's try to push
through the deal of the century to crush
their plan the thing is the one thing
the Palestinians are saying something
national movement at babe any mistakes
over decade not Wallace but one mistake
that I think they'll never make is that
they're not gonna surrender it
they will always continue suffering
regardless how much pressure is put on
them until they achieve their goal which
is self-determination so this whole idea
that kosher an NBA tab of putting gun to
their head and hoping this is surrender
and accept a payment in lieu of
statehood it's never gonna happen
and it shows that there are many books
because anyone can tell you that
Murtaza Hussein reporter for the
intercept I really appreciate your time
as always man thank you
take care all right folks we are gonna
get to the fun half open up im's lines
and blah blah blah there was a I don't
know if you did this on purpose but last
night on T MBS when we have music breaks
we have these great interstitials from
DJ Dan turkey and that plays a lot of
drops over them from the sort of world
of
of idiots like Reuben and you played
Dave Reubens like I really think the
left hates gamers and you timed it I
someone pointed this out I was so funny
because you you timed it where one piece
of music was ending and so then you had
actually there was like probably like
three seconds of silence and then the
next track came on and he's just still
going like they went whether it's an RPG
or a gay they want to solve problem I
don't know if I'm doing justice wish
something in a video game you have to
keep trying to succeed yes you go to
game facts or can you get the cheat code
and all that you do it really is about
you figuring out how to do all this
stuff and that to me sort of shows why
the media and especially the leftist
media hates games now where hates gamers
they don't like to solve problems yes my
site is this a bridge too far am i onto
something the world you're in whether
you're playing a sports gamers Cokie or
whatever you try to use and I am i
accomplishing something you may have to
have teammates and I'll do it you don't
have people to help you do everything a
cheap for you you gotta play to your
base it really explains a lot when you
think about it it does I mean it's
definitely not something I thought about
when I was playing Red Dead Redemption
too and learning how to be a cowboy
without do all these things like that
yourself saddle horses and you know
break them in and you know you don't
want to blow that for you yeah and you
don't want to try track big game I'm
like I'm like I am I'm turning my back
on my life as a leftist when I'm doing
this that's always been my big concern
with you when you say that you like to
load up a bong and play like five hours
of video games
I'm just you know I've always wanted
like that Jesus is there a problem
technically guys alright okay next it
let's go to the fun half become a member
of the majority reported a majority dot
F M slash become a member that's how the
show happens that's how you get
everything from Iran war prevention
hopefully to Rubin dunk to IDW
harassment do it's fully um I actually
act bully the right there's a difference
between form and content indeed yet
yesterday on t MBS we had an excellent
show Brian Mayer we went deep of course
and which we will talk about in the
second half of this new immense
injustice
I mean Allah still being imprisoned even
after the revelations of the incredible
corruption of the lava jato team we
talked about that but also the broader
geostrategic context linking it with the
NSA spying on Petrobras us reversal of
the pink tide then Harvey K came in we
talked about the history of a philip
Randolph
why the march on Washington was about
jobs and justice and the strategic
necessity of Sanders to claim the FDR
legacy and the commentary on the state
of play state of crisis but state of
potential opportunity in Iran and Saudi
in excuse me in the Sudan and how Omar
al-bashir who used to be an
international villain and the Janjaweed
militias that committed crimes against
humanity in Darfur became partners with
European Member States in keeping
migrants from crossing the Mediterranean
this weekend strategy session with labor
organizers strategist author Bill
Fletcher jr. on the progressive movement
and the Democratic Party and how to
actually build socialism patreon.com
slash T mb/s Michael Brooks show on
YouTube and please you do not want to
miss so click there it's right on the
site get your tickets to the August 24th
Michael Brooks live show at Chicago
Illinois Jamie this week on the anti
Fattah we speak with the prolific poster
known as Chad vigorous aka pretty bad
lefty on twitter.com such a smart guy
such a good talker we had a wide-ranging
conversation including we talked about
his ethnographic studies of white music
we asked which white artists speak to
him the most and why
can we give get some examples Willie
Nelson he likes like gutter post grudge
oh you don't like screed and who was and
like anything where people are yelling
at you because he likes to live to it he
does like Nine Inch Nails so we can bond
over that well yeah and we talked about
the infuriating and depressing debate
over what is or isn't a concentration
camp as well as liberalism's tendency
toward rhetorical chicanery rather than
actually addressing the issues
surrounding race and class in u.s.
society so check it out
it's out now awesome Matt literary
hangover we talked about Nathaniel
Hawthorne's the Blithedale romance and
among other things we talked about why
the utopian socialists didn't really
work out because basically it was this
thing where you would have to have
enough money because you had to be
bougie well in the first place to buy
property somewhere and then you start a
commune and try to lead by lead a
revolution by example of how you like
organize your day for instance and it
turns out that the global market is a
bit too tough it's a very tough deal see
in the fun half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube frees up their
buggy whipping like he's the boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defense of that you're idiots
we're just going to get rid of you all
right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes do you feel
like you are a dinosaur exactly I'm
happy now so we win it's win-win
oh yeah now listen to me two three five
times eight four seven nine oh six five
oh one four five seven six seven eight
nine don't you see everybody's taking
their dance
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
scroll fine we can double dip yes this
is a perfect moment no you make under a
million dollars all right take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some ability Ria's out there take
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber lastic I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to I see some people Shitler
what's such a No
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
welcome to the fun half Michael Brooks
here along with the team what the hell
is going on with the phones there's
always a problem two phones I feel um
let's start with this piece of sound
it's really powerful these were what
numbers this on the list the one we have
of number four so as we know one of the
great crimes that were with among many
that were committed in and by this
country was the Japanese internment and
the Japanese Japanese Americans during
World War two were put in concentration
camps because that's the term that's
what it means to concentrate people in
camps you concentrate people and as an
example refugees or people from a
specific ethnic group it's something
that the United States government has
apologized the Japanese community about
I remember I I actually knew a amazing
couple growing up who were both interned
as young people I believe she in
California and he in Hawaii uh and but
also on the right on this sort of
proto-fascist right there's actually a
lot of work even going back to the Bush
administration of laying the groundwork
of justifying this crime now of course
we have children who are being tortured
we have children who were being
kidnapped
children who are dying in ice custody
there's people like Chuck Todd and
others who want to play pedantry games
there's people like Megan McCain who
think it's another opportunity to talk
about their dad I'm almost getting to
the point of like I don't know just go
to a therapist but there's other people
like these incredibly principled
japanese-american advocates who are
linking their own experience in the
crime of internment with the crime of
this terrorism aimed at children by ice
and the Trump administration and so
these japanese-american activists were
taking the lead on this protest that was
I believe it was taking place in front
of a facility there were children that
were gonna be moved from to a camp in
Oklahoma I believe this is and these a
former Japanese internment victims were
speaking about that
and there is a guy who you know we talk
about form and function I don't think
that everybody who takes these I think
there's plenty of people go for these
jobs frankly because there's not many
good jobs to be had but there's also
people and then there's a structural
bureaucratic problem and I'm really not
interested in demonizing people for
holding different jobs I think it's a
self-defeating strategy and I think it's
mostly moralistic and annoying that all
being said this guy has all of the
traits of a milk monitor bully
and the fact that they stand up to him
is very satisfying yeah I just want to
note first the hashtag that they have on
their shirts which just stop repeating
history and also yeah Michael said this
isn't about this individual guy I think
look at this as a visual metaphor for
like basically what political struggle
might look like for the next 50 years
the military guys saying this and and
these people react the exact way that
they should
exactly and subsequently Santa Fe New
Mexico my mother and
I were incarcerated at the Puyallup
fairgrounds called camp harmony and
later in me Nodoka Idaho
you cannot protest on Fort Sill if you
want to protest you have to go across
the street the highway and that needs to
happen right now
let's go let's go let's go now today my
name is cheese ooh Oh Mari no no ma'am
you may not you may again I will say it
this is the last time you cannot protest
on Fort Sill you need to move across the
street now empty beds jeez who are you
going to make a statement yes apparently
you didn't hear what I said you need to
move today now right now I I don't know
I'm not gonna arrest you but you need to
move getting on my waka TOI postin
Arizona an American concentration camp
dude there is that's it
so a woman who was an internment camp
yeah concentration camps right oh that's
also a good point
so they called his bluff you know
obviously it's satisfy I mean the guy
just it's as simple as if that guy
wasn't a total bully an and
embarrassment there would be the
attitude of basically like you can't say
in words but I see I've been in
situations where the guys basically and
maybe they're being insincere but it
makes the difference where it's like
look the subtext is I have a boss I'm
being told to do this I understand I'm
being an
I might even understand that you people
are totally right but you know I got to
go through the motions on this that guy
is on his own authority trip was his
walkie-talkie - stupid gadgets and it's
like you what are you gonna do
alright you're not gonna arrest us we're
gonna go back to being a moral
conscience you can
back to being a joke and a bully you can
either use force so you can get a gtfo
let us do our speeches
yeah and shout out to that lady for
making the connection between different
people's struggles and negative
shoutouts to right-wing Jews who want to
police the boundaries of what you can
refer to as a concentration camp
I mean it goes against everything I was
taught in my own Jewish upbringing
everything I was taught about the
Holocaust you know when we say never
again we don't just mean never again for
Jews no we never again anyone Oh Jews in
Germany specifically so is an example if
you want to it if some Jews found
themselves and say Zanzibar well you
couldn't use the word concentration camp
we need to be very specific it involves
Germany or when you're agitating for any
war you want in the Middle East or if
you're justifying killing Palestinian
children and besides that you never use
those words saying every speaking of
those kinds of people and they you know
because identity is not an essential
quality those kinds of people can be
Megan McCain so oh hold on one second
I'm sorry I'm those people can be Megan
McCain so Megan McCain who is one of the
great great idiots of our time had a an
incredible exchange with her fellow
members of the view and does it surprise
you that Megan McCain has a narcissistic
take about children being kidnapped of
course not
does it well no parts of this
individually should or would surprise
you but it still is hysterical when it
all comes together let's check this out
the complete and total humanitarian
crisis and we don't have the
infrastructure to deal with it Kevin
McCarthy
the Minority Leader said every member of
Congress should be required to go to the
southern border scuse me and see the
crisis for themselves and they should
also be required to see what's happening
in these detention centers I just want
to say one quick note I saw and
apparently by the way me saying can I
say one quick thing is now becoming a
parody that's just how I talk it's one
of my tics I'm sorry
torture facilities I understand it is a
humanitarian crisis it's horrific to
detain and you first of all torture
facilities who's using that that's the
other thing is that nobody has actually
you like that like if we want to be
precise and definite and and definitive
here I honestly look if somebody called
it a torture facility I have no problem
with it that I think yes if you are
you're literally torturing children
definitionally so if you want to use
that term I'm certainly not gonna be
dependent who's gonna whine about it
but people are calling them
concentration camps because that's what
they are again we'll go back to the
merriam-webster dictionary so but you're
right it's so first what she's doing is
they Kevin McCarthy tweet now Kevin
McCarthy is part of the party that's
doing this to people and this isn't a
crisis and in fact when you know I go
and look up videos by the way yeah 2015
I went so hard at Obama for border
policies at that point for people there
was there was a crisis in 2015 they were
sending people back in that context as
well this is different but there is a
long history of barbarism and humanity
in humanity at the border this
acceleration is totally generated by the
Trump administration there's no border
crisis whatsoever so this is this is
actually a proper use of the phrase
virtue signaling she wants to virtue
signal that she's not a complete
sociopath and grotesque monster and she
has a problem with children dying and
ice custody while keeping for the people
that are making this happen and now
after making up that people are calling
it torture facilities which almost
nobody's doing we get to the real
fixation of Megan McCain's life and I'm
starting to see some parallels here
potentially between the way
Donald talks and I just want to make one
point about that like torture facilities
would be an accurate but polemical use
of language or concentration camps is
just literal usage active use of
language and Noah and I and again rare
people aren't using torture camps but
here we go
this is Meghan McCain's fixation in life
I saw and apparently by the way we sing
can I say one quick thing is now
becoming a parody that's just how I talk
it's one of my texts I'm sorry
calling these places torture facilities
I understand it is a humanitarian crisis
it's horrific to detain and you like you
said people in jail get soap and people
in jail get two two faces excuse me
toothpaste but I know where these
facilities like I've been to one but
listen to me excuse me when you have a
facility whose specific purpose is to
torture people that is not what's going
on yes
it's inhumane but there is a big
difference between the Hanoi Hilton and
what's happening we should be concerned
about what we're calling them than what
what is happening inside us but if
anybody's doing hyperbole we can't
actually talk about the matter it had
exactly uh hyperbole gives me an
opportunity to talk about my father and
distract from the fact that the
administration that I won't admit to
supporting but will protect my trust
fund is killing children so I think
that's exactly I know about torture
facilities I've been to one I go to one
every day where I have to sit at a table
with that Joy Behar
I am literally tortured right now being
with all these women who are shouting at
me when my father literally after whoa
hey he was burning them whatever what
say you was there
so anyway anyways I don't have time for
this we should please the man but what
we're calling those you think care about
the dead kids well I didn't come out of
them well my father couldn't lift me up
above his head as a child because I've
lived torture well so I do think
hyperbole is important but that wasn't
Midway and they were torture saint
calling I had such a problem with as a
torture facility a big boy
let me say this one thing what it what
do I say wait what it is it's a joke now
what does it say one thing first of all
it may not have intended to be a torture
facility but has turned out to be
torturous okay that's number one number
two this was separating these children
was used as a deterrent at the border to
keep them from coming in it hasn't been
working
it doesn't work so he doesn't even know
what he's doing but I think done
terribly but I think hyperbole when
you're saying this is a concentration
camp this is a torture okay we finally
had Tyson our to the real thing which is
the accurate use of language man she is
so disgusting purply when you're saying
this is a concentration camp this is a
torture Center it's when you get people
to stop paying attention and what is
happening I am on a you know if you
wanna do your yes by the way I hope that
her doing that was a way of calling you
stupid because you are stupid it's cute
people should absolutely let you know
how stupid and narcissistic you are it's
cute that she thinks the things she's
being parodied for is her catchphrase
can I say one thing when it's clearly my
father my father my father you know what
the thing was with someone like Magnum
McCain who is so totally there through
her own merit and is not a product of
being a trust-fund baby in an oligarchy
and is somebody that whatever you think
of her opinions is obviously very well
briefed well researched and intelligent
you just gotta go and find something
petty like that like a kind of basic
speech dick because there's not much
else you could make fun of her about
which is why I was actually shocked by
this so as we all know and is my board
up NRA TV
it's been shut down sippy sippy
and so NRI TV was I mean what it was
embarrassing because it was like even in
an ample II generate like if you're in
right-wing media you're in an amazing
position because you can get funded by
any type of corporation or oligarch
because you're there to be a mouthpiece
for their agenda and then you have a
pretty significant amount of rubes and
idiots who are easy marks to you know
sell to or whatever the fact that
even in that ecosystem and the NRA is to
enter in an array is is still for all of
its major internal problems is the
domestic arms industry lobby group and
something that you know I mean an array
has played a role in the resurgence of
the far right in Latin America they were
so bad in our ATV that we did I don't
know like a handful of clips on them I
mean like it just was boring the talent
was not it was it was it was one step
above those guys who just record
themselves in their SUV with like a
Packers head hi this is Hank
I'm here in my suburban heard that
Barack Obama wants to take my hunting
knife well you know guess what not today
or ever Barack Hussein Obama those guys
at least have more charisma look I saw
this thing on a website I what's it
called again oh we project very top it
says ill on Omar married her brother to
get into America now we're gonna look
into this I'm gonna read it slowly for
forty minutes well you know obviously
animation acaba Rawls ahead was there in
in in toom toom so sorry that was the
other paragraph so those guys are
actually a lot more charming and so then
in turn right TV so basically NRI TV is
done and what is this tweet this is just
the announcement no this is just the
announcement so very sad NRA TV has shut
down production on
and what a bummer so you know this is
hilarious who cares maybe maybe we'll
get some of their equipment and what we
saw and so Megan McCain who several
years ago Megan McCain it's interesting
because you know her big brand was like
you know it's always obviously been 98
percent my dad as John McCain but it
used to be like hey like as long as you
don't like like tax my trust fund like I
know like gay people and we can like go
shopping and now I think under Trump and
because you know at the end of the day
like you know clearly like on her panel
it's like I don't want to be bothered
with dead kids I want to be given money
as that position has become less tenable
just around and and people like joy who
were not radicals but are just like
Jesus I can't how much longer do I have
to like indulge this megan
mccain is reaching out i think in making
sure that her bona fides are strong with
you know the the always you know hard
fanatical right people like dana loesch
who I think was dana loesch was on NRA
TV and as an NRA spokesperson
she's also big Vince Foster conspiracy
theorist denill oh she's very smart so
she's got a great brain so Megan McCain
tweeted at dana loesch at dana loesch is
a brave fighter who believes in who is
ibly the way excuse me he's a brave
fighter for what she believes in i look
forward to whatever she does in her next
endeavor she also has a husband I
respect greatly at Chris Lodge IO just
like the ad Megan McCain got the ball
easy now
and secondly uh I believe Chris lush if
I'm not mistaken has collaborated with
steven crowder on one of the most
unfunny things i've ever seen in my life
look at that facial hair oh wait no
that's not him
I don't know Chris I thought I thought
Chris Lucia was somebody else all right
I don't know Chris Lucia's just a man
devoted to Jesus his wife the wild rose
from Anna's country he's definitely he's
a wife guy he's got the facial hair of a
wife guy indeed all right well sorry
Chris Lucia is a nice guy and by the way
I Meg
please you're not gonna be able to pull
a crystal oh Sh okay yes she's already
got a what's his neon stick to stick to
Salman Oh stick to some sad the bent
down man what is he a federalist writer
Ben Domino's is if Federalists play yes
yes stick to some plagiarist who you had
like a nervous breakdown that like she
was probably scared Trump was gonna
actually lead us to like nuclear war and
her trust fund would be taken away that
way so she married him because of an
anxiety attack a Dalit like oh my god
and he has a nuclear war than like my
money will go elsewhere so then so
that's what she tweeted dana loesch
responds not step the off of my
husband no Daniel oh she responded this
way go back okay but Dana Loesch we're
gonna regional threat but Dana Loesch
responded politely but with this but not
a lot of interest I appreciate your
friendship over the last couple years in
your fighting spirit I'm glad I got to
know you and then and love how like the
right-wing clearly has their own like
Twitter pests I don't even know if this
is a right-wing who knows who this
person is it's just classic pettit pest
enos yeah it is very which is hoodie
because and in fact too at gogo SF's
credit this is super funny i dana loesch
we're not the only ones with jeans with
we're not the only ones with Megan
McCain impressions around here Jamie and
I know look I think my megan mccain
impression is good but this is also that
I had no idea dana loesch had any talent
check this out all women because they're
women
criticism sexist and I told her I was
impressed that she actually picked up on
the fact that I was insulting her did
you search her last name
she replied had you lash that's not what
I'm
and seeing that we're both Republican
albeit very different than on there
should be some level of support you have
continued to say negative things about
me I'm not like take two shots I don't
understand the play as I told her I'm
not a Republican my concern and I also
brought up all of the past instances
where she has taken potshots at Sarah
Palin and Bristol Palin and Michele
Bachmann any other woman megan mccain
seems to view as a threat to steal that
republican mantle from her why do we why
okay all right they're both bad yeah but
the impression was so fun she nailed it
was by like how much like being on the
top of the top of woman in conservative
media like important occasion does make
it very easy for people I got a say was
a good impression it's so funny to that
megan mccain is doing what like all
media people do and like they're all
their friends get laid off and they're
like hey this is a great person you
should hire them like dana loesch she's
gonna have any trouble finding another
right wing like thunder to just bankroll
her yeah she thinks she's being so
generous and helpful with her fake
friend hey pay her Megan hire her as a
research assistant wait is there more oh
okay
ah Calvin okay so you know this is one
where like all obviously say whatever
but I don't like I would never
at Megan McCain right look I just have a
dedicated about things but this guy
Calvin who actually is a check mark so
that's really escalating check privilege
says I am an annoying gay Internet
person well you know what Calvin you're
living up to your name here because
Calvin jumps into the thread with holy
 your impression of McCain McCain of
Megan's voice is actually spot-on
Oh Calvin you know messy now Megan
McCain who I would frankly not be
surprised if she responded to gogo SF is
dragged in and she says the following
remember when you publicly begged me to
have brunch with you I still have
forgotten that
yeah and you look at this and if you
have any empathy you just think damn the
poor producers on the view might have an
even extra annoying day with this brat
Oh little bummer all right you're
calling from a three one four area code
who are you where you're calling from
three one four e they're three one four
how's it going buddy all right you're
out you are calling from a eight one
seven area code who are you calling from
eight one seven all right I'll call back
him you know sorry sometimes I worry
that we're gonna reach the singularity
soon and the robots are gonna kill us
and then we try to use the phone here
I'm like the majority we know what maybe
technology's not there yet speakerphone
any of your one I think question ready
hello this is miss Raleigh and will be
with you shortly
hello I don't even see myself here um
God all right
producer Lauren did you know that Dave
Rubin was on Tucker Carlson show last
night well uh well in fact we did yeah I
think we caught this well well I guess
we'll play this in a second wall well
Tucker was safely ensconced in Tokyo to
complain about the suppression of
YouTube does Rubin fulfill some sort of
gay quota that for Tucker that peaked
when he had Caitlyn Jenner on is a
disloyal log cabin Republican do you
know why Randy Rhoads wasn't allowed to
podcast from tonight's debate lash the
fash I don't know the answer to any of
those
but we do have this clip and one and
again you know we all know what tucker
carlson is but it is funny to me that i
mean tucker clearly understands that
dave is not the sharpest operator so
there's always a funny tenor to their
interactions because dave is like
slobbering with excitement that he's
doing a cable hit and tucker is like you
know the same way with Praeger like hey
you know you're the gay guy who cosines
on all of the bad things that's great
but there's always that little tucker
like wow it's really stupid do I really
have to walk you through all this walk
through this you can't just do this
yourself alright let's check this out
Dave Rubin hosts the Rubin report on
YouTube the Google whistle blower says
that his channel is one of the channels
that Google's algorithms work it to
suppress watch this right off through
the odds happens the concert career
stopped right after the Masonic Lodge
say this is the difference you could
tell between tucker carlson and dave
rubin that in the tucker carlson
production process they were like why
don't we cut out the Masonic Lodge
meeting PI career started to demonetized
and they just herded into ranks I'm
talking about tonight what do you make
of that Dave when you hear that Tucker I
guess you didn't know when you came to
my house to do my show to my little
garage studio and you played with my dog
and saw my backyard chickens you didn't
know what a crazed right-wing radical I
was so I'm glad that we've gotten that
out there laws of horse tucker carlson
is a crazed right-wing radical so why
would he have a problem socializing with
one what do you this guy is so stupid
it's breathtaking alright keep oh I'm
glad that we've gotten that out there
look of course this is this is complete
nonsense I mean we've discussed this
many times I am an old school liberal so
this is not like I'm some far Lefty and
I'm not some far righty I'm a pretty
modern
guy has tried to build some bridges here
and even that now is becoming too
extreme for what Google and YouTube are
allowing to happen one of the things
that I've done that I'm most proud of
actually is I've had conservatives on my
show we know your family I know that
it's brilliant had conservatives on like
Tommy Sotomayor and Stephan mana the way
you build bridges is you have Tommy
Robinson on you Gurley really the
Muslims have their own query of this
city and why would the file ever let you
just be in like a river at that time you
stand they don't want you to talk about
the brain they don't want you to be part
of this new center where there's this
new center where people talk about
terrorizing migrants off the coast of
the coast of the Aegean are you saying a
gene that's a fun weird
yes I've had conservatives on my show
like you like vinegar
Ben Shapiro etc and I've treated you
guys with respect and decency and that
really is what this ministry media and
sort of the New York Times CNN crew
doesn't want people to see they just
want to create a character of all of you
guys so that's sort of why they're
coming after me but I will say this just
moments before before we started here I
just got notified that Susan Wojcicki
who's the CEO of YouTube she actually
followed me on Twitter so Tucker like is
starting to get hit like his little
bloated squint face or he's just sort of
like writing a little bit more mileage
out of this you're so excited you're so
desperate for any kind of social
validation that one night you follow is
gonna completely puncture in a segment
Jesus Christ you're an empty-headed
vacuous more I won't own my last rolls
of sushi I still trying to get you wash
down my throat I thought we were gonna
go tunc off and make some
seven-year-olds freaked out about Google
supporting the davis agenda so when this
idiot gets a follow on twitter and all
of a sudden he's come even upset for the
segment god this guy's dumb i could have
been honorary first made on a whaling
boat this afternoon and instead i'm in a
studio talking with us
well i i've got over a million
subscribers on there and i don't know as
much as an email address of someone at
YouTube but maybe I am
starting to make some headway now and
you know quickly to your point on making
we're sort of libertarians are at right
now I think there's an interesting
moment here where generally and I think
you're sort of in that group too you
know our limits are being pushed on what
small government actually means and for
me I would always prefer a private
answer to this in competition but maybe
there has to be a sort of two-pronged
approach where politicians are putting
pressure and then public people are
putting pressure because competition is
not kicking in cut well I love this this
is so incredible I mean Jesus Christ
okay so so know wow he is really so dumb
so first of all Tucker Carlson is
absolutely not
at least positioning himself brand wise
as a libertarian in fact Tucker Carlson
has made many provocative comments
including recently going through
sections of Elizabeth Warren's economic
plan and her 2003 book the to income
trap to talk about any number of
economic populist proposals that he's at
the very least willing to pretend to
support he said to Ben Shapiro I don't
believe in the market as some type of
religious force and if I knew that
automation was gonna eliminate some a
disastrous amount of jobs I would
regulate against it that is totally anti
libertarian and when you combine that
with like the place to like the the old
folks about how like try adding a
conversation with a teenager on pot that
does not fit with the whole like oh I'm
looper terian I don't care if well
conjunction of Monsanto Bear and
Microsoft owns the planet just so long
as you could smoke a little pot or
whatever ways that they do like they're
fake like 1970s groovy points on so
Rubin doesn't even know the basics of
where he is then there's like the deep
point that these are communications
Commons and obviously you can't leave it
into the hands of Silicon Valley that is
the appropriate Democratic response to
it the opposite of an actual libertarian
response
so what Rubin though is doing here and I
think is actually sort of especially by
his standards and he's not I no doubt
he's doing it intentionally but it's
kind of clever
he's still saying like this Bay
think we should be a private market
mechanism because I'm a mouthpiece for
corporate America but what we should do
is we should have more hearings where
idiots and fascists and demagogues like
Steve King or just like you know go to
Facebook you know comms teams and say
look is this a page that tells kids that
it's all right to be gay well I'm
wondering why the same page that says
they should slit their wrists is not
getting top of the algorithm that's what
he means by public pressure which where
politicians are putting pressure and
then public people are putting pressure
and we can maybe make these companies
sort of be a little more transparent be
a little more open which really is all
anyone's asking for here I yeah I got a
feeling that if YouTube did what we
think it should do and just ban people
who launder white supremacists and we're
transparent about not accepting that
like that that knitting website that
recently did that you hear about that
there's like we're kicking off all Nazis
and everyone's like can I guess you can
just do that yeah
then I think Ruben would still have a
problem with that because he would
probably get swept up in that yeah I
think Ruben I think and I don't think
changing the title from a racing IQ to
controversial opinion that's it idea I
don't think that would do so well and I
also don't think it would do so I also
think if you if you did what these
company needs to do which is you had an
actual human editorial process I don't
think that would bode so well for him
either and I also think in any society
where any decent number of people across
the political spectrum still understood
that eugenics and racism and things like
that were bad things and undesirable and
you didn't need to be like a woke Lord
to understand that I don't think Dover
urban is gonna bow to well in those in
that society either it's I bring them to
heel by force tomorrow I wouldn't
advocating solution I think that's that
time would you allow will you allow a
power company you go to say we're
denying you electricity because you
voted for someone we don't like course
you wouldn't we would not allow well I
think that
yes yeah I think that's a totally valid
argument yeah you know as my friend Eric
wines that says it's like one day are we
gonna get to the point where our
Republicans are going to be allowed to
have phones in their homes I mean that's
sort of where we're headed these
companies through public pressure will
mean but but you might be right and I
actually I think that's just an
incredibly rich debate that we should be
having more often you know I love I look
I'd Tucker I I will confess I didn't
watch the whole clip but I had to do
that whole work to explain
Tucker's politics and Tucker did that
for me much more brutally than I've ever
done it you know he's a big government
paleo conservative and by the way I
agree I'm on that side of the debate
these companies need to become public
utilities they need to be heavily
regulated and I absolutely do not trust
any process in the long term that
Silicon Valley companies are in charge
of deciding these things that is insane
and even if they make short-term
decisions that are positive and we may
like and by the way most of the
short-term decisions they've made are
horrible in fact that's there's a reason
that algorithm has helped feed the
growth of these kinds of channels and
content that's a fundamental danger to
media and democracy they cannot be in
Silicon Valley's hands they need to be
in public hands period
I think yuria Tucker and us kind of
understand that equally on some level
like we don't have an issue with YouTube
controlling the kind of speech that's on
there we both understand that it's a
vehicle for ideology he just wants it to
be a vehicle for white supremacist
ideology and we want it to be a vehicle
for you know liberation and whatnot of
course but but the fundamental
regulatory question you know yeah I
agree 100% yes and it is really funny
just to watch Dave just completely not
like and I love how that's always his
move which is like well it's a reach
calm Bruce it that's another thing that
clearly I have actually know but I love
to pretend that I love to explore it I
want to shout out a really good video by
Sean YouTuber Sean I think
people probably proposed before Sean he
did a what is white supremacy a response
to steven crowder video and this little
section on dave rubin building bridges
with people like Laura Loomer I thought
was very very funny or a scary I don't
know both however she would appear to
disagree then to collect the devil
returning to Lawrence often however she
would appear to disagree then what well
you know you would have agree that some
of it exists right like there's
something there somewhere that yeah even
even the Richard Spencer's of the world
like they're there miss there even them
they're kind of misrepresented as well
like Richard Spencer is not a white
supremacist he is a white nationalist he
believes in a white ethno state he
doesn't believe in whites being superior
so so Richard Spencer is not a white
supremacist apparently he's a white
nationalist according to Lawrence oven
however and I I don't identify the white
nationalist dip to you know let that be
known history is often a zero-sum game
history is often about subordination and
domination and it's about patronage and
and so on and if we want to try to get
away from that in order to be
ideologically purely Oh every ethnicity
will have its little state we're not
gonna really go anywhere there's Dave
Dave Lau there was a really interesting
that's so interesting he's dead he wants
an F news feed but not a white because
because I could live but like just
because I have my own house doesn't mean
I think I'm better than other people
that's so interesting
Oh sidebar that's it that is such a
great illustration to because I just you
know clearly the he has no problem and
he has no ethics and he's a you know in
addition to being incredibly stupid and
funny is obviously a very bad person but
he has no problem you know building a
platform that's leveraged by having
people like Laura southern and Molyneux
and so on on it so he's made his money
I tell he's made his money and don't
forget sam Harris has duralee supported
him every step of the way and been a
regular as well but now
that it's a it's a two-step game because
on one hand you need to you know scream
the hilltops about censorship but now
it's a lot more than kingship you ruin
right like he's not gonna he's gonna be
trying and the retitling the video name
and all of that he's gonna want that to
escape down you know the memory hole so
you know this is a good time for people
who like to do that sort of
internet-based having fun like that to
just do you know could steady reminders
especially when Dave is like whining to
the CEO of YouTube I'm just you know you
could drop in those threads before and
I'm sure he'll block you but you could
also forward it to people like us yeah
because he can't block us we will share
like oh this is the type of thing that
Dave thinks is super important that
we're clear about online which is
telling you know uninformed
fourteen-year-olds that there's a
profound intellectual difference between
supporting ethnos state and being a
white supremists thank you Dave very
important intellectual worth appreciate
that all hands on deck in the posting
Morris right now well exactly and we are
literally taking money out of their
operations pockets by doing things like
saying hey boo de jedge don't go on this
white supremacist blonde era show right
100% and and actually this is what Sam
mentioned this but what he announced he
was getting that gonna do a book and we
said we're going to flood the algorithms
so people know who he is mission
accomplished all the simple things with
him did the I like that he actually look
writing a book is pretty friggin hard I
mean writing a book idea of him
composing an email about abuse no I just
picture like business cat sitting at the
computer kind of pawing at the keyboard
ideas the left I mean Jesus is literally
and it still hasn't happened I mean it's
amazing that they couldn't yeah god
that's hilarious all right you're
calling from an eight one seven area
code who are you worried calling from Oh
me yeah it's you oh hey what's up
Michael this is a
Alex from Arlington Texas hey Alex
what's on your minds
big fan Oh so I was calling to talk
about I'm actually a type 1 diabetic and
there's been a lot of news lately about
insulin prices which is really good a
bit attendance or something wrong I
wanted to point a lot of people or point
out to a lot of people some important
stuff going on with that because I don't
think it's getting or press ok so a
couple weeks ago UI releasing
manufactures insulin announced that they
were going to be making a supposedly
cheaper alternative for people who are
on lower incomes or who have to pay out
of pocket can afford and but they were
going to be shipping this out for
pharmacies and there's going to be great
it's going to fix everything we don't
need Medicare for all whatever the
problem is is that a bunch of a bunch of
diabetics on Twitter following if you
guys don't know Laura Marston is doing
some really great advocacy for Medicare
for all or a mom okay
and lowering insulin prices yeah Laura
Marston kid fears 99 on Twitter so there
was a question there sort of an open
thread a couple days ago a bunch of
diabetics across the country went to
their pharmacies and asked if they could
get this you know cheaper insulin and
literally none of them could it like
across the country from Texas to the
Northeast to the Pacific Northwest
nobody could find it all the farm if you
said we don't you know we don't have it
some of them were like well we can order
it but will cost $1500 of course defeats
the entire boy and so they got
all this good press for supposedly
coming out with this wonderful cheap
interim that would help everyone out and
they're not even really it's all just a
lie essentially and people you know
they're not getting called all for it
well I think it's I know this is the
combination of like you have I was
talking my friend Luke Mayville about
put medicaid expansion on the ballot in
Idaho
and he was saying like you of these
places where you're lucky if you still
even have a town newspaper and there's
maybe one person or two people on staff
and Koch brother money is across the
state you know like there's arms and PR
teams that will send a press release so
I think this might be another example of
that type of thing that it's you know
between the just decimation of media the
power of PR and also you know the lack
of maybe kind of a scientific
understanding of some of these things a
big problem so I'll just say the
person's name again the woman's name
that we should be following yeah
absolutely it's Laura Marston at Ted
fears k ID ste pay Rs 99 type 1 diabetic
between a 50 ages 21 26 you should be in
her there are apparently journalists
looking to talk to people in our cohort
so that's super important if we can get
our story out there maybe that will
bring some more attention to this
doesn't mean you know this is life or
death for us absolutely
literally yep appreciate the call Thank
You Man thank you so much appreciate it
I'm sorry I have to call back in again
can you take it down Matt I'm sorry uh
so uh a lot of athletes have refused to
go to the Trump White House for obvious
reasons but I don't think that anybody
has put their lack of interest to going
to the White House so succinctly in
France and World Cups going on right now
right where Megan rapun wrapped Megan
Rapinoe she's a credible player for the
US soccer team she was asked about her
excitement she's a funny way to frame
this question about going to the White
House and she had a very economical
answer
I'm gonna my ass no you're not
going the White House that's it
we're not gonna be invited you're not
gonna be invited I doubt it I love it
although I wouldn't even added we're not
gonna be I'm just like no yeah whether
or not they're invited they're not going
not going there enough you're calling
from a 404 area code who are you where
you calling from hi this is Christian
from Atlanta Georgia hey Christian
what's going on what's on your mind
hey uh really pumped I got the call in
there's my first try oh well I love the
show Thanks I'm actually calling in
regards to a caller you guys had on
Monday
her name was a Priya and she was calling
in regards to her family held like the
right wing beliefs yep and it made her
very uncomfortable um and after that you
had another call who said that the
solution was to ostracize the family
which I have to disagree with because I
have personal experience with this um my
grandmother has pretty conservative
beliefs she gets them from you know
watching Fox and Friends and listening
mostly to Rush Limbaugh um so the way I
see it is that our family members that
have kind of become this way are really
victims of propaganda and you don't
really ostracized victims
um because if you do so they're gonna
take it personally and they're gonna dig
in their heels and feel like they're
personally being attacked so you're
going to retreat further into their
far-right beliefs as a security blanket
basically as to not feel like they're
the bad guy you know what I mean I mean
to be honest I just I I can't I don't
have a heart I I don't have a huge
amount of time for these conversations
not like no offense mean one because I
think in Priya's instance and this is
where I'll even draw a slight
distinction she was even saying and
obviously they're very close on the
continuum but she wasn't even talking
about somebody being quote-unquote
conservative she's talking about being a
non-white person who's adopted into a
white family of a lot of people who are
embracing Oh
and overtly racism under trumpet that is
an incredibly difficult thing to deal
with right like and I don't think you
and I could put ourselves in that
position and then the other thing I mean
no no I'm not in the business of telling
people like you know I'm not big on that
type of thing be friends do you want to
be friends with don't dissociate from
your family I'm not we're not a fun
moment right this isn't some you
know weird social spend time with
who you want to spend time with I think
there actually is particularly just even
in a brand way it's healthy if the left
has a reputation of like people who can
like deal with people and aren't like
puritanical nutcases or always kind of
like freaking out but on the other hand
I don't like ID in the flipside dude I
you know I don't know what to tell you
like I'm sure your grandmother's a
lovely lady but you know I I don't know
if I'm actually not maybe it's where I'm
conservative not so terribly excited
about calling everybody a victim all the
time either
like people have agency over their
politics they have agency over what they
want to embrace they have agency over
different things and you know I'm not
sure how much you gotta bend over
backwards to them I mean there's
sometimes you're in a stasis with people
there's people I know I'm really good
friends I'm really tight with and I'm
just like you know that in certain areas
like I think you're an
and you maybe you think the same about
me that's fine that's part of the
complexity of life but you can't you
can't indulge it and you can't get on
these wild goose chases either I think
people get really obsessed with like how
do we bring somebody back from the right
or something a lot of people are just
gonna be there and you know maybe you
know and then hopefully though they'll
either maybe soften it a bit
or they'll age out or whatever if you do
have the energy to engage like we're not
gonna tell you how to relate to your
family like that's your business if it's
too much for you you don't want to deal
with them don't deal with them but you
know if you do have the energy to engage
it's probably gonna be really hard and
discouraging most of the time but I've
found a little bit I've
made a little bit of headway just by
trying to get people to empathize with
the people who are affected by these
kinds of policies as if they were their
friends or family because a lot of these
people you know they have complicated
politics that don't necessarily make
sense you know maybe they have they have
a black friend who they really really
like but then they can watch horrible
racist stories on the news and feel
racist towards like you know all the
other black people just try to
personalize it you know like what a what
what if it was your friend Joe you know
something like that this is and this is
actually what happened on Monday because
we were driving up from Orlando and I
actually had success with her by putting
on you guys
majority report um and it's it's kind of
crazy because I see from her like half
the stuff that she hears from you guys
she just didn't know was a thing and one
of the crazy things is we were listening
to your entire Monday show and it was so
like weirdly coincidental that she was
we're it was on the topic of the
children on the border in the
concentration camps and she was
parroting a lot of the things that you
hear on Fox and Friends you know regular
conservative news and then you guys
played the clips of the elderly people
in the diner that basically said exactly
what she said and it was really shocking
seeing her kind of being her beliefs
paired it back to her and just laid
there from these other people and then
that in tandem with para calling in and
and talking about you know these these
essentially elders in your family that
have these same sort of hostile toxic
beliefs that's where I just see success
in you don't have to bend over backwards
for your family people are gonna have
the beliefs that they have but I think
that you know a lot of it is just
because you you need to I think educate
yourself as a person so that when you
are confronted with the sort of stuff
and I can't speak for her when you know
she called and I can't attest to her
experience but you know just wouldn't my
own personal experience things like you
actually just played a clip from Sean
the youtuber channels like that that
acted
fad checkers and counter points to these
far-right messages that are on YouTube
and in the media work wonders like so
many people like a contra point no ice
okay I got it
yeah I mean absolutely so that's great
if somebody is can if somebody's
receptive to that
that's terrific yeah absolutely all
right thanks for the call right real
real quick real quick yeah you were into
the DIY music scene in Brooklyn I was
wondering if any of you were a fan of
Jeff Rosenstock you actually do like the
Chris Gethard and like scene and all
those guys yeah okay yeah well I highly
recommend him he has a great album
called worry that deals a lot with the
existential horror of trumping elected
in 2016 so check it out Jeff Rosen stuff
thanks guys appreciate it it's always
social by the way like yeah if you're
outnumbered like 11 to 1 tamago people
you're not gonna be able to convince a
single one of them but if you get them
like in a car and then can point to a
well produced podcast that makes
opinions and it seems like they're
socially outnumbered it it's never gonna
be you as an individual you're gonna
need it's gonna be you and whose army
basically or bring them to a super cool
party like I never really thought that
my party organizing abilities were all
that important politically I'm like well
you know we need to have fun sometimes
when we're doing socialism all the time
but I heard from my guide the other day
actually who used to be all right and
now he's in the DSA and he said one of
the reasons was because he likes our
parties and our parties are better so
they're you know I'd keep an eye on that
you know it's like a super durable
person so Wayfair which is a they do
furniture yeah it's like a furniture app
or some furniture app they they got a
contract to work to provide furniture
for these detention facilities where
children are dying after being kidnapped
by their from their parents in the
obscene assault on refugees and migrants
by this administration all solidarity
with wayfarer employees who are pro
testing and be gonna walk out today
let's play this footage
good job good job solidarity will work
so so important and it's so exciting to
see them happening right now in
solidarity with immigrants and in direct
contradiction of the people who say Oh
anything that doesn't directly benefit
any given worker is not something
they're gonna care about Bernie Sanders
I want to say one of the other ways in
which his campaign is distinct and in a
different league is that they've been
using their email lists to support non
direct campaign things and empower
striking workers people attempting
fighting to save abortion and
reproductive services and states where
draconian legislation is being passed
this is not only the right thing to do
indistinct in a campaign it's a just
it's a strategic choice that Sanders
decided very early on to go in 2016 was
as Ryan grim points out it was a very
traditional campaign in some ways it was
distinct because the donor base was
decentralized in people-powered which is
a huge difference than relying on
corporations and wealthy people however
once the money came in you know you fund
ads you have certain grassroots
operations in certain states this
campaign they've chosen to focus in a
much more broadly grassroots direction
and a major part of that is doing things
like using the email list to highlight
things that aren't simply even campaign
matters at times
that's totally unprecedented and nobody
else is doing that so it's a fascinating
play and potentially a big risk for
being honest and in light of that this
is a report inbox Bernie Sanders is
using his massive email list to warn
immigrants about ice raids quote hours
before Donald Trump's administration was
set to send out its quote-unquote
deportation forces thousands of Bernie
Sanders supporters in and around 10:00 a
major American cities received a
campaign email but it wasn't about
asking for money ice raids are targeting
ten cities start Sunday
know your rights the subject line of the
Saturday morning email read the Sanders
campaign use its campaign voter data to
send out the same distress signals
signals grassroots immigration advocacy
groups typically organized around attach
to the Sanders email where to graphics
one in English and one in Spanish and a
list of immigrants rights guidance based
from the American Civil Liberties Union
it's an unusual move for presidential
campaign to use this platform to do this
kind of organizing said Ruthie Epstein
the ACL u--'s deputy director of
immigration policy
the ACLU played no role in the Sanders
campaign their email
nor did Epstein know it existed Sanders
campaign manager fast Shakera formerly
worked for the ACLU however it's not
strictly on point when it comes to
building out a presidential campaign to
use data for that purpose other than for
running for president but this isn't the
first time the Sanders team has used its
email and phone list for organizing
people indirectly linked to his
presidential ambitions kind of cheating
to use a mailing list for like
information people want to hear and not
just solicitation right right it only be
asked to give money on email lists I
don't wanna write I don't want out
what's actually don't know what's
happening why don't you stone right it's
ridiculous
these progressives and all the things
they want to get done I will say for my
money just ask for money enough Jesus
Christ
I just want to order something on my way
fair app and contribute money take my
money so I can go back to brunch I will
just say it is very satisfied sigh it's
satisfying to give Bernie Sanders money
like you start go very much then that's
what we saved the immigrants darts
warning no woman for president campaign
goes at the follow effect I've got to
save some kurds in order to keep that
from happening to bar crowd I'll do it
people's delusional hatred of Bernie
Sanders is disturbing weird fucked-up
and actually sort of anthropologically
fascinating here is Sebastian Gorka with
Matt's favorite did you know this Matt I
didn't even recognize him this is
somebody go this is Matt do you want to
explain who this gentleman is this very
fit looking guy in a blue shirt this is
a man who's achieved a modicum of
success his name is Boris Epstein
Boris must run Epstein of sinclair media
the guy who does short packages in mr.
Trump is doing his best and people
aren't giving him enough credit Boris no
yes Donald Trump does moves that are
provoked however proof will pudding and
that is Iran thank you and about 15
people 45 people watch them a video on
YouTube and apparently as I always say
look if you're what do you mean as an
example
which is a very talented australian
youtuber that we plug if you are a
grassroots youtuber you have no networks
you're reaching out you're building you
have ten people watching your video
awesome you have 50 people watching your
video very good you have a hundred
people it's an accomplishment but if you
are part of a national cable network and
you got like 45 people watching your
videos sad very bad performance
here's Sebastian burka and Boris Epstein
but what about the latest thing and now
we have this whole thing for the last 10
hours about they don't have toothbrushes
that show this is you know we have
somebody on Fox and we're talking about
him in a second saying this this is
equivalent to transgressing the Geneva
Conventions buddy if you don't want
children not to have toothbrushes how
about the children that are dying in the
desert three of them with their mother
because there is no wall and because a
coyote promised to smuggle into America
how about not having anybody make that
trip not be raped not be abused or die
in the desert it's the priorities are
just upside down are they Boris not
there Boris I'm a big believer in the
Geneva Conventions I learned it from dad
um I mean obviously goes without saying
stop terrorizing Central America so
while we haven't right-wing governments
yeah causing this is just or the lack of
a wall it kidnapping children and
they're dying in custody and it's not
stopping it and people are saying don't
go to the border don't go to the point
designated points because they will put
you in cages and and that's why
there's and that's a new business
opportunity for the coyote and a little
bit behind I don't know if it's because
he's not a politically commissioned
officer anymore but Gorkhas behind the
talking points cuz Trump is saying they
need to change asylum laws and things
like that so I don't it's not really
about the wall Gorka it's indeed it's
always about the wall well let's uh
let's actually play that this is Donald
Trump saying that the ability conditions
were worse into Obama and actually
tipping his hand here like matt said
about what's really about and they're
much better than they were under
President Obama by far and we're trying
to get the Democrats to agree to really
give us some humanitarian aid
humanitarian money and that is a very
fair question
and I appreciate that question but I'm
very concerned it's in much better shape
than it ever was a lot of these young
children come from places that you don't
even want to know about the way they've
lived the way they've been the way that
the poverty that they grew up in but
with sounds like they're refugees that
we should allow the country I was gonna
say I totally share your empathy Donald
and I think I do want to these are
people we can actually help very isn't
the poverty that they grew up in but
with that if we can get this bill signed
we'll be able to do it we can you know
the Democrats don't want to sign
anything and now I think they're going
to probably sign this from what I
understand it's I call it you manna
Terry
yes the border was terrible under Obama
of course it's worse under Trump who
could say this by the evident fact that
multiple children have died under Trump
this is the main I mean this is what
he's got in 2020 this is the play he's
gonna do fake economics populism for
sure particularly if it's somebody he
can do that against but the bottom line
is is that he ran on a combination of
distally dishonest totally non systemic
but at times totally correct critique of
things like trade agreements in
oligarchy and xenophobia and racism and
he's got xenophobia and racism because
his economic agenda is the Republican
economic agenda which is oleg ARCIC and
i know we repeat this every single time
and i've i've said this so many times I
said this going back to playing clips of
Paul Ryan in the summer of 2016 or Paul
Ryan literally was like don't worry
about what that dude says when this
idiot is president we're gonna feed
through deregulation and tax cuts and
we're gonna have more pollution in the
water we're gonna give more money to
rich people we're gonna destroy people's
healthcare we're gonna make this country
poorer sicker and dumber that's our core
brand proposition this guy has a
hypnotic relationship with a large part
of the Republican base because this is
the reason that they're Republicans and
therefore refugees children people
fleeing situations whose origins aren't
things like the drug war aren't things
like supporting coos empowered
militaries in these countries aren't
things like sweatshops and imbalance
trade agreements that's the origin and
context of why somebody's fleeing
conditions that are so bad that they
would still go to deal with this regime
in the United States and those people
need to be terrorized because that is
the path to salvaging 2020 that's it and
anybody who says otherwise tries to make
it more complicated is dumb full of
or that's basically no there's you know
or delusional that's one of my favorite
words as we all know
you know you're calling from a76 Oh area
code who are you where you calling from
7:6 oh are you there hey hey hey there
Michael can tell you spread comrade hey
what's on your mind I'm good what's on
your mind uh so I'm pretty sick right
now I'm kind of hopped up on nitro but I
got two comments one on Megan McCain yes
Megan McCain has been the biggest force
to make me like aunty troops that I've
ever been because like I don't know I
just got in the stop process it's
probably the night ball speaking here
but what look I'm just saying if the
Vietnamese have taken a harder stance
against POWs maybe we wouldn't have to
deal with whoa take I'm here for it I
can't I can't go side on that there are
people who are went through that torture
and then went home to be great anti-war
activists so they didn't all produce
Megan McCain and warmongering
Santa careers but that's that's true
that's true
but the actual thing that I called him
to talk to you about is you did
something that I found really offensive
and I needed to call you out on it oh
god yes good order to die yeah I I know
I'm the guy who got suspended from
Twitter for a week for saying like so
all gamers but you insulted gamers and I
want to come at this from a very
specific direction yes because I
actually do work in the video game
industry there's actually a lot of
really interesting labor relations
questions that uh on my podcast and too
deep I'd like we plan to do that next
week everybody with the plugs but oh
absolutely
well actually but glass houses glass
houses
I plugged myself and everybody else no
III you're right we plugs are good so
keep plugging Kentucky Fried but uh yeah
next week we plan on doing an episode of
some sort on kind of like video games
not necessarily video games themselves
but the production of them and when I
say is like the labor related questions
I mean like real labor related questions
of Lynnea completely rampant sexism in
the industry are it absurd contracts for
example there's one company that I can't
name the conceptual reasons but there's
one company that only allows people to
work a hundred and forty days out of the
year
yep and there has to be continuous to
maintain their independent contractor
status and that's so they can't like
offer them certain benefits right all
kinds of like weird absurd almost mock
civilians should totally yeah makaveli
no I agree no and actually Sanders
recently came out for something to do
with labor rights and in gaming I know
it no I look if we look forward to in
too deep subscribe and feel better
continue right Conrad it's a huge
interest industry so we really can't
ignore it in terms of labor and also
just to be clear when I make
condescending comments about video games
I'm not talking about laborers I'm
talking about those who play them Jesus
Christ
so sure socialism Oh Michael I have my
doubts but once I hear you speaking
Portuguese all know that Skillshare
works that's such a good please
oh not base I Buddha Jagger's to white
to be true I told I think I made this
line on T MBS why I said that when he
did his sit-down at Al Sharpton it
looked like the only other black person
he met besides the guy fired then he met
Jesus an arrow we're gonna forty in a
part please stop I like hey yes show
time that show time listen then stop
ruining yeah Viacom not Vikon Vikon stop
ruining DZ's and Mero by making them
talk to lame-ass politicians like Pete
Buddha judge and Kirsten Gillibrand word
jewelry Buddha judge or the opposite of
them and you're killing it like it's
like oh one day they're gonna talk to
Wudang clan and then the next they're
talking to Pete Buddha judge
like stop the horsing guests on them let
them have who they want to have on
Stoppers Burnie
where's Bernie pear no seriously where
is Bernie he is a New Yorker the
whole I mean look I know that they're
all about the Bronx but if they can at
least there's in New York connection and
le's there's the connection also with
like an actual person actual leader not
some like what Burton garbage like butta
Chet let Bernie give them like a 1940's
tour of a tour of 1940s Brooklyn or yes
yeah show him where he used to play
basketball you don't leave basketball
together yeah he's got game I gotta say
it's better Contin don't have to do
brand outreach to like girls that were
in sororities at liberal arts college
yeah it's just not necessary honestly
you have the rest of the mainstream
media for that if vice land could let
give them freedom to put on four shows a
week that were way better than the trash
you're putting out I mean seriously
and and also no offense guys but I mean
I love them but stop the sketches
seriously we're just flaming these New
York comedy writers right now not good
not good
okay it's it's tough stuff it's in it's
a tough deal you don't want to end up
like what's-his-name Jimmy Jimmy Fallon
and the plate Jimmy Fallon we all know
great Vega boys was is don't ruin it
don't ruin it with with Harvard kids
with comedy packets do it great great
leap for a great great leap for a great
leap forward a doctor visited the
concentration camp says it does resemble
a torture facility JB taking a parents
away from torture Todd away from
toddlers is torturing toddlers the
Republicans intent is to be cruel to him
I'm okay with people calling the torture
facilities me too I totally have no
problem I'm just saying that she she the
it was was that she went to something
that has been used well there has been
through the efforts of people like AOC
to say in the mainstream no we are going
to call them concentration camps which
isn't even polemical that's objective
some people so that is what but she went
and took it even further to what fewer
people are saying as part of her
narcissistic pivot to talk about her dad
like its legit traumatic for kids
parents to go away for even a few hours
like we've all seen that so like you
can't even imagine what this is like for
them it is torture
it's absolutely torture it's of course
it's a torture policy yesterday in
Brazil there was a Supreme Court ruling
that was just I mean basically it was
two petitions for habeas corpus which
has been denied to Lula da Silva from
the beginning because in the Brazilian
system basically you're supposed to
remain out all all of your thing all of
your you've had all of your appeals but
because this is a political prosecution
and because the goal of this prosecution
was to keep him out of office and keep
him out of the 2018 elections this
evidence-free conviction was rushed and
then he was jailed and silenced without
his appeals this was pre scheduled but
of course now this is in light of the
leaks and the reporting from the
intercept which show again what was
always analytically obvious is now
empirically validated which is that the
lava jato team was corrupt politically
motivated they themselves knew that the
case they put Lula and jail for was
incredibly weak tenuous and and so on
tenuous to they're supposed mandate so
he continues his in prison by the way in
light of the bigger story here I mean I
obviously calling the free the world's
most prominent political prisoner is a
pretty big story but this bigger
question of the misuse of corruption
rhetoric as a tool of fascist
governments I will just say bolson ro
whose whole brand and was supported by
people like Ian Bremmer who said he
might you know be the one despite having
some toxic masculinity to clean up
Brazil just hours ago a Brazilian airman
on the president's travel team was
arrested at a g20 summit on cocaine
trafficking charges so I'll just put
that out there as maybe an example of
some actual action and the government
that the Davos set like Ian Bremmer has
so much faith in even though they're so
disturbed by the homophobic comments and
so on so this Lula story again it's
vital because every candidate needs to
join Bernie and calling to free Lula
it's vital because just as there was
work in Congress spearheaded in after
the assassination of Berta
Kirsten YZ in Honduras high-status
casitas excuse me but she was an
incredible leader who was assassinated
in the context of a regime that the
Obama administration supported a coup
that got rid of Manuel Zelaya who was
another good center-left leader that
this corruption rhetoric has been used
to politically persecute the left across
Latin America has put innocent people
and a great leader like Lula in jail and
has in its upshot produced extreme
far-right governments that practice
extravagant corruption and of course are
subservient to all US interests I want
to play this clip from a rally before
Lula did turn himself in to this absurd
mandate and he said that these people
and you know Sergio Moro the corrupt
prosecutor and judge who put him in
prison is balsa narrows justice
ministers this should have been the
tip-off from the beginning but that they
were going to be the world was gonna
know who they are and I just wanted to
play this because it was it's moving
especially in light of what we know now
and the fight we need to continue
and again this as he said recently he
said I'm obsessed with unmasking Sergio
Moro
well this reporting is unmasking Sergio
Moro is just visiting the United States
meeting with intelligence and justice
officials here don't fall into the
corruption rhetoric trap if you aren't
talking about inequality and capitalism
as part of a structure of corruption
you're gonna get led down a fascist path
we see it United States drowned during
the swamp we seen in Brazil we see it in
India we see it in Hungary this is the
global pattern here and it was
weaponized in Brazil to destroy and take
body blows against the largest left-wing
party in the Western Hemisphere and a
party that we actually have a lot to
learn about I want to say a funny random
side anecdote I read the John Lee
Anderson piece about Juan Guido in The
New Yorker and in addition to having an
astrologer which is cool quite often the
piece and and you know Anderson is he's
a he's a good reporter but his politics
are very met but why toe comes off in
the piece is just basically totally out
of his depth and not like not
sympathetic but totally out of his depth
like AB 800 work type may be kind of
actually and so there's this really
funny part though because it just like
links right to both the extreme politics
the United States and a pedantry of the
debates we have here but uh I guess he
was on Fox and he just like he didn't
really know who AOC was and somebody
brought up AOC and he says to John Lee
Anderson like yeah I was really familiar
with her so I googled her after and he's
like she's more what we would call a
Social Democrat he
she's like not as Avista at all it was
so funny he's just like I mean fair
enough for the rest of the world so it's
really funny we're here she's radical I
just love when I saw the report that
Trump gave up on the coup in Venezuela
because it was boring and difficult that
was or something and also that Maduro is
a tough cookie grey already give him
begrudging credit but it just gave me so
much pleasure to imagine quite doe
reading that one well i think if you
read this profile of wydo
I think what I don't might have some
sympathy for that yeah I hear you bro
it's much harder than I thought
no bumps in the road the People's
Republic of Walmart's a really important
book that's well researched and filled
with good detail the interview a few
weeks ago the authors didn't really
cover the brilliance of the book no
fault of Sam's the authors were just not
hitting their points well the book does
it's really fascinating every socialist
needs to read it it's on my list see oh
this is madness for you I think thanks
for the good work Michael can you
recommend any leftist socialist
youtubers for us and also everyone hit
the like button Matt you were just
talking about I mean there's timba dot
on that toast there Sean there's
philosophy tube philosophy cuck contra
points obviously you already mentioned
what do you mean the if you're as Bashir
in Australian yes let's see what else is
there no books zero books is actually
zero books is a great channel and I want
to do this one last piece of sound oh
yeah I really like Ben Burgesses videos
on there Ben Burtt I love all of the I
love burgess obviously a little lain
there they're great um and they I would
say me but obviously I mean every I'm
sure people assume i anna has her own no
filter channel Ana Kasparian I would
check that out that's really good I
would also check out some more news I
know some more news by Cody Johnson
navara media's on YouTube means TV means
surfs TV
oh yeah the surfs the serfs are awesome
I just did a sit-down time Al and I
really like David dolls rational
national no yeah always showed up to
that one because I I always feel bad for
the foot when he called in and I assumed
he was a right-winger based on the name
of his show and there's also Peter his
name I'm totally spacing Peter Peter
coffin I like Peter coffin okay let's
see but I don't watch much politics on
YouTube I will confess I recently
started watching my stream france24 and
Al Jazeera so I recently got the YouTube
premium that allows you to save things
for offline use and closed your phone
screen that was really the main reason I
paid whatever 10 bucks a month for it
now that's but it basically turns those
long-form YouTube shows which people are
getting so good at producing that so
they really are it turns them into
podcasts I can just listen to on the way
to work yeah really you know I have to
keep hitting listen to Xero books and
that's relevant here because we have a
clip of Dennis Prager hello whining
about YouTube censorship and I want to
go use this as a launching point to talk
about actual YouTube censorship well
this is not new they have been for a
while we're actually in a lawsuit with
regard to Google which owns YouTube for
example we produce five-minute videos
for prime ministers have made videos for
us and three Pulitzer Prize winners
liberal professors like the service
advisors were yeah this definitely
sounds like his food in his mouth
RM sir also a Holocaust deniers like own
Benjamin and people like that people
like that not as mainstream conservative
as exists and these are educational
videos we have 1 billion views a year
most of the viewers are under 35 so
we're a big force in in the world of
what we believe and a Google which owns
YouTube and Facebook and Twitter and
Spotify and well basically all of the
media of of internet communications are
run by people who do not
us that by us I don't mean only Prager
you us who are not on the left to have a
big voice so for example they have
placed about 80 of our 400 videos
they're all five-minute videos they come
out every week they have placed about
eight of them on the restricted list so
if you filter pornography you cannot get
Professor Alan Dershowitz speaking about
Israel's founding you want him not exist
oh I'll explain it it's very simple if
it's pro America if it's pro-israel if
if it's pro religion it's likely to be
censored by Google YouTube it's a
phenomenon I did it I did a video on the
Ten Commandments it's on there it's on
the petographers
well I have to say from reading some of
cragars editorials I'm less surprised
than he is but here's the thing he may
or may not have a few on the restricted
list and I'm sure that if Alan
Dershowitz has one of the restricted
list it's because Alan Dershowitz
advocates an extreme extreme hard right
ethnocentric view of Israel in the
Middle East but there's one video that
was actually taken down unlisted
completely beyond this demonetised and
that was a video by zero books where Ben
Burgess who we know does these debunks
on my show he does logic videos for zero
books and he wrote this book called give
them an argument logic for the left and
he took a video apart where ben shapiro
essentially assaulted american jews for
being critical of israel essentially
said that there was one hard right view
of israel you could have or you
essentially yourself hating or
anti-semitic that video was totally was
unlisted was put on in a thing to that
even when you clicked on and had a
warning around it it went to apparently
a review process because it was appealed
because there's the it nothing i mean
it's a basic politics video and it was
still put
restricted status so the lesson here is
that first of all we know that in the
big picture that there's you know the
stefan molyneux dave rubin brain's video
never got subject to any of this kind of
treatment I don't even know it might
even still be monetized right so we know
that in the grand scheme of things that
actually far-right content was
facilitated and fed by the YouTube
algorithm and not targeted until
potentially very recently and the other
lesson is is that yes these companies
are completely in equipped to make
decisions like this it is a threat to
press an open discussion of every kind
and it is perfectly demonstrated by the
fact that they're just filtering for the
title Israel or American Jews they're
making no analytical assessment
whatsoever of a rationale well
articulated video that dealt with the
merits of the issue at hand because they
don't care about it and because they
don't choose to invest in the capacity
to monitor it which is why they need to
either be heavily regulated or made
public utilities because it is in fact a
very big threat to openness and content
creation press and media so but of
course Dennis Prager wants to turn it
into some fantasy about Google being run
by Hezbollah or something
if only Oh who's do we have a sense of
who Prager you is funded by like who
that what what kind of corporate
interests are funding Prager you I think
it's some fracking guys pretty sure it's
some fracking guys yeah and I think
that's covered in the second plug I'll
give his YouTube channel of the day Sean
he has two videos that are really good
how Prager you lies to you that's got a
million views oh great and how Prager
you lies to you the British Empire that
was only three months ago that's about
half a million views so check those out
very good ok cool my Sean is always
watching videos from that Sean let's
take the final call today you're calling
from a 502 area code who are you where
you're calling from
oh hello 502 are you there hi this is
Paloma and I'm calling from Kentucky
what's your name Paloma Paloma - oma
what's on your minds
hi um it's great to listen to you guys
every day uh just a side note um I was
kind of thinking about I don't know how
long ago this was but I remember there
was a clip where Nancy Pelosi had
actually admitted to or claimed that the
general democratic people do not want
anything to change
and and with her recent remarks in
regards to just mentioning impeachment
criminality and all it just got me
wondering that I mean could it be
possible that their their lack of action
taking could be strategic so that she so
that they could have somebody who can be
bought and paid for to get in office
because it's a worst-case scenario I'm
trying to get you on bail
I'm not sure I totally follow that what
I mean I I think the I think there are
certain candidates I think Biden that's
his bet for instance that people are
just gonna be so but I will say this I
do not think that the Democratic Party
can coordinate that that comfortable
that that strategically I don't think
they have that kind of control over the
candidates like that so you don't think
that it's possible that they're just
trying to get some random mediocre
candidate in office because everybody
feels it's safer to go against Trump
with a meteor mediocre candidate well I
think they are risk-averse definitely I
think that's policies problem well and I
think I mean yeah this I mean the kind
of bigger thing in the other clip is
yeah I mean Nancy Pelosi is not on the
left and she doesn't have a you know
interest clearly in things like Medicare
for all or you know radical responses to
the climate I do think when it comes to
stuff like impeachment I think it's more
just
practical timidity and I do think that
yes there's a lot of people particularly
in the astounding some of it is because
they have just different ideology and
interest absolutely but I think there
are right there's plenty of people that
legitimately think that Hillary Clinton
was the safe choice of Joe Biden is the
safe choice and not impeaching Trump is
the good play yes definite yeah I think
that I think that it contradicts what
happened in the last election they went
for the worst case I mean they went for
the worst possible candidate the most
extreme candidate on the Republican side
and I think that it's pretty stupid for
the DNC to not consider the possibility
that us going for the exact opposite
extreme would be bad for us
I don't yeah III totally agree with you
but I think that that's also where
they're like incentive structure you
know comes into play they don't want to
you know hear that argument thanks for
the there's risk aversion and ideology
right like I think there is a very
strong case to be made that Bernie
Sanders is the best candidate to beat
Trump I think he is actually a stronger
candidate than Joe Biden in many ways
but there could be like twice as much
evidence or three times as much evidence
and they would still never ever go for
him yeah if there's a different interest
ideology and incentive structure and
again I the Democratic Party is not
really a party it's a set of conflicting
interests that would be several
different entities in another context
rube rube Devin what I've read is that
conversing directly with people you
disagree with does not working any of
getting them to your side but it does
have an effect on the bystanders
listening that makes a lot of sense
okay sorry again no more calls Reed
couple more IMS into a Justin chameleon
props to the guy forcing his grandma to
listen to majority report yeah no doubt
Megan Rupe own is a boss they'll take
the knee during the national anthem wow
that's dope
see nasty woman nasty woman hmm let's
see
and the final I am gonna say her name
reminds me of something I should be
charged with Winnipeg Greg
dole from the ration rational nationals
from Canada but he mostly does the same
American content that you got from
something like TYT or secular talk
Christo out Ovilus is hyper focused on
Canadian politics is actually in
academic and has great political
instincts well I love David dole and I
will check out Christo Ovilus who is
apparently a great leftist youtuber for
Canadian content tonight
just do one repost on that line I also
want recommendations for youtubers who
aren't either white or male because my
list is very white and males I want any
European or African or you know if
there's anything that's global alright
folks tonight starting at around 8:50
we're gonna start streaming tonight's
debate Sam is so excited he's texting us
he's like I want everybody here and then
we have to be it and then he's gonna be
peachy but we're gonna listen it's so
exciting
its debate time alright see you tonight
to get to where I want but I know son
