with Sam's cedar wear everyday casual
Friday that means Monday is casual
Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday Wednesday
casual hump day Thursday casual thurs
that's what we call it and Friday casual
Shabbat gommage our day report with sam
cedar it is Friday April 12 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live not steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America but rather the
other heartland of America that of
course is the exhibition hall at the
Wynn Hotel in Las Vegas Nevada the 2019
mass torts conference on the program
today Republican senators can't work out
disaster aid for Puerto Rico so they go
on vacation
Trump orphans WikiLeaks former Obama
White House Counsel indicted in charges
from the Muller fake witch-hunt Ohio
bans abortion after six weeks in a bid
to get SCOTUS to overturn roe v-- wade
the Republicans are not on the cane
train but they do conform a confirm a
former oil lobbyist to Secretary of
Interior all this and more on today's
program yes ladies and gentlemen
apologize for the late start today
during Las Vegas Nevada and
[Music]
just trying to gather our wits nobody
lost me you'll those levels what matters
losing losing at the blackjack table all
this and more let's turn down the music
we're good thank you
there we go okay alright let's start
right off we will get to some of the
news of the day and have a couple of
interviews today but with me now is
Daniel Nye Daniel where you're an
attorney from Antonio Levin Papantonio
sarcoma Florida okay
and so tell us this case it's BAU about
certain okay it's it's really an
interesting project because it's a lot
different than a lot of the drugs we've
handled in the past which are name-brand
drugs and really you start looking into
corporate America greed and those kinds
of things where they're putting profit
over safety this is this also originates
with you know it's a generic medication
and what's happened for generic what
does it what is it when it's up to treat
it treats high blood pressure so the
idea is a you know one of the
backstories behind this is you know most
of our generics we put in the hands of
of India and China and with very few
safeguards and that's what we're seeing
happening here in valsartan we've
allowed 1.5 million to 2 million users a
year to be taking a contaminated
valsartan pill that causes cancer okay
way to take it all right let's back up
here so Val valsartan is a it's a
generic drug and you say it's blood
pressure for to treat high blood
pressure okay
and it's manufactured who are the
American they they're manufacturing in
and we're so here's how it works okay
whenever you have generic medications
they the vast majority of them they have
the active ingredient which is what
makes the medication actually work is
manufactured overseas that's
manufactured in India it's manufactured
in China the vast majority of active
ingredients are manufactured overseas
and the reason for that
is because they can do it a lot cheaper
and in large part because they have
fewer safeguards all right well so what
so how many different let's say US
companies or how does that get
contracted out like I mean who is who is
making Val Sargent I mean I not let's
let's start at the top of it and follow
the the chain of I guess of title if you
were absolutely so here's here's how it
works so we've got our active ingredient
and and and the main bad actor would be
this Jay's wrong way high facility
manufacturing plant in China they're
making the active ingredient leaves
hiring them to do that so so then what
they do is they send that pill that
contaminated not pill but contaminated
active ingredient into the US and they
have a US subsidiary who puts it into
pill form or there's some other people
some other people like tether us or
activist you know and some a torrent is
another one of them so some of these
large companies that that man you are US
manufacturers in the US they take the
active ingredient to put it in pill form
and so the idea in terms of generics you
know we've recognized that this is a
problem that we're turning over the vast
majority of drugs to China and India let
me let me before we get there I mean I
want to just understand so we have a
Chinese manufacturer who is basically
making this active ingredient on spec
that's right and then they're coming
into the marketplace in the US and
they're saying here by our active
ingredient and really any number of
different pill manufacturers at that
point can say okay we'll take your
active ingredient I mean they could
theoretically have I'm not in the
valsartan business I'm in the making
generic pill business exactly and so
I've got a bunch of like yeast and whey
or whatever it is that I put into to
make a pill and I shop around for
whatever the cheapest active ingredient
is and say okay this guy's got valsartan
and there's some space in the market so
I'm just gonna buy from them you've got
put it into a pill form and then sell it
okay so that's the way it we're
completely in so it's all about pricing
whoever can whoever can manufacture that
active
for the cheapest well oftentimes when
the bidding war for the US manufacturers
and so is there any like who oversees
that marketplace of and because I
presume if I'm making an active
ingredient in the United States I'm
getting inspected by the FDA like I mean
somebody must come by my factory
occasionally right that's right but the
problem is we don't have the adequate
number of inspectors to inspect those
plants the FDA has been saying that for
some time the plants in this country in
China in China that's right where the
active ingredient the wrongdoing is
occurring that you know that the
contamination is occurring so the other
thing that we've done is we put
safeguards to say we recognize we can't
fully ensure its safety so we say US
manufacturers you have to do the testing
to ensure its safety because there's
such a long and robust record of
companies policing themselves these
instances worked out so well okay so all
right so the FDA doesn't have the
resources to send inspectors to these
plants to make sure that it is there any
testing of the active ingredients I mean
at any point of the process and how does
that relate to I mean are there any
active ingredients that are made in the
United States well there are but in
terms of valsartan and a lot of times
for generics there's just very few of it
in the United States so to the extent
that there's any active ingredients made
in the United States is there a process
to sort of test that like hey this is
actually you know like a you know uh my
understanding is Las Vegas has marijuana
dispensaries right if I go there and
they they put on the envelope that it
has X amount of THC presumably like
there's somebody who comes in
occasionally and tests whether that's
actually the case all right
do we have anything analogous for
prescription drugs in this country we do
I mean there's there's all sorts of
testing that can be done and the US
manufacturers will still do some random
testing of these products they did it
here with valsartan they found signals
of the can
amination they sent it back to the
Chinese manufacturing plant and you know
what they did they sent it to their
local lab and they said we don't
understand the reason for having these
high testing errors so we think it's
just an error and they repackaged it and
sent it right back into the US so what
so okay so with that sort of broad
understanding so what happened this
valve our turn that was sold to I guess
presumably multiple generic pill making
companies yes and all of those generic
pill making companies presumably have
the responsibility to make sure that
what they're actually buying is this
active ingredient as opposed to say like
lead or what yes and what does it turn
out was in the vows Archer
it's called NDMA or in DEA which I trust
some nitroso means that are very Geno
toxic and cause cancer and how did they
get into this Val searching
so basically when you're combining
certain chemicals and the this Chinese
manufacturing plant realized they could
save money by changing the patent on how
they combine chemicals if they had done
the simple chemistry upfront I think
they would have realized that there was
a real high possibility of getting this
in DMA and in DEA but they didn't do the
chemistry upfront that's the problem so
so they simply changed the molecular
structure of the active ingredient and
because it was it was a cheaper way of
making it that's right well that the
Maneka molecular strikes are still the
same still the same tetras all ring but
the byproduct is different because of
how they combine the chemicals and
that's the byproduct is in DMA and in
DEA and so this is in the val sergeant
and so how many years has this been the
case well it's been they changed the
process in 2012 and we know that that
active ingredient has been flowing into
the u.s. at least by the end of 2014
until present I mean they recalled it in
July of 2018 so and how did the recall
come about it was a it was a manufactory
local manufacturer I don't even think it
was a u.s. manufacturer was a different
country
who realized that there was
contamination they realized this in DMA
and they called J's Wang Wei hai out and
then the EMA picked up on it and they
said you need to recall this and then it
took the FDA multiple weeks from that
after that to finally actually issue the
recalls here in the US what's the EMA
the European medical agency so if I
understand you correctly there was a
local there was a Chinese generic pill
manufacturer analogous to an American
generic pill manufacturer who just has
all those sort of the byproducts and the
stuff that it presumably makes it stick
and cling into a pill or right you know
coated to slide down your your throat or
whatever it is and they're the ones who
found out that the manufacturer of the
active ingredient was had tainted stuff
none of the American corporations who
make this there they did not find this
out well they may they may have found a
signal of it and it wasn't a Chinese
company I think it was a European
country who figured it out and then
flagged their European Authority I see
okay and then and then it they started
to figure it out from there and the
recall started rolling there after that
doesn't speak very well for the our pill
manufacturers versus the European ones
that's not okay so so that gets flagged
in Europe and the FDA gets wind of it
and so what do they do they start to
check the these pills that are coming in
now they now they've realized this is a
problem so they're vigorously checking
and testing you know all different
batches to try to figure out if there's
any India mayor in DEA contamination so
it's no longer just the Chinese
manufacturing plant that they're
checking they're checking all the all
the facilities that are at a
manufacturing active ingredient for
valsartan and other certains as well
okay and so who is your plane plaintiffs
and who are the defendants in this
situation
well my plaintiffs are people who have
been diagnosed with stomach cancer liver
cancer colorectal cancer or kidney
cancer because the science shows that at
these high levels of indium a
contamination it causes those cancers
so those are the people that I represent
it's unfortunate because there are many
clients that I have that I'm completely
convinced that it's that NDMA and their
pill that caused their cancer and it
could say been taking this first in
three four years there's four years
that's right who know who are the
defendants at this point I mean do you
sue the US manufacturers of the generic
pill do you sue do you have the ability
to sue the Chinese manufacturer the
actual valsartan I mean who who gets
sued here the people who make the active
ingredient are sued so the Chinese
company is soon but then all the US
manufacturers are also sued so we sue
them and then you even have people who
repackage what the US manufacturer put
together so and they stick their own
label on it well there are also ensuring
the adequacy of their drug when they do
so so those are people who also get sued
and then the other thing you got to
consider is the person who actually
makes the decision as to which generic a
consumer is going to get is the pharmacy
and so in many states
there's distributor liabilities such
that a pharmacy who's making that
decision they should also be ensuring
the adequacy of their drugs how would a
pharmacy do that at that point I mean
because there they seem to me to be like
three times removed right from the
special manufacturing I mean do most men
do I guess the pharmacies must be able
to track like this is a active
ingredient made at this factory or this
company yes is that is that oh yeah they
can tell where it's made up so you can
see that in the batch numbers so where
and so theoretically right there are
some pharmacies they're like we don't
sell active and pills with active
ingredients that come from X Y or Z
countries because we don't the FDA
doesn't have the resources to really
police this stuff that's right
so okay where is this litigation now in
the process and where does it go so at
this point there are quite a few class
class action cases that have been filed
where people are arguing that if we had
known this was contaminated then we
would have never paid for this drug so
the you don't necessarily have to be
injured in order
be part of a class action you're trying
to recoup the monies that you are paying
for a drap bad drug right so we have
those cases filed but we also have quite
a few personal injury cases and they've
been consolidated all the personal
injury cases in class action case has
been consolidated they're being handled
in front of Judge Kugler and judge
Snyder in the district of New Jersey and
so that's a again a multi district
litigation right and that's correct
in New Jersey and how do you pick that
venue New Jersey I mean what or is that
just it's the responsibility of a panel
of federal judges it's called the jpml
and it's their job to figure out which
federal jurisdiction would be suitable
for a case like this and so you know
judge Kugler and judge Schneider we're a
good fit for this case because they
handled benicar which is also known as
OMA Sartain so they already had some
background understanding of this class
of medications interesting so that's the
way that some venues are picked is and
does it have any implication to it's all
federal we're all federal courts here
right so that's right it doesn't the
jurisdiction is less relevant I mean
obviously for travel and issues like
that but the jurisdiction is less
relevant it's more specifically who the
judges are and those judges are picked
by a panel based on maybe issues like
they they have a understanding of this
sort of type of litigation in this type
of product that's right or obviously
what's going to drive a lot of it as
their availability they want to be
making sure there's an even spread of
cases amongst different litigations and
also that it's a convenient forum to for
the attorneys to be able to get to is
there any are there heightened levels of
responsibility for in terms of how you
collect damages from let's say the the
the manufacturer of the pill versus the
manufacturer of the active ingredient
are there because there's like more I
guess us obligations maybe on the
manufacturer of the pill or their
heightened liabilities there or is the
liability shared across all sort of
classes of people involved in it well
that's a great question and and do you
at the buck stops at the u.s.
manufacturer I mean it's their job
in terms of generics we've recognized
obviously there the Chinese company
they're bad actors there's a very high
standard in terms of what these US
manufacturers required to do and in this
in the liability standard a strict
liability such that if there's cancer in
a pill it doesn't matter if you did
something wrong or not you're liable for
it right and they clearly don't have
terribly strict testing regimes for this
stuff that's right and just to be clear
we do think they did something wrong on
top of it obviously but the standard is
so high that if you put if there's
cancer in a pill you're strictly liable
for it so now do you go into discovery
and try and find evidence that they had
Inklings about this and just didn't
press too hard and thought they could
just sort of make it somebody else's
responsibility that's correct
and and we've already felt like with
some of the 438 those are the inspection
reports that we've already been able to
uncover we've already we've already have
some of that information that we believe
these manufacturers in the US should
have been on notice of this problem
horrible and how many how many
plaintiffs are we talking about I mean
how many people is there been to any
type of like epidemiology lis studies
that that give us a sense of how how
many people were talking about I mean
how many people take this drug or did
during those years and how many do we
have a sense of how many are are
suffering from from cancer that's a good
question so we estimate that there are
approximately one point five to two
million people who were taking
contaminated by certain each year
between 2015 2016 2017 and 2018 now some
of those are the same people taking them
throughout all those years in fact a lot
of them were taking them for those years
the FDA came out early on and they said
that the incident rate was one in a
thousand that you would one in a
thousand people would be expected to get
cancer but we've looked into this and we
just think they're absolutely wrong and
that that incident rate is much higher
than the one in 8,000 and we've looked
at meta analyses of gastric cancer for
example and we just think there
the wrong formula as to how they come up
with that one in a thousand who develops
that formulas that internal development
or they farm that out to the companies
too well no I think I and we're not sure
maybe they do farm it out that's a good
question but I know that the information
first came out of EMA so it might have
been the European medical agency and
then the FDA basically adopted the same
reasoning and then we saw Health Canada
adopt the same thing but that was all
early on I don't think they're speaking
to incident right now because I think
they recognize the problem that it's
very possibly a much higher incident
rate but they can't tell people that
because they've already received 40,000
calls from the FDA agency I mean if they
start telling people how high the
incident rate is I don't think they'd be
able to handle the blow
okay alright lastly so how long does
this litigation stretch out do you have
a notion well I mean we got a pretty
good example in benicar with these these
the judges that are overseeing this
litigation they're efficient and you
know we don't know how long this one
will last cuz you don't you don't
necessarily know what the information
that is going to be discovered or what
the experts are going to testify this
early on but oftentimes you'll see
somewhere in the process between two
years for a shorter litigation sometimes
as long as five years for some of the
longer litigations Danny and I thank you
so much for your time today I really
appreciate it thank you Sam thanks for
coming I appreciate it
alright and we have another attorney
coming from Levin Papantonio yeah if we
could just let so there you go that was
not the the most horrific
[Music]
so sitting with me now is Archie lamb
Archie you are also an attorney with
Levin Papantonio Isaiah I'm up counsel
eleventh Antonio and you're working on
some cases that came out of of the
California fires that well yeah you know
there are so many California wildfires
it's hard to really keep up this is the
Woolsey fire this fire started at chat
or at the station in Ventura County
right on the LA County Ventura County
border it's a it's not the Pacific Gas
and Electric cases in Northern
California this is Southern California
Edison different public utility but on
their property it occurred so that's
that's the genesis of the case okay so
the the fire starts give us a sense of
what the you know what the implications
of the fire were how many people
impacted homes if there were any lives
lost just give us a sense of what
happened so so so what happened in this
fire on November the 8th of last year
2018 the there had been a couple of days
of really dangerous
high winds Santa Ana winds as I'm sure
you're familiar with that caused the
utility to be concerned and the minutes
but municipal authorities to be
concerned that the powerlines may be
subject to oscillating in contact and
causing an arc which is a known
occurrence so for some reason even
though there was a warning issued two
days earlier the power company decided
not to connect the power to that
particular substation Wow now why would
they make that conscious decision you
should take the first deposition that is
the very first question we're gonna want
to know and and by the way California
fire the state agency responsible for
investigating and doing exactly that
investigation and in the Thomas fire
which is about a year earlier occurred
just north of where the Wolsey fire
occurred cAL FIRE decided that Southern
Cal Edison was responsible for the
occurrence we're confident that based on
our initial investigation and
some videos that they're gonna find the
same thing in the Wolsey fire so okay so
they have an obligation to just there's
there's some basic protocols that they
for whatever reason didn't follow and
and as you get into discovery you find
these things out maybe somebody didn't
want to lose the the extra day or two of
of energy that they'd be providing and
that cuts into their profits or maybe
it's just they had cut back on the
number of personnel and so they don't
have enough people to actually pay
attention to these things the way they
should what would the implications how
many people lost their their homes and
how big of a fire was in this in this
fire started on November the eighth
twenty eighteen lasted for about two
really strong days day and a half wasn't
really extinguished till the 14th
so remember eight to the maybe the
twelve the twelfth I'm sorry not the
fourteen but the point is a hundred
thousand acres fifteen hundred
structures were destroyed thousands
hundred destroyed structures so it's a
homes restaurants OGIS apartment
buildings or destroyed two hundred fifty
thousand people were displaced and so
many you know one of our one of our
first clients was Christie's Roadhouse
right on Canaan Canaan Canyon Road all
the people that worked there lost their
jobs and so there are lots of different
levels of injury losing your home losing
your possessions losing the place you
work we have a client that law that out
of huge landscaping business lost all of
his trucks all of his equipment
gentlemen owns a winery lost all of his
inventory if you will lost his entire
crop and so these people are at zero
ground zero and have to literally
rebuild not just the physical facilities
but there
and so it's not just a question of not
shutting down that power station what
happened with that power station itself
I mean how did that lead to the fire it
okay so two twenty two in the afternoon
of November the eighth an arc occurs and
there's an obligation the publicly tilty
to what is an arc mean when the wires
touch it causes a reaction in the
internal monitoring system of the power
source and any abnormal behavior they're
required by law to report so the report
comes in at 222 ironically and
fortuitously frankly at 224 two minutes
later a television helicopter from LA
was headed up to the campfire site the
Northern California side where everyone
died to take video and they got a video
of two fires on either side of the
Chatsworth substation two minutes after
the art Wow okay so the the the signal
comes through their internal system like
red flag red flag and this helicopter
flies over and sees actual fire in the
substation and what what do they do
what is the news team do news team
reports it to the 9-1-1 and it gets
reported but remember this is these are
the canyons and i know you know you know
between Westlake Village and Calabasas
on the 101 you go through the canyons
and what they call over the hill to
Malibu and it's you know curvy wine
rocky you know and and so it was to some
extent a really difficult accessibility
issue also at that time the Malibu Fire
Department were up assisting in the
campfire cases in Northern California
Wow
so they had less resources and less
resources and and and this is a fire
that was relatively small in the
beginning but it it became a predator it
ran from
several miles north of the 101 hop the
101 and ran all the way through those
canyons a hundred thousand acres Sam all
the way to the sea and so the once that
fire was ignited and now I mean I
presume
like so there there's so in this case
the electric company failed to just take
the normal procedures that you would
anticipate and that their own protocols
would call for in anticipation of high
winds like this there is direct evidence
that what one would anticipate could
happen because of that wind happened and
the evidence was not only that they got
the the red flag through their system
but there was literally a helicopter
that saw the fire start where it would
start relative to that that red flag
yeah so it's sort of a dichotomy
analysis so since 1993 Southern Cal
Edison has been fined and punished at
least seven or eight times for failure
to take reasonable care to do everything
they could to prevent this type of event
a couple of different things they didn't
Allen they could have done we think they
did an analysis that decided 20 years
ago or so they should have buried the
lines too expensive they decided not to
another part of the problem is the
debris and buildup in and around the
common areas of this part of California
created a tinderbox really of potential
damage all of these things a power
company knew and under California law
there is strict liability in other words
there's not there's no question that if
a fire starts and a public utility
facility they the public utility are
responsible for the property damage of
the homeowner business owner that is
damage to whatever extent that property
damage exists strict liability the next
level this is what you're talking about
and I don't want to be presumptuous we
believe in good faith the
there are additional things that they
knew in and could have done it should
have done but that's part of our
obligation to prove but then that goes
to the level of negligence or maybe
worse right and so that's what the
litigation is about because if you get
the negligence or worse you get to the
damages over and above property damage
pain and suffering mental anguish the
post traumatic stress disorder that is
so palpable so real in the eyes of these
people who have 15 year old 17 year old
kids who will never again go to their
school never again be in that idyllic
home that they had that lifestyle with
their friends they have to they're
displaced
those are real damages that if there is
a another level of misconduct or failure
to act as they should have these people
would be entitled to you know one of the
things I know from upstate New York
there's been a lot of consolidation
really across like the Northeast in
terms of the electric and gas companies
and what everybody says up there is it
used to be that diag or mohawk which was
the company that ended up getting
swallowed into National Grid Niagara
Mohawk would come by and they would
regularly cut the trees around the
powerlines and they would do Sall sorts
of precautionary measures and once
National Grid came in you would never
see anybody doing that unless there was
some type of special call or there was
some type of other thing and it mean it
feels like this is a a similar type of
dynamic where it's just like we've done
a cost-benefit analysis we can get away
with this and how much of a
responsibility when they start to cut
those corners and they know that the
incidence and intensity these fires in
California is increasing because of
climate change
like how much responsibility do they
have on that end of it like because not
only are they cutting back
not only they cutting back their
responsibilities but the it's well known
that the risk is increasing like how
much more responsibility do they have
under that formula so the cornerstone of
your question is you're asking me to
assume that client and client climate
change is not fake news well yes all
right so you know you know what's really
tragically hilarious is that's part of
what that whole notion of ignoring
client climate change is so that they
can avoid the liability associated with
that pre fire knowledge of the reality
of what's happening in that space over
which they are responsible and obligated
by federal and state statutes to avoid
it's reasonable care they have a
reasonable duty to prevent those things
that they know or should have known are
likely to be this combustible predator
fire we know they're coming again it's
going to happen in California because
the Santa Ana winds because the
powerlines are exposed because the winds
are 80 to 100 miles an hour this stuff
is going to happen the debris that that
is the you know the wood that starts the
and and and brush that's dry right with
that arid climate you know it's they
can't avoid knowing that they ought to
clean it up certainly around the
substation to reduce the likelihood of a
fast-moving fire which this was how many
of these fires are a function of these
power stations because I feel like every
time there's like one person who had a
campfire that will get that turned into
a massive fire or a homeless person who
is living you know in an area and lit a
fire like I hear about that but you just
don't hear so much it seems to me and
maybe it's just I'm not in California it
doesn't get the same level of reporting
I guys well here's what I'll tell you
after 30 plus years of practicing law
every person that gets hit by a railroad
trained at a crossing that doesn't have
gates and lights was trying to beat the
train is what the railroad says every
time there's a plane crash it's always
the pilots error never a manufacturing
defect every time there's a fire
it's an arsonist at the root of it all
and the fact that I met you know the
fact that matters sometimes that's true
right but it's incumbent on us as
lawyers to make that assessment
independently on behalf of the people
who've lost their homes their lives
their livelihood their dream to
determine is this truly Southern Cal
Edison's fault and if so access the
courts to achieve justice for those
people and not let the rumormongers
defending this obligation of these
corporate folks have to pay for the sins
to hold them accountable that's what
this is battle is all about well Archie
Liam thank you so much for your time
today really interesting stuff always
baby Sam thank you appreciate it
all right folks and back in Brooklyn
we're gonna run an interview I did
yesterday with Andy Betterman he is the
chair of the aaj political action
committee and what this guy does is
basically work on legislation fight
legislation that would inhibit the
ability of lawyers like we've talked to
today for instance and and yesterday to
bring these cases and it gives you a
good general overview of what's going on
here let's Matt are you ready to run
that yet ready to go all right let's run
that and then we'll come back with more
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report broadcasting live from Las Vegas
Nevada for the 2019 mass torts
conference joining me now is Andy
Betterman he is the chair of the aaj
political action committee PAC also an
attorney from the Washington DC area I
guess and so Andy first off let's start
with what is the aaj okay aaj is the
National Trial Lawyers Association
organization it's basically the National
Bar Association if you will of civil
trial lawyers who represent plaintiffs
and their claims for compensation for
all manner of injury but especially
personal injury against individuals
corporations government and so on so aaj
stands excuse me for the American
Association for justice that's what aaj
is I'm chair of the I'm the volunteer
chair of the political action committee
and like most organizations in America
we also have a political action
committee which is the only non partisan
political action committee in the United
States dedicated to the preservation of
the civil justice system in other words
we keep the courthouse doors open for
every American right and you know that's
one of the themes obviously of why I've
been coming here is because because of
that function like why is that important
and you know what like what does that
mean the courthouse door is that open a
let's just start with why that's
important and then we'll get to the ways
that that metaphorical door is sort of
shut it's very important because the
founders of our country contemplated and
in in fact designed a system in which
every citizen had equal access to the
courts and to the rule of law regardless
of their financial position and life and
that's what we do I mean we when I say
we keep the courthouse doors open
plaintiffs lawyers like myself and those
in a a Jane do not charge a fee when a
client hires us we are paying on what's
called a contingent fee basis which
means we get paid if and when the case
resolves favorably for our client and
that to me is the great leveler because
it used to be that you people thought
they'd have to have thousands of dollars
to pay a retainer to an attorney to get
legal representation with a contingent
fee which has been around least fifty
years if not longer you don't need that
oh yeah all you need is a meritorious
case and an attorney is willing to take
it and you'll have access to the courts
just like Exxon Mobil just like AT&T and
okay so how does the the doors these
metaphorical doors how do they get shot
that's a good question they get shut for
the most part legislatively and there
has been an effort again throughout my
40 years at the bar in an effort by
business and industry to do just that by
legislation so to give you an example a
common common law that's passed has been
passed in many states and but not yet
federally is a cap on damages which is
advocate has been advocated for for a
generation by business and industry and
a cap on damages does just that it
places a limit on the amount of money a
victim can recover for what's called
non-economic loss which is injury to
your basically your injury in your pain
and suffering so for instance in a state
like Maryland where I practice we have a
cap that 30 years ago you know which was
under a hundred thousand dollars and has
been escalated to about a million
dollars but we still have a cab some
states have caps that are two hundred
fifty thousand dollars so I've had cases
where people have been horribly burned
and the most that they can recover for
their injury not for their economic loss
medical expenses lost wages and have you
but the most can recover for their
injury and their scar if you will is
about a million dollars when the case is
worth far more than that and and so you
know and we have many examples you know
people can go back and listen to the the
the probably at this point dozens of
interviews I've done with attorneys here
yes where corporations will cut corners
they will they will I mean I almost
that's best case scenario when we're
talking about these cases they'll cut
corners and think they can think it
won't be a problem certain amount of
negligence there's also cases where like
they know this product is going to hurt
people but they've invested too much in
the marketing they've invested too much
in the development they need to it you
know they need to create shareholder
value they go forward and they make a
calculation yes they do
we may have to pay out X amount of
dollars they do but that's going to be
10% 5% 2% maybe 25% of our profit Z and
so caps at that point do two things
right right one it basically it makes it
less viable for an attorney to bring the
case because you need an enormous amount
of money to fight an exon or a DuPont or
whatever it is so you need to you need
to have built a war chest or gotten a
line of credit or whatnot and it also
undercuts the functioning of what of
civil litigation as a sort of second
order regulation yes right it doesn't
turn hibbett as a deterrent yes and and
and so that's why they why caps exist on
some levels so there is no deterrent to
this type of it and in fact a cap in
many cases is a disincentive to the
corporation or the whoever that whoever
the defendant is the person or the
corporation that you've made claim
against it's a disincentive to them to
settle because they know if they go to
trial and a jury finds for the plaintiff
and is empathetic to the plaintiff and
Awards a lot of money that most of it
will be taken away to the extent that
the award exceeds the cap so it's really
it's a disincentive to them to roll the
dice in states where there aren't caps
and you'll find that many defendants
come to the settlement table much more
readily and freely than they do in
states where there are caps
do you does does the aaj pack do you do
work on this on a state level or is it
is it's a good question we only we raise
money for federal races for the Congress
the House the Senate and the presidency
so and we help identify candidates who
share our views about the court system
about equal access to the courts and
then we help them win election to office
and if they do then we know where they
stand on our issues right we know where
they stand on our issues in the last
election we raised over six million
dollars we supported two hundred ninety
nine candidates for office eighty-five
percent of them won election and we were
instrumental in the election of the 40
members of the House the 40 seats in the
House that flipped from the GOP to the
Democrats and and hence placed speaker
Pelosi in the Speaker's chair and remove
speaker Ryan from the chair now Andy I I
know you're a nonpartisan group I'm
going to guess though that Democrats
tend to share your perspective more than
Republican we are a nonpartisan group
but practically speaking most of the
candidates and we support members of the
Democratic Party there are some
Republicans who share our views and if
there are then the weak gladly support
them give you an example Senator Lindsey
Graham is a great friend of the court
system
I've got nothing in common with him
right and I really and and in no way do
I support him but he is the senator from
South Carolina he's not going anywhere
but he has a guaranteed vote for us
because he used to be a trial lawyer and
he understands the system and shares our
views what what what our recent
what what has been the the most
significant threat to the ability to
bring cases in in recent years has it
been legislative legislation has it been
executive action or has it been frankly
just a judiciary that has been it seems
to me supposed to overwhelmed by by
conservative justice yeah I think it's
legislation myself
I mean judges or judges will be judges
they'll make decisions and they have
tremendous power in our system executive
orders less so legislation I mean aaj
which maintains a lobby staff as well
last year dealt with in the last session
of Congress addressed 700 over 700 tort
reform 700 measures designed to close
the courthouse doors if you will or one
of them seeks to impose a $250,000
national cap on non-economic or pain and
suffering damages regulate attorneys
fees which would then basically
basically be a disincentive to attorneys
to take cases if they can't make what
they need to make when the case resolves
to justify the investment of their their
time and money in a case there are there
was a bill in the last session that made
the most salient ones were the one to
impose a national cap regulate attorneys
fees and that would apply to medical
malpractice nursing home and
pharmaceutical or bad drug and bad
medical device cases there was a bill to
make it most of these cases are filed
and sort of what it's sort of like a
class action it's not it's called an MDL
but there was a bill that would make
basically mandate that within 45 days of
filing your case you have to file with
the court proof that you're going to win
without the benefit of civil discovery
or information exchange personally
impossible to do so these multi district
litigation cases so that's where and
we were talking to someone yeah on
yesterday's program about a case
involving three MS earplugs earplugs
that they sold to the the military there
are cases of damages probably of
military personnel all across the
country yes instead of all those issues
being litigated in each state they're
wrapped up in federal court and they're
actually going to be tried in Pensacola
in this in this instance they could end
up in any jurisdiction and so I have two
questions on that legislation so one is
that how do you if you could prove the
case in 45 days why wouldn't you just
prove the case in 45 days because you
can't because as you know in our system
of civil litigation right the plaintiff
files a complaint the defendant files an
answer then you begin what's really a
beautiful process called civil discovery
and the purpose of that is to literally
allow each side to actually discover the
other side's evidence and there a number
of tools written questions document
production requests and depositions what
you've seen on many many of your
listeners have probably seen on
television right you know where the
witness is sworn under oath and and and
and has asked questions by by the other
attorney right and that's a lengthy
process and particularly in complex
civil cases against large corporations
it takes months if not years to complete
discovery and typically at the end of
discovery
then if the other side feels that it's
not liable it's going to file a motion
to dismiss right which the judge then
decides under this this measure which
has not become law right
you would have to a lawyer who files a
case would have to file prima facie
proof which is about 51 percent right
that that the defendant is liable within
45 days of filing and that's virtually
impossible III mean you know so it's a
way to just it's another way to close
the door right so eliminate eliminate
plaintiffs and slam the door shut so in
with that with that legislation
basically say that there should not be
discovery essentially or that's a
practical discovery right okay because
in
understand that what a company you know
and just for example Mike Papantonio who
from Levin Papantonio obviously used to
do ring a fire with me and he still hops
on maybe get him this week here but he
does a case against DuPont over the CA
and they basically back up an 18-wheeler
with millions of pages of documents and
say good luck and you know it comes from
a firm that's a big firm that has a lot
of money as a lot of resources has a lot
of staff and they actually went through
the documents and found documents that
even the the 3m lawyers didn't realize
we're there and that's how this guy wins
the case the idea that you could do that
process in 45 days is absolutely absurd
okay it still is impossible so clearly
that that you know that's basically a
poison pill for what why specifically
MDL zwei Montes that's because that's
the venue that's where all the bad drug
cases and the medical device cases end
up and they're they're all it's really I
mean MDL was is a met is a tool that the
court system has to make it easier to
handle large numbers of cases it's like
a class action and in a class action
each victim has to have the same each
victim had to suffer the same injury as
a result of the same act by the same
defendant right and if if you are such a
victim and the class is filed and you
can opt into the class and you can get
your share of whatever the ultimate
award is without having to litigate your
case and the reason that that the class
actions are not used in bad drug cases
is because in bad drug cases that there
may be common liability among all the
defendants in other words the same
evidence approves the defendants liable
to you which prove the defendants liable
to me but the victims have different
injuries okay varying degrees I take a
medicine that's been tainted with jet
fuel let's say to use an example that we
may end up have
conversation about while we're here and
the the company that produced that that
medicine did the same act that got that
medicine into your bottle in my BOB
right but for me it gives me colon
cancer right for you it gives you you
know a headache gives you a headache or
but it but gives you maybe some type of
like collided different injury referent
injury and so there's uh and that's when
you you would need a multidistrict right
well that district case which really is
is where all of these all of the cases
that that we talk about at this
conference end up virtually all of them
end up in a multi district litigation
then you have the the liability issue
which is common to all the victims is
handled commonly and once for the
benefit of all the victims right but the
injury part of the claim is obviously
they're different from they vary from
victim to victim and they have to be
handled individually and so they set up
basically an algorithm right that well
ultimately I mean if the case resolves I
set up a master you know matrix if you
will that's used to determine who's
entitled to compensation and to what
extent but this measure which was
introduced in the Congress right which
was probably probably hatched at Big
Pharma or the Chamber of Commerce or
both right would essentially close that
door because no one can really produce
prima facie proof than 45 days it's
impossible what's the biggest piece of
legislation that is actually passed that
is there has there been any no there
really hasn't and I have to say largely
because of mostly on state levels yeah
you see this right federally right
friendly there's been very little
significant torn form legislation in the
last decade and that's larger because of
aaj now I would say the most damaging
thing I mean there was a court decision
about mandatory arbitration right was
that concepción and ATT or exactly
believe so and we're fighting fighting
to overrule that legislatively that's
probably the biggest the biggest bad
thing that's happened is forced
arbitration but none of these other
measures have passed
there's no national cap the court system
the courthouse doors are still open
right there still MDL s but there's a
lot of time and energy and money that's
been invested and will continue to be
invested by business in America to close
those doors and it's a drumbeat that
I've been hearing I've been practicing
law since 1978 and I've been hearing
this non-stop since then and and and
they've used many tactics ranging from
like the story you know we I don't know
maybe it was four or five years ago now
I had a documentary filmmaker on who was
here who had done a documentary on the
famous hot coffee guys from McDonald's
right which was lampooned when the but
it turned out she liked when people hear
the details it's pretty nice yes and
that's been an ongoing and what does aaj
do in terms of like on from a cultural
perspective right because there's a you
know there's there's theories out there
that legislation and politics are
downstream from culture yeah
trial lawyers I mean you call yourself
playing attorney
you know because trial lawyers right
been maligned and it's a unfairly III I
mean I I couldn't agree more but there
was a specific agenda behind that right
so the best of what we do is educate as
best we can and we tell our members you
know aaj sort of the mother organization
of all the state trial lawyer
associations each state has one and AJ
sort of the mother ship if you will and
we work closely with the state
organizations and for you know for a
long time we've been trying to educate
people on the state level but the best
education is for when is when a doubter
is suddenly a victim right well you know
and once a doubter is a victim then the
doubter looks at things dramatically
differently President Trump for instance
you know I was just in speaking in the
in the session there about the work of
the pack and I always talk about
President Trump who loves to litigate
when it suits his needs right when it
doesn't suit his needs he hates lawyers
hates the court system so but he's an
example of a guy who who knows that when
the doors are open for an individual and
that individual needs him open it's good
what would you say do you have a sense
of which state is the most hostile to
civil litigation there are a number of
states that have $250,000 caps I can't I
can't tell you the names right now
they tend to be States I mean the states
that are more hostile tending more rural
right with smaller populations and a
history of real real conservatism oh
interesting the other state like Arizona
where the right there's never been a
there was I believe there was a cap
there that was held invalid by the
state's High Court because it
contradicted the States Constitution
which guarantees everybody equal access
to the courts interesting that's and
that's unusual for that state which has
a history of conservatism and that's a
good dynamic that that the court would
interpret I mean it's almost like a
poll-tax right yeah in some respects as
applied to the opportunity to to have
recourse in civil litigation all right
well just other so let me just ask you
this
I'm curious you've been practicing for
since 1978 has the behavior of corporate
America changed significantly during
that time or has this been is this a
consistent animal that essentially each
new endeavor there's going to be a
certain percentage of them that are
willing to cut corners or to just make
idli ignore evidence that they have and
are aware of that their product could be
damaging for example has that changed at
all one way or another yes and yes it's
I mean I think that I think change on a
national level is an incremental slow
process just like legislation is I think
some corporations have changed your
behavior but I think the vast majority
have not and and and and what a
corporation might have to pay victims
right because of the failure of a
product really hasn't changed at all I
think it just just remains a an economic
calculation for them
especially in the pharmaceutical
industry you know where the development
costs are high understandably I just
think they factor it in that's all you
know a certain number of people are
going to are going to in a bottle -
they've invested so much money in the
development of a product that they're
gonna do whatever they can do to keep
that product on the market and if they
know or should know that there's going
to be a problem with the product there's
going to factor the cost of that in into
the Michigan - the cost of the product
that's simple so things haven't changed
that much in my opinion what has changed
is the frequency with which they have to
with which they're called to account and
ultimately have to penny it's not yeah I
think that's changed dramatically that
gotten up or it's increased yes I think
you see it a lot more is that because
just this level of sophistication of the
plaintiffs terms because of the
plaintiffs bar because of what
plaintiffs trial lawyers do you know we
keep America safe and if it's not safe
we keep the courthouse doors open for
you well Andrew Bederman the director of
their chair I should say of the aaj
political action committee thanks so
much for time thank you I appreciate it
thank you all right folks that's it for
the the legal portion of our our show
post legal portion next we're gonna head
in the fun half I think I should just
say though it was funny I I ran into
yesterday during the broadcast a guy
walked by in this and you know I'm in
like an exhibition hall there's just
booths that provide support for
attorneys essentially all sorts of
different type of things like they these
firms need loans to finance their their
cases I was just I was talking to a
couple of people about and I the the
drug escapes me so I'm not going to say
the name of it because these drug names
are insane but apparently there was a
drug that was was given to adults as
perhaps I think it was an anti-psychotic
I'm not 100% sure and the they started
to give it to children without doing any
tests on children and it turned out that
boys who were taking it who would go
through puberty would develop large
breasts so significantly large that some
of them started to lactate and there had
never been any testing on this drug on
children and there were a lot of cases
that was started and what the
manufacturer of the drug did was simply
just string it out long enough knowing
that a lot of these cases were held by
small practitioners they had all taken
out loans to finance the case right
because you don't get paid until you get
you don't get paid unless you win and
until you win and so all of these these
small practitioners are taking out the
loans and they basically all had to drop
out because after a while the debt
burden became too intense for them and
so these kids who took these drugs who
will are already obviously going through
difficult times that's why you're on a
drug like that had to go through high
school with you know thirteen-year-old
boy go through high school with you know
extended breasts and there was no real
accounting for this stuff other reasons
who abolished capitalism and and so you
know it's interesting there's all sorts
of sort of like
strange you know I guess no business
services that are here and you know
that's just one of them then there's
other things like where they do intake
of clients and all sorts of different
things here so anyways I'm here at the
desk doing I think and I see a guy walks
up to the table a guy I know and I don't
want to reveal too much because I don't
know how much he wants to be identified
maybe he will I was hoping he would be
around here so I could actually talk to
him because he's got a very interesting
background that would be interest of
people here but I'm not sure you want to
talk about it but and but the guy is
sort of libertarian-leaning
he's like one of the I wouldn't call him
a full hardcore libertarian but he's
sort of libertarian leaning and he is
here working on a start-up with some of
these cases specifically the one that I
talked about about that drug that was
given to two thirteen year old kids in
fact he and his partner you know told me
those stories and they found these old
dockets and they're trying to revive
them in some way anyways he's working on
this startup and he and his buddy
his buddies uh from Texas libertarian
types were very very skeptical of this
from an ideological perspective because
trial lawyers have been demonized for
years and with very specific intent by
places like the Chamber of Commerce and
whatnot because these people go after
big corporations and they both cited the
story of the hot coffee from McDonald's
now longtime listeners will remember on
this program maybe maybe it was five or
six years ago we interviewed I had
multiple interviews with the documentary
filmmaker who had gone back and made a
movie called hot coffee about that
about that case and people my age
certainly remember hearing about this
and it was a way to bash trial lawyers
this idea that some woman is suing
McDonald's because her coffee was so hot
and she got burned a little bit and you
know is suing them for a ton of money
when went away exactly and this is
what's wrong with America people don't
take personal responsibility and if you
look into that case and if you have the
opportunity to see that movie definitely
worth seeing the movie but if you look
into that case you find out that you're
talking about an elderly woman who got
the coffee the coffee was kept at a
temperature that was exceedingly high
because it saved McDonough because they
had done you know the they had run their
quantitative uh you know some type of
like mcnamara ask efficiency thing and
they found that if they kept the coffee
like a hundred and twelve degrees they
could make more coffees in Beck's
backlog than save you know twelve cents
an hour or something like that so the
coffee she got the cup literally
disintegrated and it spilt into her
crotch she's an elderly woman she needed
reconstructive surgery all she would had
asked from Agha's was help with the
surgery and they wouldn't do it well
shouldn't she have done research on the
coffee before she went there yeah and
the cubs are responsible right Zoomer
you bring your own cup or your chair
she's got her own cup I just think we
need to live in more of a responsibility
society that's a user problem and the
and so in the end she was just doing
this because at first I think it was
like they won't even apologize and and
then ultimately through discovery they
found like this was by design to have
the coffee that
and they changed their practices because
of it because of the lawsuit but the
general public used it for years I mean
any time and I can't remember what like
if this was in the 90s I suspect it well
I remember from childhood yeah I also
have a memory of people making fun of
that lady so it might have been in the
90s and and I mean I just remember
rushing them I mean the that that was
like you would just toss that off as an
example of why lawyers are horrific and
so and I was talking to these two guys
who were recent converts to you know
understanding the sort of this dynamic
and I haven't caught up with my buddy
but I wonder if it hasn't in some
respects begun to undercut his ideology
on some level but uh I've liked to call
the libertarian perspective
Carolee fury you sure doesn't mean okay
so is there a reason why she couldn't
have called maybe like to see you yeah I
can't really hear but maybe she could
have called the head of McDonald's and
said maybe we could work this out
instead of trying to force the CEO to
pay her in a compulsory manner it could
have been more free that way see we
didn't even need to figure out the
phones Michael can play every caller
there you go why don't you see who made
her underwear instead but baby though
don't because then the underwear man
gets dry I just feel like she could have
just said like hey like look like maybe
we could go and I could roll up my
sleeves and you could roll up your
sleeves we could just kind of you know
like talk this out I don't know the and
you know the it was interesting what
Archie lamb was saying about about
climate change because the literally I
think yesterday in hearings the head of
the EPA said that climate change not the
not their top priority
just not gonna snap that approach not
doing it what the hell is wrong with
people
well I mean I think I think to a certain
extent is Archie lamb you know pointed
out that not only would an
acknowledgment of manmade climate change
force are the hands of fossil fuel man
if you know companies but it would also
start to create sort of benchmarks like
okay you're aware of another threat that
exists out there right like we all know
that it's you shouldn't have people walk
across a busy highway
that's an existing that's a danger once
it becomes codified that the science and
once there is a you know broad
acceptance of the science of climate
change that puts obligations on all
sorts of different industries and to to
respond to this and to acknowledge it
and then to to start to behave and
change their behavior to comport with
that acknowledged risk we do something
about climate change then all of a
sudden we might have to worry about our
ingredients and other things I mean
where does this end they're ours also
and I don't want to unleash the Monsanto
the great Monsanto Wars of twenty of
twenty thirteen or whatever will I do
grow up but Santa is a bad company and
stop stop energy and there is increasing
evidence that that roundup is
carcinogenic oh my god I can't believe
you see if there's one thing these major
companies needed for people to like
stand for them and you know it might you
know it Monsanto and bear which actually
acquired Monsanto recently is to make it
one of like the moat and bear I believe
barrier has been covered at the torts
conference oh my god in fact I had a
conversation with another doctor who was
was telling me about a supplement that
that you take to to diminish
inflammation and apparently inflammation
is in in many different forms in our
body is highly problematic right and in
fact you know everything from like PTSD
is a function of inflammation in the
brain and he he is a sports doctor top
athletes in the country and has done a
lot of work with folks from special ops
who have problems and he said we've
known for 25 years science has known
Harvard Harvard Research Facility found
that there was a vitamin and I get a or
some type of supplement that would deal
with inflammation and but and it would
deal with information in such a way that
it allowed the the the body to recover
from the inflammation but Bayer found
that you know use their aspirin to
function in the same way except for it
doesn't necessarily allow the body to
recover from inflammation in the same
way and also can can cause some alchemic
now kids won't take their vitamins why
let's talk about this so what happened
is Bayer bought the patent for this drug
or supplement and sat on it for 25 years
basically took it out of the marketplace
because it didn't want it competing
against it and it just came off patent
about five years ago or something and
Harvard bought it back and they're now
starting to do all sorts of research
with this and finding that it's how
potentially effective it could be in a
whole host of issues but people just
don't understand the depths of corporate
behavior that is driven by profits and
so you know things like buying the
patent of a drug that you know is more
effective than your drug and then
sitting on it for 25 years that is just
simply called business but we should let
these companies patent things like seeds
and other forms of essential parts
higher you know parts of the genome and
it's things essential to the global food
supply because if we don't then obscure
research projects at universities that
none of us are talking about will be
implicated I welcome you Domino's but
yeah and the point is is that you know
for those people who believe in the
efficacy of the market you are
completely deluding yourself as to the
intentions and the incentive structure
that exists for big players in the
market it does not like the amount of
innovation that has been stifled
electric vehicles there was a similar
dynamic the the amount of innovation
that has been stifled because it
threatens existing markets for
corporations I think I mean somebody
should be I mean I imagine there are
books on this Bill O'Reilly exactly
hi this is a Rory of calling the
libertarian perspectives about that and
I'm wondering if maybe if you went to
the company I don't know how you say
that they stopped the electric car I
don't know the history I can't really
hear it too well but maybe if you went
to the car companies and you said hey
man let's do some nonviolent
communication together and maybe you
don't kill the electric car and then
that way there wouldn't be force did you
ever think of doing that
I don't I yes I did think about it
didn't it didn't work
oh so you could you give me the evidence
that it didn't work because I thought we
were having an evidence-based
conversation this is just so like tragic
tragically accurate it's not even a
comedy bit it's no this is I don't think
freedom's a joke at all all right we're
gonna take a break ahead into the fun
half when we come back we'll take your
IMS we'll attempt to take maybe some
calls and we'll do some sound just a
reminder this program relies on your
support you can support this program by
going to join the majority report calm
when you do you support the free show
and then as a way of saying thank you
we give you access to the fun half and
as always if you do not have the means
to become a member
send us an email at majority reporters
at gmail.com and and wait and wait and
wait and then eventually we will get
through all those emails and hook you up
today it's Friday which means that
tomorrow is Saturday and then Sunday and
then Monday and then Tuesday and then
what happens on Tuesday Michael well
it's funny you say that because what
happens on Tuesday is Richard Wolff
returns but we're actually doing a
Sunday DMBS because we're off the
following week and a DOMA catch yet you
is gonna join us to talk about her new
book on the making of the third world
project and what undid it and also Derek
Davidson will stop by we'll be live at
7:00 p.m. on the Michael Brooke show
YouTube channel of course patreon.com
slash TMDs for the whole thing but it's
we're starting either at 6:00 or 7:00
I'm sorry I'm not sure yet I'll I'll
tweet that information out you and Jamie
got to work that out right Jamie because
what's happening on the intifada this
week well actually before we do that
there's two other things that I promised
the plug teacher Lauren has asked me to
say tomorrow at between 11:00 and 4:00
and Poughkeepsie there'll be a parking
lot of the exempt fire
Association at 200 Mason Street and
there's an event on the Poughkeepsie DSA
Facebook page and it's mid-hudson the
essay if anyone is interested and also
of course tickets to the TM BSL a live
show and the Brazile wires put out a new
book called the year of lead which I
wrote the foreword to and find a link to
it on the homepage as well a please
support Brazil buyer and grab that book
Jaime this week on the anti Fatih in our
free episode on Wednesday we spoke with
Brett and Brian the chill anarchist
dad's from street fight radio about
anarchism organizing parenting drugs and
more and today for our patrons we also
released a bonus episode
struggle session so check that out if
you want to hear my vulgar Marxist take
on the movie us
Sean's vulgar Hegelian take on the movie
us and Leslie Lee the Third's educated
take on what the movie was actually
about so check it out folks Matt yeah
literary hangover did the Oscar Wilde
the soul of man under socialism if you
want to hear Oscar Wilde talk about
socialism check that out
alright folks we're going to take a
quick break
heading to the fun half and take a quick
break and head into the fun half RM for
it
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty see you in the
fun
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I am a total joint
can we bring back the GTA yeah or a
couple of you put them in rotation easy
damn well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break
that's
[Music]
I do not have Parkinson's and the alpha
males Oh psyche
Oh
[Music]
on the back
on the back
[Music]
back
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
like alpha males
Oh
[Music]
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadis keeping it 100 birthday
[Music]
now the birthday to meet you boy
I haven't thought expand to foil and the
alpha males are black black alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price of Class
B around here alright folks we are back
it is the fun half of the majority
report and as you know julian assange
taken into custody in britain for
skipping bail he is facing extradite
extradition charges to the United States
ostensibly for helping in my
understanding now of the indictment
involving Assange and it includes a lot
of stuff that people should be very
concerned about putting aside we really
need to be group grown-ups here when we
assess these things I know people think
that Sanchez cooties
I am also maybe close to being in the
cootie camp but despite the fact that he
has cooties
we don't want acts of journalism to be
criminalized because that will have very
bad implications for our society moving
forward there are elements of that
indictment that do that the apparently
his the the non elements attacking his
journalism is that he supposedly gave
Chelsea Manning advice on how to crack
some of the encryption I guess at the
DoD that advice turned out to not work
is my understanding according to the
indictment so they're getting I mean
there and I don't think that's
appropriate behavior I
think that that's probably chargeable
insofar as if that is you know can be
proven true like that you cross the line
in that moment where you're not
functioning as journalists it's one
thing to be a journalist to get the
information to hide your source protect
your source it's another to engage in
the activity I mean the line has to be
drawn at one point you can take someone
provides you photos of someone in their
house that's newsworthy very different
from breaking into that house and taking
those photos when when Sky News
reporters hacked into people's accounts
to steal information from them was
criminal so with all that said it seems
that Julian Assange has lost a friend in
Donald Trump here is a montage of Donald
Trump in 2016 talking about WikiLeaks he
was really into WikiLeaks 2016 WikiLeaks
I love WikiLeaks the Hillary Clinton
documents released today by WikiLeaks
make more clear than ever just how much
is at stake in this election so much
corruption this wiki Lee stuff is
unbelievable it tells you the inner
heart you got to read it the WikiLeaks
documents show how the media conspires
and collaborates with Clinton campaign
including giving the questions and
answers to Hillary Clinton before a
debate I don't get them I want him with
love with you leaves for their bricks
Esther said of Hilary she has bad
instincts no we knew that just look at
her career in a newly released email
John Podesta has been caught saying we
have to dump all of those emails can you
believe this that's WikiLeaks wikileaks
wikileaks wikileaks wikileaks wikileaks
now from WikiLeaks
did you see what came out over WikiLeaks
oh we love WikiLeaks we've learned so
much from WikiLeaks
WikiLeaks WikiLeaks WikiLeaks WikiLeaks
WikiLeaks WikiLeaks just came out with
lots of really unbelievable things the
wiki links the WikiLeaks WikiLeaks
WikiLeaks again nobody's covering wiki
leak I feel like he just loves saying
the word or I should say letting put
this way Trump 2016
WikiLeaks hot Trump 2019 WikiLeaks not
play it I know nothing about WikiLeaks
it's not my thing
and
I know there is something having to do
with Julian Assange I've been seeing
what's happened with Assange and that
will be a determination
I would imagine mostly by the Attorney
General I was doing an excellent job so
he'll be making a determination I know
nothing really about them it's not my
it's not my deal in life I know the
Attorney General will be involved in
that he'll make a decision that I took I
totally I totally grew out of my
WikiLeaks phase my dealing nights am I
thinking no no no routed by WikiLeaks
phase it's a like I never listen oh oh
you don't know you know you mean it the
white rake a guy I guess there's
something along those lines I never I
never was blasting him every single day
last I at least leave his singles
yeah I mean I might have heard it at a
party but I certainly wasn't playing it
on blast Katy Perry I never let it down
no but you wait usually Katy Perry fan
you were a big fan of WikiLeaks I would
I never I don't I never heard perhaps
other people liked WikiLeaks but this
trying to remember I mean this is such a
great lesson in fascism though right
because I just feel like there's there's
two so one it's like okay you know
resistance types who are celebrating the
Trump administration
do you know pressing these charges are
demented I mean these are the same
people to think that like Oh Trump
called Jim Acosta a jerk it's the end of
journalism are okay with this which is
odd but then and then the left was as
parts of the left or ridiculous on this
because he's I remember those you know
the email leaks of 2016 were nothing
they barely revealed anything and then
you know the actual stuff was 2011 but
that being as it may like this is how
people like this work when it's you know
when it's expedient to have WikiLeaks
awesome when it's time to put you in
jail for revealing war crimes great that
like how it would surprise anybody that
Donald Trump or Mike Pompeo or Sean
Hannity would
an expedient relationship with these
things is highly diluted right and we
should be clear that these charges stem
from the 2011 leaks of that included
video image of US military firing on
Iraqi civilians and then and it's really
interesting to watch the news media
recount at least some of the reporters
I've seen who now acknowledge that the
materials that were released by
WikiLeaks that were taken and leaked by
Chelsea Manning had legitimate news
value it's fascinating because I can
tell you at that time they were in
complete denial despite the fact
literally every day you would see
another article written based upon those
cables and so yeah we're gonna see what
happens
and and again there are parts of that
indictment that are highly problematic
part of the conspiracy that Assange and
Manning took measures to conceal Manning
is the source of disclosure of
classified records to WikiLeaks like the
idea you're protecting your source
provide information a part of the
conspiracies that Assange a Manning used
a special folder on a cloud of Dropbox
used Dropbox and signal yeah you know
you go to a Ken clip and Steen's Twitter
page he's a really good investigative
reporter and I think his pinned tweet is
here's my signal number right if you
have something for me they all they all
do this and so the part the idea that
this is part of the indictment is highly
problematic it seems to me and credit
where credit's due
tulsi gabbard went on was it on with
those expenses Chris Matthews to make
this very point
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was
arrested today for his alleged role in
hacking classified US military files and
I'm drumming down by US Representative
in 2020 presidential candidate Tulsi
Gabbard of Hawaii what do you make of
our effort to extradited and well
indicted putties probably join Assange
I'm deeply concerned by what's happened
today we look back at the Obama
administration's decision during his
time not to do this not to try to
extradite Assange and charge him because
of their concern about how this
government action would impinge on
freedom of the press this is a blow to
transparency in a blow to a Free Press
when you have a situation where our
government is in a position where they
can basically create this climate of
fear against somebody or those who are
publishing things that they don't like
or saying things that they don't like
and that's the concern here this is a
threat to journalists but it's also
something that threatens every American
because the message that we are getting
that the American people are getting by
what's happened here today is you know
be quiet
toe the line otherwise there will be
consequences and so good for her I did
not know that there was an affirmative a
decision by the Obama administration to
not extradite that well they didn't I
don't know that there was an affirmative
one but I at the end of the day they
didn't as far as we know you know they
didn't press charges against him
well this has been an ongoing
investigation this grand jury now I
don't know if it had shut down and they
did it restarted we can let Greenwald
says regularly that the Obama
administration stopped short at the end
of the day of pressing okay and it
charges and I would assume he's pretty
up on this and all's well is not looking
to do the Obama administration any
favors
so I understand it's not inconceivable
to that that the way that Trump makes
most of his decisions is like what did
Obama do okay do the other thing wait
Obama stopped short guess what I'm not
going to who's not
make sure the jump right over it Jim I
just I also just want to add to like
again I just outside of the United
States there is no controversy amongst
like center left and left parties about
this position like what what the stakes
of this are and also what the initial
revelation showed yeah without a doubt
there is without a doubt somebody just
came by and showed me a picture of Matt
on the somebody had taken a picture of
of the iPad that I have here screaming
sorry I never heard of Ace of Base
I mean people tell me they did music and
I was drinking Zima and listening to it
but I I not that's not where I perhaps
you could ask sorrow or someone a
Jeanine but I don't I don't know about
them cut to Sam dancing wilds with wild
abandon but it's uh Bates I can I can
assure you I was not a club goer in any
age frankly I did go there was a there
was a rock club in Worcester we're in
high school we would go go dancing
alright let's get back to some of the
clips we didn't play this yesterday
Katey Porter part of the freshman class
of Democrats who are have entered into
the the house and are kicking some ass
frankly here is Katey Porter talking to
Jamie Dimon at the House Financial
Services Committee and basically
particularly at a time where three point
six billion dollars they have made from
the Trump tax cuts in 2018
here's Katie Porter basically saying to
Jamie Dimon how can you possibly justify
anything about you
she had 24 2425 dollars a month she
rents a one-bedroom apartment she and
her daughter sleep together in the same
room in Irvine California that average
what better apartment is going to be
sixteen hundred dollars she spends $100
on utilities take away the seventeen
hundred and she has net seven hundred
and twenty-five dollars she's like me
she's a 2008 minivan and has gas four
hundred dollars per car expenses and gas
net 325 the Department of Agriculture
says a low-cost food budget that is
ramen noodles a low food budget is four
hundred dollars that leaves her seventy
seven dollars in the red she has a
crooked cellphone cheapest cell phone
she can get for $40 she's in the red one
hundred and seventeen dollars a month
she is after school child care because
the bank is open during normal business
hours that's 450 a month that takes her
down to negative five hundred and six
sixty seven dollars per month my
question for you mr. diamond is how
should she manage this budget shortfall
while she's working full-time at your
bank
I
don't know that order numbers accurate
that number they start is it generally a
starter job she is a starting employee
she has a six-year-old child this is her
first job you get their jobs at a high
school she may have my job one day she
named it mr. diamond she doesn't have
the ability right now to spend your
thirty-one million dollars wholly
sympathetic you short 567 what would you
suggest you do would you recommend that
she take out a JPMorgan Chase credit
card and run a deficit would you
recommend that she overdraft at your
bank and be charged overdraft fees so I
know you have a lot of love to call up
and have a conversation about her
financial affairs and see if you can
find a way for her to live on less than
the minimum that I've described well I
appreciate your desire to be helpful but
what I'd like you to do is provide a way
for families to make ends meet so the
little kids who are six years old living
in a one-bedroom apartment with their
mother aren't going hungry at night
because they're 567 dollars short from
feeding themselves clothing that we
allowed no money for clothing we allowed
no money for school lunches we allowed
no money for field trips no money for
medical no money for prescription drugs
nothing
she's short five hundred and sixty seven
dollars already mr. Dimon you know how
to spend 31 million dollars a year in
salary and you can't figure out how to
make up a five hundred and sixty seven
dollar a month shortfall this is a
budget problem you cannot solve because
she does get full medical
90% of it by me also view no deductible
there's a deductible but for people
doing your wellness programs okay we
give people making under sixty thousand
dollars a year at $750 account and
effectively they have no deductible
that's why it be medical and mr. diamond
they read that in your shareholder
report that's why I didn't include any
medical expenses but she's still short
five hundred and sixty seven dollars as
are all of your employees in Irvine out
for you any ideas okay awkward super
awkward I love that oh she's like yes
that's why I I'm even giving you the
most generous read right psychopath
right how did numbers gonna work they
when he comes in saying I'd like to come
in and see her finances are you I
sorry I keep swearing are you kidding me
that's like that when when Dennis Miller
wanted to have like anybody on welfare
exact sum anybody who pays in income
taxes should get their own welfare
person that they get to like lord it
over and make sure they're spending
money I'd like to see if she buys her
child like a candy bar once every two
weeks like where are the expenses here
that we can clearly she's the
undeserving poor feeding her child a
candy bar I love the idea to that he his
first response is well someday she could
be where I am now
first off the chances of her being where
he is just generically speaking
obviously rather low for anybody because
there's not that many people who can be
the CEO but never mind the fact that if
you were to factor in the fact that she
is a woman it becomes even a smaller but
the real point is is that if she is
running a six thousand dollar annual
deficit which would be theoretically
financed by something that's going to
charge her interest she is just going to
get deeper and deeper into a hole so the
way that people work their way up
through society to the extent that
there's
laughs is to have the ability to take a
chance on certain things but as a single
mother with a child your chances your
ability to take risks are severely
inhibited your your the incentive for
you to take risks the costs of you
taking risks are are much higher because
you have a child that you're supposed to
take care of you're the sole breadwinner
on top of that the idea that you would
be that much in the hole also inhibits
your ability to take risks and so it's
just it is talk about like the last
refuge right for a scoundrel oh she gave
her as he you know she gave him an
incredibly serious disturbing question
which exemplifies how everything works
in this country and his answer was
basically an online University ad right
well Katey Porter laid it out very
clearly the way that they take risks and
what Jamie Dimon wants you to do is to
take out a line of credit which you will
then be charged interest on so he gets
to double dip first by not paying his
employees enough to live on and then by
getting the charges when they take out
credit or have overdraft fees it's
basically like the company in a company
store right and I got it is an upward
redistribution of wealth from that that
same House Financial Services Committee
a Jana Presley also new member of the
Democratic the member of the freshman
class of Democrats coming out of the
Boston area
she asked Jamie Dimon or I guess is this
directed directly at diamond well here
she makes the point about banks and
their enormous fee structure which just
sucks money out of people this is
another good reason why we need postal
banking but I'm not going to get on that
hobby horse here's Jana Presley
moving on I want to quickly touch on
another issue hurting our communities
while many banks have chosen to forego
overdraft fees Bank of America Chase and
Citigroup still cling to these practices
mr. Corbin would you say that overdraft
fees are a core function of your banking
business no they're not mr. Moynahan are
you aware of what percentage your total
revenue in 2018 came from these fees
overdraft fees yes probably less than
percent okay so if the answer is less
than a percent or two percent but for a
family of my district hit with a series
of overdraft fees
that is the difference between a
tailspin and getting by so your bank's
pay billions and fines dismissively and
you have convinced yourselves that
overdraft fees that make up less than
two percent of your revenue are
essential to bank operation if you can
write off billions of fines at the cost
of simply doing businesses power
overdraft fees anything other than an
ideological tool to simply further
punish before I'm appreciative of what
you've shared here today relative to
your community programs and development
funds but this does not shield you from
criticism about discriminatory lending
or the fact that many of you continue to
practice to put into practice overdraft
fees further punishing the poor you too
could be a CEO
congresswoman well someday I hope that
you could be a cog you know bank
executive and sit over here and see what
it's like to lose 1% of your your gross
revenue we have got some major bonuses
so three point six billion dollars and
it's not just an ideological tool either
like it's very practical and material as
a tool because when poor people are
emitted they are much easier to take
advantage of and that's he knows that
I would also imagine that I would also
be very curious to look at how many of
how many unique people get those
overdraft charges because I suspect that
if you're starting to pay extra fees for
your overdraft the likelihood of you
overdrafting in the future goes up so in
some respects it's like we're creating
our own market we get them once with the
overdraft fees we have I'm sure they
have some type of data on what the
incidence of overdraft fee's after
you've charged the first set of
overdraft fees yeah it's exactly what
Elizabeth Warren was talking about in
her campaign ad when she says you know
these aren't cracks people are falling
through these are traps right indeed
now Katie Porter man she's really uh you
know she doesn't have the same you know
media attention as an L on Omar and AOC
but she's uh she's doing really good
work there
Equifax a couple weeks ago she's really
coming through lastly from that same
House Financial Services Committee
Cindy ACK ACKs Nate from Indiana in Iowa
as in Iowa she is basically asking Jamie
Dimon like how can you justify lowering
capital requirements when we are you
know ten years out from a massive
meltdown in the financial sector largely
because banks like yours were over
leveraged further you have said in your
annual letter that your biggest issue is
with g-sib capital requirements what I'm
assuming you'd like those to be lower
correct they should be properly done
so not problem but you think the level
is too high or too low what are you
saying well it's too high because
America just gold-plated it and changed
a bunch of rules to make it harder so it
should be so and that would mean you
would want it to be lower so if those
were lower what would you use that
capital for I agree that companies
should invest grow their businesses and
their people customers products or that
is the number one pursue company
I don't like buying back stock I prefer
to invest when you can't use capital in
the short run excuses to have mention
though you said in your letter to
shareholders that you had excess capital
this is reclaiming my time for next year
you said your letter to shareholders
that you had excess capital and that's
why you're doing buybacks because you
had excess capital so you explained to
them that you were losing that excess
capital to put more money in the pockets
of shareholders it's a short run but as
we are growing and expanding the Florida
branch they're probably coming to Iowa
we're expanding small business lending
which brings us about every business we
have we are starting to use that capital
and over time I'm hoping with any excess
claiming my time it just doesn't sound
like you'll be investing that capital
and making more loans or investing in
your firm it sounds to me like you're
asking for lower capital requirements
which would increase the risk to the
economy and of course to our taxpayers
just so you can buy back more stock so I
briefly just like to say that you know
we've heard a lot from banks like yours
that we can just relax this regulation
or just that capital requirement because
we're all in better shape right now but
we're not talking just about one
regulation here we've talked about
capital levels today but I didn't even
mention now the banks have to prepare
their full resolution plans just once
every four years or the way our stress
tests have been weakened so it's not
just one area and I'd like to remind
everybody the purpose of this hearing is
to look back on the past ten years and I
hope that we don't see that happen again
I'm looking out for Iowans I love the
fact the guy he's like look you can't
hold me to the lies I've told my
shareholders or in other words you can't
a congresswoman you have no idea how
difficult my job is where I have to
pretend one thing to you when I'm
publicly bound when I'm bound by law
to publicly tell my shareholders you
know what's really going on
that's a tough I'm having a threaded
needle here and you don't seem to have
any appreciation for that I'm talking to
you not my shareholders I I would so
much love if he just got indignant was
like look I've got to be honest with my
shareholders so that makes it very
difficult for me to come here in front
of you you don't seem to appreciate any
of that you don't have any empathy and
incidentally you know what even though
you've been a total bench I would like
to say I think that you too one day
could become the CEO of a bank so there
oh i thought liberals were really
tolerant and says oh i i thought you
were interested in hearing my ideas
clearly making it against persons of
means but i mean this is this is the
what this is the big lie that we hear
about these first of all like he's
arguing that the capital he wants to
lower the capital requirements so that
the bank can invest more and buy invest
more what he means is loan more get more
money back on loans and or essentially
go out and i guess because we haven't
created a firewall between their
commercial and their financial services
invest in a bi derivatives and whatnot
leverage themselves more gamble more
essentially with the money that
supposedly creates the stability for the
institution and we have seen time and
time again when you give corporations
particularly in this environment more
money all they do is juice their stock
value by doing stock buybacks same thing
happened with the big tax repatriation
that was supposed to we was supposed to
create all sorts of new jobs we're gonna
lower their tax rates taking money from
overseas and they all just do stock
buybacks and why do they do that because
Jamie Dimon
it's fellow c-suite executives the Board
of Directors they all have big
compensation packages that are directly
a function of the value of the stock and
the reason why they do that too is
because they also when they get paid in
their own stock or any stock for that
matter their tax rates even lower
because it is subject to the capital
gains tax as opposed to the the wage tax
and so we've created this this perverse
incentive for them to juice their stock
values because it's really just their
side business that's the way they get
paid yep all signs point to us heading
for another crash it certainly doesn't
help that there were very few meaningful
restrictions and regulations imposed on
Wall Street after the last one the
silver lining is that maybe if it
happens under a president Bernie or
president Warren
they might actually nationalize the
banks or take other steps that they
would need to do in that situation
well the thing is I don't know that
anyone knows right now what the systemic
risks are I don't think you know we have
a a clear understanding of where that's
growing yet and it's it's growing
somewhere it's like you know it's like
in a dark closet there's like mushrooms
and fungus growing in the corner we just
don't know it yet don't quite have the
smell of that but inevitably inevitably
something's going to happen and the the
you know again it gets back to that
conversation I was having with these
finance guys the other night it's just
the regulation you can you can try and
do the regulation from a surgical level
but inevitably when you try and get that
nuanced industry comes in and blows your
ability to do that out of the water so
there has to be some broad-based like
you say
Jamie nationalize the banks maybe broad
legislation that puts up a firewall so
that you cannot stay in and this is what
you'll hear every time about the 21st
century glass-steagall Act it would not
have prevented the failure of the banks
and that is true
but what it would have done would have
sequestered the damage there's only so
much you can do about bubbles and
crashes oh yeah they're endemic to
capitalism but what you can do is create
firewalls like you know there's only so
much you can do about the fire risk in a
building but the idea is that we have
metal doors in big buildings that are
kept shut and that they're kept shut for
a specific reason so that there are you
are maintaining aggresses and you are
able to contain fires and that's the
whole point of a 21st century
glass-steagall is so that you are making
sure that if corporations want to go out
financial entities want to go out and
gamble till 3:00 in the morning they're
not doing it with the the kids college
savings where'd you pull that reference
from I don't know I have no idea where I
go is very evocative metaphor firewalls
anyway moving over on should we take
some phone calls did you dial into the
thing no Michael is not doubt into the
thing now I I will dial into the thing
now I think I can do some AIIMS
Oh Mike you know I got a bunch AIIMS
let's just do the ions one night
lemonade stand speaking to the Atlantic
Trump said he considered nominating
Ivanka for the president of World Bank
because she's very good with numbers
indeed it's like Trump says on a scale
of one to ten
about cos a 70 because she can be
counted on okay yep exactly
Mehta flight could you bring on Lee
Phillips to debunk eco austerity D
growth and why the obstacle to climate
change is markets and not economic
growth itself I just had Lee Phillips
interesting I've read a bit of him I
think he might be a good guest I I I
have some questions about it to be
honest though one of one thing I will
say I tangentially like is he actually
wrote a great piece in Jacobin about
that the sort of like liberal or
whatever talking point about air
conditioning specifically you know it'll
like turn off your air conditioning you
don't really need it and how like
actually especially when you globalize
it to like you know a place like Bombay
that's actually like an extraordinarily
classist an austerity based thing which
jeopardizes you know people's lives
primarily poor people who don't have the
choice to kind of like be a little
hotter or not but would you look into it
more PJ
here is a quote sandwich for you guys
Dave Rubin MLK would be a Republican
Michael Brooks Dave Rubin is a
Dave Rubin I'm insulted I will not
debate Sam Ben Shapiro facts don't care
about your feelings by the way Dave
recently told Ben Shapiro he's trying to
respect Shabbat more and more and more
he predicts in a few years he'll become
pro-life
Sam's tinder profile hey girl swipe
right and let's do a two-person class
action is it legal don't know bring a
judge wow this guy's this guy's bouncing
back Gregory from Oklahoma Sam I never
noticed all your arms and oz problems
when you speak I guess it's because I do
a lot too and was made fun of it for
when I was younger and I still do it
today the fact that you do ohms and oz
makes me feel better about myself
because I want to start my own YouTube
show and podcast well ah yep you've just
exposed the reason why I do it well
here's the thing though make fun of
Gregory make fun of Sam there you go I
will take your heat Gregory
water boat from Kashmir listening to
Michael's libertarian impressions I had
an epiphany if sam harris didn't have a
trust fund he would likely be one of
those libertarian logic lured callers
yes I swear I could hear Sam Harris in
one of those expressions and I would
like to think Michael slipped it in
there on purpose large Anthony from
Baltimore I remember that McDonald hot
coffee case part of the lawsuit was the
victim went through stipulated that she
could not publicly talk about the case
or its outcomes for an extended period
of time and remain silent which allowed
McDonald's to spin the narrative to be
about a supposed as litigious woman took
advantage of lawsuits to sue McDonald's
and they were definitely effective in
forming the average person's perception
of the case indeed and you know frankly
I'm not convinced that that dynamic is
not a technique that's used by I don't
know new attorney generals up and head
do you think the indictment does not
cover 2016 since it could also implicate
the Trump camp also always loved the
tort week shows Sam if you didn't strike
it big on your Rumspringa
check out herbs and rye 50% off all
steaks during happy hour maybe you can
swallow it this time I don't know I love
that I love Sarah Palin hey Sam I saw
you in Hazel I know I didn't know you
were rabbi oh okay that's a joke media
sucks so bad I need one of these people
to ask Republicans what exactly is the
humanitarian crisis when they say
there's a humanitarian crisis at the
border yeah of course
they mean a demographic crisis in our
country right right exactly they mean
our electoral prospects are jeopardized
by people who aren't white living here
the only humanitarian crisis at the
border is the one that they created what
just happened oh here we go smooth Court
movie recommendation I finally watched
HBO dockable fairness and it was very
good it's not just about Elizabeth
Holmes crazy person but gets into how
inept corporate governance can be the
original board included
George Shultz Jim Madison Henry
Kissinger who's shown not knowing how
his speakerphone works
Kissinger was easy agent Kissinger at
one point just says like this these
meetings were so boring they felt like
human rights violations and it turns out
famous lawyer David Boies like the other
thing that I apparently in a book about
Thera knows is that the reason why they
based in Arizona or where they I don't
know if they base there or they started
their work there was because of loose
regulatory regime in Arizona thank you
me the drug business policies business
policies sorry pro-business policies
secret identity politics two pieces of
reading for you folks first the ex Pope
wrote a 5500 words on how sexual
revolution of the 60s is responsible for
child abuse in the Catholic Church
straight bonkers there was no problems
in the Catholic Church until the 60s
came along like before the 60s there was
her nothing happened we were never a
medieval global sex trafficking ring
every time we were just doing a
Eucharist and and all of a sudden all
the hippies are come out and all of a
sudden they want to have a sex with her
boys when the old Pope Italian though
canceled had it was German and all the
way the oh right Oh rat singer okay
actually they're sick it's just because
of the music gypsies tramps and thieves
Jefferson everything made us get
attracted to one pill made me smaller
[Laughter]
hey mr crew called from Nebraska
tensions rise in Nebraska unicameral as
government or Ricketts and his goons
postpone Medicaid expansion another
eighteen months while adding unnecessary
restrictions to receive Medicaid after
the electric voted to expand Medicaid in
November it's unbelievable I mean what's
going on in the states in these
Republican states and just how how
willing they are to
to completely ignore referendums and
they don't seem to get terribly punished
for it I mean Snyder did this in
Michigan
insofar as the emergency manager rule
you know years ago and doesn't seem to
pay any type of price um well that's
part of the don't you that's also just
part of the problem of because I'm I
think a lot about Idaho because you know
Luke is still working on that and and
and you know because they're trying to
reverse the Medicaid expansion and this
is where the challenge of the fact that
you can totally get Republican base
voters to vote the right way on
something like that but not you know
punish the politicians that would ignore
their will yeah I mean I don't even know
what the solution is other than I don't
know I mean in that Medicaid expansion
it the Supreme Court managed to do tie
themselves into a pretzel to somehow
find that it was too coercive for heard
there were federal government to expand
Medicaid all right let's just turn back
into how Donald Trump is very excited
about Bill bars claims that his campaign
was spied on just like pointelle Pro I'm
just gonna be hoppin like a P Hoffman an
MLK like Abbie Hoffman it's like Huey
Newton in me the struggles real and here
is Trump basically announcing I hired
only the best person
yes I think what he said was absolutely
true there was absolutely spying into my
campaign I'll go a step further in my
opinion it was illegal spying
unprecedented spying and something that
should never be allowed to happen in our
country again and I think his answer was
actually a very accurate one and a lot
of people saw that a lot of people
understand many many people understand
the situation and want to be open to
that situation hard to believe it could
have happened but it did
there was spying in my campaign and his
answer was a very accurate one many
people many people and here is what guy
I'm just gonna say there's precedence
for campaign spying on other campaigns
no we're not giving it to if this is
illegal spying
if there was spine there's precedents
for spying I mean LBJ spied on Nixon
because Nixon was scuttling the
Vietnamese Peace Talks so it was
undermining the Paris peace talks right
with double-dealing by Henry Kissinger
and in this instance the spying that
took place on the campaign to the extent
that we're aware of it was a function of
campaign operatives or and in some
instances just people who were under
surveillance be joining the campaign
actually very similar to what happened
between LBJ and Nixon and I figure what
her name was but the dragon lady was the
back-channel to Vietnam like it's it's
Lima Shanghai ex-wife yeah yeah exactly
right Madame Chiang kai-shek's she's a
major figure in right-wing politics okay
but that was that's deep that's history
okay I'm saying it's unprecedented now I
was at an orgy with Roy Cohn and Madame
Chiang kai-shek once so I think I know
the history I'm saying it's
unprecedented in the present as far as
anybody knows it's unprecedented now not
in history so
and speaking of in-depth analysis of
this Ainsley Earhardt on Fox and Friends
weighs in with a really
question the presidential candidate is
being spied on shouldn't everyone be
concerned about that to find out why
that's happening to you yes we're
happening mechanisms of the federal
government destroy my sport opponent
unbelievable if the roles were reversed
if we found out that Hillary Clinton's
campaign was being spied on don't you
think everyone would be upset about that
it's such a double standard what's wrong
with just asking how this happened if
there is spying we want to know more
information about it period we knew it
took place and it yeah I can only
imagine how how upset they would be
about Hillary Clinton being spied on I
mean even understand you even care it's
the I have to say the the Attorney
General and the way that they are
playing this is very very effective now
right because we have moved on to
waiting for the Muller report and when
it does show up in a couple of days or
in a week or whenever it is it's going
to be heavily redacted and then the the
news story is going to move to this
ongoing investigation of how the
investigation the the investigation was
launched that I imagine will be heavily
redacted but the reactions will probably
create a narrative that Donald Trump
will be coasting on for months to come
and this is how it's going to go and so
ultimately you know we're back to where
we've been the entire time which is that
people need to mobilize against Donald
Trump and others and then vote him out
ultimately
Oh should we talk about uh Ilan Omar
yeah I was gonna say if you're concerned
about you know the prospect of
politicians being spied on generally
what about a mass incitement against one
of them who's facing unprecedented death
threats most likely from entirely made
up of people that watch your network
here is well here's an image of the New
York Post that really smears Ilan Omar I
mean this is and when what is it exactly
like some people did something it was
they're they're criticizing her for
that's what they're doing and as she
pointed out by the way she said that you
know in his iconic like call to arms and
it might be embarrassing but like I
think it was literally when George W
Bush went did the bullhorn thing and at
Ground Zero when he had like a 90%
approval rating it was taking us it's
like global wars he said those people
that knock down the buildings I'm
paraphrasing so Ilan tweeted out and was
like right like it's essentially the
same yeah that's the same formulation in
a way you don't want to give them added
respect it's very clear like there's two
I guess sub positions before it for what
she means by that one I think in what we
all think is that she's trying to
distance that community of Muslims that
she's talking to from terrorists the
whole beach is about exactly that's what
she's doing and the the very
transparently the transparent smear
suggestion is that she's expressing some
sort of sympathy or something up with
nice minimize yeah she's like being
flippant about it right ever like the
thing that's hilarious to me though is
if the New York Post is so offended by
this flippant retraumatization to New
Yorkers their answer to that is to show
New Yorkers a picture of it like that's
always been the the that's always been
the formula but of course it's
hypocritical what the the
interesting thing here to me is just how
relentlessly they have decided to go
after her and demonize her and how
easily they can go away and this is what
the problem was with the Democratic
Party and they didn't go through with it
essentially because most of the caucus I
think you know there was blowback within
the caucus but when you start to take
the right-wing frame and go after one of
your own
what happens is you give them the green
light they see a huge opening because
you have already positioned yourself
rhetorically in in such a manner that
it's gonna be hard for you to to defend
her and so here she is on on Colbert
show the other night basically you know
making it clear that she knows she's
being demonized because she's an
immigrant because she's Muslim because
she's a woman of color and she's not
gonna have it and so in in this process
I'm learning that everything is not as
simple as we might think we might want
to state it and as I've said to you know
my constituents to my colleagues when
you tell me that you are pained by
something that I say I will always
listen and I will acknowledge your pain
it's the same that I expect so when you
have people on Fox News that question
whether I am actually American or I put
America first
I expect my colleagues to also say
that's not okay like that they should
get on that and call that out a bucket
on the on the on the frame right or when
people call me a terrorist or when
people say you know that because I
I'm a Muslim and when immigrants I'm a
refugee that I can't have any loyalty to
our country I took an oath I took an
oath to uphold the Constitution I am as
American as everyone else is
and this kind of double standard really
is is quite you know offensive and it's
very much embedded in a lot of our
culture these days where you will have
people get come after minorities for
things that they say they might have
insinuate it but no one goes after
people like the folks on Fox and Friends
that particularly say those words not
about insinuation right they actually
said that I might not be an American my
loyalties might not be to this country
but I get called out they don't they get
to keep their show I would say that goes
as far as me too I was when I when I
heard that you had been you had said
that you believed that Stephen Miller is
a white nationalist and you've got a lot
of heat for that I thought I said that
have and I actually don't we make jokes
about that all the time on the show yeah
but I mean you get attacked okay because
of some of the history already have in
terms of being a cudgel in the area of
anti-semitism people accusations
regardless of your of your apology but
also I think because you're Muslim
because you're a woman because you're a
person of color you're given less
latitude than somebody like me I mean
congressman mark Pocan actually said
that but last year he called the Stephen
Miller white supremacist and no one has
better than I and you see this outrage
when I speak the truth everyone else's
truth is allowed but my truth can never
be and let me just add okay a you know
so
Omar's analogy with Pocan is far better
obviously then colbert saying like i
don't get called out cuz he's a comedian
he's a late-night comedian there should
be a higher standard in terms of what is
appropriate for you to say if you are a
public official if you're an elected
official you should be held to a higher
standard
a late night TV talk show host but the
the real analogy is that Pocan says this
and frankly I think they're both right
but they can't demonize a middle-aged
white guy he is away but yeah if not as
and they can't demonize a middle-aged
white guy in the way that they can
demonize a a woman of color a young
woman of color I mean it's like it
it is completely there's a reason for
this it's because their party is 90%
white and dominated by white males I
mean and so they feel much more
comfortable and the subsection of white
males and white people in this country
who are much more comfortable and
demonizing people of color black people
brown people women I mean that's just
Muslims I mean that is just that is just
the truth
there is there couldn't be more data on
this and that's just the reality and one
of the guys who's been out there
slamming Ilan Omar is Dan Crenshaw the
the guy who gained you know some measure
of of cultural authority because a
comedian on Saturday Night Live made fun
of him because of his eye patch and then
because the comedian apologized suddenly
Dan Crenshaw has been elevated to some
type of national figure and he was
leading the charge about slamming Ilan
Omar for saying some people did
something in New York and meanwhile
Daily News reports today that a retired
firefighter from New York City was
trying to introduce himself to Crenshaw
while lobbying members of Congress about
renewing the 9/11 victim compensation
fund
this is Earl is about three weeks ago
and there's a lot of people who are
suffering to this day from 9/11 a lot of
particularly first responders who were
down on the pile they called it and
broadly in that area and the air quality
was horrible
the Bush EPA did not want a report on
what was going on with the air because
they didn't want people to panic too
many of the first responders were down
there without masks and whatnot because
there was no official reason to believe
that it was dangerous and inhaled all
sorts of things like you know small
particulate asbestos and whatnot and are
suffering from cancers and respiratory
problems and so this firefighter Rob
Sarah who is wheelchair-bound may have
lost that may have been an injury may
have been a function he lost obviously a
bunch colleagues on September 11th you
can still there's plenty of fire houses
in New York City you can walk by and see
the memorials to people but this damn
crash I was so concerned about the idea
that she would say something happened
would buy some people blew off this
firefighter said he was too busy to talk
to him somebody in his office would get
back to him never heard back it's weird
Dan Crenshaw also if you search Dan
Crenshaw Facebook administrator
administrated a tea party Facebook group
that was really really racist with like
Corey Stewart and a few other like sort
of tea party Republicans and when asked
about he's like I don't even know how
this is news I barely went on that web
site I'm sure he just liked it he didn't
really engage with it but no I mean like
all Republicans Dan Crenshaw and many
Democrats you
he's more concerned he's interested in a
firefighter as a prop not as a person
that needs funding he doesn't care
of course this is what that kind of
respectability politics and politeness
policing always does is it distracts
from the real issue at hand and the
thing that people were talking about in
the first place and getting back to the
point of the Democratic Party needs to
circle the wagons around these you know
folks like Ilan Omar and an AOC and
Rasheeda to leave and all of the
particularly women and it should be the
case for all the the members of the
Democratic caucus but it just so happens
that the women obviously are in the
women of color are targeted more by the
right and the idea that you need to have
Democratic leaders who have political
cachet providing some cover and pushing
back and saying like look this is really
basic stuff premised buy money from
AIPAC they're never going to do that
here is Walid Shaheed he was on Chris
Hayes I guess last night basically
asking this question and this is an
important question that needs to be
continually asked and I'm glad to see it
being asked on the on MSNBC because
these Democratic leaders need to be held
to account as well they need to come out
come out whether it's in Congress or in
the the candidates those people who have
to need to dedicate some of that to
protecting their freshman caucus beef
with that and this this seems like a
just a bad faith out of context job yeah
I mean there's a 200 mile per hour
ideological right wing war machine
coming after L hon Omar it's also
Rasheeda Talib in Alexandria
de cortes my question is where is the
Democratic Party leadership on this you
didn't see that many comments today from
candidates running for president in 2020
you didn't see that many comments from
Nancy Pelosi or Steny Hoyer Chuck
Schumer for that matter instead what
we've seen is a pattern from a
Democratic Party leadership that tries
to distance themselves away from these
three women instead of seeing these
women as the rising leaders in the party
who they have to fight for when you are
faced with this war machine you've got
to fight back and you've got to defend
people in your party it's just last week
Nancy Pelosi said something like the we
know the women with the large amounts of
Twitter followers are not necessarily
representative of the Democratic Party
but I think we need a democratic party
that actually fights for Alexandra Casa
de cortes for Ilhan Omar for Rashida
talia against these attacks because they
can't keep running away from it and you
know make fun of them at a pack like
Schumer and Hoyer did or pile on the
attacks so I was actually pretty
saddened to see there weren't it was
just these women sticking up for each
other the three women who I've mentioned
thinking I gotta Pressley but not much
from the leadership that led to me is
like when you talk about the Democratic
leadership Democratic leadership doesn't
want a bunch of controversies in every
week right like from their perspective
it's like Ilyn all mark does not care
that they're coming after her clearly
she doesn't she's not going to be cowed
I think that's also true about Sandra
Ocasio Cortes is true where she has to
leave and the Democrat the sort of
posture in politic the Democratic
leadership is like we don't want to be
on Fox News every night and we don't
want to be fighting these defensive
fights well where it kind of been a
battle globally for like the fate of
multiracial liberal democracy so they
don't really have a choice like Ilhan
Omar represents multiracial liberal
democracy just like Alexandria does
Alexander Kasich Cortes does or rashida
tele that is the fight that we're
happening all over the world from
America to New Zealand and we really
have to the democratic party needs to be
the fight of multiracial the party of
multiracial liberalism the Conservatives
are going to war for conservatism
liberals should go to war for liberalism
you know to address Hayes's
characterization of of what is
motivating someone like Pelosi or higher
or Schumer a then
Fox News is focused on these three and
it is not for the sake of people who
watch Fox those people are never coming
around they are it does not matter what
they say what it matters is for all the
people in the middle of the Democratic
Party for the people in the constituents
in her district it matters because it's
basically also sending a message to the
rest of the Democratic caucus we will be
here for you we need you here for us
when we need certain votes or whatever
it is it is just you do it for the sake
of cohesion you do it for the sake of
saying you know we will protect you we
will defend you we will not go out there
and add fuel to the fire and it doesn't
even have to be as extensive of a
response in far as I'm concerned by by
by well lead I mean I think his point
was was correct but it can be as simple
as like look theoretically these are
your teammates and you don't have to go
out there and defend their ideology to
defend them from spurious attacks but we
know that that isn't you know I this is
where the AIPAC dimension and the
serious ideological differences in the
Democratic Party do show up because and
maybe even generational because I do
think like what's-his-face max Rose
who's very right-wing you know I think
Staten Island Democrat he did kind of
actually do that
not my guess because so yeah but but all
these other ones I mean I say and I
would say like I don't think Schumer and
a Hoyer and Pelosi just made fun of her
at AIPAC I would say that Schumer and
Hoyer were borderline and siding against
a pack and and Pelosi was not that far
but absolutely smearing and distorting
her and this is where the like Heim
Sobhan you know role and the just fact
that there are some serious massive
dysfunction and and and a really toxic
ideology inside the Democratic Party
it's not just a question of ducking yeah
it
there's a war going on right now within
the Democratic Party so these people of
the the policies and the Schumer's they
have not seen enough from the
progressive wing yet to know that this
is a more winning strategy than what
they've been doing they're not willing
to give up that money from donors and
the fealty from donors and also just
power within the party in exchange for
something that they see as vaguely
threatening and insane all right lastly
let's turn to the what's this House
hearing on on on climate change you have
a Republican Thomas Massie this happened
from two days ago John Kerry I guess was
testifying to the House on climate
change and Tom Massie a republic from
Kentucky I just please could be he's
questioning John Kerry how is it
possible that you got a Bachelor of Arts
in science political science here we go
secretary Kerry I want to read part of
your statement back to you instead of
convening a kangaroo court the president
might want to talk with the educated
adults he once trusted to fill his top
national security positions it sounds
like you're questioning the credentials
of president's advisors currently but I
don't think we should question your
credentials today isn't it true you have
a science degree from Yale what's that
Bachelor of Arts degree is it a
political science degree yes so how do
you get a rattler of Arts in a science
well it's liberal arts education and
degree it's a bachelor okay so it's not
really science so I think it's somewhat
appropriate that somebody with a pseudo
science degree is here pushing
pseudoscience in front of our committee
today
I want to ask you are you serious I mean
this is really let me race happening
here you know what it is it is serious
you're calling the president's cabinet a
kangaroo court is that serious I'm not
calling this kind by the Calgary Court
I'm calling this committee that is
putting together a kangaroo committee
what are you saying that he doesn't have
educated adults there I don't know who
it has yet because the secret well you
said it in your test why would he have
to have a secret analysis of climate
change I just think you know that's
pretty good
I love how John Kerry was just like am I
being put on here is this like it is
this a surprise it was a very effective
response from Kerry are you serious this
is something that's happening right
Harry Harry lets himself do he's
basically really is just like a good
patrician dickwad and instead of like
pretending to be like respectful of his
lessers he should just do more of like
seriously he would have won yeah really
is that a joke because this is son my
grandkids like Sasha Baron Cohen I'm
sorry I mean like the he also had the
advantage of it being completely
bat-crap crazy where a congressman was
like you've got pseudoscience right like
you're a you've got a Bachelor of Arts
but it's in science like how many
members of Congress are general in the
government have science degrees versus
say law degrees or do you think that any
the only thing that I can think in this
instance is that he knows what he's
saying is jibber gibberish but he also
knows that the the broad swaths of his
constituency and and the Republican
Party constituency looks upon the idea
of college and the idea of like just
saying the words Bachelor of Arts just
triggers their anti intellectualism and
their sense of like what an elitist oh
yeah it was part of that up that's
what I was gonna say like they have a
hatred of elites which is defined by
right-wing populism
academics experts and people who think
they're smarter than you I'm actually
I'm looking for it heat no I lost track
of this but no he sent out some type of
like that wasn't what I said sort of
tweet trying to find it
well I guess on Twitter you're backing
off it because you may have like a
different constituency on Twitter no I
do stuff like that all the time but I
feel like he would have done it a little
bit better that was I was not well
executed well you did not make fun of me
I made fun of you right has you you were
mocked sir I got I got burned you go
comes off like you owned a nerd yeah
exactly
you got burned and it doesn't matter if
Massie went to MIT himself or whatever
because he's directing the hatred at the
guy who comes off like someone who
thinks he's fanned on that exchange Oh
Mary Kerry came off like he owed a nerd
yes he has glasses and Kerry was like
what are you talking about yeah that's I
mean all that all that really shows you
is the type of staff that Massey has
working on his prep because it's like
how can we own the sir no he look at he
got a political science for you they
literally just went to his Wikipedia
page and look for something to dunk on
and then that's it he didn't deliver it
confident all right a couple items and
we'll get out of here Winnipeg Craig Sam
on last Friday's show someone sent in
and I am saying you could you would
collectively cover Canadian politics
more when we got another crack smoking
mayor it's like the listener is totally
unaware that Doug Ford the brother and
longtime political partner of the
crack-smoking now deceased former Mayor
Rob Ford is not the Premier of Ontario
but does he smoke crackers does his long
route to have been a drug dealer earlier
in life and involved in as many
ludicrous controversies as his brother
yeah but he didn't say does he get high
in his own supply yeah that way you
won't make any money Salvatore is M are
going to mention the European elections
are spent any time on the Socialists
spits in Ken
Frantz timmermans maybe JJ cool do you
guys have any thoughts on litigation and
progressive society the more complex
legal system is the more beneficial it
is to those who are able to take
advantage of the system I mean I think
the idea that the more complex any
system is the the more beneficial it is
to those who are better able to take
advantage of the system
I mean that's like I guess a tautology I
think in the context of the society we
live in now with the limitations that we
have with our regulatory state I think
that what happens with these lawyers is
super necessary there is a lower
standard for culpability in civil
litigation than in criminal and just the
talk we had yesterday with Bridey
Farrell who just was working on getting
New York state law to change the statute
of limitations for children who are
sexually assaulted the criminal statute
of limitations is I think was raised
until like age 36 the the civil is age
50 some-odd and so that makes a big
difference that makes a big difference
and so I think you need this type of
litigation to to basically provide one
more layer of of accountability and
deterrent for actions that can't meet a
criminal standard right because you have
a very high standard of of proof that is
necessary and of behavior for code to
criminally charge someone
criminally convict someone but and
there's many occasions where prosecutors
don't bring things against people
because they can't prove it beyond a
reasonable shot oh of doubt but there's
also things that happen where we can
prove that it happened just it's hard to
do it without doubt but that's what you
want as a standard for criminal trials
but you may not want that for for other
things and that's the value of having
this type of litigation in society
bronze plan if it weren't for you guys
I'd probably be a Sam Harris Bill Maher
supporter just like the rest of my
family so I want to thank you for that
love you all
for more disco stu disturbing to see all
this is getting dangerous takes about
GOP rhetoric around Alana Omar gettin
dangerous we've already forgotten the
guy attempted to assassinate numerous
dem six months ago or the coast guard
guy with the hit list maybe it's time
for the mainstream media to accept this
is what conservatives want DX fool hello
sis people that drug was risperdal right
which I took over twenty years as a
young adult for my OCD one of many that
failed to control my symptoms
I suppose if young transgender girls
took risperdal they would have been
happy with the side effects
speaking of trans people today's the day
trans members of the military have to
declare their gender some of them who
couldn't get a doctor's diagnosis of
gender dysphoria in time will either
have to stay closeted and suffer in
silence or resigned from the military at
least Chelsea Manning who's still behind
bars but Edward Snowden is not beat the
Trump deadline peaches Ram say next time
someone argues with you that capitalism
only creates the best services in
industries enlighten them to the
existence of a totally real business
called Garfield to eat it's apparently
an uber each clone with their own
delivery system in restaurants but the
only food they sell is lasagna and
Garfield shaped pizza glorious
capitalism and that's hilarious I
support that the final the final I am of
the day
in case you missed it there is no new
scientific evidence that glice of fate
is carcinogenic only social pressure to
consider it so I would disagree but I
dated a nerd see you Monday
[Music]
but I know some
[Music]
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
where the choice is made the option
[Music]
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
