calling from a 6-1 9 area code who's
this where he calling from six one nine
I just had a good sir good yeah yeah I
just had a quick question about about
your opinions on how the I'm sorry your
name's and where you bound for
delegation wait where you no good
it's Ricky Ricky Soto from San Diego
California another question about the
new congressional delegation and what
you guys thought about their responses
to different foreign policy uh you know
point of conversation yesterday I saw
that uh you know AOC talked to Jeremy
Corbyn but like after there was you know
some people on Twitter saying like oh
jeremy corbyn's an anti-semite we need
to talk about this like this isn't okay
and her comms team like responded to
Rabbi Shmuel II and a bunch of others
about you know having that dialogue and
I was wondering if you think they're
being to both sides II or if you guys
think this is just in playing politics I
think it's a message out there I think
we talked about this a little bit before
the show my personal feeling is you go
you say uh we will hear your what you're
saying because you've got to take you
have to take broadly speaking you have
to take people who are broadly to be
considered mainstream you have to take
their accusations seriously enough to to
to listen and so I think you know where
they go with that after that we'll we'll
we'll determine you know my assessment
of of what they're doing but let me put
this way it is and so some of what I'm
saying is conjecture right but it is
much smarter it seems to me and much
more irresponsible and much more
responsible and in a much better model
to for them to say oh okay we'll sit
down with you and we'll hear your
specific complaints and accusations and
you can show us evidence of what you're
talking about and
if that evidence is lacking which I
think my guess is it's going to be they
and they walk out of that meeting and
they go we just sat down
we just took time out of our schedule we
just met with the people we paid the
proper respects to individuals who have
a you know a right to raise these issues
and we found that there's no evidence to
substantiate their claims whatsoever
that to me is a far more successful
process than being on Twitter and going
we're not going to listen to any of that
I just want to run 90 percent with you I
just the only things that I'm a little
concerned about is I do think there's
some people and schmuely voltaic would
be a person that actually you don't
respond to you just don't give because
that really is somebody who's in the
absolute gutter so I'm not saying
anybody who it's like you know Michael
Jackson's right here's actual adviser I
thought Michael Jackson how to have a
healthy sex life obsession that said
that and then the other thing kosher sex
look it up and then the the other thing
I would say too is like dick ultimately
though it's it's a substantive conflict
because they're not going it's that the
answer that meaning is gonna be
determined by them coming out with a
clear answer and israel-palestine which
they don't have yet because it's like
yeah you can go and say you know look we
all know Jeremy Corbyn has said I think
the analogy I used was like he said it
though a bit worse but you could draw an
analogy with like some things Bernie
said several years ago weird which were
definitely not bigoted but you could say
oh that's a little tone deaf right so
that's definitely some of the things he
said about Jewish people in the UK but
an actual charge of actual anti-semitism
is baseless and the only way you can get
there is if you transfer it into your
critic of Israel
so ultimate and she's not wanted to and
I'm not I've been pretty easy on her
with this one but when she was running
and she was more of a TSA candidate she
was pretty unequivocal about what was
happening Israel Palestine and then
she's kind of begged off that a bit so
to me it's like that meeting is gonna be
ultimately Jeremy Corbyn is an
anti-semite because he wants democracy
in Israel Palestine what's your position
so you know that that to me is it's
gonna be more complicated than just you
know wacky people saying this or that
which by the way again Shmuel I bought a
ik really is so the other people I think
you're right I agree with you Sam that
take the meeting clear the air but
shmuly voltaic is like you know you
shouldn't be responding to the random I
get that of course and I appreciate the
phone call but you know the bottom line
is this and is that where we are on
Israel and Palestine is further away
from where we want to be than on most
issues and I think a lot of politicians
when we may like make the assessment
that I can expend X percentage of my
political strength on this one issue
which I will not be able to really have
any influence on long you know short
term or mid term or I can sort of like
hang back not necessarily say the wrong
things but not necessarily press the
right thing agree and there's been that
that that political catch it that's
that's by the fact that she won her race
like her switching of rhetoric was after
she won so she won a race know that I'm
Tory just the most yeah but the most
basic calculation you're talking about
his electoral she no no no I'm not
making an electoral is no why did you
not well because you need to go really
quickly other follow-up because you need
to little Allah Akbar and Rasheeda to
Lib and the coalition that she's a part
of have already staked out much further
ground on that so she doesn't need to
make it her primary issue but she
absolutely I'm talking as a general
principle as a general principle you
could apply this to Bernie - well I mean
you're sitting on further the difference
with them is I
I don't think expect legislatively if
you want to get things done in certain
ways there are constituents there there
are colleagues who are working who might
find might be harder to work with them
because of big donors and whatnot it's
just they're not there the the the party
broadly speaking is moving in the right
direction particularly from where it was
like five years ago six years ago I
think but this is something that people
are gonna have to be aware of that this
is a calculation that a politician makes
not just from an electoral perspective I
would imagine if you were to pull the
people who voted for her in the primary
and say you know how many of you are
voting is a first issue Israeli
Palestinian rights literally none and
versus you know Medicare for all right
like I mean literally none and so that's
what that ace is I'm just saying I'm
look we could I think it is actually
useful to parse I think when people get
pissed off for Bernie for not endorsing
BDS that is an unrealistic miss read of
the political environment even though of
course I disagree I support BDS but that
is quite different than saying there is
a crop of people of which you're a part
of which at the very least is
unequivocal about mass murder in Gaza
and isn't gonna take concern trolling
about Jeremy Corbyn so I I and I think
that's just again it's also just where
her basis that the ultimately you also
have to be with your base I also just
don't think there's a huge amount of
people out there who want her to expand
her political capital on protecting
Jeremy Corbyn on Twitter I don't know
about that it also some of the issues
with standpoint epistemology right when
a Jewish organization says it's
anti-semitic to criticize Israel and do
the things that Jeremy Corbyn has done
it just is where Jewish you have to take
our word for it you have to be able to
evaluate within a rational and objective
framework whether or not you think
that's true that's something that's
going to be used against the left over
and over again in a variety of contexts
that we need to be ready for the best
way to fight back
back on that it seems to me is to
essentially make it clear that you are
assessing the charges based upon not the
identities of those who are bringing
them but rather on the facts themselves
right and Jews are not a monolith like
no minority is right but you know to sit
down with them I think is this the
smartest thing to do
yeah that's I mean you know regardless
of you know I don't know if people are
as savvy about just so long as she isn't
there but yes I think it's important
he's not there I have a feeling he'll
get into any possible room he can if
she's showing it but I I dare Antigua if
she comes back and says I met with these
people I looked at the issue I do not
believe that Corbin is an anti-semite
the ADL is not going to be happy with
that
but it's not but she's not doing it for
the ADL at that point what she's doing
for is for everybody in between the ADL
and everywhere else she's doing it to
show that look I'm not rejecting the ADL
I'm going in and I sat down and I
listened to the facts and I encourage
other people to do that that appeals to
everybody who wants just someone to
react react rationally on the facts so
she's never gonna convince the ADL she's
never gonna convince schmuely bo tech
she's trying to convince everyone else
from them to you know the the the
left-of-center that she is taking a
clear-eyed view of this and is not being
knee-jerk that agree I agree with that
part of it I just think she needs to be
ready for what's gonna happen at the end
of that process well if she's not then
then then she lacks a certain savvy
which I was shy doesn't lack because I
love her
