we know some facts for sure and it
really is in some ways sort of legal
criminal legal machinations right Paul
manna for its going to jail now he may
end up getting pardoned at one point but
he's going to jail and he did have a
plea agreement we know that phone apart
and we do know that the Muller team is
gonna be filing a sort of almost a
shadow report if you will in the form of
an argument that manna fort broke the
plea agreement we know that something is
going on with Jerome Corsi that he is
somehow caught up in the Roger stone
track of the investigation in terms of
of reaching out to WikiLeaks and getting
stolen material from WikiLeaks it's not
like Roger stone is the Washington Post
right he can't he can't access this
information in the way that maybe the
Washington Post could because there a
clear journalistic out outlet Roger
stone was basically a campaign operative
but there's still another story that
came out in the Guardian this week that
is one of those things if true would be
earth-shattering
but that's a big if now the Guardian is
a fairly reputable newspaper I think
very reputable right I mean I this is
we're not reporting on something that's
on a blog that we should know better for
you know promoting fake news the
sourcing was a little bit thin there's
been broadly some skepticism because
many national security reporters knew
nothing of this and they they think that
they would have but the story basically
was that Paul Manafort visited Julian
Assange while Julian Assange was and is
holed up in the Ecuadorian Embassy in
the UK and starting in 2013 so this is a
relationship that predates Manta force
relationship with Donald Trump or at
least I should say as his campaign
manager and some have suggested that
well if that if this is true that
relationship would have probably
involved mana for its other clients who
were looking for the type of materials
that WikiLeaks often came into
possession of but that he had a meeting
with Julian Assange at the beginning of
March of 2016 which would have been a
very significant time there were no
records of him coming into the no
written records in the registry visiting
Assange supposedly there would be but
and but the story the story also
mentioned what mana fort was wearing one
day which to me suggests that there was
video but it's unclear who the source
was people don't think that it would
have been you know British intelligence
which certainly would be surveilling
that embassy it's all very opaque
quickly because we've got some other
things to go through but what's your
take on all this
well it's intriguing you know if it's
true and and it would suggest that this
is a no what they're calling a bridge
between mana fort and between the Trump
campaign at the very highest level and
WikiLeaks and a direct bridge you know I
mean this is definitely this is women
have no degrees of separation between
the campaign and the timing of course
March 2016 was when the hacking was
taking place when mana fort was just
coming onto the Trump campaign he was
talking to people like Oleg Deripaska
about how can we make ourselves whole
you know I mean there was a lot of stuff
swirling around there so I'm reserving
judgment just like you are you know I it
sounds like it may be too good to be
true but on the other hand you know
these are all really dumb people it's
like the the famous quote from all the
president's men you know despite all the
myth these aren't the brightest people
so who knows mhm
from what I gather the idea is that this
was probably came from Ecuador that this
came from the Ecuadorian government
which is in its own kind of situation
with Assange and that that's where the
dis is source was one of the by lines on
the story was located in Ecuador I don't
know though you know
we'll have to wait and see but if that's
true and I see one thing just two before
we leave this subject there may be many
strands I mean one thing we know about
the russia investigation is that russia
by this point from the press and from
what we know of the investigation the
russians were trying to penetrate the
trump campaign in a dozen different ways
they were meeting they were calling they
were dead george papadapolis they had
you know with this guy missed' we had
you know kiss lyac and flynn and you
know it was coming from and from all
over the place
so we don't know how much of that
actually happened we don't know which
ones were directed by the russian
government we don't know what was
successful and who knew and where it
went we don't know any of that well it's
not all of it so you know if it's Roger
stone it could be Roger stone it could
be man afford it could be rubbed Yunior
and gold stone and the meeting at Trump
Tower there are a number of different
strands to this Russian interference
story and and conspiracy with the with
the Trump campaign and we're just
starting to see the good news is is that
they're at least talking about collusion
again instead of concentrating the whole
time about obstruction of justice which
is part of it but it's really decide the
point because the real problem here is
that it may be that the President of the
United States knowingly conspired with a
foreign country to sabotage his rifles
campaign which makes Watergate look like
you know child's play by comparison okay
so heather with that aside let's take a
break here in a moment when we come back
we got a lot of things to talk about we
want to wrap up the the midterm
elections and also talk about what Nancy
Pelosi faces there was a caucus vote
this week we also have one member one
new member as of now and it appears
there's only going to be one of the
Democratic leadership not necessarily
the one that I wanted frankly we will
talk about that as well
and we'll give a little bit of a primer
on this Yemen vote that took place this
week where there was an attempt to stop
our involvement in Yemen
we're gonna take quick break when we
come back we'll have more with Digby
I'm Sam cedar this is ring a fire radio
