with Sita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in
[Applause]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it's Thursday July 25th 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a Michael Thursday
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report that's how we do the
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program
Fernando Tomas a Ponte scholar at the
strategy at the up a fellow at the
strategy scholar at the scholars
strategy network in a post doctoral
fellow at the University of Missouri st.
Louis we are talking about the uprising
in Puerto Rico the governor resigns but
what happens next
confronting the colonial order and
vulture capital as Puerto Rico
celebrates governor Rosello
resigns but what comes next
does the hunt aboard see an opportunity
to increase its squeeze on the Puerto
Rican people GOP blocks election
security bills within hours of Muller's
testimony theoretically theatrically
lackluster testimony but did mostly
confirm that Donald Trump was up to some
sketchiness three block blasts Rock
Coble killing more than a dozen
Trump vetoes a resolution that would
block US sales of weapons to Saudi
Arabia that's right in the same week
that he is lying and smearing L on Omar
about al Qaeda the president vetoed a
arms package to Saudi Arabia the Federal
Trade Commission has hit Facebook with a
five billion dollar settlement for
invasions of privacy some Democrats say
it is not enough Jeffrey Epstein found
injured in his cell was it a suicide
attempt or was it a attack Iran hits
hints at a ship swap as they have seized
in the UK a British tanker supposedly at
the behest of the United States Boris
Johnson is now the UK's prime minister
as clown fascism continues its march
across the globe all that and much much
more on today's majority report how's
everybody doing let's let's start with
some good news there was a resignation
yesterday and we're gonna get to our
guests in a couple of minutes obviously
and talk about the broader structure of
the uprising in Puerto Rico the colonial
structure and the relationships to the
hedge funds that dominate and terrorized
Puerto Rico maybe even also the climate
policies that the United States
accelerates that threatens Puerto Rico
and all of the Caribbean there anytime
you remove a leader like this this is an
also a moment of celebration opportunity
but also of enormous danger you know you
can remove a figurehead of a corrupt
system and unfortunately we see many
cases where not only does the system
replicate itself but it becomes in some
respects even worse that said this was
an incredible uprising of energy from
the Puerto Rican people
and Ricardo Roselli the governor who was
revealed in any number of ways because
of a leak telegram messages resigned
yesterday let's watch this resignation
continue our and yet opposition
represent tuna difficult at para que el
Ã©xito a cancel that during juego de
cuchara clamo
hablar con me familia pensar en mis
hijos
Jagr a co tomado la siguiente decision
so that's him and then let's go to the
streets with people celebrating this
incredible victory in San Juan you see
them watching them till they're watching
it on us on a screen outside
[Applause]
so there you have it we'll see what
comes next the real question is can the
next phases of this movement and push
take on again all of the other systems
of colonial structure in place in Puerto
Rico we wanted to just do this throwback
clip all right Donald Trump's conduct
and Puerto Rico has even for him been
standout disgusting and again that's
Donald Trump with standout disgusting
but this is also a good moment to also
reflect on this Governor Rosello who's
resigned he made a number of different
PR or photo-op appearances with Trump I
mean mayor Cruz is in this one too but
but this is Rossella was in there a lot
with Trump yes mayor Cruz definitely
represents as a Sanders surrogate in
some new support of the protests
definitely a very different political
profile governor let's just say it up
front um at the time after Maria the
death estimates were not clear but it
was a horrific Allah devastating event I
was envious in this past winter and you
can absolutely still see it so and now
the death toll is in the thousands so
Donald Trump where did we see the
official death toll before 2929 75 29 70
75 of people have died because of this
Donald Trump used and this is right in
the wake of the catastrophe to do an
idiot brag and a totally inaccurate one
about the death toll with governor
Rozelle oh and I should say I mean
governor Rozelle a part of these
telegram messages in addition to
revealing corruption networks in
addition to the relationship between the
government and this Control Board which
is implementing austerity on Puerto Rico
on behalf of hedge funders he also in
addition to any number of sexist
homophobic and so on comments made
dismissive belittling and a comments
basically about the victims of Hurricane
Maria and Martin parse correct me if I'm
wrong but didn't I see that they were
also like some machan
in those texts against mayor cruz and
tried to make cruz look worse and trump
look better
i'm not sure about for him that you
confirm that all right let's watch this
clip has been through a lot
Brock has been unbelievable your
governor has been who I didn't know I
heard things about him is not even from
my party and he started right at the
beginning appreciating what we did right
from the beginning this governor did not
play politics he didn't play it at all
he was saying it like it was and he was
giving us the highest grades so
congresswoman Jennifer Gonzalez cologne
who I've watched the other day and she
was saying such nice things about all of
the people that have worked so hard
I saw those comments and everybody saw
those comments and we really appreciate
it
I also want to thank Linda McMahon small
business she has done an incredible job
built a great company with her husband
Vince McMahon we want to thank you Linda
very much Mick Mulvaney is here right
there and Mick is a judge of a thing
called budget now I hate to tell you
Porto Rico but you thrown our budget a
little out of whack because we've spent
a lot of money on Puerto Rico and that's
fine we've saved a lot of lives if you
look at the it's fine
but if you look at a real catastrophe
like Katrina and you look at the
tremendous hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of people that died now what is
your what is your death count as of this
moment 17 16 people certified 16 people
versus in the thousands you can be very
proud of all of your people all of our
people working together as opposed to
into thousands as opposed to in the
thousands most of the money hasn't been
dispersed yet as Brendan pointed out and
also I'll just add the Puerto Rico has
the greatest but has greater poverty
rates than Mississippi as an example
which is the poorest state in the
country and the extractive relationship
the Jones Act means that
order Ricans essentially have to pay
import taxes on products they make
themselves
it's an incredibly obscene relationship
and we're gonna get to it with our
guests in a couple of minutes but we did
want to accelerate the resignation of
Governor Rosello and we will be right
back
with Fernando Torme Thomas a Ponte on
the majority majority report
[Music]
you
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Fernando tor most aponte he is at the
scholars strategy network in a post
doctoral fellow at the University of
Missouri st. Louis and he's from San
Juan Puerto Rico is a recent piece in
the Jacobin called Puerto Rico Rises
Fernando thanks so much for being here
thank you for having me so let's talk
first about what happened yesterday the
governor was forced to resign governor
Rosello
can you talk a little bit about who he
is and maybe also if you could connect
it at least to the the two main
political parties in Puerto Rico that
and and sort of how those parties work
what are their ideologies how does it
sort of differ I guess from what most
people sort of think of between sort of
center right or center left parties as
an example
certainly governor ricardo rosado or
should I say our previous governors
ricardo rosado is the son of Governor
Baylor of Rosario and ricardo rosado in
a in a way was was bred for this
position he was given an Ivy League
education he went to a private high
school in Puerto Rico and in an
exclusive sort of privileged
neighborhood he had kept a somewhat
public profile throughout his entire
life where he would always portray
himself as an erudite as someone who if
and when would take the reigns of what
doe Rico would have a plan for
everything because he was an
intellectual he had a PhD he had a
record of publications and of course
this was how he portrayed himself in the
campaign trail he ran for the
governorship through the party low-level
Protista which translates to new
Progressive Party of course a lot of
folks now criticize this name because
many say that there's nothing
progressive and nothing new about this
party
in fact under this party Porto Ricans
have been made to suffer through
austerity measures that have been
severely cutting social services such as
education and health care while the
pockets of folks who are in the inner
circle of people like the Contra Costa
yo have been lining up with government
contracts many of which are now under
investigation on the other side of
things is the popular Democratic Party
and this was the party under which we
saw the change of Puerto Rico status to
what we now have the estado libre de
asociado which translates to freely
associated state this name many have
criticized because of course what
protocol not free is not necessarily a
state and it's not really the
association with the United States is
something that is very much problematic
both parties have in the face of fiscal
crisis proposed the adoption of
austerity measures both parties have
faced corruption charges and what we saw
with the unrest is outrage and
indignation directed at both parties and
the political leadership in put the
vehicle more generally what are those
telegram messages reveal in the reports
and I know like a lot of you know stuff
that just made people look bad in terms
of how they spoke about political
opponents comments about gender and poor
people and so on all these kind of
disgusting comments but did these
messages also in addition to the more
sort of salacious stuff actually point
to bribery and corruption networks and
relationships with the promesa the
control board that's correct
this chat was the kind of x-ray that any
population would like to have of their
government to really reveal the inner
workings
of their top brass of their political
leadership beyond of course as you
mentioned these comments against their
own supporters and of course their
opponents and political dissidents it
showed the workings of the leadership of
ricardo rosado administration which
included sharing documents and doctoring
documents sharing documents with
lobbyists like alias sanchez who many
are calling for his arrest and
prosecution Illya Sanchez directed
Ricardo roses campaign in 26 that led to
his election in 2016 he was in this chat
in which there were confidential
documents discussed in fact some of
these documents were titled highly
confidential but of course Elia Sanchez
was had access to these documents and
thereby some of these clients benefited
from this kind of access not only that
and the chat reveals that at one point
one of Rogers top aides Christian
Cellino who comes from similar circles
in Puerto Rican society privileged
private school and that sort of a
privileged sector of the population
tells everyone that the fiscal Control
Board in which he was a government
representative of the ricardo rosado
administration had sent him prior to the
publication of a document they had sent
them this document for him to quickly
review he shares with everyone in this
chat and he says we're going to come
back to them and tell him that this is
inflammatory and we need to strike this
so apparently they send the document
back to folks in the fiscal Control
Board that was ushered in by the promesa
law and hours later it seems like from
reading the chat this document gets
published and they struck out the part
that the local government had objected
to so let's work backwards a little bit
this is kind of the state of play right
now he's been forced to resign there's
this incredible uprising and then maybe
at the end of the
conversation will loop back to what
might come next and how did this
momentum could continue in a positive
way hopefully not a negative one but
take us back at least a little bit to
the creation of this control board and
how that relates to a really important
legal decision in 2016 that sort of
solidified what I guess I would
certainly call it seems pretty obvious
to me colonial status for Puerto Rico
and how that relates to this control
board and the sort of broader systems of
power over Puerto Rico of which maybe
these politicians are almost like
subcontractors of definitely and let me
give you a broader historical context at
least what the RICO was held up by the
United States throughout the Cold War as
an example of how capitalism would
thrive in the developing world and how
capitalism could bring people up it
could bring them from poverty bring them
up from poverty and of course it was a
challenge to the Soviet Union which was
held in holding up
Guha as an example of development and in
order to be able to hold up with toriko
as a beacon of hope for using capitalist
policies to develop a country they had
to phase in a series of tax incentives
through the US tax code however
opposition began to grow against within
the United States against these tax
incentives within the tax code it was
known as the 936 section of the tax code
so the Clinton administration decided in
the mid-1990s that they would phase out
these tax incentives by the mid-2000s
these had effectively been phased out
and of course a lot of manufacturing
corporations that had headquartered or
had started to develop factories in the
island almost immediately left the
island some of course have stayed and
it's still an important sector in the
island but this caused a huge problem
for Puerto Ricans particularly an
economic problem a lot of Puerto Ricans
were employed
in these sectors not only that the
government had developed a lot of client
ballistic types of social spending among
other kinds of social spending that was
really the result of important labels
labor struggles in the island of Puerto
Rico so this occurs in a time of fiscal
crisis which of course coin sides with
the 2008 crisis the global financial
crisis so this becomes a perfect storm
for Puerto Rico on financial terms Porto
Rico by virtue of being a colony in the
United States does not have access to
bankruptcy as other places in the United
States do like for example Detroit which
had its own fiscal Control Board and had
access to bankruptcy in order to have
access to bankruptcy a bipartisan group
of legislators in the US Congress were
able to pass a bill that is known as
promesa which translates ironically to
promise what promise did is that promesa
would form an unelected board of
technocrats whose job was to balance the
books and to pay folks who were owed
money these included folks that had
pension funds that had invested in
Puerto Rico bonds
it included hedge funds that bought this
pennies of it out of $1 in bulk and
we're now demanding that they get paid
the entire dollar out of that debt which
they of course bought very cheap so
promesa are shirred in and in 2016 and
onward they begin to mandate and they
have the power to do so through promise
to act a series of austerity measures
this includes slashing the higher
education budget almost by half over a
series of years it includes reducing
dramatically government spending across
a subset of areas of spending and of
course this begins to lay bare the kind
of colonial grip that the United States
had over Puerto Rico it's important to
note that Porto Rico
prior to pom promesa it only really had
one last remaining form of autonomy and
it was fiscal autonomy Puerto Rico the
autonomy to create its own budget and
its lost that under promesa which can as
they've done already send the budget
back to legislators and the governor and
say sorry we don't agree with this cut
more and that's in fact what they've had
to do they've also had the power to
negotiate directly with folks who are
owed money and to develop negotiations
and agreements between them without any
sort of input from the Puerto Rican
population that stands to lose all these
social services so and actually can we
just take a really brief detour here
Bernie Sanders voted against promesa
is my understanding I believe tulsi
gabbard voted for it even though it
she's made a whole show of flying out
there and people that necessarily
receive her with open arms they do
remember that good good that is good to
know because that's that's that's some
hutzpah how do we know of other how did
others so Sanders voted against do we
know of how other presidential
candidates I just want to kind of note
that because that is a very important
vote this is a crushing vote for put
weakens because it really took away the
only form of autonomy that the island
still had of course the island was
already suffering from a democratic
deficit with very little representation
in the United States but this was passed
with bipartisan support overwhelming
bipartisan support and it's important to
note that even many Puerto Ricans in the
political leadership the traditional
political leadership that Puerto Ricans
are now rebelling against went to
Congress and practically begged for this
Chuck Schumer among others Pelosi
you know congressional leadership
so this is very much a bipartisan bill
and there was very much consensus the
folks like Sanders were the exception to
to this norm of course quote-unquote
saving Porto Rico from crisis and one
thing we hear very frequently in Puerto
Rico or about Puerto Rico is that in the
absence of Puerto Rico that's a Puerto
Rico were to become independent Republic
the denied the Puerto Rico would be in
crisis and of course folks in Puerto
Rico who are critical of that discourse
have said well we're currently in crisis
very much under the United States let's
go back to can we touch on the uprising
against military testing in Vieques and
use that as a bridge to what we saw in
the last week and maybe also a sense of
Puerto Rican politics outside of this
discredited political class what is the
what is the Left movement in Puerto Rico
what does grassroots politics look like
there and how does it connect to the
movement in Vegas and maybe even more
historically a very long term anti
colonial effort which even at times had
some collaboration with as an example of
Irish revolutionaries seeking their
independence a lot of really interesting
analogies between Ireland and Puerto
Rico but what does that I guess you know
we go in any direction you want but
specifically the left and movements
outside of conventional politics and the
thread at least to Vieques in the
military for a good amount of time the
largest sector of the Puerto Rican left
was the pro-independence sector a lot of
these folks were folks who objected to
having a relationship to the United
States out of anti imperialist ideals
who rejected u.s. foreign policy and who
have for a long time realized that the
United States had never really had a
benevolent sort of perspective or policy
towards Puerto Rico and that it was very
much of
Sode that it kept up as a way of
propping up but Rico as an example of
how capitalism would thrive in times in
which they viewed alternatives to that
as a threat such as for example Google
and the Caribbean as well the
pro-independence sector was very large
in the island but it also was heavily
repressed and there were reasons for why
it dwindled over time among other
reasons of course there was some
internal division it was also a
predominantly relatively privileged
Porto Rican male lead movement of a leap
and folks objected to that and over time
we've seen the political left very much
diversified we've seen the growth of a
strong LGBTQ rights and justice movement
we've seen the growth of feminist groups
that have had a lot of representation
internationally in the world conferences
on women we've seen group the growth of
anti-racist efforts for the rights and
justice for after war equals after Porto
Ricans which of course is something that
is often suppressed input to Rico this
notion that yes there is racial
diversity within Puerto Rico among other
sectors of the left so in Vieques what
we saw was we saw one of the biggest
mobilizations in our history and it was
of course an example for the world
because in this in this island folks
were able to coordinate they were able
to they were able to grow a strong
enough movement that kicked out the
military from the island of Vieques it's
an island municipality to the east coast
of the big island of Puerto Rico it's
important to note the Puerto Rico's
inertia PLO of islands that includes two
island municipalities which by the way
are some of the most marginalized
communities in the island and in da case
it started with fishermen it started
with folks kayaking like Tito kayak I
like to refer to him as the James Bond
of environmental activism because he'll
climb whatever tower he has to to bring
about some awareness about whatever
issues with the Ricans are currently
facing like he did when he climbed
a statue of liberty in a very powerful
image that said peace for vieques past
para Vieques in Vieques we saw
politicians coming in to the island and
doing civil disobedience people like
luis gutierrez and we saw civil rights
figures who came and got arrested as
well some even surf sentences in the
federal prison in the island and Vieques
was our last big moment when Puerto
Ricans exerted pressure on a powerful
target and managed to get a huge victory
and that's why a lot of folks have been
drawing parallels between the current
unrest and Vieques and that is because
what the freaking wanted folks to come
out in numbers in these protests against
legal oh Jose yo and they compared this
moment to jacket's and they said we need
to have marches that are as big as the a
case and a lot of estimates already say
that these marches were in fact bigger
than vehicles and there have been
there's there's a more than 1 March that
has had more than four to five hundred
thousand people which it's of course a
huge number considering that this is an
island that has lost a lot of people and
currently only has about 3.2 million
people so that's it that's a good amount
I know we'll know after the census how
much we have now but there's a mass
migration and in these times of
properity in these times of struggle
with under these austerity measures for
this amount of people to come out on the
streets and demand the resignation of
ricardo Rocio it was a very powerful
moment and surprising moment and also
one thing that we need to know about
these series of mobilizations is that
the kinds of mobilization that we saw in
Vieques took years and took a lot of
organizational planning and strength and
resources to be able to bring out that
amount of people to do civil
disobedience in Vieques to do advocacy
here in civil disobedience in DC and to
march in the kind of numbers that we saw
that same time we didn't necessarily see
that we didn't have that much that
amount of time this time around this
happened in two weeks almost or and
really organically
but it's important to remember all of
these groups that I mentioned that have
been coming up and developing within the
Puerto Rican labs there is a legacy of
struggle there was a major strike in
2010 against the Luis Fortuno new
Progressive Party austerity measures
that threatened public higher education
among other sectors they laid off more
than twenty thousand people so people
had already been reeling from these
austerity measures and they were upset
and new groups have been formed and so
these groups were able to really inject
some energy into these mobilizations
through many means it was surprising the
ways in which they did that very
creative folks used cultural work direct
action they used music and they called
on their celebrities in there and every
well-known Puerto Rican across the world
was called upon to say something and to
act and we saw a lot of Puerto Ricans
abroad answering that call so and that's
amazing and so positive what as we go to
what comes next and I think it's very
important to contextualize obviously
that the structure of the problem here
is a colonial relationship with the
United States the structural which is
exemplified now in this promesa board
which is ministering these this just
ruthless plan which if you have any
sense of World Bank IMF plans across the
globe or frankly I mean it's not as
extreme but if you are upset as an
example of what Paul Ryan was trying to
do with his political career which was
to you know gut the social safety net
and savagely increased poverty and
hunger and early death in the United
States to help redistribute even more
money to wealthy people I mean this is
you know it's the Ryan plan times 24
island that doesn't even have formal
political autonomy just to really
solidify that point and now now though
where do we go and I just want to put
two examples in mind kate ashraf has a
really good piece and the intercept that
came out either last night or this
morning saying that in this sort of
a period of this instability and
uncertainty the hunt aboard which is
what some people call promesa is seeing
an opportunity particularly in an in a
sort of very inexperienced leader that
will be taking the governor's place and
in and and then Juan Gonzales made this
point the other day I believe on
Democracy Now that plenty of examples
and Egypt was the example he used of you
have an incredible movement that removes
a toxic figurehead and then the system
just replicates itself so not to put a
dampener on it but what do you see is
the more kind of strategic possibility
here to actually reorient the situation
more broadly I think this is a very
opportune moment for broad social change
as all moments of political crises are
and it's important to note that over the
past two weeks when folks were out in
the streets they were only chanting
freaky synanceia ricardo rosado resigned
in fact one of the most popular chants
were leaking say nausea EJ Vidal ohonta
Ricky Seleucia and take the board with
you so there's a long list of targets
that folks are already if you are
monitoring social media or if you have
been listening to some of the Facebook
lives you have heard that folks are
already calling on the phone the person
who is expected to be the next governor
to resign they're calling on the leader
of the Senate to resign Tomas Rivera
chat they're calling on the president of
the lower chamber of the House
Johnny Mendez to resign folks know that
this is a problem that is systemic and
that solutions has to be crafted
accordingly and this is why today there
was a major March at the Puerto Rico
financial sector today there wasn't yeah
folks celebrated last night but it was a
short-lived celebration and I'm sure
there will be more seller
but nowadays Puerto Ricans are learning
that protests and further protests can
be a celebration as they showed last
night when they had a dance party in
front of the inn also had one close to
the governor's mansion and it was it was
it was billed as a as a militant dance
party and folks are happy they knew that
they would win the during the March the
major march that took place this week a
reporter interviews a man that came from
the municipality of huncles which is
quite a ways away from where the March
took place he's an older gentleman and
she asked but what happens if he doesn't
resign and he said very confidently
we'll take him out so we're living in a
moment where folks are pretty convinced
that things need to change we're living
in a moment where we're all surprised
because this is an island that has been
traditionally marked by a lot of
divisions and all of a sudden we were
seeing massive amounts of people which
we've never seen before out on the
streets people were talking they were
having conversations in public places I
think that we haven't seen in years and
I think that the agenda is clear there
is a solid political leadership that's
coming from the bottom up of groups like
la collective a feminist in construction
the environmentalist movement
environmental justice movement
specifically there's been folks coming
there's a coalition of folks that has
been formed to audit the debt because
Porto Ricans argue that this debt was
issued illegally and there by their
folks who need to pay their folks who
need to be investigated and any debt
that was issued illegally should not be
repaid one of the chance that had was
heard in on the ground was that's that's
not our debt and we're not going to pay
it so people know that like alluro say
yo was just a figurehead here and that
he was just the beginning of what could
be a cascade of series of political
changes that may take place in the
island
final question from the perspective of
solidarity in the in the States if you
as an example are engaging in the
Democratic primary I guess has any
candidate I mean we talked about the
Sanders exception on the permissive vote
has any candidate would you say has a
sort of particular to progressive forces
on the islands and if you were in a
position where as an example you're
engaging with one of these candidates or
campaigns what would be the most
concrete thing to push for in terms of
benefiting Puerto Rico and solidarity
with left forces on the island it's
important to to take note of the fact
that one of the things that work I was
contained in the chat was that at one
point the DNC had adopted a measure in
support of Puerto Rican statehood and
the Recaro said your party is a
pro-slavery party and in the chant one
of the things that they they mention is
that folks were criticizing Tom Perez
for supporting statehood for Puerto Rico
and that's when ricardo rosado said we
should put we should defend tom and he
referred to Melissa mark-viverito who is
political leader and New York as someone
who they should attack and of course use
a series of foul words to refer to her
she's a former president she's a former
head of the New York City Council
Melissa mark-viverito yeah exactly who
had been critical of the DNC's adoption
of a measure to support statehood this
is the moment where what we've seen one
of them one of the most common responses
in the United States from liberal
sectors to the crisis that is that what
articles are going through is this is an
outrage what the Ricans should have a
presidential vote and should have
statehood what those what that discourse
ignores is that
Porto Ricans do not want statehood yes
there's a number of Puerto Ricans who
want it but this is very much an issue
that is up for debate and if you ask me
what would a wise and responsive
candidate for office for president in
the United States do to support Porto
Ricans I think it would be to support a
deliberative process such as a
constitutional assembly whereby Puerto
Ricans could sit down and decide for
themselves how they want to attack these
problems how do they want to craft
solutions and more importantly perhaps
most importantly what would we go do
about the negative effects of its
current relationship with the United
States what will be the decolonizing
mechanism for Puerto Ricans and in my
opinion that is up to Porto Ricans to
decide not political leadership outside
of it so that may be a measure that
political came could endorse the
creation of a Constitutional Assembly
and there is in fact already a proposal
for that in the protocol legislature
excellent Fernando Thomas of Ponte at
the scholars strategy network and a
postdoctoral fellow at the University of
Missouri st. Louis I really appreciate
your time and thanks so much for doing
this thank you for having me take care
that was really helpful I've been saying
you know I I do think at the very bare
minimum least it's insane obviously that
Puerto Rico does not have a statehood
option but I've always said that the
decision obviously of Independence or
statehood is obviously a puerto rican
one there the colonial subjects and that
dynamic and something as simple and as
direct as a constitutional assembly
brilliant
uh folks become a member of the majority
ported a majority dot F M slash become a
member that's how this show happens and
that's how you get the fun half check
out fair trade coffee from just coffee
fair at a trade tea coffee or chocolate
I will say we're gonna be ending at
about 150 today on the fun half so it's
gonna be abbreviated normally we go
normally it's like 2:45 when I start on
the show we would end at 1:45 well
you'll notice the milah intro promises
50 minutes but it has never been no no
no it's never been 50 it's always been
at least an hour even when it was like
reasonable now it's just like at least
another hour and 45 minutes but any rate
we're gonna be giving we're gonna be
actually ending a little bit I would
actually say on time today just to let
everybody know um I think we streamed
for about mmm 8 hours yesterday seven at
seven and a half hours yeah I was doing
the calculations when I was walking home
yesterday that counting TM BS I had
streamed for 13 of the previous 27 hours
I needed to leave early and it wasn't
like I needed to go like do some very
boring paperwork kind of stuff and then
uh and then what was funny is I got I
got home at like like a little after
3:00 and I was totally exhausted and I
because you know yeah because we did TM
yes the night before us and had to get
in early and so I laid down and I I put
the I missed 90% of the intelligence
hearing but watching by the last like
the last 10% of the Moller intelligence
hearing just partially because I was so
tired I found just like hysterical
that's just like Muller just blowing up
no ya heard of the text core a little
too fast for me
that's especially like just thinking of
all the kitch it was just this game of
three different sides playing of like
where can we kick this into the not talk
about it in public Department that's
what's so frustrating about this story
to me yes and also so frustrating about
90% of things that are redacted are pure
politics and bureaucratic self looking
ice cream cones and really like what the
exception of like you know the designs
on a warhead that this stuff should be
publicly available in a democracy and or
unless it's you know an actual threat to
a human life or a literal sensitive
infrastructure this stuff and even means
and methods but like come on in the
contradiction between and I like I like
government investigations like this I
think some of them I mean some of them
are just massive cover-ups but others
are interesting you learn a lot of stuff
but the contradiction between this is
for getting the public behind and riled
up for an impeachment thing or whatever
right to get rise whatever this is for
this is it's presumably for some sort of
public Arian of something but there's so
much that can't be public that it what
is really the purpose of it right and
also I mean just the I'm sorry but like
there was always the the just
embarrassing you know SNL resistance
kitsch about Muller as compared to
Muller's record which is actually very
big problem from row rock WMD to massive
violations of civil liberties I mean I'm
sorry I know we're like the lefties that
have to see like I'm sorry but I don't
think spying on Muslims in a completely
indiscriminate way is okay promoting the
Patriot Act but sorry actually kind of a
problem and I didn't think you know I
didn't expect much from those hearings
but it but the the tonal distinction of
the just like embarrassing Kitsch of
like let's get De Niro to play him and
know their well of him just being like
you know honestly what you'd expect I
mean it was a little disarming cuz he
really did come off as quite old and
that was sort of a thing but like even
if he was more kind of like on the ball
and didn't ask for repeats all the time
which clearly at a certain point was a
tactic to eat up some time in my opinion
but it's like what no he's not gonna sit
there and give you a West Wing model
exactly I can and recommend but let me
tell you something we
save the Republic I mean look I I don't
I'm not too concerned with the sort of
resistance of reaction of it but the one
thing that does do is it made the
Democrats so deferential to him in those
moments when he like well that is the
resistance of I mean I'm making fun of
the schlock but there is a that is
manifested in a endless massage of how
amazing he is combined with I won't even
use the word impeachment to objectively
like reaffirm what you're saying in the
comic and the Escobar's exchange well
and that's why the Democrats should have
had a tone of like of how the
Republicans had like you are either
going to or you're going to build trust
with us or we're gonna expose you as a
political operative here Brit not not
necessarily a partisan one but one
protecting yourself with you know by
playing both sides to every single you
know call you could make here which is
how this whole thing is played out
anyway already right and that
Republicans are going to continue to
push their own narrative through this
and it's on the Democrats to make it
look like this is a legitimate operation
get nothing done as a result of it and
you don't you don't you don't force your
narrative by you know thanking him for
his Vietnam service over and over again
but no you do no let's look at the end
of the day it's it it's a its political
and what we meet and released what I
mean by that diet is like Pelosi begs to
differ this is about American principles
and stuff yeah well you know that's
what's great is that if it was really
about politics which it is you would
just stop like you'd stop all the my new
show of like when you called so and so
you could just say like hey the Al Green
option this guy's nuts and he's a racist
by the way you're gonna tie them up with
a proceeding before we go any further I
also want to say and I know if this is
true but this is from the from the
Facebook from the YouTube chat but
Kennedy who moderates the YouTube page
for us we have an outside moderate yeah
she she well this happened this happened
because somebody was Doc seeing a phone
number of a guest we had
it was you know that sort of spambot
thing so Kennedy who also does I think
at EMB the TPMS one as well she's
decided ya know III realize I've been
outsourcing all this there but a happy
birthday Kennedy can we get like a
shofar yesterday can happy birthday
[Music]
happy birthday Kennedy thank you for
your service folks check out T MBS
Michael Brooks show on YouTube become a
patron today we are gonna hit I think a
2500 this month that's our next goal
we're about 13 away you get a just truly
abundant amount of extra content and
content that last because its history
focused durable but also extremely
entertaining patreon.com slash t MBS on
tuesday crystal ball was on we had an
amazing conversation about MSNBC media
bias against Bernie
Joshua con gave us and another amazing
tactics for organizing lesson join today
Matt what's going on yeah literary
hangover the most recent episode the on
Rutger Brickman's utopia for realists is
oh no turmoil because Rekha has endorsed
Andrew Yang's ubi plan although it would
be cool if Andrew yang actually called
him and he liked yang was like playing
obviously now would actually be a good
time new to us totally screw over luck I
mean a lot of I got a few messages from
people on Twitter saying this completely
destroys my episode but I will say if
you listen to it I think my criticisms
of Rutger Bregman were on the political
side of things which is also where it is
with yang so it's not a huge surprise
that that this is I mean it's very
unfortunate I this is why I've grown a
mustache I've been going into hiding
coming up by james fenimore cooper's the
pioneers which is a very interesting
novel there's really it's an interesting
novel in that there's really no other
way to read it besides a sort of Marxist
there's like sort of enclosure stuff
like just very explicit it's a it's
bizarre how sort of it's it's almost
like it's like and it's
way before marks 2 is 17 18 21 anyway so
that's coming up also the speaking of
extra content there's gonna be some Matt
twitch stuff going on soon and video
games streaming probably on YouTube so
the people on literary inge over patreon
page will get the first bite at that so
check that out that will be in the next
like a couple minutes all right folks
we'll see in the phone app Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cuz you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube he's up
there buggy whippin like he's boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
to upset you nervous yeah maybe you
should rethink your defense of that you
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you alright but dude dude dude
dude dude dude you want to smoke this
joint yes oh yeah now listen to me two
three four five times eight four seven
nine oh six five oh one four five seven
eight 56:27
1/2
five eight three point nine billion Wow
he's the ultimate math nerd don't you
see why don't you get a real job instead
of spewing vitriolic hatred you're left
with one bomb everybody's taking their
dumb juice and hoping that more moves to
my repertoire all I have is the dip in
the swirl fine we can double dip yes
this is a perfect moment no wait what'd
you make under a million dollars come
here not bad use me you you
can't a quick break I want to take a
moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there take whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses
hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to rise
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
welcome to the fun half a square on that
I am Mike you guys get the best sources
your guests clear great Lisa your guests
summarize the last 15 days and what's
next clearly and accurately yes that was
a great guest and thank you um Mormon
apocalypse I don't know if I can read
all of this as it's hot as it oh but
let's start with the Thomas Sankara
quote a soldier without any political or
ideological training is a potential
criminal right that's a very good quote
and Thomas Walker was a military man in
fact for those that don't know
incredibly important revolutionary
leader look up Thomas Sankara look up my
shows at Milton al-ahmadi just finished
listening to your feet of both hearings
I think it's clear to me that pole that
molars does not care about who he is or
isn't is or isn't the president I don't
think he really cares whether or not the
president has come in to crime I really
think the only thing he cares about is
that Russian adversaries interfered in
our election process in 2016 and we
aren't doing anything to prevent it from
happening again you know what it would
have been a fair point interesting
question on that front from a Democrat
would have been you know I mean to blame
Republicans for Christ's sake right like
this isn't about Trump right I mean
that's right
I mean look
there's so many parts of this and part
look I'm with you know I'm with Sam in
terms and I think anybody with common
sense that like obviously I don't want
foreign countries but I also don't want
oligarchs and I also don't want
corporation like the Koch brothers are
an infinitely bigger danger of the
United States than Russia right you know
all of the companies that control this
country's political process are an
infinitely bigger danger to United
States and Russian interference I should
be specific about that the arms race is
a as a separate enough issue or the
respective Arsenal's but okay but then
one part of that is just the reality
even if you want to discount the morals
the reality that the United States does
the same thing more aggressively or with
equal aggression and in a wider scale
across the globe because we're still the
most powerful country in the world right
so I have no interest in answering US
imperialism with Russian or Chinese
imperialism that's not my point at all
but the reality is is that as long as
we're playing that game we're playing
that game and it's gonna happen and you
know moral hectoring is gonna make no
difference that's the structural part
the smaller part is in fact yes this is
another huge strategic miscalculation it
might work well it works in the worst
ways because then you can launder the
reputation of the intelligence services
and people and you know horrific hacks
like David Fromm and Bill Kristol but if
you make it about Russia you you help
feed the national security state and war
mongers which MSNBC and elite Democrats
and all that do all the time because
many of them are in fact the same thing
you don't deal with the structural issue
of as an example you know what maybe we
all need to sit down together and come
up with a Geneva Protocol for the 21st
century that deals with how are we going
to do drones how are we gonna deal with
hacking how are we gonna deal with you
know companies in the tech sector which
which move fluidly in between government
military and the private sector
what are we actually gonna do is there
uh norms for tech warfare in the 21st
century right like that would be on a
policy level if you wanted to and and
nobody has any interest in doing that
right I mean I remember I think in one
term Congress Rokon introduced
legislation basically saying like
absolutely don't interfere and the CIA
should be following the same protocols
we demand overseas not many co-sponsors
so then the the smaller point is don't
make it about Russia make it about
Republicans and don't just make it about
Trump see they just did it's Russia
Trump Russia Trump Russia Trump well
they could have done is lead with the
reverse which is these people are so
Craven they won't even do a basic
election integrity security package
because they don't care because in fact
if we go to the broad terrain of civil
rights and voting rights we know that
they're anti-democratic we know that
they win on suppressing the vote and in
fact let's peel it out another layer
this is connected with the ethnic
cleansing concentration camps and
immigration policies that these people
are pushing make it about Republicans
make it about oligarchs make it about
democracy not Russia Russia Russia and
again I'm not one of these people look
Russia can fit into that narrative if
you have an actual thing about Russia
that fits into that narrative that's
fine I'm not somebody who's like oh my
god never criticize Russia there are
misunderstood and blah blah blah and if
you say anything or have any conflicts
we'll have a new war no but if you turn
it into some type of like dumb TV show
about Russia and in fact fuel Russia
phobia and just rank paranoia and
irrationality you will not get the
bigger picture and I think that that's
very astutely observed that somebody
like Muller as a basically a member of
the just sort of national security state
apparatus and I may add a Republican I
mean look it seemed to me reading
between the lines he doesn't like Trump
and maybe think something should be done
about him but yes he's way more
interested in the adversarial
a ship with Russia and that was the
wrong frame strategically and on an
international level to to frame this
this argument it just you know just
doesn't pay dividends you're calling
from a seven six o arian code who are
you worried calling from hi this is Amy
hi Amy what's on your minds and oh well
I'm calling from San Diego California
didn't letting you know oh thank you
I should have asked you that thanks for
being ahead of me what's what's on your
minds so on Twitter I've been seeing a
lot of people talking about the BBS
Senate oh not about House Rules House of
Representatives yeah
and and I've seen that Elsie and tell
eat not to eat omar voted no then I saw
that so we voted no Democrats yeah and
some voted yes I'm just a little
confused like I don't know what to think
about it well I think to be honest with
you it's and I actually had an exchange
but Roe kana about it on Twitter it's
particularly a problem and I'll talk to
him more and again it doesn't subtract I
think it's very important it does not
subtract Rokon is doing incredibly
important work on Iran yeah Brazil
Lula's you know freeing him as a
political prisoner North Korea and
actually I'll be having him on my show
pretty soon but yeah so I want to make
it I want to make a distinction
I honor Presley has been great as a
member of Congress in terms of her
leadership in terms of talking about
border issues in terms of the clarity
that she's brought to bear with various
members of the Trump cabinet um there's
nothing that I know about her and in
fact of course you know look
unfortunately she was on the wrong side
of 2016 she backed Hillary Clinton so
this is somebody who doesn't necessarily
have you know is look I support her I'm
glad she won him glad she's there she's
like project for the left she's a
project for the left is exactly how it
see it this is somebody who there's
gonna be a lot of persuasion work
and I saw her Twitter thread justifying
her vote and I just want to quote from
Jewish voices of peace Boston because
what she's doing Ayane is she's
basically she I under press Lee tweeted
this when I heard what I heard
resounding in community was that voting
YES on the solution affirmed to my
constituents raised in the Jewish faith
Israel's right to exist a view I share
as a supporter of the two-state solution
Jewish voices for peace Boston said this
the Jewish people are not a monolith we
are Jewish
we are your constituents we stand in
support with the Palestinians we asked
you to oppose hash hashtag HR 246 you
voted for it
Ayana Presley please don't use the
Jewish voice Jewish faith as an excuse
for your vote and I have to say you know
Roe kana it's just completely look this
bill is not an affirmation
it's a anti BDS bill it's a bill that
disincentivizes and in fact most
importantly if you're a member of
Congress in some respects threatens the
free speech and free expression of
people who want to do politics and one
of the great ironies in the IDW era is
that bills on a state level that relate
to Israel boycotts are actually some of
the only areas where there is literal
government infringement on free speech
right yeah and there and so I don't know
what their motives are I think in
Presley's case this is someone that I
want to see a lot more of her work
frankly on foreign policy and I and I
don't trust all of her political
instincts and in some ways that means
you know there's a bigger project there
for the left as matt says and i would
totally look this is also an incredibly
important and super promising leader
doing some really good stuff so use it
as an opportunity not to trash somebody
and roe Kaunas case i'd say exactly the
same thing but in both of their cases
the justifications are look when people
start saying you know feely stuff about
identity politics which is what that
comment is
and then John Lewis voted with us which
is a human shield vote and then that
people have told me that it actually
won't be bad that many people are saying
a lot of people are saying it actually
went in for a John the First Amendment
it's a bad unjustifiable vote and it
empowers reactionary forces I actually
have to say aoc who has not always
impressed me on foreign policy massive
props to her I went and actually made
sure to shoot her
ten bucks after she voted the right way
on that and Rashidah to live in Olano
Mar and it shouldn't be this way because
this should not be an identity politics
issue but you know I think it's also
undeniable because they have certain you
know different backgrounds I mean where
she just Palestinian you finally have
Palestinian in Congress being like yeah
we're actually human beings we're not
just here to get white phosphorus poured
on us and have Netanyahu make horrific
scare videos about us we shouldn't live
under an apartheid we really need to do
a new version of home improvement with
Thole gun to live would be great like
well it turns out we're actually
human - no that's you're gonna that's
the wrong wrench so look I mean my short
answer is it's a terrible vote and some
really otherwise you know good people
voted the wrong way on it and you can
push them politely and they will have no
justification and I will say you know in
in Roe Kaunas case he spoken in a very
moving and I think sincere way again he
does a lot of really great work on
foreign policy was totally brave on the
Venezuela vote but he talks about you
know having a family with serious a you
know I believe his grandfather was
imprisoned as part of the Indian
liberation struggle I don't understand
how you have that political trajectory
and not understand the vital role of
non-violent boycott divestment and
sanctions to end apartheid in the Middle
East especially when you know and so and
also now you know anytime somebody just
sort of it's one thing to support the
two-state solution that in my view is a
valid perspective people who talk about
the peace process are hustling you a
peace process was barely real to begin
with and it's been dead for dead
gates and the fact that this vote took
place and literally a day that the
Israelis were demolishing and ethnically
cleansing people across East Jerusalem
the the problem of the liberal 1990s
rhetoric on this apartheid issue is done
so it's a wrong vote and the focus now
should be Ilan has a free speech
affirming vote on this and ROH Khanna
and Ayana Presley and anybody who has I
mean look anybody who cares about the
First Amendment but let's just be real
here anybody would progressive
credentials needs to be on the right way
on that but let's say let's start
pressuring Katey Porter on this too cuz
she likes to get a lot of a sort of like
squad margin right press so she needs to
start being better on this - yeah likes
to be the reasonable squad and also
always just keep a marker out that these
BDS votes and things like trying to draw
up concert like asides and wedges
between Democrats is going to be Israel
and it's happening with Democratic
sponsors and things - using these
center-right Republicans as like the bad
guy cover so always be aware of that as
well
it I mean the whole BDS thing ended the
women's March right like with Windows
amazing yeah the largest protest against
Trump right no I I think yes and I just
think like look we need to be real about
this is anti-semitism one of the most
powerful ugly malignant forces in the
world that in fact is resurrecting
itself in a very powerful way right now
absolutely a hundred percent is Israel
not only a structurally human rights
violating ethnos state it is a precursor
Israel is the first alt-right state of
this iteration there's a reason that
Netanyahu is joined at the hip with
Trump and balsan ro & Modi there's a
reason that the Israeli politicians have
been building connections with
historically fascist parties in Europe
you cannot pretend that this country is
anything other than it is period
it's just not tenable in fact and dr.
Cornel West says we have a Frankenstein
is an office yes yes absolutely so
that's what I would say and and as I
said they don't have any John Lewis
you know trash identity politics and
I've actually heard from other lawyers
does not an argument make thank you so
much for the call Amy appreciate it
thank you Michael
bye-bye you're calling from a 478 area
code who are you where calling from
afternoon Mike Jeff in Georgia
your phone's cutting out again buddy I
can't hear you too well oh hey oh now
you're that yep what's on your mind
torture monkey love it in the far
southwest looking for distress in the
far southwest corner to state not too
far southwest I guess southern rural
Georgia not too much money in that
County or in the city less than two
thousand people is there a Mexican
national died there yesterday at the
very large ice facility the Stewart a
million ruined there you say that that
facility holds about as many people is
live in the whole town lucky you can
believe that he was picked up a couple
months ago for the incredibly serious
and hated crime public drunkenness and
of course that that was very serious
because he was on a probation violation
from 2014 long time ago five years being
on probation I think for disorderly
conduct that seems excessive to me but
in any case he's dead now cuz on that
and I just want to make the point
literally that not to be too cute about
it but I've been drunk in public
hundreds of times like this would never
happen to me and there's one reason for
that it's my white skin what's happening
in this country is is a systemic because
ramping up of ethnic cleansing and it's
happening in my backyard so I just
always argue I wish I have larger
conclusions about what to think or do
about any of this but uh I really don't
I mean you're seeing it when people we
played that video of people um forming
the Union human chain you we talk about
it
we raise it we demands that as an
example I mean look the four different
Congress people who have actually shown
leadership on this I mean we're doing
and people are doing all the things that
you can do and it's extremely
unsatisfying because there's one thing
you know and I'm sorry I forgot to
mention this facility like most
facilities of this type is run by a
private company mm-hmm there are two big
ones this one's of course civic core
solution yeah and it it does remind me
that you know one thing we could do is a
to take a profit element out of this
human misery that might help ameliorate
the situation a little bit maybe we
could try a little thing called social
is no no well I've heard about you say a
little bit I don't know you've ever
heard of this thing called Michaels uh
I'm a big fan I'm more I'm into a fromel
ISM Islamic feminism thanks to the Karl
Jeff appreciate it thank you for
highlighting that we got to keep I mean
part of what's also just so depressing
is you just simply need to just tell
those stories you're calling from a five
100 area code who are you where you
calling from
you know what's ominous like I'm good
man
fresh off of your dramatically short
bout with Jesse Lee Peterson James well
I believe in Mukesh Cole James caste
yeah um if I could just get a little bit
of time on this call Mike I appreciate
it man you know now we thought of Jaime
about Magic City right yes
no your club you know thinking about I
was like you know I don't know if she
could really enjoy because you know
let's say let's say the DJ is like this
triple star coming up they like hey yo
what's the hot girl some of y'all's he
like I feel like nobody is really
concerned about climate change you know
I'm saying like I don't know if I could
really enjoy it well I think you have to
test it out she's not here to take a
shot that somebody's not here oh I mean
that happens on this show I think it's
okay if it happens sometimes too it's
not no malice any negative romero is no
malice that's funny I could I could see
scenarios like that what else do you got
on your mind and secondly I just gotta
say Sam cedar took all my women huh you
know I'm saying you got all my women
all right I hear that he was definitely
if Sam was six foot six tall this would
be a much scarier job yes it's like the
rage of an imminent Saul Saul rose and
the height of LeBron what do you have
when you combine middle-aged Jewish
powerlessness an actual physical
intimidation
[Laughter]
so basically man um I don't know if
you'll play the video today on the show
or at all cuz but I wanted to tell you
Michael before I say anything you know
when I spoke you in January you knew
this was how it was gonna be when I get
into these guys show
or in their presence man I'm not going
to pretend like I respect these people
I'm not going to debate I'm not going to
have intellectual squabbles because
they're disingenuous actors right you
know um at the same time you know I
probably should have waited a little bit
before I started roasting them I was
gonna say if you want a little
constructive feedback just going a
little cooler next time so that you can
get the payoff
I'm calling the sad little pile of
secrets you can get that in about the 8
minute mark yeah so next time you know
if anybody if any of these free speech
warriors got the courage to bring me on
I will definitely you know be a little
bit more civil you know but one of the
main things that I did not get to yes I
was going to ask him about well one of
the main reasons like I really don't
respect this what's going on is because
remember I told you that white
supremacist and eugenicist doctor
him
white supremacy and you Janice John
Tenten well he was doing in his
astroturf thing first of all Judy
Pearson start with the Heritage
Foundation you notice then and I don't I
don't know I got I don't know who John
Hanson is I don't actually know who this
guy is at all or what his politics are
rich white dude
wife's of white supremacist so he died
like I are he died he was head of that
yeah yeah he died last week he was the
guy who started that fa ir
anti-immigration organization okay now
before before um you know saying before
he started you know what I was gonna
tell him Michael when he if he was going
to cut me off I was gonna be like why
won't you let me talk you Magn you back
you bad when you get your sorry Heritage
Foundation I got dirt on you talking
yeah locked and loaded but I couldn't
say oh you know off with you quick going
a little cool but yeah yeah definitely
so basically Jesse used to start with
the Heritage Foundation and then
eventually he moved into this
organization called be ala which John 10
like I said he
you know that FA our fa ir group it's
one of those like black anti-immigrant
front groups on it but the key thing is
that there is another organization it
was called P it's called psi arm and
that's like I'm saying
progressive you know brick rich for
black folks but yes is that this woman
lead to rent that on Jesse B Peterson's
board for ba la but also sits on it was
sat on this PFI our board which Eva
Carnell also Don and Eva Cornell is one
of those reparations affiliates so
is this group anti-immigrant said no no
reparations and this and that right and
then you got water proof that's like no
we want Pro reparations and things like
that I mean I mean which is it Jesse is
it is it like it all sense it's like
it's like every two organizations
anybody's white supremacist and my thing
is is like that Atos man I'm
obviously for reparations but what
they're doing having a white supremacist
help you astroturf your group likely at
Durant who said on both boards who wrote
for um be dare you know what I'm saying
like for like wow okay got it
I would really read I would really read
everybody should whether or not you
agree with the conclusion of the
argument everybody should read Adolph
Reid's critique of reparations because
it shows you how it is subject to that
type of maneuvering that you're talking
about if it isn't I mean the
counter-argument for someone like Bill
Fletcher jr. is done in the right way
I read opposes them for a variety of
interesting reason but it's important to
have like a strategic understanding
around them and it shows up in exactly
the type of slimy connections you're
talking about but we got a run man
because we have to enter early today but
look we'll see you in Atlanta Michael
ma'am let's appreciate it Gatto News
Network ghetto news network check it out
get it
that was hilariously Petersen was not
having that let's bet that I literally
went I was in the bathroom for 45
seconds
at most no because you wouldn't know it
was a minute 49 seconds long at 49
seconds but that explains a bit of the
Annelle that explains a bit of the
nationalistic exclusionary part of a TOS
that I've noticed a little bit there's
also a good critique on the black agenda
report I'm forgetting the author's Len
Ford I mean I read Glenn I know that
that's he's I believes the editor of
that website cultural culturally rich
and Richard Marxist culturally Richard
Marxism really enjoyed your eight-hour
chatter tube the last night gang Matt
and Jamie yawning at their phones and
Sam picking food out of his teeth candid
stuff hey views don't lie yeah exactly
Jay tingle happy birthday to hell's
Duchess that must be is that Kennedy is
that Kennedy hell's Duchess oh I don't
know that's not what she goes by on the
green corn rebellion Greg from
Oklahoma in the green corn Rebellion
show last week
I pulled the Sam cedar and interviewed
one of my best friends on the show but
instead of it being an awkward hour like
Sam's recent interview of jante without
H John Benjamin it was about ten minutes
and not awkward at all everyone should
please go watch my interview with my
friend Caitlin fine on my youtube
channel she's doing amazing things I'm
really proud of her and what she's been
doing very nice that sounds like Sam
could learn a few things from you about
how to conduct relationship I caught it
yeah yeah it's gonna say I caught a a
green berry how did you okay plug the
podcast Green Corn rebellion show it's a
it's a YouTube show
Gregory's working on a burglary from
Oklahoma Oklahoma yep
we've Alan said young M our
correspondent we've got a little mo our
satellites all across the country now
damn our system that's exactly what it
is it's it's it's absolutely a farm
system no we don't really have to do
much about yeah it's gonna say hey guys
farm system except we're totally lazy
Bernie Sanders absolutely reminded
everybody why he's bringing something
totally different to the
ASAT the NWA CCP Convention it is both
shocking and obscene that we still don't
have national health insurance for every
human being in this country it's frankly
obscene and utterly nuts and the
unnecessary you don't have full health
insurance for every single person in the
world but this kind of mission this
clarity this purpose of communication
combined with over 40 years of
consistency to back it up even when
these ideas were marginalized that's
what Bernie Sanders brings and here he
is bringing it at Detroit at the
n-double-a-cp
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
he's a hundred percent right and it's
very interesting this dynamic because
you know the press war against him is
significantly increased it's always been
there but we saw that that you know that
mini Roca that totally disgusting vapid
segment on MSNBC we see the relentless
marginalization in Politico and it's
obvious that in a lot of these people's
cases it's literally their own class
position as well as their own attitudes
and elitism and that's an incredible
juxtaposition right because the more
numbers that we get from the Bernie
Sanders base is that and we've always
known the rap that he isn't a broadly
appealing candidate is basically a lie
and basically a hype cooked up by the
disingenuous attacks from the Clinton
campaign 2016
but what's stunning is that you can have
this fake pseudo woke 'no some people
with a corporate one-percent agenda on
economics endlessly demonizing this guy
on TV in a way that they can get away
with with no other primary candidate no
other main candidate at the same time
they are constantly directly and uh by
default and omission d legitimizing
destroying and in fact in this case
literally erasing a broad-based
coalition of people across backgrounds
who are dealing with the ruthless and
relentless material deprivation of this
society and responding to Bernie Sanders
because not only does he have the most
full complete diagnosis and response of
the crisis that America is in but also
because he has an unparalleled record of
commitment to back it up so that bias
against him will only increase and it
will only reveal the disgusting narrow
sets of self-interest against him but it
you know it's it's quite revealing in
terms of like this
that is actually forming um and the
clarity of the message and how it speaks
to people's actual real lives Joe Biden
has been having a rocky time the whole
point of Joe Biden I've always said I
think Joe Biden was somebody who was
always gonna be formidable I never
doubted it for a minute and some of the
things that people don't like about Joe
Biden frankly are not things that are
going to be translatable to wider
audiences
it's extremely important I think because
I don't look on one hand yes some of the
stuff is not ideological of course it's
temperament its style its people the way
they respond to people conversely I'm
quite confident that if Bernie Sanders
was traveling across the country with
the same presentation and the same
person saying we need to get serious
about writing and entitlements he would
not be the most popular politician in
the country so let's not be delusional
and oversell that argument it is a
fusion of both and actually in the best
cases you have a seamlessness between
your public brand and how you
communicate and what you represent
ideologically that is a very significant
advantage that Bernie Sanders has
there's a seamlessness from his life
story his total commitment even when it
was marginalized and in the Reagan and
Clinton eras to Bush eras and even most
the Obama era and then the fact that you
know he has the plans in the agenda in
Joe Biden's case there was a lot of
people I would say who actually still
think that this guy that the
middle-class brand is what properly
represents him and that because he
served with President Obama and because
he can point to certain very not bold
areas but narrow areas of liberal votes
and initiatives that he's someone who is
instinctually and stylistically I'm on
the side of middle working-class people
Bernie needs to get on stage with Biden
and say to him what is the middle class
what are you talking about
who are these people did the middle
class need you to make bankruptcy
impossible did the middle class in the
places that you constantly represent
benefit from every single trade
agreement you've pushed for your whole
career that's the area where I actually
I will believe and I don't hold this
against voters at all this is our job
and politicians jobs but I think that
just as if you polled a lot of people on
Republican and proposals and it's a
disturbing thing that you get in focus
groups you can do a focus group and some
people will literally not believe that
Republicans are proposing what they're
proposing because they don't think
anybody could be that much of an
so I am in a more mild way I bet that
there's plenty of people who would say I
mean Joe Biden he he rides Amtrak he in
2016 by the way gave some very smart and
it was strategic but he gives him very
smart and even laudatory talks briefly
about Bernie when he went to the Rose
Garden said he wasn't running for
president he said if he was running for
president and it was totally
contradictory because he talked to all
the Obama bipartisanship stuff but on
the other hand he actually talked about
stagnating incomes labor and wages
that's actually what he centered so I
think that there's plenty of people who
might not know the full and complete
details of what this man has done for
the credit card industry for trade
agreements and that's when the rubber
meets the road that's when there's a
seamlessness
of presentation ideology and there's a
lot of room and Sanders should be
hitting him hard on that and Warren
should be hitting him hard on them I
think that this has happened to an
extent with civil rights and the fact
that the man himself generated a whole
conversation about his 1970s anti-civil
rights record by relentlessly bragging
about his tight friendships with some of
the worst people in American history I
have a sense that if you do the same
thing on credit cards on on trade the
response that he has will be as not
compelling as this this is Joe Biden at
the n-double-a-cp saying I could have
been that bad this is
not a continuation of Broxson in our
administration what it is is there's new
problems there's new problems we face
today they were different than the ones
we faced at the time but the fact of the
matter is he's a close friend I'm very
proud to have served with him and I
might add if he thought it was good
enough for me on they did a significant
background check on me for months with
ten people I think my I doubt what he
would have picked me if there's
accusations about my being wrong on
civil rights was correct well first of
all you know of course the reality is is
that even then the politics of how race
was represented in the Democratic
primary was completely different and
there was no doubt that tactically part
of the pick of Joe Biden was to soothe
certain parts of the white electorate so
his pick might actually be proving a
very different point and as he said
himself we're in a different time now I
might want to cool it on that argument
Joe I want to clone that argument all
right since we're not we're not going to
be able to get to any more calls I
apologize last call of the day you're
calling from a 907 area code who are you
where you're calling from hey Michael no
I'm surprised about I guess the real
dropped off today I see I figured I
talked about this mayor since more the
year so not more the trunk and the
spacious kind of brought it up yeah that
was very very surprising that you know
some sanity kind of thought out this
issue he definitely was not supposed to
say it out loud even if more he said
this door but most likely you know drums
being clomp but it actually this one
opposes bizarre moments where Crump saw
something and actually are the positive
effect and I see helps people because
remember we show everything happen and
the court shouldn't never happen it kind
of confirmed like oh my god they did it
right and they're farming or
intelligence knows right
well this is kind of what happened here
where we're quite sure that the movie
wants to work with the milanka
because the northen kind of said during
India's election like for some bizarre
is that means like maybe if you know
Modi gets it like that I can I think we
can come to an agreement and if Congress
was in power we couldn't because my arms
like thumbs for Asian of like partisans
really no Trump except a greedy from
what we understand I see yeah it's a
long story short different yeah oh yeah
but I'm seeing the kind of self-absorbed
in a way but I had a weird positive
effect in the sense that all the just
new groups and leaders there like it
kind of seated upon it and they're like
oh yeah we totally support this like the
people you know having that have like
high cotton elections for the past
thirty years to people that were in
power but Congress so yeah it was
hilarious it was a very weird moment
Trump just starts going off in the
middle of this press conference of like
yeah we can do Kashmir and I'll be the
negotiator and it would be great this is
like one of the most intractable
conflicts in the world that you know
it's both the you know Indian foreign
policy India's domestic treatment of
Muslims the occupation as well as it's a
staging ground for Pacha's the nexus
between Pakistani intelligence and
military and its support for terrorist
groups and terrorist atrocities there
has been mass killing of civilians by
Indian forces I mean this is and it's
something obviously that you're talking
about two nuclear powered countries I
mean this is something I'll be covering
a lot more in the coming months but it's
it was you know it wasn't it's weird way
hilarious to watch Trump be like yeah
I'll take care of Kashmir I'm happy to
do it to great people great places and
Imran Khan the former cricket star he's
kind of sitting there he's trying to get
his points into I agree with you a
little like like if you do this this
would be tremendous
and Trump's just like tremendous yeah
tremendous just just these two
artists kind of going on although I
wouldn't for all my critiques of Imran
Khan I would not put him in the Trump
category though there's also another one
of some Twitter negging between them a
year ago led to this summit I don't know
in some ways this kind of trading I
don't know if this is actually terribly
different from a longer term
dysfunctional relationship between the
United States and Pakistan but we'll see
I think you hit the nail on the amur
there but the dysfunctional relationship
but what I was trying to compare the two
was like the bullshitter II that they
kind of used to kind of promote
themselves that's I mean Iran is very
different from Trump but in this case
you know when they're both populist
different kinds of populist but yeah
anyway this would take my poem remember
guys keep all calm fascists and regular
masses in mind because that's how we
move forward so when you point them up
so thank you much
I guess have a nice day Thanks thank you
sorry folks no more calls read a few
more Iams and do a few videos apologies
we just have to end earlier today but I
mean my god guys what do you want from
us
Matt's been streaming for 13 hours bull
prod I can't tell how many people
conflate the Russian narrative beyond
Putin in the oligarchs to Russia as a
nation whether from the liberal
resistance angle or the progressive
anti-nationalist xenophobic angle I mean
I look all I could tell you is I mean
it's quite clear how it is in public
discourse its conspiratorial it's
ridiculous and it also just is not
effective I mean things Darwin is
wondering if I could pass a message to
Matt which is it looks like you have
some dirt on your upper lip I love Matt
just as we're yeah there you go Matt
does not care to have the camera on you
and that is not impressed I do not care
I think it looks pretty good
I didn't know you could do that
I can't nor did I oh really you didn't
know you could do that I mean I I've
approached it but never really actually
shaved a mustache I mean I mainly think
it's kind of funny to be honest my dad
my mom has never seen my dad without a
moustache
get out that's crazy beer brains did you
all hear yesterday is the daily they
were talking about Trump
oh is this bear brains yeah bear brains
made the shirt that I wore to the beach
oh I got a order of my own so a bear
brains is a artist before we get to as I
am let's see if I can find it I'll put
this up I went to the beach in bare
branches recovery mode t-shirt Brenda
Robert Moses State Park and bare brains
made this shirt cover emo of a brain in
a hammock with a high level ideas book
discarded on the sand and it was a great
shirt so I'll go to Instagram trying to
find the go to Instagram I didn't get
mind that if podcasting never works out
or doesn't work out you could just model
man oh yeah what is it it's hot the book
says high level idea ajl and the brain
and the braid has shades odd all right
I'm sorry
that we had--we just we really do need
to play this because I just think it's
very important let's play two more
pieces of sound oh sorry did you all
hear the yesterday's daily they were
talking about Trump's polling and
heavily white swing states basically
saying we can end up with another upside
sigh up side siren election we're a
popular vote is even more democratic but
Trump is still strong in Wisconsin going
hard for the white vote and that seems
an uphill battle overall but the
clearest vote path is the white vote in
the Rust Belt not so subtly saying
Biden's the best bet to get there so
look it's on it's not debatable that you
need to win the
Rust Belt states and again this is
another obvious argument for Bernie
Sanders how do you pull those votes
there is absolutely an economically
populous path to those votes there is
that's there that's sherrod Brown
winning a significant reelection margin
a couple of months ago right that is
there and again another irony that you
will see in the media more on Bernie of
the next several months is that you will
see people who on one hand will be out
on Twitter or whatever in some cases
with the most ludicrous
you know scolding dumb reductionist woek
takes imaginable and then they'll also
flip and back Joe Biden because they
don't want an actual serious policy set
so I I think that yes that's a big
danger that is how Trump wins
re-election I doubt I have I have mere
certainty who lose the popular vote
again I think that's almost definite the
guy is not popular we have an antiquated
system that obviously we should get rid
of in the electoral college and that
means that you have a certain path if
you go to Wisconsin and Pennsylvania to
beat Trump you have to have a convincing
compelling economic alternative and by
the way again once again not just for
white voters also the black voters who
stayed home there's a much bigger pool
of voters there that needs to be got and
that's another slam-dunk case for Bernie
Sanders and question mark around Biden
and definitely question marks across the
field the specifics of the Rust Belt
path is a clear case for why Bernie
Sanders is not only right but the smart
choice this is important this is in
Kansas so we talked earlier and new
reports come out of these facilities
every day people sleeping on bathroom
floors not being allowed to take a
shower for weeks not getting medicine we
know people are dying in custody this is
a world scale assault on human beings
it's a foundational violation of rights
it's a foundational war on those who are
already some of the most vulnerable
people in the world it's barbarous it's
evil it's fascistic and any corporation
any person certainly any governmental
body complicit in this needs to be
defeated and more broadly held
accountable we need to expose these
things we need human change we need to
to have solidarity and this is also how
far ice will go this is footage from
kansas city of ice agents smashing a
window to get an undocumented woman they
claim that they have a paperless warrant
she has two children in the car and
she's on her way to a therapy
appointment with a seven-month-old this
is the face this I will use this
language this is evil the person who did
this is totally devoid of humanity you
have disgusting thugs on an authority
trip and you do see that the evil of the
crowd in Germany you saw it see it in
Brazil today you see it in Italy today
you see in the United States today so
let's watch it because we need to bear
witness to this
he can't break my window what do you
just you guys just can't break floor Joe
so these thugs these thugs who have no
humanity right there
I mean maybe look I don't want as
everybody is a trace humanity that maybe
can be reached but in that moment these
are faceless you know these are
stormtroopers these are agents of evil
these are agents of inhumanity and again
we know clearly we battle Trump we
battle the Republicans we need to
abolish and dismantle ice we need to
demilitarize the border we need to it we
can stand of course again I'll say this
a million times you still have a border
you just make it a non militarized non
criminal process period you
decriminalize the act of crossing the
border nobody should be in detention for
weeks
for jaywalking and then whether it is
the Democratic Party leadership whether
it's nerd bag pundits on television or
the internet who in any way attempt to
minimize just exactly what that is
they're complicit agents and we don't
even need to go to oh what will that
develop into which it will it will grow
and metastasize but that doesn't even
that's secondary you're complicit now
there's children dying now this could by
the way stay in too
perpetuity and we could still having
relatively quote-unquote normal cut you
know we can do our show people who are
you know have our documented people all
you know go about do their business
whatever and this could still and this
can be ongoing and that would be you
being complicit in a form of fascism and
barbarism and murder right now what's
this man this is a brand-new video by
three arrows which is a really good
YouTube account that does a lot of
Crowder and Sargon sort of debunking and
he did when how societies turn cruel
featuring sarcoma cod where Sargon
basically goes off on a OC for calling
them concentration camps three arrows
does an amazing harrowing comparison
between the concentration camps in
Germany and what's going on here
basically like he does this hypothetical
where it's like what if this basically
about raising the alarm in a similar way
AOC is you can find parallels going on
in Germany and those concentration camps
if I'm not mistaken pre-existed the Nazi
Party Nazi Party taking power so like
even like it's not like there's a lot it
it's terrifying parallels so check that
out if you want to sure up your
arguments when it comes to the fact that
these are concentration camps absolutely
alright let's play one last piece of
sound than a few AIIMS what got you guys
want to do this Tucker thing last ok
this is Tucker Carlson with Josh Hawley
Josh Hawley is a senator from Missouri I
believe he was somebody who used his own
son's medical condition in a campaign ad
to say that he would never vote to
undermine people with pre-existing
conditions then of course supported
repealing the ACA though I do think this
clip is important because I think the
standard liberal response to this is not
gonna do the job we needed to do but
let's we will note the obvious hypocrisy
of this but there needs to be a bigger
strategy let's watch Tucker Carlson and
Senator Holly what's so interesting is
the left is suddenly in the position of
defending the
prerogatives of the ruling class I mean
here you are a Republican taking up for
the interests of people who you know
make 40 grand a year and your vocals are
saying you know those people deserve no
attention and stop criticizing George
Soros because he can't be criticized is
that weird do you think yeah oh I mean
it's it's totally weird but listen I
mean the Liberals are increasingly the
party of the elites I mean they are the
party of the ruling class and that's the
point and that's what they don't want to
admit they are the ruling class and they
have been for decades they control the
commanding heights in this country the
media the big multinational corporations
our universities I mean they have
effectively run the country the Liberals
have for decades now and they're consist
there's one thing the elites hate its
tax cuts this has given us what we have
today I mean they're the ones who are
responsible for jobs offshoring they're
the ones who are responsible for wages
flat for the plight and struggle of
working Americans you know working
Americans ordinary Americans in places
like where I grew up in rural Missouri
they just want somebody to speak for
them and to be constantly told that
they're bigots and they're racists and
their lives don't matter and their views
that they're tired of that well you
clearly are did very quickly did it ever
occur to you to sort of put your head
down I mean they basically hit you right
in the face rhetorically the second you
gave that speech
you don't seem intimidated did did you
ever pause and think ah it's not work
that I'm going to stop talking like this
oh no because I knew as soon as they
were hitting me that we had hit the
nerve and that we're on the right track
I mean I knew incident what we said was
right and I'm more determined than ever
to speak up for the people who don't
have a voice who have been ignored by
the elite for too long and who by the
way are the backbone of this country in
men so nicely put good for you Godspeed
the charlatan man that's the word is
definitely charlatan but let's work it
backwards because look there's the
obvious stuff that everybody's gonna
jump to here which is okay who's
actually been in charge of the country
for decades look if you want to redefine
the word liberal and use it in its
classical sense maybe okay sure it's
been oleg arks who represent one percent
agenda exporting jobs slashing social
days safety nets redistributing income
to the top and also pursuing incredibly
progress
aggressive and racialized criminal
justice policies and in fact all of the
dynamics they're talking about always
hit the peripheries first whether that's
primarily white people in Appalachia or
primarily people of color in inner
cities as an example and so and we also
know how Holly votes he doesn't he's
never said I opposed the tax cuts he
doesn't have a bill to break up Silicon
Valley monopolies he doesn't have a bill
to implement a financial transaction tax
on Wall Street or a wealth tax or
anything like that we know all of this
and this is actually a very interesting
juxtaposition because Tucker Carlson is
a media personality can have more room
to occasionally deviate on actual policy
issues to feed this brand as a
politician when at the end of the day
you're a Republican so you're funded by
an incredibly narrow set of elite
financial interests there's a lot less
room for the substance of pretend
populism and of course I will say even
the controversy was stoked up because
the word he used cosmopolitanism which
some people think codes for
anti-semitism I like the word
cosmopolitanism actually and I like the
the connections with solidarity I will
say this this though is something that
needs to be dealt with on the merits and
and substantively right so it's like the
reality is is that if you define most
people that think still would
conventionally defined quote/unquote
liberal as just democratic leaders well
that's true
no one's a bigger free trader than
Barack Obama or Bill Clinton all
politicians from both parties have
absolutely implemented a pro wall street
Pro with Silicon Valley agenda 100%
that's absolutely true and as long as
you have the politicians whether they be
Joe Biden or Christian Gillibrand or you
know whoever else who cloud the
difference on those core issues that is
gonna allow charlatans like this to
cloud the issues as well
the smaller cultural point is
interesting because I see it's so
obvious when you say these people are
the backbone of America that is white
supremacy Allah ticks that is a dog
whistle to white identity politics and
that is the lifeblood of the Republican
Party and
and Donald Trump and Tucker Carlson all
of it that's undeniable period and that
can run on a spectrum from you know I
don't even get when I'm doing racism I'm
so uncultured into it but I respond to
those cues to Stephen Miller right I
have no doubt Stephen Miller knows
exactly what he's doing okay and and and
all these other groups and party
officials at the same time when I see a
Twitter thread from a Democrat I won't
go into specifics saying like rural
Americans should shut up and stop
whining because they have it lucky cuz
of like some graph on where gun where
tax dollars go relatively speaking
trash moral intellectual and political
trash and this is another area where if
you're denying the racialization of that
rhetoric you're denying the reality of
America that's first and foremost but
secondarily if you don't think that
there is a broad-based discourse that
concentrates in elite circles and elite
circles that obviously transcend
partisan lines that has a disdain and a
disrespect and a contempt for working
people of all kinds then you're
delusional you're wrong and it so
happens right now that in a certain part
of center-right democratic neoliberal
discourse they have their own version of
the undeserving and deserving poor and
it's flipped and so now the deserving
poor is white people and working-class
people and people from certain parts of
the country that they have disdain and
contempt for and you know what that's a
big problem that's a big moral and
political problem and it's strategically
self-defeating and it opens the room for
these people to make critiques like that
and I can already hear some people
objecting and freaking out and if you're
not able to understand that I've just
said 100% that this is also an appeal to
white supremacy and I have also given
zero ground
on any policy or a cultural overture
politics to white identity politics but
I have said and I will clearly continue
to state that there is in certain
quarters of media politics obviously
business and suit and some of those
people who fall any democratic side of
the dial absolutely have a contempt for
rural for basically poor white people
however that's defined and if you can't
get over that and realize again the very
obvious choice which is like look if
you're making forty five thousand
dollars a year and you're white and you
live in Missouri and you're voting for
shrunk because you think L on Omar's
backs al Qaeda and you want to put kids
in concentration camps it's not even
that complicated you we're gonna
win you're gonna lose we're on opposite
sides of politics and that's not the
majority of that's not America that is
absolutely not the majority people roll
America but if you can't get that it
actually the majority people rural
America are people who have been
over by credit card companies and trade
agreements and all the other things that
have so hurt most people in this country
in a material real way that makes up
most of their lives and you think and
again let's be real because most of the
policy set of even so-called woke
Democrats are still actually quite
right-wing and quite corporate friendly
you will not only be morally and
politically and policy wise wrong you
will be doing the work of like
this because if you had the Democratic
Party of people who speak clearly and
plainly for real people whether it's
Rashidah to live or Bernie Sanders or
ela Nomar whoever and real working
people in Appalachia Missouri whatever
Canarsie that would pop the tires out of
this but as long as people indulge
in that it leaves an opening so I you
know and so I'm not gonna especially
with Tucker because it's potent I'm not
gonna just play clips and point out that
easy
EPIK written an everybody knows
that in this circle tucker carlson is a
racist he's a hypocrite
he's an how you actually defeat
him and defeat all he's gonna take some
actual strategic assessment and the
reaction that people have against rural
America and a different narrative of
deserving poor people is up
stupid and gives them room so I'll leave
you with that yep it's the dark side of
meritocracy with when people because
saying oh you're white you've been given
every advantage and you haven't taken
advantage of it and you don't earn that
you haven't heard anything and it's
enough and it's also economic literacy
because again you can be real that yes
is there white privilege that exists
universally yes some version of it does
conversely I know there's tons of white
people who have absolutely not been
given every advantage and in fact a
discourse that could tell somebody who
grew up making you know fifteen thousand
dollars a year on public welfare with no
job prospects chronic health problems an
environmental pollution that they had
every potential given to them is not
only delusional economically illiterate
and it's it's it's it's so awe-inspiring
Lee stupid and divorced from reality
that again it gives these people talking
points and so don't have that policy to
do this he can just a continue to go on
bromides and win that precisely which is
why that's the silver lining here is
that Democrats now have to do something
if there's a young guy like Hawley doing
reaganism with you know populism in the
Midwest preside and that's it and that I
just talked about this with pre joy when
we were talking about Lula and we were
talking about Brazil it's like look
that's the experiment that we have not
run in modern politics which is to say
Tucker
Hawley our agenda of breaking up acts
conglomerates of delivering every single
human being in this country healthcare
of renewing rural America because we
have a plan to renew and redistribute
wealth and opportunity across the board
and also incidentally we're not no we're
not gonna go shout
and somebody back and indulge in racism
what's your answer to that and they'll
go in one or two directions which is
actually go back to their roots in
capitalist libertarian lies and
trickle-down or they will have
to double down and not play games about
what they're really doing with the white
supremacists in Genda
and that's the play but there's no room
for the the type of discourse and
attitudes that they are exploiting I
thought you got a final I am of the day
[Music]
Jay cool I thought you guys should know
TYT had an interview with SCARA Moochie
last night awesome the whole thing was a
joke but the best part was the
correction he made on past statements he
said Bannon would be physically
incapable of Felicio himself that's
awesome we should get scar Moochie on
all right everybody we're back tomorrow
in that
[Music]
no sir
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
hello the option when you don't get paid
for the rubber bands
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
