where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam Sita it
is Friday June 14 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America on the program
today it's casual Friday I am wearing my
soft collared shirt and joining me to
look back on this relentless week
Bendixon will be here from the Benjamin
Dixon show also on the program today
comment everything that's happening with
you platform Wars David Feldman from the
David Feldman show will be here also on
the program today
Pompeyo says Iran attacked tankers in
the Gulf the owner of the tanker
suggests Pompeo
may be lying also on the program today
20 Democratic candidates named for the
debates in two weeks will know the
breakdown at the end of the day who's on
stage with who
meanwhile Trump and the Trump campaign
promises that in the event foreign
governments attempt to offer dirt on
opponents they'll take a wait-and-see
attitude towards it
Kellyanne Conway accused of Hatch Act
violations by a federal watchdog group
agency rather not group meanwhile
impeachment Rises in the polls and the
number of undocumented immigrants in the
u.s. continues to fall trans woman dies
under mysterious circumstances in Rikers
after two months in prison for a
misdemeanor corporate tax revenue
plummets in the wake of the Republican
tax cuts meanwhile the top one percent
well up twenty one trillion dollars as
the bottom 50 percent loses nine hundred
billion dollars over the last thirty
years
lastly New York eliminates the religious
exemption for vaccinations in the wake
of a measles outbreak all this and more
on today's program yes folks thank you
for joining us good to have you with us
twenty people named to the democratic
debate a couple of people left off
bullock moulten one or two others eval
Gravelle we will know later this
afternoon as my understanding who will
be on the stage with whom and that will
be obviously a key import we'll talk
more about that with ben dixon when he
is with us want to remind you that this
program relies on your support you can
become a member today by going to join
the majority
port comm join the majority report
dot-com check it out
meanwhile we got this um there has been
a concerted effort by members of the US
government in the Trump administration
and I hear much from John Bolton these
days apparently he's been told to lay
low Trump is getting a little annoyed
with his mustache I think but Mike Mike
Pompeo is out there there is a real
attempt by forces in the State
Department at least to go to war with
Iran in some fashion and we've had
another attack on tankers in the I
believe this was in the Strait of Hormuz
the this follows up an attack that
happened April 13th or somewhere around
there for tankers supposedly attacked
only to sustained any type of damage at
the time where the press seems to have
forgotten that part of the story and
that was supposedly Iran here is the
u.s. releasing a video it claims shows
Iran removing an unexploded mine from a
Gulf tanker right after the the attack
there is also Mike Pompeo has blamed
Iran on this attack president Trump went
on Fox and Friends saying you saw the
boat it has Iran written all over it
they didn't want the evidence left
behind they don't know that we have
things that can detect in the dark that
work very well we have that it was them
that did it
apparently they now know that but
American officials released the video on
Thursday said they show Iranian broght
crew hours after the attack removing a
limpet mine attached the hull of the
damaged Kokua corageous a tanker
operated by the Japanese company coke
Assange yo here is here is Donald Trump
on Fox and Friends here it is mr.
president talk about something in the
news today we've seen those images of
the oil tankers on fire out in the Gulf
and Iran says hey don't blame us for
this we didn't do it we think it was an
accident
I know Mike Pompeo has blamed Iran what
sort of evidence do we have that they've
done it and what are we gonna do about
it
well Iran did do it and you know they
did it because you saw the boat I guess
one of the mines didn't explode and it's
probably got essentially Iran written
all over it and you saw the boat at
night trying to take the mine off and
successfully took the mine off the boat
yeah and that was exposed and that was
their boat that was them and they didn't
want the evidence left behind I guess
they don't know that we have things that
we could detect in the dark that worked
very well so we have that and I know you
put it on so no it was them that did it
and look President Obama made a deal
that was an outrage okay President Obama
made a deal the only problem with this
story
seems to be that they that the US
government which seems hell-bent on
blaming Iran for the story of this
attack that it was a function of Mines
put on the side of the boat it's a super
weird way of doing this right as opposed
to like sort of I don't know but I don't
know I don't attack boats on a regular
basis
here's Marco Rubio weighing in not just
the intelligence shows shows Iran was
behind the Gulf attacks common sense
does too it's a fact that only the
Iranian guard the Iranian what is it
what is the are
revolutionary whose Guard Corps Navy has
the ability to place mine like these
well that's and it's surrogates who and
its surrogates who can conduct fast boat
attacks such as this one Marco Rubio
little Marco apparently is extending
common sense perhaps where it doesn't
belong here is the owner of the tanker
Japanese you took Kaka
you taka Qatada he is the president of
the kakuka Seng o is the company that
owns the boats
apparently he wasn't clued in that the
idea is to blame Iran and to blame Iran
by attaching mines because this guy who
does arguably have a vested interest
right in not having his boats attacked
came out and said the following I will
read it because he's speaking in
Japanese but it's translated underneath
good wholesome the crew is saying that
it was hit by a flying object they are
saying that something came flying to put
a bomb on the side is something that we
are not thinking well in other words
whatever that video is of it's not of
what happened well and of course I mean
the Shinzo Abe a was in Iran meeting
with the Iranian leadership at the same
time which would be very odd timing I
mean like these Iran do really want to
stick it to Japan I mean yeah Iran has
no problem with chip I mean has good
relations with Japan and certainly no
problem with Norway and they they have
said that basically diplomatically the
United States has to pay a price for
lying and destroying this deal but in
actuality all of the problems that they
have with Iran have existed like yeah
Iran supports Hezbollah Iran
is on different side of a proxy war in
Syria that's still the case and ever
since I mean Iran is still following the
deal even as they've pulled out of it
international monitors are basically
saying like well Iran technically left
to make a point but they're still
upholding it so this is just ludicrous
and you know obviously incredibly
dangerous and you know I mean we saw the
same thing in Venezuela they're just
very bad you know New York Times even
did a debunk on the video that they were
putting around suggesting that the you
know that the attack was done by the
government and then the video was
clearly demonstrated it was thrown by an
opposition protester and that was
debunked in a matter of weeks I mean
usually these lies like in Vietnam in
Iraq take years maybe people do learn
lessons well I think it's also a
question of maybe the technology is such
these I think that's that there is just
too many other ways in which things can
get debunked and there's it's too hard
for stories to be put out there and not
be responded to and and it would be
interesting to even you know as you know
Madhvi interesting if we had the ability
to go back in time and see what would
have happened in the build-up to the
Iraq war had there been frankly Twitter
and YouTube and in Facebook if stories
from McClatchy that debunked what was
going on in terms of the march to war if
they had been widely disseminated as
opposed to being on you know page 18 of
the times occasionally or something like
that but picked up another life on
social media it would be interesting to
know maybe maybe in some way we have we
don't really have a way of testing it
but in some way that maybe we have the
ability now with social media to stop
major things like this right like even
Yemen
to the extent that there has been a
attempt obviously it passed in the
Senate in the house it was not
veto-proof to stop our support for the
Yemen conflict but I wonder if that
could have happened ten years ago no
because even just the fact that people
centered it as we're literally
supporting and I will use the word
genocide now was not getting any press
attention I mean that was the remem SMBC
didn't talk about it for a year yep and
you know and actually I do want to note
that Twitter actually did censor a group
that was reporting just they were
showing visuals of the atrocities on
Twitter and Twitter so that it was in
violation of their standards so that's a
good thing to note about the failures of
these companies as well but I agree no
way it would have happened in a
different media environment
unfortunately our current government
really doesn't care if a war has popular
legitimacy or not or if the basis has
been widely debunked by the media
Trump cares about my popularity I think
it actually every time there's a setback
for things like this and it filters to
him this is actually an example of where
his specific nutty personality matters
right last time I mean a month ago he
was with the generals apparently was
like what we're getting into a war I
don't want a real war I just want to
make it look like I'm being tough I'm
gonna talk death we look tough tough
tough so no war just tough talk maybe
his nutty personality will save us in
this instance well a strong example of
better him than Pence in this type of
area for sure yeah fair enough
tough gonna be tough he likes to send
the tweets but fighting a war is a bit
much
I can send tweets but I can't take him
folks
one at today's sponsors Skillshare
anyone who goes to sk l dot s h slash
majority report for is going to get two
whole months of totally free access to
skill shares entire library super
quality online courses and tutorials
let's leave this one in for members
today skill share is a vibrant online
learning community offers courses on
everything from design to video editing
photography business technology cook
meditation everything in between
there Skillshare courses for everyone
you'll have no problem finding a course
that will be useful to you both in your
personal and your professional life
whether you want to sharpen your skills
with something you already love doing or
whether you want to learn something
totally new scale share got you covered
they of course is for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding courses on
making a healthy dinner web development
self motivation learning new languages
procrastination not how to procrastinate
but how to stop you name it so what a
fine tool to fine tune that skill set
part of what I am getting for Father's
Day is I'm going to be allowed to watch
to Skillshare videos on Sunday yeah with
the kids of course they're gonna be
yelling and screaming but I'm gonna do
that lucid dreaming one that's the one
I've been thinking about and the the
perfect week productivity habits that
stick using time themeing yep
interesting indeed you can get two
entire months of free access to every
single course offered by skill share by
going to SK l dot s H slash majority
report four think of everything you'll
have at your fingertips for two whole
months
again that's sk l dot s H slash majority
report for I put a link underneath this
video if you're watching on YouTube or
if you're listening we put a link in the
description check it out alright quick
break when we come back Ben Dickson
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the
proprietor of the Benjamin Dixon show
Ben Dixon himself Ben welcome to the
program hey Sam thanks so much for
having me man it's always a pleasure so
we were just talking about the latest
attempt to blame Iran for a attack on
these tankers what do you think I mean
if this is the way that the that that
John Bolton and Mike Pompeo are gonna
get us into a war it seems to me to be a
little bit thin gruel right I mean yeah
like like it's one thing to say this
company represents a massive threat to
us because they have you know chemical
weapons biological weapons and a
suitcase bomb and this and that like we
did during Iraq
it's another or say you know two
japanese tankers or a japanese tanker in
a norwegian tanker were you know bombed
like this is not you know i don't know
18:30
like we're not you know us mercantile
interests are not going to be dragging
us into a massive war it seems to me at
least in terms of the american public
but do you even think they need like you
know public support for this so that's
it that's actually a tough question
because in a way Trump could get the
support with his base obviously that
that's the easy part can trump make
unilateral moves well yeah in a way he
can I mean that's that's how we built
the presidency out so the his ability to
actually go to war without public
consensus or without any authorization
to use of military force
unfortunately the precedent has been set
for many many years
both Democrat and Republican presidents
so uh does he need the support no he
doesn't technically need it can he get
it well his supporters will support him
no matter what so he can at least get
his base to support him but I agree with
you like this is like a a really lazy
effort to track us into war and I'm
wondering what their strategy is behind
it are they trying to play a lone game
because I don't see anything
conventionally that they're saying that
we'll let you know conventional wisdom
says they're gonna need more right do
you I mean how much of what we're seeing
do you think is is I mean somebody's
attacking these tankers in addition to
you know the idea that it gives
something to blame Iran for I guess it
also probably is going to have an a
healthy impact on the price of gas
I would imagine or oil around the world
if you healthy from the perspective of
someone who might be a major supplier
yeah yeah you know it I guess that's the
question right I mean there's obviously
the the wag the dog scenario that most
people you know we kind of instinctively
go there these days because it's uh it
seems almost too perfect especially when
you think back with Michael Flynn I
Michael Flynn was in office for what 90
days and almost in the first or second
week he came and put Iran on notice and
so because it's like they had the
intention from day one to go into this
direction it's almost like they're
looking for or not almost they're
literally looking for any excuse they
possibly can and so that really gives a
lot of credence to you know what
otherwise you would think is a
conspiracy theory that they're doing
that that this someone else is behind
this for the expressed purposes of
getting us into war but you know it
really leans in that direction simply
because they've had every intention of
undermining the agreement the the
nuclear agreement they've had their eyes
and their targets on Iran since day one
since they took office so that's that's
the direction I'm leaning and and I'm
actually really loathe to even consider
conspiracy theories like that it will be
at a telling if
Trump announces that we're going to war
with Iran or that we're gonna support
the Israelis bombing or whatever it is
and that announces that he's also
opening up a trump National Golf Course
in Saudi Arabia attached with a four
hundred million dollar hotel deal
something to that effect I mean but I
guess you know it right now it just
looks anemic it seems like what they're
hoping will happen is blaming Iran will
then embolden you know the more
aggressive elements within the Iranians
a critical spectrum to maybe go out and
do some freelancing and provoke I mean
there's there's obviously elements in
both governments that that want some
type of conflict because it will empower
them those elements and either these
governments I mean so to some extent we
could be seeing that right like there's
just yes two subsets of governments that
are involved in this stuff but that's I
guess know as always going to be the
hardliners right the hardline isn't any
government that are willing to push it
push the envelope but it is something
though to see that the measured hand in
this entire conversation so far is
actually coming from Iran so this will
be interesting to see how it plays out
and in terms of the supreme leader one
thing that's really stood out the most
of me was his statement at the Supreme
Leader's statement this week that they
will never again go into an agreement
with the United States and I think that
statement even though it gets overlooked
in the in the news cycle I think a
statement like that really is a is it's
problematic for the u.s. in the long run
simply because of if if governments
can't believe in an agreement that they
had with a previous president then they
have really no incentive to make genuine
sacrifices own agreements going forward
right that really undermines us on the
international stage but there's gonna be
a lot of back loading on these
agreements it seems to me yeah they're
gonna have to because of the precedent
that Trump has said undermining the
nuclear agreement
yeah and this is gonna go cry mean that
that dynamic is going to be across the
board and we've talked about this in the
past that if you're dealing with the
United States now any foreign government
any foreign leader foreign from the
perspective of the United States has to
be looking at the US now is a very
unstable country regardless regardless
of who we elect right in two years
because you know to go from Obama to
trump from a you know sort of like a you
know demeanor and in terms of like an
institutionalist perspective and to a
certain extent in the the way that they
face the world yeah it's so radical that
it doesn't matter who we bring in who
becomes president next because you can
always revert back to someone else like
oK you've got you know Bernie Sanders is
President or Kamala Harris as president
and then then it could be Tom cotton
right who knows and that's like a that's
one that is the underpinning of any
agreement like for thousands of years I
mean well thousands but in terms of
International Studies I mean agreements
must be kept packed asunder is the latin
phrase for it and without that without
that underpinning they there's literally
nothing that the united states can say
going forward that other countries can
look at and say okay we can trust your
word that the next administration will
keep it and without that like we're in
we're in you know that really weakens
all of our negotiation positions going
forward
okay let's i want to just turn and and
just mention this I mean we did quite a
bit of coverage of it at the beginning
of the week but it's a massive story I
think and it's going to have huge
implications going forward in in in a
myriad of ways and I'm talking about the
there is a case in front of the Supreme
Court right now where I believe it was
brought by the
tell you I'm not 100% sure who the
plaintiff is in this case but it's in
regards to the question of in regards to
a census question 2020 census question
asking are you an immigrant I mean are
you uh yes a citizen and it was looking
like the supreme court was going to
allow this question to exist it is a
question that we have never had in the
history of the census just a reminder
for everybody the Constitution says the
census must count every person not every
citizen every person because this is the
way that we determine not only voting
districts but resources that go to
various areas you know emergency plans I
mean just a myriad of different things
traffic patterns all of this stuff and
this is a question that never been asked
in the census it is a question that's
asked on the ACS which is the American
Community questionnaire but that is just
simply a poll that just pulls about 2.5
percent of you know random people to get
a sense a basic sense of what's going on
this census its critics of this question
believe that it will depress the count
and specifically scare off a lot of of
immigrants both legal and undocumented
and this week or two weeks ago I should
say three weeks ago maybe it was a
little longer a hard drive was found of
a deceased Republican operative by his
daughter that shows that this idea came
from this guy who was considered the
architect of the gerrymandering that
took place in 2010 he was doing a
research research on this looked
specifically on the implications of the
census question in Texas found that it
would have it would empower non-white
Hispanics
this is his terms and the Republicans he
then pursued the Trump transition team
to get the DOJ to have this question
inserted even came up with the alibi
that it was needed for the Voting Rights
Act enforcement which of course is a
joke the DOJ under Trump has not
enforced this at all the Republicans
have attacked it and there's been no
need for the Voting Rights Act
enforcement Voting Rights Act
enforcement to have this question in the
past 50 years that it's been enforced
much more vigorously than now and and so
now the Supreme Court at the very least
is aware that the DOJ and Commerce
Secretary will Ober Ross lied about why
they included this question and the
Congress has subpoenaed bill bar and
Wilbur Ross in this regard they have a
they have rejected the subpoena there
was a vote to hold them in contempt by
Congress and so the things that could
come out of this are a completely I
think universally discredited Supreme
Court and a question that will further
disenfranchise voters across the country
from the census ultimately and maybe uh
you know see two guys sitting in the the
jail at the bottom of Congress or
something I don't know if that's gonna
happen to bar and Wilbur Ross but I
would like it to yeah what what's your
sense of where all this is going this is
a big story it seems to me yeah so I
mean starting with the guy's hard drive
we should all have some type of system
that erases everything that we have to
after we die but that's a whole
different conversation
I'm glad that this was discovered
particularly if you paid attention to
what the the gerrymandering that
happened in North Carolina and the
ridiculousness and if I'm not mistaken
it was found to be unconstitutional but
there was one district in particular
that they divvied up so so much that the
district was as narrow as a highway in
the in the urban region so they can pack
in all the black people and all the
urban voters
one it was as wide as a highway that's
how extreme this guy was with his vision
for North Carolina in terms of the the
pretext are they that they they have
about the Voting Rights Act I think that
is the most absurd thing and it goes to
the point where they're not even trying
anymore Republicans don't even really
have to try and put in a lot of effort
to distort their real intentions because
they put all the places pieces in place
they have a Supreme Court that for all
intents and purposes I don't really see
how this ends
without them supporting this this
question right they have all the PME we
can get surprised maybe maybe they
really would be concerned about the
integrity of the court and maybe they
will reject this question that would be
a summer surprise but in terms of all
the pieces of the puzzle the Republicans
have been placed playing this is a very
long game this is just this is actually
not even a major move for them and their
bigger strategy and I think that's one
thing that we have to really be
considerate of I really think about is
that all these pieces that we're now
looking at we're looking at it now
saying oh my goodness they're getting
ready to do this Republicans have been
working on this for a very long time how
does it end I think it ends in favor of
this question I think we're going to get
that question on the census
unfortunately and I don't even know
about the content you know where they
really go that far that's that's a whole
different conversation like Congress
really has to begin to assert their
authority on these things on these
issues one last thing if I'm not
mistaken and actually I guess a question
for you aren't they trying to assert
executive privilege on some of these
documents is it is it this case they're
trying to assert it yes yes which is
also absurd because executive privilege
is for for the you know what the advice
that the president gets well first off
all of this lobbying by this guy it's
huff huff teller I think his name was
the the Republican operative happened
when during the transition so he was not
president at that time even if he was
involved in those deliberations he was
not president you
you can't executive llege for time when
you weren't president in terms of dr.
attract absurd and but but even if it's
still an unclear why you would have
those deliberations as president about
that question if it's between the DOJ
and commerce secretary but at the very
least we know during the transition he
wasn't president so that's pretty bunk I
mean I think you know the president
that's being said in terms of like the
president not offering documents I think
is a very dangerous one and so that in
some ways what this it seems to me is
going to also implicate is the question
of impeachment who Nancy Pelosi still
seems to be desperately avoiding
impeachment to the point where like a
couple of weeks ago she went on Jimmy
Kimmel and said if we impeach him and
don't convict then he won't be able to
be prosecuted after he leaves office
which is like what did they even come
from like I I've never I mean is there
is there actually something to that
argument cuz it never did I want to know
no there's absolutely nothing to that
argument I didn't think so she's making
it out as if it's like some type of
double jeopardy question which is absurd
this is a this is not a criminal
impeachment is not a criminal procedure
it's not it's not it's no it's a civil
procedure it is a political procedure
it's absurd and she surely knows this if
she doesn't then you know what what the
hell doesn't she know but I mean she's
up there like actively lying putting out
this information she's doing that pretty
intensely to avoid impeachment now with
that said new poll came out and I don't
know how it this YouGov has seen this
results in the past
but you guv did a poll for by on behalf
of by the people and data for progress
that found not only was there a slight
majority or I should say plurality
supporting impeachment 47% of Americans
either strongly support or somewhat
support an impeachment inquiry to
President Trump in fact I think it's
like close to thirty seven percent
strongly support and only thirty six
percent strongly opposed somewhat oppose
is like around eight percent so
ultimately it's forty seven percent
either strongly support or somewhat
support impeachment forty four percent
oppose we're starting to see impeachment
rebound in terms of interest in it and I
think you know which I think is an
indication that the more you talk about
impeachment and the more you lay out the
case the easier it is to make the case
and the easy yeah the more support
you're gonna get for it you know here's
the problem that Nancy Pelosi is having
and I imagine there's quite a few
Democrats who also have this problem I
think they fancy themselves to be two
things civil and it's the tution looks
like they want to protect the
institution and and they want to do so
with this sense of civility but here's a
problem that they're having they're
running into a face and Nancy Pelosi
particularly we're at a stage that if
you are a true institutionalist and you
want to protect and defend the
Constitution then you're really gonna
have to put your money where your mouth
is and go through with this I mean it's
been easy to be an institution unless
before because people respected norms
right when people respect the norms and
institutions well it's easy we can all
go out and have you know some brandy
after work if that's still what they're
drinking but now we're dealing with a
guy who has no regard whatsoever for
norms and institutions and the only way
that you can actually protect and be an
actual institutionalist is if you use
the mechanisms that the Constitution
gives you
to protect it and they're not willing to
do that because it's been so easy to sit
back and just protect the institution's
because everybody had the civility and
had the decorum and now we're dealing
with a guy who not only does not is not
civil has no decorum but he is all he
has an all-out assault on the norms and
the respect of the institutions and and
refusing to turn over documents and
advising people in his administration to
ignore subpoenas I mean we're really in
dictatorial territory and we have a
speaker of the house who is afraid of
protecting the institution's well what
good are you
well what good are you at this stage I
would say I have two things one I would
say the Republicans that are Batac
enormous for an extended period of time
right I mean prior to Trump but what I
would say that it's not even norms when
we're talking about answering a subpoena
that's just the law right like it's
right I mean that's just like there are
two functions that Congress has and if
oversight is basically gone from from
Congress you are you're now getting into
an all assault on the on the
Constitution right I mean this is what
checks and balances is supposed to be
and so the idea that you would ignore
that is is is really stunning all right
let's turn to the democratic debate
because in 2020 because this just just
been announced literally three minutes
ago and this is a big deal and I'm mad
I'm a little bit mad but here it is
democratic debate night one Cory Booker
Elizabeth Warren Pat O'Rourke Amy
Klobuchar John Delaney Tulsi Gabbard
Julian Castro Tim Ryan Bill DeBlasio jay
Inslee so it appears that Oh Sanders
will be on with Biden on Thursday night
Sanders Harris Biden Buddha judge
Bennett marianne williamson swal well
Gillibrand an Andrew yang and governor
Hickenlooper I mean well I I know this
is hard to sort of absorb this quickly
but what is your your sense of of this
of this breaker and do we know how these
were chosen well just I mean tell me
where it was random like we watched it
they this was a random selection it was
a random selection close to the pressed
but adopt keep that list up for me will
you close to the press but campaign
officials were there so we know that it
was legit what just curious like I'm
curious how was it not delaying what was
John the guy who got booted from
Medicare for all
he's a loser special engine well yeah
this is done randomly they took the 20
people who qualified and then they
randomly selected the two nights
yeah I'm just curious how in the world
this guy qualified by who's supporting
him enough room to get the percentage he
needed to actually qualify versus like
you know I know Graham senator gravel is
an interesting character but when you
put those two beside my side I'm really
curious who's supporting the end time I
can't you know that guy I'll and
remember it's just how he looks and and
that he got booted for Medicare for all
you just said his name the language I
his name again
yeah john delaney so that's that's the
very first thing that comes to mind but
then just how its divided I know we have
a really big batch right but I think by
dividing that batch up like this you
really are giving a disadvantage you're
really going to be able to prop up
someone in that first batch who should
be shouldn't being propped up if I don't
have that list in front of me but there
can be a star that comes out of that
first batch that
would not come out of that first batch
if if you put in Bernie Sanders in that
first batch right and then you have
Bernie Sanders versus Joe Biden that's
the race that everybody wants to see
that's gonna kind of be to me it's gonna
be a little sandbagged everybody's gonna
focus on Joe Biden might as well just be
a two-man race debate on that other side
but I you know put them all on one stage
you wanted 23 people they we got 23
people put them all on the same stage at
the same time and just let them fight it
out yeah I I don't know I think that
would been 23 on one stage you're not
gonna hear a very it'd be chaos and
people can hide my first my first
reaction is this is pretty good for Joe
Biden and I'll tell you why I mean you
know if we focus on the top four
contenders at this point top five right
we're talking Biden Buddha judge Sanders
Warren and Harris not in that order
obviously I think the worst-case
scenario for Biden would have been on
stage with Elizabeth Warren because
Elizabeth Warren has shown that she is
willing to go at Joe Biden and she has
shown that she she can attack him on
multiple fronts she will attack him on
women's issues and on on on banking
issues now it's possible
senator Gillibrand will try and bust out
of the pack by going after Biden that
way but and maybe Sanders was waiting to
debate but I interviewed him yesterday
on this program and gave him ample
opportunity to say the word Joe Biden
has got it wrong and it would have had
to be much and he studiously avoided
doing that and specifically on the on
the topic of you know can you
can you deal with Republicans etc etc so
I don't know that there's anybody uh you
know I think that Biden is gonna feel
pretty good about not being with
Elizabeth Ryan with that said yeah we'll
see I mean I'm looking at that list to
see who is going to go after him and
there's a couple of people who might but
it's it's hard to know but it should be
interesting I'm glad at least that that
Biden is paired with either Sanders or
Warren you know and I can imagine Buddha
judge is going to attempt to sort of
like show Biden's age in some way right
because Buddha judge it seems to me is
not too dissimilar in disposition and
tone to Biden right that's a good that's
a good I you know I even if Sanders as
you were saying it even if Sanders did
go after Biden there's so much baggage
that Sanders has so many people who you
know particularly establishment
supporters and Democrats they would not
accept the criticism they're there
they're less inclined to accept the
criticism from Sanders than they would
Elizabeth Warren then there would anyone
else matter of fact on that stage so
when you gave me that second batch and
it's biting and Sanders you know that to
me seems like a golden opportunity for
for Biden to skate by because even no
matter how much no matter how much
Bernie Sanders throws at at Joe Biden
you know it's really it's really the
left vs as the establishment and there's
still a lot of bad blood there so
there's no mount there's no amount of
good points that I think Sanders could
give that would really chip away at the
establishment support base of Joe Biden
yeah that's right I mean I think it's
really I'm looking at this list and
there's it's really down to Gillibrand
and Harris to see if they will go at
Biden with any type of intensity and you
know
they may be a little bit concerned about
things like VP being a VP because they
would be I think senator Harris has got
to feel like she's on the shortlist for
someone like Joe Biden and same with
Gillibrand so I guess we will see what
will happen but those will be the the
two debates I mean give me your sense of
what's going on now in the election we
have new polling out from California
that has Sanders now in third basically
a tie with Warren but you know within
the margin of error but nevertheless
technically third Joe Biden in the lead
Harris fourth
Warren's second like I said I you know
Iowa is looking like you know Joe Biden
has lost some some strength there Bernie
has lost a little bit more strength
there according to the poll Warren and
Buddha judge are really almost
statistically tied with with not quite
with Sanders but pretty close what's
your sense of what's happening I still
have this huge question mark in my head
of why Buddha judges even in the
conversation I really just have credit
to his team for making a no-name mayor
into someone who was a contender on par
almost with Elizabeth Warren like you
said within the margin of error but also
you know a lot of respect for Elizabeth
Warren I you know I think people thought
that she would not perform this well
hell I thought I really didn't know if
she would garner the support that she is
starting to garner now she's taking up a
little bit I think she's for looking for
lack of a better word right now she
might be the sleeper she might be the
one to really break out I mean she has a
plan for everything and we're seeing
right now that really is resonating with
people so you know if she can survive
the question about her Native American
heritage because I'm sure that's going
to come up again I think that's like the
one thing that's gonna sneak up on her
maybe not in the primaries let's say she
got lucky enough to
to win that'd definitely be something
that Donald Trump would throw her at her
every single day right which means it
probably will come up in the primaries
for that exact reason if she could
survive that if she keeps rolling out
these plans when math not there's not a
lot of meat on the bones of everyone
else's plans I think she can really
really do well I also don't know why I
mean I know the answer but I'm just
amazed at Joe Biden being and being
ranked so highly I mean I know he's got
the establishment behind him and I know
he's got a lot of support because he was
Barack Obama's best friend but at the
end of the day that he has like he's
really running on the fact that he has
no substance and he doesn't have time to
give us substance and he has so much
baggage with with just his demeanor
he's a very old-school politicians you
know he thought it was okay to touch
people you know that's not the time
we're living in and with the 94 crime
bill I am not sure why he is still there
but I think Joe is gonna be Joe I think
we could sit back and give Joe an
opportunity to be Joe just like the
photo that came out with him wagging his
finger in the face of that young lady
right some more he's gonna do it to
himself so I think we just sit back and
wait and the race is going to ultimately
be between I don't know why but Budaj
that seems like he's gonna be a real
contender Harris Warren and Sanders
that's if that's if Joe goes ahead and
does what Joe does which is make some
ridiculous gaps along the way well I
will reiterate what I said about a month
ago I anticipate Joe Biden being third
in the polls by September III may
September October ish I may have to
amend that to fourth I think he's going
to drop at one point and when he drops
it's gonna happen precipitously because
yeah his support is built on his
supposedly being able to beat Donald
Trump and that's it and I just I think
there are more and more things about Joe
that it's that it's gonna make it look
like he's that's not the case and yeah I
think these debates are going to be
pretty important in terms of of I think
these debates are gonna be pretty
important one last one last thing about
that is the fact that I think the way
he's going to lose this
- Minh is by all of this talk of
cooperating with Republicans right he's
really pushing that I feel like he's
over playing that and more people it's
just a sense I don't know the data on it
at all but when you think about the
quote-unquote resistance and all of the
energy that people have put into
fighting the back against not only
Donald Trump with the Republican Party I
think he might be over playing this idea
that Democrats want to get back to
normal I agree I agree with that I think
the polling has shown at the very least
that we are at one end of the spectrum
for where it's been and it should be
even greater as far as I'm concerned
with Democratic voters wanting to
compromise with the Republicans because
it's clear there is no partner there it
is clear that you cannot compromise for
them and it makes Biden it seems to me
look like he's out of it - yeah I don't
know if I would call them establishment
Democrats I would call them sort of just
partisan Democrats who are not
ideologically necessarily particularly
left but are are partisan and and and I
think I think you know certainly Warren
has been you know taking that posture
how Sanders has been taking that posture
of fighting against these forces Sanders
a little bit less has been talking about
Republicans it seems to me but but maybe
maybe he has but it'll be interesting
it'll be interesting I think these
debates are gonna have a lot more impact
on the race then we've seen debates have
in the past at least for the Democrats
been maybe we'll have a chance to talk
shortly after those debates it sounds
like a plan
looking forward to it all right man
thanks so much folks check out the
Benjamin Dixon show on YouTube go go
subscribe to it right now
yes all right appreciate that loves it
take it easy
[Music]
go subscribe to it right now so there it
is the list of who's gonna be on that
debate ooh I gotta say I think that
there's more support for Bernie out
there than the polls are showing because
aren't the polls usually they talk to
likely voters and that's a tough thing
to predict when you have a candidate who
could potentially be bringing in a whole
new constituency particularly of young
people who don't always vote yup
possible has there been a big change
though in the it's possible that there
are people who are gonna support Bernie
that have not been counted nevertheless
we're also comparing pole to pole so
there's no reason to believe that the
polls that showed Bernie with 510 more
points in Iowa a a couple months ago had
counted those people and this new one
doesn't right like the point is is that
within those polls well there's gonna
drop the likely voters right no I
understand and my point is is that
unless then the models have changed well
in the same polling outfit isn't it
possible that his support among the
traditional likely voters has dropped
but his support among the unlikely
voters has gone up or what who's
considered to be unlikely voters I mean
I suppose but it's still not a good
thing for him to drop under any sector
yeah I I just I don't want this to
become a self-fulfilling prophecy you
know well I don't I mean I don't I mean
with you know with as much as I think
that we have some power here I don't
think we have the ability to sway what's
going to happen in Iowa and so it's you
know I'm not too worried about that I
think it's quite possible
but the organizing that that Sanders is
done with in terms of Walmart in terms
of McDonald's in terms of teachers
across different states across the
country it could very well be that the
from an organizational standpoint
they're gonna get more people in the
Iowa caucus Warren put basically went
all in in Iowa she bet everything on
Iowa which was you know we'll be able to
tell later as to whether it was a good
bet or not but it appears to have been a
good bet she could not afford to not
come in first or second or close third
in Iowa I think she knows that but
coming in you know even coming in second
in Iowa taking some out of Biden if
Biden comes in first although I don't
think he is frankly he's gonna hurt
Biden big time seems to me Biden has to
win Iowa and New Hampshire or he's gonna
have real problems but and then who
knows
I mean Sanders Warren I would enjoy
having those to be the last two
candidates standing absolutely it would
be great but we shall see all right
we're gonna take a quick break when we
come back we will speak to David Feldman
from the David Feldman show
you
that is Jonathan Richman and the modern
lovers for those of you who listen to
the audio version of the show for those
of you who watch this show you heard
nothing ah folks on the phone it is a I
don't know find out I guess possibly
potentially a pleasure to welcome back
to the program the host and proprietor
of the David Feldman show I believe it
is that runs both on a Pacifica station
out in in LA is my understanding and
also is available as a podcast David
Feldman welcome to the program hey thank
you for having me on Sam and I want to
compliment you very brave to have a
truth-teller like me on the show so well
I tell the truth you do you tell the
truth and I like to think that we've had
other people who come on the show who
tell the truth but if you want to feel
like you're the first one that's your
prerogative
well I'm a little different from the
other truth tellers because I see the
slippery slopes that are out there and I
also recognize the existential threats
unlike the other truth tellers you have
on your show so well what would you like
to start with what truth would you like
to lay on us that is that much more
truthful than the other truth tellers
that we've had on the program I mean
you're you're clearly implying that
you're both more truthful and more
courageous is that it is that the sense
I'm getting big because brave enough to
recognize slippery slopes and
existential threats they're out there
for example they're d monetizing louder
with Crowder and that that is an
existential threat to new New Journalism
and if the
slippery slope it's an existential
threat to New Journalism so you're
suggesting that that steven crowder is a
journalist i'm suggesting that first
they came for louder with Crowder's and
they come for jimmy dore and when they
come to me i won't be able to say
anything because they got rid of the
First Amendment that's why but why would
you be able to say anything if you've
been demonetised you'll still be able to
speak yes yeah what's the point if you
can't get paid to speak that's the whole
point I want to get paid for my opinions
and once they take by my money away why
bother to opine on things I have no
right to be talking about it's actually
that's actually I mean I mean I I think
that I understand the point you're
making but I thought that the the point
for you to opine was to speak out on
behalf of the truth I mean you start off
by saying you were a truth teller okay
yeah well that doesn't it doesn't seem
like you've qualified that truth-telling
with having to get paid like but I guess
you're saying like I you are you are you
truth teller for hire are you just a
professional truth teller like you don't
do it you're not an amateur truth teller
hey I I read a book two years ago okay
and I repurpose that book every day on
my show I just regurgitate this book
that I read in different ways like and I
layer on emotion and it's very
compelling and I should be paid for that
because I believe what I'm saying and I
want to get paid for that
and occasionally you know I cross the
line and reveal how misogynistic and
racist and homophobic
I truly am deep down inside but hey I'm
a comedian sometimes I don't know where
the line is and I want to get paid
trying to negotiate that line because
it's an existential threat and a
slippery slope to de monetize the
guys and you know you're glib you're
glib well all right wait a second before
we get to my glibness totally I have to
ask you what what was the book that you
read listen liberal by Thomas Frank I
read it two years ago that's all I need
to know hey I read that book two years
ago and I can go on five days a week and
just repurpose that just with a little
screaming and yelling sometimes I cry
you know I make it about me like Jon
Stewart testifying by the House
Judiciary Committee standing ovations
did you see that
yes standing oh now wait a second Andy
now do you take this with Jon Stewart's
testimony because he wasn't paid he
wasn't paid but it was a it was really
good PR good exposures explained
salvation and he told Congress to do its
job which was very brave to tell
Congress tell the House Judiciary
Committee to do its job I mean who talks
to the House Judiciary Committee like
that other than Candace Owens all right
so go it yeah you have you've mentioned
the idea and I guess the slippery slope
here so you're worried basically that
they're coming for your money
oh no no I love this this country I love
this country and I you know I'm not
gonna tell you how to do your show
because I watch it you know that I
watched this show III picked up on that
yeah okay and you were talking about the
debates you're upset about the lineup
for the Democratic debates well I'm not
upset about it I'm I'm assessing it yeah
because you're not a truth teller and
you don't see slippery slopes don't you
think the debates are an existential
threat to the Democratic Party
well I in what respect
well why are they having debates why do
the Democrats have had this circular
firing squad
shoot themselves in the foot by debating
this is exactly what Trump wants they
want us to divide it and arguing and
fighting among ourselves we should be we
should be having I'm a jet you know me
you know I'm a Democrat wait wait hold
on I have a way there are two particular
types of absolute personas that
you seamlessly move in between David
Feldman and I feel like now you're going
we're going from certain web / certain
MSNBC personalities all of a sudden
where are we which direction are we
going in I do not like ad hominem
attacks when you just called me Feldman
yes why bring why bring my religion into
this can't I have a conversation without
you calling me Feldman well it sounds
like you have a strong case for YouTube
now you don't know no wait a second
you're upset about the the circular fire
debate the debate which you call a
circular firing squad where Democrats
are going to be going after Democrats
what it's Democrats once again never
missing an opportunity to miss an
opportunity what are we arguing about
why do we have to have these debates
exactly do you think there should then
no primary whatsoever I mean that would
be the logical extension there right no
I I think there should be primaries for
the same reason I wear clothes you know
it's good to hide things and not reveal
everything but this is an existential
threat Trump and Joe Biden Joe Biden is
the guy yes I know you're going to think
go ahead
did you see Joe Biden this week I did in
fact we have video of Joe Biden talking
about Donald Trump here is let's play a
little bit of that since you brought it
up here is is this an ad that Joe Biden
it's campaign video where he's talking
about a pledge that he's gonna sign or
that he actually signs on camera so here
it is here's uh here is a Trump you know
asking for thirty thousand emails Russia
if you're listening I hope you're able
to find the thirty thousand emails that
are missing folks this is simple
American elections should be decided by
the American people not by Russia or any
other foreign power Donald Trump doesn't
think it matters if candidates for
presidency accept damaging information
out of their opponents from foreign
governments I believe he's dead wrong
your campaign this time than I have
foreigners if Russia if China if someone
else offers you information and
apartments should they accept it or
should they call the FBI I think you
might want to listen I don't there's
nothing wrong with listening I might be
part of any attempt to undermine our
democracy or public confidence in our
institutions in February we're going our
close Democratic allies in Europe I
helped develop the pledge that we
encourage candidates running for office
to take promising they would use no
disinformation in their campaigns or
tolerate outside interference I said
then that where I can it for office I
would sign the pledge
today I'm making good on that promise
many and then he signs the pledge there
I also noticed that in the background he
had a bunch of books on the windowsill
one of them was was mr. Putin I see what
are the other books that he's got there
anyways you want me to respond for that
with I mean I'm afraid I'm gonna look
I'm afraid I'm gonna end up lording my
deep intellect over you guys but that's
why I have you here
please okay do lord that I am shocked
that that ad is still running because it
is identical to the Lyndon Johnson Daisy
had that he had a poll in 64 against
Goldwater that is so daring for him to
do something like that and that's a
game-changer but and I can't believe he
had the courage to do that that's the
days he had from 64 and they're gonna
pull it because that's not I mean he's
he's playing rough with drunk so you
think that's a just a go Adam like and
that the the signing of that document on
his page on his desk is is the
equivalent of dropping a nuclear weapon
he he took Trump out behind the gym and
punched him in the face that's what Joe
Biden did and he shouldn't do that next
time Joe is but sometimes you know Joe
has to throw it out and he just did it
you know what Joe said middle class Joe
but Wednesday went in middle class
little class Joe yeah no class Joe and
he is middle class because if he were
part of the upper class he could have
afforded a better facelift that he's a
man of the people
right I recently demonetized for that
joke yeah that is very mean it is very
odd homonym of odd hominem homina homina
homina
what are you Ralph Kramden
that's the lovers of trams and reference
yeah
no Joe Biden
you know what Joe Biden said this week
there's no other candidate who said
what's that
he called Trump a neck he called Trump
and existential threats yes to our
country he literally said that he said
he said Donald Trump is an existential
threat to America and you know your
guide Bernie or Elizabeth Warren what
did I talk about student loan debt
climate change health care the Joe Biden
he goes after the really big existential
threats it's true he's going on what you
burning
what's Bernie's plan you what's Bernie's
plan on existential threats well I think
his plan is probably just to win the
presidency that's I think what
everybody's plan is Bernie's plan is to
defeat an existential threats by just
winning the presidency
well actually isn't that what Joe
Biden's plan is like that's that double
our get rid of he said he said Donald
Trump is an existential threat right now
he's just a blip but if he stays on for
four more years he'll be an existence
well actually Bernie drew some pretty
powerful historical parallels in his
speech the other day and I think he
wants to not only get rid of the threat
of Trump but of the conditions that lead
to Trump and Trump like things David or
uh Feldman like what what's more
important than an existential threat you
tell me
I see it's an existential threat level
Orange that's how bad it is right now
did you kill any weight did you did you
work on that system with Rob Reiner
great man
great men rob reiner When Harry Met
Sally I I watched that movie and I go I
want to know who directed When Harry Met
Sally and whoever directed that movie
easily tell me who to vote for I thought
you were gonna say you watch that movie
and you wanted to know what she was
having yeah right right don't think I
don't don't think I don't get the
anti-semitic subject
we're meg Ryan fakes an orgasm at Katz's
delicatessen and I'm supposed to just
I'm supposed to roll with that right all
right another one in other words that if
you're like if if someone is having an
experience with a Jew that they could
only have a fake orgasm I I want to talk
politics I don't I don't want to talk
okay no I understand so David Joe Biden
has named an existential threat his
solution is to win the presidency and
you are waiting for any other candidate
to talk about what they perceive as
existential threats is that what you're
saying no I think it should at all
honesty he it's his turn to be President
and I don't see why we have to debate
this but you know we need to get rid of
Trump that's all and so here are you
calling for basically everyone else to
drop out of the primary is that what's
going on
I'd like people to stay in but I think
they should have a debate but the debate
should be how great Joe Biden is that's
what we should be debating like what do
we love most about Joe David David well
yeah are you at all concerned that the
same attitude you have now is
potentially basically the same attitude
that led us to picking Hillary Clinton
and that didn't work out so well
I love her because I support women I
love women and she was a female and it
was her turn she waited in line
she took the number at the bakery and
waited patiently at Katz's but where she
took the number Katz's now yes
what why isn't it your turn why isn't it
a turn for a woman this time because
this is an existential crisis and and
it's not Elizabeth Warren's turn a
Kamala Harris's turn their cory booker's
turn am I allowed to bring that up bring
up what cory booker what exactly about
cory booker you know he's a man right so
says you you know and i don't mean to be
rude because i like doing the show and i
i think you guys are cute and then ieave
it a is kind of delicious but you're
childish and and you're not pretty
you're not craig Natick you're not
adults you don't recognize the slippery
slopes and the existential threats and
you don't understand the the sweeping
arc of history that if iDEN or when time
becomes president everything goes back
so it was and it's gonna be perfect
yeah I was gonna ask you but what what
what the way it was was that Mitch
McConnell was not even giving hearings
for a Supreme Court nominee you're
talking about Merrick garland yeah yeah
that's because it's from but but Trump
was not president at the time
yeah but McConnell knew that Trump was
gonna be once you get where it's ruff
McConnell is gonna be the centrist he's
dying to be it's so simple it's so
simple because Joe knows how to
negotiate with McConnell and a you know
Joe
was better than Obama had Joe nominated
Merrick garland McConnell would have
approved and because Joe knows how to
negotiate that's fascinating is there
any other differences between Joe and
Barack that you can identify that might
have led McConnell to be more receptive
to Joe David well let's see what are the
differences between Joe and Barack Obama
that would appeal to a senator from
Kentucky Obama well they're both they're
both not Jewish man
I don't know what the difference is
there was something about Barack Obama
but I don't know what it was maybe oh he
was from Illinois and a community
organizer that's right that you know
McConnell hates community organizers
that's what the civil war was about
right
Lincoln was deploying and the organizers
to the south it's just the giant it was
a Union Army a union of organizers
exactly well Lincoln did come from
Illinois as well and that probably stuck
us to sticks in the craw of a lot of
people he founded Illinois but Lincoln
Illinois right hey but you got it all
David if if Donald Trump was able to do
it kind of he's you know he obviously
has no shame in Hawaii and that he's
gonna go back out on the trail and have
a lot of opportunity to talk about how
Joe Biden voted for all the trade
agreements that were so bad for the
industrial Midwest and it was a main
point person for credit card companies
in the Senate to hurt working people
that he even fought against Obama and
big parts of healthcare apparently that
Trump can turned right around and and
shamelessly lie an attack and maybe even
from like the fake left the way that the
Hillary does that worry you at all or is
that naive I'm talking about Joe Biden's
record what happened the last fire phone
fire-support Joe Biden these middle
classes Union I don't know what you're
talking about you're just making up
stuff now
I think the firefighters making for
Hillary and that didn't with all the
other major labor unions that didn't
save her from this from her own voting
rights you know like the firefighters so
you think Jon Stewart was grandstanding
in front of the House Judiciary
Committee this week that's really nice
of you
the first responders you hate the first
responders wife why do you hate first
responders well I would die obviously
you should be demonetised for lying
about my view like that it's a slippery
slope if we let people lie like that
about other people's positions David
David your child your child and Sam's a
child they're all child children
children you're all child
children let me ask you this but where
exactly are you monetized anyways I
speaking fees I have a deal with a gun
manufacturer I I branded the gun during
my show because I'm leading a movement
like we're like ladder with Crowder and
you know I'm for a reasonable gun
ownership
who's monetizing you like I like like
you're you're worried about YouTube D
monetizing you you don't even have a
youtube show yeah but I I'm monetized I
gave Rubin throws me some coke money and
I care about this country and and I want
you know I'm afraid of chaos that's what
I'm afraid of
and you don't care you don't have
children I do have worried about the few
yeah but I saw them not really and what
do you mean me not really what does that
mean not really
they're real children it's not the kind
of children that that that I would
approve of do you what that means I'm
not going to come on your show and tell
you that you're not raising your
children properly that's something I
would tell you in the private
conversation for five hours well
nevertheless they're still children
I mean if I'm not racial well then I'm
still there still children you said like
you don't have children implying that I
don't care about the future but I do
have children yeah but you know you
yourself are a child so they're more
like peers well if I'm a child then
wouldn't I also care about the future I
I think you're naive I don't think
you've learned what real politique means
David all inspired by what's with it was
the name of that I forget the young
woman's name but she I mean she's maybe
not even a woman she like 14 years old
but she's been doing these incredible
earth you know these really moving
speeches on the climate crisis and
demanding that adults actually take
literally her future viability to live
seriously what do you know what do you
think of her David is she is she just a
child yes she plagiarized her entire
policy from Joe Biden she listed Joe
Biden's climate change policy
word-for-word Malala yousufzai I'm
guessing is not giving Joe Biden credit
either you know you guys you're
disrespectful to a great man Joe Biden
hey did you see in Flint Michigan
you wanted that bravery you want to talk
about great Democrats who are pragmatic
who know how to pronounce realpolitik
properly I'm like you guys because you
just have this narrow view of the world
did you see the Democratic Attorney
General in Michigan is in prosecuting
the Flint lawmakers for putting lead in
the drinking water and poisoning an
entire generation of African American
was pretty much causing ethnic cleansing
in Flint Michigan did you see the
bravery of the State Attorney General
not to prosecute the people in Flint
poisoning the water how is that brave
it's a quest
that's the
same thing you would ask of Pelosi and
Biden power they've read you don't
understand the bravery it's the easy
path would have been to hold the Flint
officials accountable but the Democrats
it was a Profile in Courage not to
prosecute these Republicans because we
need all hands on deck all of us need to
be focused on defeating Trump at the
ballot box in 2020 and in the eyes of
God and the idea is that if you if you
were to do that it would dilute the
product I see in other words if we had
democratic prosecutors focusing on the
water in Flint we're diluting the effort
to defeat Trump which is the only thing
that matters and once we get rid of
Trump the drinking water in Flint will
automatically become wet free that's a
fact that's a fact
well it's bad politics to prosecute for
the Democrats in Michigan to prosecute
the people who poisoned the water in
Flint that is childish it's the it's the
Obama torture principle you know we got
who we key when it comes to poisoning
families and entire city would lead turn
out words not we have to not backwards
right we got to turn the page does it
turn the page scenarios what you're
saying there you go
well what David David and I ask you and
I and I know and I don't mean to bring
up some a lot of shared heritage in this
room but and and certainly with you
Feldman but there is a quote that I
hadn't heard years ago from someone who
was prosecuting Nazi war crimes and I
think in this case collaboration of the
vici government officials in France and
there was a Nazi guard that they were
thinking charges against in the 90s and
someone said something to the effect of
you know can't we just move on and the
prosecutor said you can't turn the page
until the page has been written what do
you think you're talking that
cross-party
I don't think it was Klaus Barbie Klaus
Barbie was in Latin America I think
Santa Claus Barbie in Latin America but
I think Klaus Barbie was the the French
collaborator right and Barbie uh he I
think he was the was he had a video the
doctor right I know that was Himmler I
know Himmler is now that was that was
that was Magdalene Mangala right exactly
no Barbie I I don't know if it was the
French prosecuted Barbie oh I have all
the trail he was a head of the SS and
Gestapo Barbie yeah and he was right yes
yes he was known as the butcher of Lyon
absolutely yes yes and then he had boy
the butcher of Lyon I will tell you
something you can get a pork chop from
that guy so lean I'm just saying and
then he went into the then he went into
the Holocaust business and it was all
downhill but you should be we should be
demonetized for that joke it's a
slippery slope
he then went you know they went to
Bolivia and worked were for a cocaine
government and Bolivia that was backed
by the CIA and had a paramilitary that
worked for drug cartels oh you're right
he was actually knighted to France in in
83 and then he died in 91 of cancer so
there you go well the the page must be
must be written and read and then turned
and then turn must be charred like for
example we were talking about but
sometimes you know time to hide and you
don't have time to turn to read it and
so you just turn it how you turn the
page for example I had a can joke like a
Barbie and Ken joke right that time has
passed I've turned the page and moved on
and I'm not going to do it a Barbie and
Ken joke because I've turned the page in
other words you that that page is gone
well well you know I'm gonna take night
tonight
okay criticize do you mind if I because
we've had fun right we've had a spirit
we've had a spirited debate with very
few may I say ad hominem
I'm gonna tax okay but I have a problem
with your business model well let's get
to it because my business model requires
that I let you go shortly you asked your
listeners for money and you know I give
to NPR and I'm gonna ask you a question
do you think I should give to you or to
NPR I think you should give to us of
course mm-hmm
did you know that Steve Inskeep from NPR
only makes half a million a year I was
not aware of what Steve Inskeep makes it
at all Jesus have a million dollars a
year to do that how does he live I mean
so you're mean while you're asking me to
give money to the majority report when
poor Steve Inskeep and Scott Simon are
only making half a million dollars a
year you know I gotta be honest with you
we we played clips of Steve Inskeep
right yeah not that I'm not that is not
impressive but I gotta be honest with
you I don't listen to NPR so I really
not a hundred percent sure you know what
these guys a lot NPR did you listen to
NPR you would stop asking listeners to
donate because we need to support the
truth tellers and NPR they you know they
are they are on the front line they're
on the vanguard they don't waste the
listeners time putting Glenn Greenwald
on or Noam Chomsky or Ben Burgess if we
lose NPR that's an existential threat
and and we would you say that Ebola are
is the Joe Biden of media operations
David well said I wish i
if we lose NPR we will no longer hear
original voices like Sarah Val David
Brooks the New Yorkers David Remnick
and I I can't live in a world where I
don't spend my weekends listening to ten
year old archives of click and clack or
George Will did you know if they had
George whale on once a week waxing
poetic on baseball you never do that no
yeah
who's gonna berate me for voting for
Jill Stein in New York if not NPR well
exactly
we might have to say I that sounds like
a job for me I have a tote bag for that
here's something you'll never hear on
the majority report baseball is a
metaphor for life that's something you
never hear on the majority report is
that Simon or Norville that's George
will I read that book that's George yeah
yeah but you read the book but you're
too afraid to talk about it on your show
it's like NPR I mean I forgot about it I
read it like 30 years ago it's an old
book now you rather waste your listeners
time traveling on about Lula and Lucy
Dan unlike Ira Glass cuts through the
noise and tells us the truth about
Brazil make sure you get all the things
they can all things considered
last week Ira Glass on this american
life introduced me to a barista working
in Astoria who grooms a roast made up of
coffee beans from Brazil and Sudan and
and and and and and you know Michael
Brooks I know your family with Michael
Brooks and he's did Jordan later you
don't cover huh nothing ahead
well you don't cover the world talking
about whatever he talks about you cover
the situation Brazil by introducing us
to the tastes and sounds of Brazil
because I'm white I'm white and I'm
college educated I'm college educated so
I already get it Michael Brooks I
already get it okay what do you get
David Feldman I I don't need to hear you
go on and on about lula and brazil
locking up oh it's narrow we get it
lula it's Trump I went to college my
clip look okay I don't need to keep
carrying this over how many times do I
have to be told that bolas narrow is
being held in prison so you get that
balsa narrow is an iconic left-wing
political prisoner you understand the
point I don't need to hear how Lula is
locking up as political enemies I need
to hear Ira Glass telling me how this
barista unlocks the flavors of a
Brazilian coffee bean
thanks what that I think he only makes a
million a year on David we will we're
gonna take this all under advisement I
feel like to a certain extent we've all
learned something today from you your
children your children your children
your you don't know how the world really
works but you'll never ever ever be able
to pronounce realpolitik the way I can
well we're gonna take we're gonna clip
you're saying that and we're going to
practice I think that Oh ma'am and I
have a very good sense of real politics
I think you're an existential threat
well David about one thing and that we
are both cute and delicious I don't know
why you would say that David it was it
was nearly nearly at several moments
during this time a pleasure to have you
on the
today david feldman
available at the david feldman show
thank you David
thank you it's been a slippery slope
right it certainly it certainly was
Jesus Christ it was so funny the way he
moves seamlessly because when he was on
like a month ago with me he was purely
in I remember that the shtick was I
support Medicare for all in principle it
was pure MSNBC liberal kind of like
concerned trolls sort of you know he's
like I was at a party with Rob Reiner
and I hate Trump and I want credit for
that and now and then Eve it there's
another archetype that he's able to
seamlessly it happened as well
it's like Stephen Colbert but for the
NPR set he's so great David Feldman
ladies and gentlemen and folks we're
gonna take a break
head into the fun half wherein we will
have fun you can join us by becoming a
member of the program you can go to join
the majority reports.com
when you do you not only support this
program's existence but you also get
extra content every day that content is
almost commercial free every day
although I think we're gonna leave in
that Skillshare commercial today because
I think people would enjoy that would
enjoy that at two months free videos
it's not good skill keep it to yourself
exactly skill share ladies and gentlemen
skill share today is Friday can I just
say I'm sorry can I just read the
headlines of this story that just broke
in the UK this is a yawn appeal who
co-owns a and she's a gallery owner and
and apparently presents herself as a
human rights advocate is also the co
of a group that licenses software to
authoritarian regimes what's this a
leading human rights campaigner and head
of the prestigious London Art Gallery is
the co-owner of an Israeli cyber weapons
company whose software has allegedly
been used by authoritarian regimes spy
and dissonance The Guardian can reveal
yon appeal the chief executive of
serpentine galleries and a
self-proclaimed champion of free speech
co-owns NSO Group a 100 bill a 1 billion
dollar Israeli tech firm according to
corporate records in the US and
Luxembourg it's a great help that was a
good real hashtag doom right there
it's a it's a it's a hedge if you go too
far with the human rights you're gonna
be out of business so you got to keep
it's a hedge that's right that's right
she was sitting down she said that's
human rights of making so much progress
that's why we send 10% of our revenue
every month to Dave Rubin that's right
just as a hedge there's this book
Parliament limited by this guy Martin
Williams and it goes into all this sort
of double-dealing that goes on in UK
politics and it really does make
American politics look like a virtuous
almost they just oh yeah American
politics at least has like the
formalities of like you have to you know
you take the campaign contribution and
then you get the favor later whereas in
the UK it's just like I'm a member of
parliament I'm also a lobbyist for the
arms industry that's not an exaggeration
what's the Lord's yeah yeah
now whatever they hate Jeremy Corbyn so
much there are always context Tuesday
must listen with Glenn Greenwald on the
massive revelations about lava Giottos
corruption the political persecution of
Lula revelations keep dropping every
day's obviously one of the biggest
stories in the world not a t-shirt
company incidently and then Bosh Carson
Cara and Ben Burgess came on we talked
about the wide the Meitner plan which
was this fascinating move towards sort
of a really fully realized democratic
socialism in Sweden in the 70s the
history of
and then in the postgame we talked about
Steve Bannon and Thomas Friedman uniting
to go after China and what is a Marxist
response to that and what does that
reveal about the supposed difference
between globalization promoters and
neo-fascists and a debut of the Andrew
yang impression this weekend primer on
new labor and the war against Jeremy
Corbyn with dawn foster of the Jackman
in The Guardian patreon.com /tm yes
Michael Brooks show on YouTube
I like they were calling it the Jacobin
now like the Rolling Stone it's very
iconic definitely the Jacobin okay Jamie
this week on the anti Fattah we had a
great time talking with Ben Burgess
about logic milkshakes and messy
Marxism so check out the main episode
and the bonus which is out today for hot
takes on ben shapiro stefan molyneux and
our little skirmish with him Elon Musk
in my little skirmish with him and the
YouTube D platforming debate Matt
literary hangover check out the market
for episode if you haven't also
such--such with the joys George Orwell
essay on his time at prep school next
week we're recording the Blithedale
romance and we're gonna talk about the
early utopian socialists actually the
the original social socialists who used
that name were the reason that angles
used communism and the Hawthorne
actually was in one of these utopian
communist farms and named Brook Farm and
that's what the Blithedale romance is
sort of a satire of and it's not one of
his best novels but it's one of his more
anti-communist so we'll talk about that
alright folks see you in the fun half
folks six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty see you
[Music]
[Music]
and the alpha males are just wanna
degrade the white man alpha males are
back back I kick all of the giving alpha
males are back back back
almost has one and the alpha males are
back
I am a total can we bring back the
eg banner gone
yeah are a couple you put them in
rotation DJ den well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're in the alpha
males
[Music]
the back
on the back
back
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
glass blocked back
alpha males of
because all black
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadist keeping it 100
happy birthday to me
I have a thought experiment for you the
alpha males of black black alpha males
companies to pay the price of Class B
around here I am a total words -
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report number at six four six two two
five seven thirty nine twenty six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
let's go with a nine one nine number to
start off the day who's this where you
come from
awesome awesome this is a mark from
North Carolina again I've called it one
time before but um I want to call on
today and like ask you guys why you want
to ban assault rifles if that is your
position right now that is all of you
guys position right I mean I don't know
about other folks here but you know it
is it's my position yes
all right I'm just gonna give you some
quick facts about guns in this country
and then ask you like to justify your
position um so of the top twenty four
mass shootings twelve Verdun was setting
me up semi-automatic rifles missile
rebels ten with semi-automatic pistols
two with revolvers three with a shotgun
and one with the bolt-action rifle and
of the top twenty four series only one
type of weapon was used for we're done
with assault rifles and eight with
semi-automatic pistols and so facts
about homicide 11,000 gun homicides
happened in 2016 and seven thousand of
them were hand guns and 394 with some
type of rifle including assault rifles
and 262 shotguns and just to put that in
context 1,600 night murders happens four
hundred and seventy to one objects in
656 with hands or feet or something like
that so do you think we should ban
semi-automatic pistols and four and
assault rifles are just assault rifles
and if so why well let me just say
broadly that I'd like to ban all guns
and if there was an opportunity to bans
my automatic weapons then I would take
it so your data if it's true is not
terribly relevant now to me at least
according to a FBI analysis however that
there's a new study in the Journal of
the American Medical Association this is
back from 2018 that compares the number
of people hurt or killed in 248 active
shooter incidents from 2000 to 2017
using FBI data scientists
cross-referenced those incidents with
court records and media reports
determine whether a weapon was a
semiautomatic rifle they found about a
quarter of all those shootings involved
such weapons whereas the rest involved
handguns shotguns and non semi-automatic
rifles in total these shootings wounded
almost 900 people and killed more than
700 so that makes s that makes us
because 3,000 of the FBI the FBI is done
homicides unlisted as the type of
weapons to those could involve some
assault right there but ok but some
think it's a little bit empty freedom
say do I think it's anti-freedom you
value I don't know do you feel like your
freedom is inhibited by your not being
able to have a rocket I you can't have a
rocket you can you can have a container
rocket you can have like a bazooka can
you have a bazooka
yeah yep yeah if you have the right
license you can get a bazooka yeah why
do you feel you have to be licensed in -
don't you think that licensed by the
state no hits your freedom - well a
little bit but I think that's reasonable
I have to say you have to have a license
to have a garden okay well I think it's
reasonable to say that you don't need a
semi-automatic weapon we're just you and
I just have a different sense of what's
reasonable it's not a question of
freedom right because you decide what
freedom is I get to decide what freedom
is - and freedom to me is to be able to
send my kids to school excuse me and I
have to worry
some dude who has a semi-automatic
weapon he's gonna come in and shoot them
I'd like that kind of freedom I wouldn't
worry about that because masteries
aren't the majority of okay but well I
wouldn't worry about your freedom to not
have a semi-automatic weapon what do you
need it for all right just gonna you
don't need some convincing me you should
be outlawed you don't need a Ferrari you
don't need all these crazy fast cars
what about but what about grenades
getting just what what about grenade
please don't think like a knight why
can't we just have grenades fine exploit
you can't have you can't have it all
types of explosives if you have the
right license but why do I need a
license you should have to have a
license that's why you should have a
license having type of weapon just like
yeah otherwise no like I don't I'm not
like a Republican or anything like that
I'm just saying this I'm not a
Republican either and I want to know why
I have to have a license why do I have
to have the state give me permission to
own a grenade I mean I get it with a car
because I'm driving on highways that are
built by that are built by public you
know funds I get it for cars but why I
can just go get a grenade why do I have
to have a license because it's dangerous
and you have to know how to use it just
like a car why it's dangerous and you
have to know how to use it what do you
mean says who
I put throw the grenade if I want to
take common sense it's it's common sense
all right well so what do you think the
licensing requirements should be for a
semi-automatic weapon I don't think
there's any I think you just go to the
store and get one do you think that's a
problem okay so we don't so we should
add licensing requirements to a
semi-automatic weapon here's where I'll
tell you I would put a strict license on
it that that that very very few people
could own such a weapon
but I don't know about that how many
people own cars you have a lights for
that you had to go through a class yeah
but I would put very stringent I would
put same stains how about this I think
we can find a compromise today same
license that allows you to get a grenade
you can get a semi-automatic weapon
how's that I mean I that's awesome
that's a cool common ground I'm just one
more thing before you jump is like if
you want if you ban all guns you're also
eliminating sports shooting in this
country necessarily by doing that so
that's gonna ruin a lot of people's
hobbies and like just cuz you guys don't
have guns doesn't mean a lot of like
some people hide fur their food i-i-i
don't have a a problem with with with
hunting weapons frankly i mean i I have
a lot of friends who who take a deer a
year and put it in their freezer and in
some instances that's the only meat that
they have for the year I don't have a
problem with that really but but alright
but for the most part any type of weapon
that is not clearly limited for for
hunting purposes shouldn't be there I
think they should all have you need to
have a fingerprint ID on them because
too many kids find these guns and blow
their heads off I don't agree with that
and so we found some common ground there
appreciate the call alright well I was
easy ID bring in it was a bet a people's
bet together it would it was a nice
conversation bringing people together
said go mom I think gun control might be
the only area on which I'm a moderate
yeah I mean I think I'm I was moderate
and that my proposal moderate you just
need need have a licensing process like
you would for good nights yeah you need
to be
ts a socialist Rifle Association will
issue you a special license no uh yeah I
feel like sometimes people mistake my
stance on this like I do not believe
that the left should arm itself so that
it can overthrow the government that's
just ridiculous right they're not gonna
your gun is not gonna be any good
against the US military the thing I'm
concerned about is if and when the state
breaks down and our neighborhoods are
being patrolled by white power militias
then I'm gonna want to have guns to
defend my community there was a little
bit of that in the wake of Katrina yeah
um so John Hickenlooper has found a
reason ladies and gentlemen a reason why
he's running for president and that is
to become Joe Biden's something not
exactly sure what he wants is hereby
denied area which would be a disaster
and mark my words
oh yeah he's the guy who drinks fracking
fluid isn't he that's him
that's so folks are gonna remember folks
my age you're gonna remember the the
Fred Thompson this is I'm gonna do a
little Rachel Maddow right now there was
many of you are familiar with law and
order and of course this is a huge
franchise that has multiple different
spin-offs and one of the actors who was
in law and order was Fred Thompson Fred
Thompson was also a senator Fred
Thompson also ran in the 2008 Republican
primary people were like what
why is Fred Thompson doing this Fred
Thompson was doing this because John
McCain was running in the 2008 primary
and I cannot remember who the candidate
they were afraid was going to win in
South Carolina
that was going to take away momentum
from John McCain so Fred Thompson hung
in there till South Carolina which
everybody was like why is he doing that
until it became clear he why he was
doing that he was doing that because he
was buddies with John McCain and the
McCain campaign knew that Fred Thompson
would be taking away votes from McCain's
rival in South Carolina where McCain
maybe didn't have the full strength
maybe in part because when George W Bush
ran against them there in 2000 he was
basically letting everyone know that
John McCain had adopted a child who was
brown and was making it about having an
illegitimate child I guess something to
that effect and that's what I think John
Hickenlooper is doing this time around I
think he is a stalking horse Joe Biden
and he is appealing to different parts
of the Democratic Party by basically
throwing himself on the grenade and this
is what he's doing he's going out there
and trying to scare people about Bernie
Sanders majus dad I mean that's what all
of those nothings are gonna do in that
debate with Bernie I mean you know saw
well I mean you have this whole
conglomeration Cimmerian of losers know
Mary Ann Mary well let's listen
Hickenlooper first Sanders said clearly
on Wednesday that the goal of his
complete agenda is to make the United
States of America into a democratic
socialist country the urgency now is
even greater than before Democrats must
say loudly and clearly that we are not
socialists if we do not we will end up
helping to re-elect the worst president
in this country's history that is yes
Howard Schultz incidentally has taken a
break apparently
his back is hurting him and so he is off
the campaign trail
no Burton like but I feel like this is
super important like we better stay on
campaign yeah and here is Bernie Sanders
response to Hickenlooper he warned you
against the smooth Basin that says of
course we believe these things we
believe in Social Security we believe in
work for the unemployed we believe in
saving homes cross our hearts and hope
today we believe in all these things but
we do not like the way the present
administration is doing them just turn
them over
we will do all of them we will do more
of them we will do them better and most
important of all the doing of them will
not cost anybody anything so perfect and
now center of FDR and sending it back to
John Hickenlooper I mean the UH I don't
know I don't know how this Hickenlooper
stuffer stuffer works or not but that's
what Hickenlooper is doing and that
presumably is what he's gonna do in the
debate right that's what a lot of them
will do but I you know I really agree
with Harvey Kay on this actually I think
of particularly in the context of this
primary it's such an effective frame to
say like oh okay well I'm the only one
up here who doesn't hate FDR apparently
I'm the only one up here wants to take
the best president you know best
Democratic best president in history
besides Lincoln who created programs
that are still saving lives today and
updated for the 21st century so if you
reject our you know some of the most
crucial legacies of our country in this
party good for you but I'm gonna get
back to working on health care Thanks so
good that he got out in front of all of
this red-baiting crap with his speech
when he defined very clearly what he
means when he says democratic socialism
yeah Hickenlooper also responded here
says FDR is one of my heroes a great
Democrat and a fellow governor with a
record of accomplishment see you at the
debate center but this reminds me this
is like the different thing is about
technology and how he can use FDR as a
surrogate now just posting clips it's
like I don't know it's it's very I hope
that I it looks like brains had somebody
going through the FDR archives for
weapons basically it's gonna be
interesting to see you know the Truman
quote was actually significant to that
he used in the speech where Truman
basically was just like every single
good thing that's ever happened in this
country has been called socialist by
people who opposed the try to demonize
it and I know by the way it attendance
and you know in Internet posers that not
all of these things are technically
socialism and the
to the campaign this is enormous ly
smart and effective the only thing I
wonder honestly is if it isn't sort of
side tracking now maybe there is value
in him getting this out of the way in
terms of defining a Democratic Socialist
but I can't help but think that the the
the brand is less relevant than the
policies and I hope that it doesn't
become a you know and in it from that
clip it makes me think that that he and
his team understands that that it's not
about defending the term Democratic
Socialist as much as it is about
defending the policies and using using
the policies as the pivot point which I
think you know that clip clearly does
definitely I think Americanizing it is
brands work which is really important
and people are gonna call him a
socialist no matter what people are
gonna call these policies socialist no
matter what so it's a way to take back
the narrative and say actually it is
more about the policies than the label
and these policies are very popular
gonna be an interesting debate I'm
looking forward to it I'm looking
forward to both of them and yes of that
stage marianne williamson absolutely
will be the second best candidate after
sanders and that line of fives no doubt
know that Bernie's got good vibes
Andrew Yang's whole strategy rests on
being standing next to Biden if he can
have that arranged because he's done
calculations that show that that will be
maximum exposure relit brilliant in
really important voice Wow
I'll become a top search firm in Google
let's see here oh yeah yeah yeah so here
is Donald Trump ABC's been rolling out
this part of this interview that and he
did multiple interviews I guess with
George Stephanopoulos
and here is Donald Trump losing his
patience a little bit it feels like with
with George Stephanopoulos
there's a little bit of like Michael
Grimm involved in this Michael Grimm of
course was the former congressman from
Staten Island who threatened to throw a
New York one I think it was reporter
over the side of in the Rotunda in in
Congress throw him off the balcony and
drop him down to the next floor Donald
Trump I think probably talks a little
more than does in that situation they
said wait like there's a gabbard date
Michael Grimm is that a true rumor is
that a true I'm where I've literally
heard I'm asking you I don't know I have
no idea all right but it would have been
a funny bit though
here is Stephanopoulos and Donald Trump
talking about obstruction but if you
answer these questions to me now why not
answer them to robert muller under oath
because they were looking to get us four
lies for slightly statements I looked at
what happened to people and it was very
positive for one second
I know people hate it when I pause after
three seconds in a video but why does
Donald Trump look like he just walked
off the set of Chernobyl first of all
and I would also add that when you're
asked why you didn't say this under oath
and your response is because I don't
want to get caught in a lie I feel like
you're off message but if you answer
these questions to me now why not answer
them to robert muller under oath because
they were looking to get us four lies
for slightly misstatements I looked at
what happened to people and it was very
unfair very very unfair very unfair I
gave them 1.5 million pages of documents
right I gave them four or five hundred
witnesses
I let Don Magan testify I let him tell
you the White House Counsel I let him
touch I knew he was dead first interview
you didn't answer questions on the
structure wait a minute wait a minute I
did answer questions I answered them in
writing not I don't know about I don't
know I answered a lot of questions they
gave me questions I answered them in
writing not an obstruction look George
you're being a little wiseguy okay
they're just you know typical for you
just so you understand very simple it's
very simple there was no crime there was
no collusion Wow they've been a little
wiseguy simple all you need to know is
no crime he's so obsessed with people's
physicality like what is register
jockeys a little look she's little short
so what's he's being he's being a little
wise guy yeah I could squishy doesn't
look like he just got barbecued George
Bush had the same quality about you know
he was all like but it was supposed to
be like more benevolent and you know
that was the thing that people liked him
he would make nicknames out of everybody
right Brooks Lee yeah he absolutely
would I remember even at Bates you know
there was like a pretty big contingent
of like prep school kids and the enemy
oh hey hey Brooks I was like oh this is
weird your ID if I never understood
before it's like all right yeah that's
right I came from Brooksie in there
right tall stuff tall stuff and bricks
see over here oh it's fine what's mine
tattoo girl that's good no no What's Up
Girl address girl dragon tattoo just
gonna call her tats what you doing over
there Bren Bren
I know that is hell movies okay and this
is very funny you should watch these
guys they have a YouTube channel
wait what is this is this oh this is a
different one but I'll have that ready
too all right so a lot of people are
trying to defend the presidents I guess
announcement or just in the course of an
interview making it clear that he will
take Oppo research from anybody even if
it's a foreign country I don't even know
they would even back it up necessarily
I'll take it as long as it favors me
I'll do it I don't care
and so Gorka gets out there like where
does he get off getting that presence at
the presidential seal in his studio I
worked for him yes I was a politically
commissioned officer and and is this new
- is he always had the Twin Towers in
the background I think they've been
there for at least a little bit he's got
the blue lives matter flag - and then he
has like an ancient reel-to-reel
recording device which he obviously
doesn't use but I got this for a good
deal from Ace of Base just want to make
sure understand it's fellow travelers
there I'm on radio here it is it's the
is this the relief factor is that a an
ad I think that must be an ad I don't
know but his show is America first and
why does he have a flag like in the
foreground is weird all right no but
here is Gorka the president said and you
heard the audio or played again I'm sure
in the next hour if a country like
Norway provided relevant damaging
information I would listen to it now
what is no way no way is an ally it is
actually a treaty ally of the United
States it is a founding member of the
North Atlantic Treaty
Organization NATO and yes if an allied
nation had intelligence about some
dastardly history with regards to a
political candidate you would be obliged
to listen to them
it's what allies do not just in wartime
but in peacetime we share information
with each other and if that information
is about people who are subvert in
security to ignore it would be the
reprehensible act
no no corker really got the point well
Gorka is changing the point because one
Hillary Clinton was not subverting the
national security of the United States
with the emails that went back and forth
in her campaign a and B that's actually
he just told his retold how the whole
Muller investigation came to be it was a
former Australian diplomat treated
country that tipped off the FBI to a
conversation he had with Papadopoulos
that's what got the investigation wasn't
the criminal investigation wasn't the
Muller investigation but it was the the
Intel investigation off and rolling
but Gorkhas got a Gork which is why this
is even better this is the not even a
show and this is one of my new favorite
two YouTube pages these guys call up and
do prank phone calls to right wing talk
shows and then cut them up and sort of a
there's a little bit of like Vic burger
and this is this is good stuff though
here it is
adjectives very important and you know
if if we can enlarge your vocabulary
with more adjectives we will do so John
line for Idaho welcome to the first hey
mister Gorka thank you so much for
taking my call no huge fan super excited
that you have the radio show for me to
listen to every day I got a liberal
sister who's she gives me a hard time
about being such a fan she says you're a
she calls you a big-headed boot licker
and also too nasty she is she older or
younger she's younger than I am and then
how do you how do you respond to her
rudeness I mean it's such a lefty thing
that's what I say I don't say anything
about any of the people that she listens
to her likes and you know she watches
The Daily Show I don't ever mess on that
and she's she's always saying stuff like
she says that you know you'd seem like
your your breath smells and you know
ridiculous is that what your parents
taught her I mean I I hope not because I
mean I was taught the thin thing and I
don't I don't talk like that you there's
always got nice three-piece suits but
you can put a three-piece suit on a
piece of dog crap it's still a piece of
dog crap and he's actually one of the
ugliest and biggest losers on the entire
hate radio how hateful she is what's her
first name yeah
what's your first what's your sister's
name John her first name is Gorka oh so
you're a troll
oh yeah you gotta hit them yeah thank
you see this is why the left will never
win because they are fueled by hate by
by by hate they are being eaten by acid
on the inside by acid or the there's a
lot more go and check it out there's a
three it's if the opponent look there's
a three-hour it's called the JJ supercut
may be a good place to start this
weekend the show it's not this is it's a
not even a show not even a show
not even a show on YouTube he really
should just quit what he's doing and be
a voice actor yes and you can you hook
him up Sam you got connections it would
be great like my book like cartoon
villain play like some type of like no
but like something kind of like like
some type of like like I don't know like
evil rat and like some type of Disney
movie or the rats but I eanes start to
eat each other yeah work well is like in
a totally different context they'll be
good for a kid's movie like and then we
will finally have the Fox family
cornered and he is turning over the
tables in the swamp as I do I think Wes
Anderson could do a lot with him
fantastic mr. Gorga I think mr. well
know he would be like some type of like
gun collecting exterminator or something
that the Foxes had to outwit that would
be really good actually I got that
wallace and gromit
energy wallace and gromit energy
oh this is pretty funny Donald Trump
apparently is not aware of how he won
the last election as you know Hillary
Clinton won the popular vote by three
million votes a little bit more three
million more people voted for Hillary
Clinton and Donald Trump
however Trump won Michigan and Wisconsin
by less than thirty thousand votes
combined he won Pennsylvania by about
forty thousand votes thereby giving him
the wind because of the electoral
college here's Donald Trump explaining
to Fox and Friends how the electoral
college actually does not favor
Republicans it favors Democrats despite
this he must be a really great candidate
you know I think I think we're gonna do
great now look it's a competitive race
it's always it's always tougher for the
Republican because you know I don't know
people people never cover this but the
electoral college is very much steered
to the Democrats it's a big advantage
for the Democrats it's very much harder
for the Republicans to win and I think
we're gonna do very well I think we're
gonna have a great election because of
what we've done and what we've
accomplished and you have detailed some
of those accomplishments during our 32
minutes with you
sounds like they got a go I have a
proposal if if the electoral college
disadvantages Republican so much let's
just get rid of it let's join together
in the interest of fair play vote there
was one other state that just voted for
it was at Oregon or Washington State
somewhere out west and Nevada voted
governor who rejected it but there was
another state that just passed it as
well yeah Trump should use his executive
powers to get rid of the electoral
college I save Republicans true he
doesn't even need to use doctor I think
you could just come out and say it and
that would probably help alright lastly
let's talk about this
Lou Dobbs not terribly relevant but fun
to laugh at and it is Friday here is
he's getting very upset that the pretty
picture of the new Air Force One has
been ruined and he's taking it out on
its producers I'm starting to worry
about Lou Dobbs a little bit not really
worried but president Trump unveiling a
new patriotic paint job for the new Air
Force one and this I think you will like
we can't wait to hear from you as we
zoom in on the pictures I think it'll be
even more impressive we are going to
zoom right folks this blue base from
white top and no we're going to just
keep that thumb right in the center of
the picture apparently you know what I
hate to think that we're going to we're
going to do such a disservice to this
rendering I think it's beautiful the
blue base the red stripe I bet you know
what most people can't see that so I
don't know who what's producer did this
because no we're gonna have a special
bonus for you escape involves a blue
base a white top a thin red line through
the middle isn't it better for me to
describe it than to actually show you a
close picture revealing this new design
I apologize for that the jet would be
much bigger than the existing
presidential aircraft by the way point
scheduled to delivers the two new
aircraft by 2024 the president will be
in well heeled it's just in time for his
second term and looking forward to that
up next
Eady thanks so much and it didn't have
anything to do with those graphics Wow
really upset grouchy that was this
producer I'd be like
it's a paint job you dumb Nazi yeah who
cares
Jesus if I was his producer I be like
you know what let's include the thumb
again tomorrow and maybe shoot some more
cortisol through this old bastard's
system let's go to the phones calling
from a 708 area code who's this where he
come from
hey Sam this is James Slater 19 calling
from the shoreline area how is that on
today Dragonslayer 19 good to hear from
you glad it's not Dragon Slayer 1
through 18 well thank you I'm sad two
quick things I want to talk about first
samih had to be honest I'm a little bit
depressed because I heard that Michaels
live show in Chicago was canceled but I
wanted to reassure people that there are
still reasons to come to Chicago excuse
me Dragon Slayer I'm gonna step on you
that was a joke
the meditation retreat the Chicago show
is still on get your tickets today link
available on the website Thank You
Dragon Slayer now go plug the socialism
conference conference coming up in a
couple weeks from July 4th through the
7th there's going to be a bunch of West
as best keeps going out there and when
if you want to go you can hear certain
some great speakers like Naomi Klein Amy
Goodman a bunch of the recently elected
Democratic Socialist America aldermen a
lot as long with recent guests on em are
like Bosch Carson Cara Eric lankan Ostra
Taylor on that so I hope people will
come on and join when is it they're on
from now I've got hmm when is it the 7th
to that is July 4th through the 7th you
can get more detail that socialism
conference org I went last year I had a
really good time there you go I might
end up going again this year I'm not
sure yet
but yeah now that I have that like
little plug out of the way there's one
other issue I want to talk with you Sam
you know man surprised that no one else
has really brought up especially like
John from San Antonio and all the other
people who really are involved with bold
so there's recently a poll that came out
about three weeks ago now about the dip
in the numbers of a front-runner for the
presidential nomination and apparently a
recent controversy came out about how
said nominee recently went on vacation
to Florida and use child labour to
defraud a private business and of course
Sam I'm talking about yourself and your
bid for the libertarian nomination and
honestly people are a little bit uh
confused on how to feel about this
because on the one hand child labor
that's good
on the other hand defrauding private
businesses that's bad how did I use fill
a bird in fraud private businesses
apparently it's something about having
your children steal towels in order to
like take up more area by the pool or
something oh it's something crazy like
that but what I really want to hear Sam
is with this controversy like out there
how are you going to be able to like
really bounce back as like earlier today
you're talking about how like licenses
are stupid and like that's always a good
tactic for any sort of libertarian
platform right but you really need to
take on Tanz vessel which is this here
are the 2020s theme and so I hope you'll
explain to us how you're going to
incorporate that into your platform so
we can kind of see a return to your
domination in the polls anyways I'll
take my answer effect okay I did not
know what he was talking about what is
toucans daesil what is that okay I
didn't get anything other than doing and
never use a canceled tea MBS show as a
launching point for your plugs buddy
yeah it's not you know we're careful
with that gotta be very careful alright
I get it your little wise guy okay so
the socialism compromise coming up
yeah we get it we get it coming from us
little five oceans of conferences coming
okay fine
six one five area code this is Chris
from Washington Chris from Washington
what's on your mind are you quiet two
things the first is that I really earned
my paycheck as part of your infiltration
crew because I called in to David Pakman
about him D platforming you okay I
appreciate that so so I called in and I
left a voicemail because I guess you
have to be a member or whatever to
actually call into the show and he made
a video last night with a voicemail in
it and the funny thing so the video has
a thumbnail of him dressed like you yeah
which is pretty disturbing although that
is the exact same since stole yours
obviously and can we play I know Michael
asked for a ballpark what you're going
to say but I think that's a little too
specific so I'm gonna give like a 10,000
foot view basically yeah he's real
serious about this D platforming you
know he's so serious he pled ignorance
like he had no idea what he was talking
about Wow
and then he said something about oh you
know just the baby this is about the
tattletale training and then he said you
were a Russian and you like dolls or
something to that effect I wasn't really
paying attention so he seemed like a guy
no he said Sam was like a Russian troll
dog and all those who are listening you
need to look up this horrifying picture
it's pretty disturbing yeah it's pretty
disturbing stuff and you know what you
know and David made this picture we were
saying so uh so he's pretty serious
about it Wow he platforming well I
appreciate the call no we would not have
heard about this thank you well and on
my second point more serious notes on an
ad that I was in the Navy for eight
years and a lot of service members
historically they vote
Republicans and there's a lot of reasons
why they do that but I haven't seen any
candidates make any real serious effort
to try to actually speak out to
servicemembers and veterans
try to get them to go more progressive
like individually a lot of that's and
servicemembers actually do you think
fairly progressively but when you get
them into big groups they're real
conservative and so I mean it's not
really I don't think it would be a
difficult sell because TRICARE would be
very similar to Medicare for all and you
know they're getting a government
paycheck and all that kind of stuff so
have you guys seen anybody that's
actually trying to speak out to push
active-duty service members and that's
towards a progressive platform or yes
all teams are no enduring that they like
to do so Jamie yes you did tattoo girl
yeah I mean I know I him a decent amount
but Spencer ripp own the the combi cadet
who got kicked out of the Army for
wearing a t-shirt and holding up a hat
that said communism will win at his West
Point graduation ceremony I mean he
might be more to the left than you're
talking about but he has made a very
good case for why there's lots of
potential for class consciousness
radicalization even and certainly
convincing people to be more progressive
within the military he made a great
podcast called eyes left that's geared
towards current and former active-duty
service members and I just think it's
really good can I just bring both of
those themes together and say how do you
feel as a veteran and I think those of
us on the Left should support veterans
and respect them how do you feel a you
know setting a US Empire aside some
element of serving your country on
behalf of things like freedom of speech
and open society and seeing David Pakman
just so ruthlessly run over those values
how does that feel to you Oh totally
against it that's why
that's why I serve at your infiltration
crew well would you say thank you as a
veteran thank you for your service and
thank you also for your work in the
military we shade that thanks a lot are
you saying what I'm saying I don't know
did he say the Pakman hates troops I
don't know I might even plied it yeah
it's worth exploring it's pretty it's
pretty rough stuff let's go to the phone
to come from a three for seven area code
who's s where you calling from hey Sam
this is Eric from Queens Eric from
Queens what's on your mind Eric
so FYI tan Staffel stands for there
ain't no such thing as a free lunch it's
a common libertarian acronym that's
probably what he was going on about
thank you
so you know you guys about this earlier
in the week I don't you saw it are you
familiar with the video platform library
spelled lbr why we say again are you
familiar with the video platform called
library spelled lbr why no so yeah it's
it's kind of this growing crypto video
platform that I got interested in a
while ago just for promoting some of my
own stuff and I forgot about it like all
these other alternatives but I've been
getting a newsletters promoting Gavin
McGinnis on this program and I fired it
up and it's got a bunch of stuff from
Tim Poole I'm not sure if I actually
know who that is but I think he's a bad
guy
some like pro Brett Weinstein stuff in
this yeah a whole bunch of like lbr on
twitter there lb ry comm yeah it seems
they function a little bit differently
from how YouTube monetizes itself and
how these other social media companies
do but it's very clearly how to pro
Jordan Peterson Pro steven crowder bent
whining and crying about you know free
speech going away and what's concerning
to me is also the amount of gamer videos
on here
and you never know how these things blow
up I actually think David pac-man is
somewhere in here but clearly like even
when I fire up the app the first thing
it promotes is Gavin McInnes
Wow so it may be something worth looking
into
and if not maybe even you guys getting
some of your videos up on here to
compete in this free marketplace of
ideas look into it out well look into it
yeah check it out all right thanks I
appreciate it thanks all right let's
take one more phone call we got to get
out of here shortly a lot of people have
been hanging on for over 40 minutes
today calling from a 9:04 area code hey
Sam it's Chris from Jacksonville Florida
hello Chris what's on your mind
well I wanted your opinion on a grand
bargain for the Democratic Party which
is Joe Biden committing to a one-term
presidency he's getting I think he's
getting up there in age and I agree with
him that Trump is an existential threat
that needs to be stopped so what do you
think if Biden came out and said give me
one term I'm done after that and I'll
you know passed the baton to the new
generation well I mean I get it say one
of the issues I have with Biden aside
from his politics I think being bad is
that I actually am not convinced that he
has any more of an opportunity to win
than other candidates and I would say in
fact I would say that he is very
possibly more problematic than you know
any of the top five candidates I'd say
and I'll tell you why because I think a
lot of voters that the margins will stay
home with a Joe Biden and I just don't
think that he is going to bring as many
Republican voters as he seems to think
he's going to be able to do I just don't
I don't see why that would happen
frankly so I'm a little bit worried
about Joe Biden as a candidate to be
honest with you I just am worried about
my experience with with Democrats
running a candidate because they think
he can win despite the lack of
enthusiasm for him which is basically
the way that I think everybody describes
Joe Biden has not worked out well yeah I
agree with that
although I would say you know focusing
on the swing states I think you know
Trump does when I think he's going to
lose the popular vote probably even more
than he did last time I think focusing
on the swing states I think Biden is um
is still pretty strong but I mean way
why would Biden be any stronger than
even the top the top five like
candidates I mean I think you know the
the bottom line is is that Hillary
Clinton in some instances a function of
decisions they made during the campaign
in some instances a function of stuff
that she had no control over in some
instances a function of the baggage that
she came with that may or may not have
been you know her responsibility was a
uniquely ill-suited candidate to run
against Donald Trump and it's just like
this presumption that Joe Biden is a
slam dunk I think is wrong and I'm
worried about running a candidate I
think he could win I mean I think most
of the Democrats you know the top
Democrats can win but to the extent that
I'm worried about it I worry about it
more with Joe Biden because you just
don't want to run somebody that doesn't
seem to have a core constituency in the
party
that is enthusiastic in any way to the
extent that he has a core constituency
it's just basically to prevent you know
some other people from winning and
that's just not a recipe to win a what
could be a very very difficult campaign
so I would say that to be honest with
you that I think Biden can win but I
think he's probably the riskiest person
to run yeah I see your point there I
mean who do you have you met anybody
who's super enthusiastic about Joe Biden
no I haven't right I mean but the one
thing I think he has is that you know
once we do pick a candidate Trump is
going to spend 24 hours a day you know
lying and mocking this person and I
think that Joe Biden being such a known
quantity might be a little bit more
inoculate it was more of a known
quantity who are in Irv a known quantity
than Hillary Clinton honestly she was in
she was in public life for 30 years she
was it that she was in the White House
30 years ago like the the problem that I
have with Joe Biden in terms of like I
mean aside in addition television but if
I'm like a campaign perspective is he
his candidacy is all about Donald Trump
and that's a problem because it's also
what I critiqued Hillary Clinton for in
July of last year it's a problem because
if you make it about Trump or even if
you make it about Joe Biden all the
focus goes to Trump if you make it about
an issue set then Trump has nowhere to
go
there's no tit for tat like whoever runs
needs to basically run as if they're
running against nobody
because the American public already has
its feelings about Donald Trump I am
running it like nobody liked if you if
at this point you as a candidate need to
sell the idea that Donald Trump is an
existential threat is anything
represents anything to the American
public then it's not they're not gonna
get it do you understand like if Donald
Trump hasn't proven what a problem is
you're reiterating it in me is
meaningless and if he has proven it
you're reiterating it is meaningless
except for it just goes over to Trump
and then everybody just turns their
cameras over there
so yeah that that is my big fear that
they that Joe Biden is setting up
himself as being like you know as as the
antidote to Trump and I just think
that's a really dangerous game to get in
to make it about personalities with
Donald Trump cuz I have a great
personality and here's the other thing
every time Joe Biden has been out on a
campaign by himself he has been rejected
significantly now he has a little bit
more latitude now because he's going out
there is basically is you know in many
respects is like sort of third term a
Barack Obama but at one point people are
gonna you know he's gonna get Expo
you know like exposed like he's you know
they're shielding him now but at one
point like he's gonna get out there
because if you continue to do that you
get framed by the other side and I just
I don't think he's a very likable guy to
the vast majority of Americans I really
just don't think that's the case I think
there's a perception he is but if he was
I don't think he would have fallen so he
would have dropped out of those races in
the past so dramatically but we'll see
bless me Father for I have sinned
yeah there you go appreciate the call
all right we got China
one more call let's see here
Lots Jews from let's go with a 972 area
code who's this where he call them from
uh - this is Alex from Texas Alex from
Texas what's on your mind
so I'd hate to make you repeat yourself
I already had this question prepared
it's kind of all along the same lines of
what you just talked about with Joe
Biden but I had this thought and this
idea I wanted to see if you thought that
it held any water and that's that when
when Joe Biden talks about Trump I don't
think he's hitting him hard enough right
so like I'll use the example like the
other night he was talking about what
was it little Donny Deutsch and I don't
you know everybody knows Trump's a bully
he's not he's not really you know gonna
win anything over or damage Trump in any
way with talking like that um you know
like when you hit Trump you gotta hit
him hard so I was just wondering your
thoughts on that so what you saying
you're saying that Biden doesn't hit
Trump hard hard enough yet well I I I
just don't think that you that you that
you even bother III I think you don't
even bother to go after Trump like this
this is a this is a silly construction
like I say if you need to sell to the
American public that Donald Trump is bad
for America at this point then guess
what they're not buying it everybody
who's gonna buy that proposition has
already bought it you're just you're
just flogging something that they don't
want you gotta go out there and
basically say this is why I'm running
and and and sell yourself Donald Trump
does not need help
turning off voters he doesn't yeah and
what what the American public wants to
choose between someone who's gonna do
stuff for me and for America versus that
guy Donald Trump
they don't want you you know Joe Biden
doesn't have to be the one to tell you
no Joe Blow six-pack or whatever it is
you know whoever he's supposedly talking
to that Donald Trump's a loser like that
Joe Sixpack is like why should I believe
you Joe Biden hurt her so I think like
the construct of like he's got to hit
him harder that's stupid
don't watch Donny joy Donny Deutsch is
an idiot come on hack Jesus Christ don't
waste your time one more thing before I
go yeah you could just give me a piece
of life advice sure if anything of
course I mean everybody comes to me for
advice yeah no I mean like give me your
choice of random advice oh oh oh you
don't have any jacket no problem I see
you Skillshare you got i well yeah you
Skillshare actually that's a good idea
I mean give me a give me a context how
to be a better person
oh yeah don't even try and do that
appreciate the car Alex hang in there
how about that hang in there
how about don't cause us to go late with
your call here's my advice
don't listen to Michael Brooks listen to
Michael Roberts come in Michael Roberts
all right folks smart all right now that
was our final call today 247
Michael hasn't eaten yet apparently so
he's getting a little cranky that's
exactly right
we I filed this
children alright folks see you on Monday
[Music]
I was
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
