tulsi gabbard of those candidates that
have announced at this point and those
that have you know I think a reasonable
chance of event let the very least
influencing the election if not if not
possibly winning the primary Tulsi
Gabbard in some respects is the least
known it seems to me from a from a broad
perspective part of that is because she
is from Hawaii part of it is because
she's a congresswoman as opposed to so
far senators that we have that have
jumped in the race and she in some
aspects from I'm talking about from a
perspective of the left
she is a in some quarters of the left
you know a quite a champion not the
least of which because she was quite
strong in her support of Bernie Sanders
in the 2016 primary but let's take a
look at and you've written a piece about
her some of her affiliations that that
seem on some level to implicate her
foreign policy choices too because I
think broadly speaking she is perceived
to be anti-war I'm not sure if that's
and you'll tell me if that assessment
how accurate you think that assessment
is but you did a piece that really
looked into her relationship with Hindu
nationalists where where does that story
start so thank you for that question Sam
I absolutely agree with you that 50
gathered has been a champion of the
lesson love progressive circles on a lot
of concentrate Lee so you know because
of voting record has been very clean on
a lot of topic she's very cool she wants
to legalize marijuana she quit for
Bernie Sanders expect to expect her so
you know there's a lot of good that she
has done with the net with largely left
here but the story of gathered
links to Narendra Modi and her ties to
mommy supporters it's very interesting
one in that in 2011
the fortuity Gabbard primary when when
people in Hawaii did not know her very
well there were certain people from the
larger you know circle of of Hindu
nationalists or or people who are in an
executed capacity heading those
organizations that are linked that other
US counterparts of Hindu nationalized
nationalist organizations in India these
people were funding her campaign and
these are not just members of
organizations that are linked to England
nationalist organization will be their
executives of those organizations and it
is very interesting because Hawaii is as
a state is not native to India mericans
at all you know even American the
dysphoric population is mostly in New
York New Jersey on the East Coast and on
the west coast California Texas Illinois
you know these cases mostly so it was
very interesting how that relationship
came about now of course it's it's been
before forgive me for interrupting but I
mean you know for the sake of our
audience who may not have any
familiarity with with just even what
Hindu nationalists are let's let's just
back up a little bit and what when we
say Hindu nationalists what who and who
and what are we talking about so we had
we have a democratic elected right-wing
government in power in India and was led
by an arranger Modi he is the prime
minister and he fights election from
body called the BJP the party junta
party which is a right-of-center party
in India which gets its ideological
inspiration from a host of other
organizations in India the track the
most important organization being the
RSS which is the rostral and they were
stung which is called the ideological
parent or the father of the BJP now
including Prime Minister
movie the president current president of
India and and many other types of
people's and of the current cabinet has
been members of the RSS at some point
have been and they call themselves
lifelong volunteers of this organization
so it's an ideological organization this
organization is also you know was formed
in the 1920s and that it's it's it calls
itself a social organization working for
the office of Hindus but it's apparently
the organization they have a uniform
they have daily drills with resin you
know staff sticks etc at the core of the
ideology of the irony of this
organization is to create a hidden state
which is the state the rest of India's
minority populations it's not completely
purging them relegating them to a to a
status of second-class citizens now when
we say India's minority populations we
are talking about the world's second
largest Muslim population a very sizable
Christian population all right you know
origin of the Sikh faith in the world
and so on and so forth so this is the
ideological basis of the RSS it was it
was very strangely you know not as
opposed to British colonial rule as the
as India's current opposition party and
also its own this party the National
Congress and RSS member King Mahatma
Gandhi because he he thought that
Mahatma Gandhi was too soft on Muslims
and so on and so forth
now the RSS is is has been known and has
been implicated in staging pogroms in
India including mass murder of around
800 Muslim theorists eight figures in
the western state of Gujarat in the year
2002 when Modi was the then Chief
Minister or the head of employment in
Gujarat
I'm sorry you said you said I just want
to just be clear he at that point was a
top official of the RSS at the time that
this okay could you go back over that
because I wasn't quite sure
I'll call that part so sure so moody was
the elected representatives of the
Gujarat government he was representing
the BJP under his watch the rights took
place in which a lot of international
and national bodies are condemned me for
not doing enough to stop the violence I
see and the United States on that
account denied him a visa from he wanted
to enter the United States in 2005 which
was triggered after the riots and the
United States refused because of his
human rights record and that band was
ultimately lifted in 2014 when he became
the prime minister clear with a thumping
majority and you know because of state
state relations when actually cannot
afford to not talk to India which is the
world's largest immigrant and the key
ally in foreign policy so so I just want
to make sure that that people you know
that we that we we we absorb this
specific aspect of Modi's background
that the US government were not for his
status as as Prime Minister this is
someone who would be denied entry into
the United States because of United
States understanding and perspective
that he essentially allowed for the
these this mass killing to take place I
mean literally look the other way and so
yeah and and and and that's a you know a
considerable obviously not Ali well
maybe to a certain extent illegal um but
it but a pretty severe indictment of
this guy's record right and it's
indicative of of just how virulent
this level of of nationalism is that
okay well let's let's take a break there
so we have a sense of what we're talking
about when we we talk about Modi we have
the United States dealing with him
obviously to some extent reluctantly but
obviously
necessarily because he is the Prime
Minister of of India and India is
obviously a huge player in the national
stage we got to take quick break we'll
be right back with soo Miah Shankar as
we discuss Tulsi gabbard's relationship
with Hindu nationalists we'll be right
back after this
