so folks today is the day when Veterans
Day is celebrated yesterday was veteran
I guess the actual Veterans Day Veterans
Day if my if I'm not mistaken started in
this country many other countries known
as Armistice Day and I believe that we
used to also call it Armistice Day here
and then we realized like oh okay
we've got too many wars so we're just
going to include all veterans all
military veterans but Donald Trump flew
to France outside of Paris I guess at
the beginning of the weekend ostensibly
to celebrate or commemorate I guess
Armistice Day what most of Europe calls
Armistice Day we call Veterans Day I
guess we switched that in 54 it is
supposed to commemorate the anniversary
of the end of World War 1 and we're now
I guess at a hundred years and Donald
Trump flew to France and then apparently
it was raining so he didn't go to the
cemetery for the ceremony he ultimately
came out of his shell nobody's quite
clear on why that is I mean aside from
him being Donald Trump and are
completely disrespectful and I have to
tell you that like you know to to a
certain extent I have a little bit of
ambivalence about Veterans Day we should
not be creating more veterans at any
point with that said you have people who
gave up their lives
gave up their health families who lost
loved ones and that should be recognized
because that's a crappy situation to be
and to say the least
so those people deserve our respect and
certainly you know when the president is
going to a cemetery that represents the
death essentially of millions of people
you'd expect maybe some measure of
sacrifice on his part if he was even
remotely a normal human being
but the president is not and here's an
example of it even as he's reading off
some of the vets who are with them of
course not
World War one vets but World War two
vets he can't help but think about his
situation at that very moment we have a
number of amazing veterans with us today
including six veterans of World War two
James Blaine James where's James James
thank you thank you James Frank debita
thank you Frank thank you very much you
look so comfortable up there under
shelter as we're getting drenched you're
very smart people Pete Duprey there you
go I can't help but look at you think of
all the suffering and the millions of
people who died and then remember it's
about me getting wet and look I'm not a
huge fan of McCrone politics but it's I
can appreciate the fact that he took the
time to at the very least subtweet and
humiliate Donald Trump in some fashion
as subtle as it was McCrone got up gave
a speech
sure if this was at the same location I
don't know that it was but there was a
couple of events obviously around around
Paris and here he is McCrone speaking
about the difference between nationalism
and patriotism I imagine he was quite
aware of Donald Trump's now proclivity
to call himself a nationalist sets
vision Dada false connection it was part
of philosophy I should probably read the
we should probably do the put the volume
down
right right and I have to tell you I you
know Papa francais I am reading the
translation that's their fellow people
of France
I'm just gonna make it up here it is all
right so it's this vision of France
continued as a generous nation with a
vision which carries universal values
has been in those dark times exactly the
opposite of the selfishness of a people
which looks only at its own interests
because patriotism is the exact opposite
of nationalism nationalism is the
betrayal of patriotism by saying our
interests first and never mind the
others you erase what is the most
precious to a nation what makes it exist
what makes it great what is the most
important its moral values and then
Trump has a little bit of a scowl on his
face I don't know if that's coming up
right at that moment but it's quite
clear who macron is speaking to at that
moment the prime time MSNBC line up
right right sure creates all of them
they like me very much
my people loathe me I have no proven
rating I'm destroying the unions but
MSNBC very much right but MSNBC is not
gonna help him I mean I think on some
level there is listed help him in his
domestic path it could very well and you
know it is it is a problem for the
United States
long-term that in France you can help
yourself domestically by attacking the
president the United States I mean that
is gonna have long-term implications you
know regardless of what it is there was
you know we didn't talk too much about
the Acosta Jim Acosta Donald Trump you
know circus but the bottom line is you
see things like on Friday do tear tase
government is going to charge a veteran
journalists and her online new startup
with tax evasion they're going to
basically try and indict maria reza a
reporter and it's clear that they're
doing it because she's critical of the
government and so when Donald Trump sets
these markers down where it's okay for
him to attack reporters in the way that
he does
he's sending a message to these other
worse regimes that like look you're not
I'm certainly not going to be the one to
hold you to account for this when Saudi
Arabia chops up a journalist in an
embassy they do so because they think
they have the latitude to do that and
frankly if it was up to trump they would
have remember I mean remember his first
reactions and you're not going to see
these reactions in this country to what
happens in the Philippines and you're
not gonna see it in countries all around
the world I mean this is what the State
Department would have done and they
would have registered something that
would have been and there would have
been a sense of like we have a certain
amount of latitude when the United
States walks away from maintaining
certain principles at least even like
projecting that publicly and of course
they don't you know this is not to say
that the United States doesn't support
oppressive regimes of course we have we
do but even when the most basic
standards are washed away even when the
norms even when the pretense even if
that's all it is in many instances the
pretense it has back it's washed away it
has bad implications so we should keep
that in mind
