a lot of insanity this week I mean
probably not that different from other
weeks but this I want to talk about that
there is a report now that the Turks
have told US officials that they have
audio and video recordings that prove
that Jamal Khashoggi this is a
Washington Post columnist who is a u.s.
resident he had traveled to Turkey was
going to the consulate in Istanbul to
get paperwork stenciling for his
marriage and he went in never came out
and apparently US intelligence services
had word that that Mohammed Ben Solomon
had the crown prince of Saudi Arabia had
basically personally ordered this guy to
be killed and now the Turkish government
is saying that they have audio and video
apparently they bug everywhere in Turkey
that proves that that you can hear the
guy being beaten the guy being killed
and they have played this for or given
it or made a US officials aware of this
I just want to remind people we played
this video yesterday but I would remind
this people this is what Donald Trump's
response was I think it was his second
response to the Khashoggi killing and
this is what his response was in the
White House what good is that to us
there are other things we can do yeah
there'll be something that has to take
place first I want to find out what
happened and we're looking again just
took place in Turkey
and to the best of our knowledge
Khashoggi is not a United States citizen
is that right
it's permanent resident okay we don't
like it John we don't like closet for
one second I love how Heather the Trump
says to the best of our knowledge what
he's basically saying it's like I
haven't quite read into this yeah and
then someone says he was a resident okay
yeah right okay well I guess our
knowledge is a little more updated than
I thought get Steve Doocy on the horn
here I need to find out if he was
actually an American citizen right
exactly like would that make his killing
less bad if he wasn't a citizen no if he
wasn't I mean yeah well to Trump
obviously the from their perspective
that is part of their American first you
know in that their obligations are less
if he's just a resident but I continue
and we don't like it even a little bit
but as to whether or not we should stop
a hundred and ten billion dollars from
being spent in this country knowing they
have four or five alternatives to very
good alternatives that would not be
acceptable to me okay but we're looking
for the answer and I think probably
you'll have an answer sooner than people
think thing Yeah right okay so I mean
first off it's not a hundred and ten
billion dollars I think the deal is for
something closer like thirty billion but
that's irrelevant right the this
calculation and it may be the case that
the Saudis can go to China or to Russia
to buy the military equipment they want
I I don't know that it would be that
easy for them to do that but I suppose
they could but that calculation of our
American foreign policy I mean here's
the thing Trump puts it in rather stark
terms but that calculation of American
foreign policy seems to me to have
dictated the relationship we've had with
Saudi Arabia for decades well true
that plus the oil you know let's not
forget that I mean you know remember and
it's waiting to keep keep in mind as we
look at this story I think is you know
remember you know bond our Bush the
you know the the envoy from Saudi Arabia
that was great friends so close with the
Bush family that he was called a member
of the Bush family pictures of Bush
going all the way Obama Clinton you know
going all the way back holding hands
with at literally holding hands with
with you know members of the Saudi royal
family nothing new about that and it's
always been concerning particularly now
that we've decided to really arm up the
Saudi Arabian military so that they can
fight our proxy wars over there which is
even more repulsive than it has been in
the past nonetheless let's not you know
try and pretend that this is business as
usual because it really isn't it has
this has escalated under Trump on in a
new direction that I don't think we've
ever quite seen before and it had to do
with two things number one the president
being the personal arms dealer of the
world you know this is what he considers
himself to be that's a little unusual
putting it right out there in the front
going hey man you know we got money
involved here dudes we got to do it to
say this upfront no no regard for human
rights at all is it change I mean
there's always been you know tension is
probably not the right word to use it
there's always been tremendous hypocrisy
there but there was at least some you
know sense that the United States was
going to at least rhetorically stand up
for human rights the second thing of
course is the fact that Trump himself
apparently has a lot of financial
dealings with personal sided financial
dealings with Saudi Arabia he's on
record saying that he gets 4050 million
dollars a year from Saudi we know that
Jared Kushner who's great friends with
the new you know more autocratic young
prince who's taken over the the country
Mohammed bin Salman MBS they call him
and he and Jared are big buds and they
you know have all nighters together and
do a lot of back-channel discussion
evidently that's something that's a
little bit different and Jared Kushner
and his family have tremendous financial
exposure apparently they've been begging
for money throughout that area for a
long time and then finally you have the
fact that Trump has is all
so on record and has been since the time
he started campaigning saying he isn't
care if foreign leaders killed
journalist I mean they asked him about
Vladimir Putin he went hey you know
there's a lot of killing going on right
world we've killed people too so let's
not get too you know fine and fancy here
that that's just the way and he said
that's just the way it is
you can't blame anybody really for
looking at the comments that President
Trump makes about the press over and
over and over again and authoritarians
all over the world are mimicking him now
and believing that he's not going to
really go to the mat if they decide to
take out a journalist who is critical of
their regime so you know we do have some
new elements to this Saudi US
relationship that have taken this to an
even more you know corrupt level than
it's ever been before how messed up is
it that the enabling of a civil war
that's killing hundreds if not thousands
of civilians right you know the the most
recent high-profile was killing forty
school children on a bus I mean you know
like I understand why the why the press
gets agitated and and I think like
anything that in any way in inhibits the
relationship that we have with Saudi
Arabia I think is a positive thing but
it's we live in a weird I mean it's it's
just sad to me that the Khashoggi
killing and I understand why right it's
a lot more intriguing than just sort of
the same old same old
oh we're supporting a the killing of
people in Yemen I mean who you know
that's that's old hat but it is sort of
stunning that we can't get as exercised
about that as a society as we can about
one columnist well particularly and
let's you know I mean I do think that
the concerns about
you know the safety of journalists
worldwide particularly considering there
seems to be an escalation of minute I
think it was just was at Bulgaria right
just this past week had another horrific
you know rape and killing of a
journalist there who had been in doing
some kind of investigative work on
anti-corruption I mean this stuff is
happening a lot let's just put it that
way in these sort of thought Aryan
regimes it's very disturbing and of
course you know you hear the echoes of
it eat here and places like Brazil and
and other places where you feel this
kind of authoritarian stuff rising now
but what you say of course is true and
this this the war in Yemen I mean this
has been sort of in the background here
for years
this is not something that is unique to
to the Trump administration although
from everything I've been reading
recently they have escalated it or at
least sort of enabled it in in a much
more you know obvious way than they had
than the Obama administration which had
evidently been trying to ratchet it back
in some respects but it doesn't matter
because nonetheless the fact is is that
we've been supplying money and arms to
other countries to fight this war that
nobody really understands it's another
one of those right I mean many do we
have to and you'd think you know I think
that what happens is is that people sort
of get the idea that these proxy wars
that happen all over the world it's
somehow or another I know is there some
theory that maybe they're letting off
steam in small places so that a big
explosion doesn't happen I mean I don't
even know but it seems like I've been
reading about this my whole life and I'm
old so you know this has been going on
for a long long time and you know maybe
one of the you know things about Trump
which is really kind of perverse is that
his America first his America first
philosophy to the extent that it's a
philosophy it really isn't it's a slogan
but somehow
another it's mixing all that up right I
mean it's at least kind of stirring it
up in a way that people who don't
normally take a position on those sorts
of things are looking at it in a
different way because coming from Trump
it means something different than it has
in the past so maybe that will be a
salutary effect of this trainwreck of an
administration I don't know
