but who's this where he come from sep 7
1 6 ok then
yes hey Sam yes Colin from Dan from New
York Dan from New York
what's on your mind Dan well I'm just
wondering if the Democrats are ever
going to step up and really pick up this
fight because they seem to be weak in
almost every way and I hear you talking
about it every time I listen and I'm
just a little disappointed in them and
I'm wondering if they're going to step
up and represent the party that they're
supposed to the party of the working
class and the party of the people what
in any specific on any specific topper
he's talking generally well in general
and I know that over the past couple of
years I've heard you talk about why
aren't the Democrats fighting why aren't
the Democrats bringing up things why is
it Nancy Pelosi saying anything
why isn't Chuck Schumer doing anything
and I think it's just a trend of
weakness and I'm a little bit worried
about what's going to happen in the
upcoming election well I'm worried about
what's gonna happen in the upcoming
election
I am in a constant state of worry I
would say that I don't think whatever it
is that you're expecting or hoping for
from you know this generation of
leadership in the Democratic Party I
don't think we're gonna get I think the
courageous
3:03 I do think I do I do think that if
you want it to be optimistic you could
find some optimism in the the the
younger generation of the party and in
sort of the rise of folks like Bernie
Sanders and and even I think to a
certain extent Elizabeth Warren as well
and just with a heavy yeah exactly and
and and you know how they've been able
to pull the party not just to the pull
the party to the left but they have a
different perspective on how to fight
how to work politics now I don't know
well let me just finish this I don't
know of Nancy Pelosi I don't know if
Nancy Pelosi is just bad at politics or
is actually good at politics and just
has a radically different set of
political ideas then I would want her to
have it's the letter e current but when
I think it's a little bit of both and
probably largely irrelevant because
either way they gotta go I wanna ask a
quick question I was listening I think I
don't know if it was yesterday or the
day before when I'm Jeff from Georgia
called and he said that the party is
going to resist becoming the party of
out of the working class because they
fear and activated and an active working
class set of voters and I think it was
might have been Jamie that agreed with
Jeff from Georgia you know it sometimes
I hear a voice in the background and I'm
not sure I think Nancy Pelosi Chuck
Schumer I think the the Democrat
establishment even though they could
handily win by activating working-class
voters they fear an activated working
class because they're kind of it would
tend to upend the establishment
I I think they probably fear anybody who
would in some way be a threat to their
power yes and so I mean I think I
certainly my sense was in the 2016
election that they were trying to
fashion a presidential win with a
coalition that involved these Republican
you know Republicans in the suburbs and
they thought they had it and it turned
out they didn't and yeah I think I mean
I think that they I think that they fear
I mean I don't know that they say it so
explicitly but I think that they
anything that that strikes them is
losing their power in some fashion yes I
think is problematic
I don't know how how deep their
assessment of it is but I think they're
allergic to that without a doubt you
just have to fold the bunny
I mean I'm gonna answer this because you
said my nail color thank you yes
like the Democratic and the Republican
parties not to sound too Adbusters about
it but they are the left and right wings
of neoliberal capitalism at the moment
and actually we did it we didn't go yeah
hell yeah we did uh well I wasn't in it
but Sean did a history is a weapon
episode with Matt Crispin from Chapo
Trap House where they talk about why the
u.s. never had a Workers Party like
other countries have like most of the
European countries the Democratic Party
was always this bizarre cross class
coalition so if we want to really
realign it into something and they have
to do this weird dance right they
pretend to fight for the working class
because but that's only part of the
coalition so they also have to represent
the interests of the bosses which are
diametrically opposed to the interests
of the workers etc etc so if you only
want to build to realign the party and
redraw the electoral map in a way that
will a win and be fight for progressive
reforms for real instead of pretending
they want to but actually not actively
standing in the way in many cases we
need a new coalition and the moneyed
interests that fund them right now
cannot be part of it like it's fine if
people with money if rich people if
bosses want to vote for Bernie Sanders
will take it but we cannot be pandering
and catering to their interests I say I
have two more things one what I'm afraid
might offend you and the second is more
of a personal request that might go off
the grid
take your time gonna you know be very
detailed ignore all of Sam's discomfort
when he's frustrated that means he wants
to hear ma some truth that okay
frustrated
go ahead let's go alright thanks
the first is you know I'm I pay for a
membership to the majority report I
don't pay a membership to Jimmy door but
I listen to both and I've heard you
really razz on Jimmy door but there's
one thing that he said that I think
rings true and I've if I started I
almost bet you can finish the phrase
because I've heard you guys razz on him
all the time don't let me say this I hum
there's at least one fund that did he
says that's true
ok let me try to spend let's see what
you think I'm suspect he constantly says
that a Democrat the Democrats the
Democrats would rather lose to Trump
than win with a progressive have you
heard him say that I I think he's I
think I think I know he said that I
think that's true for maybe some of them
like I think maybe a guy like horse
whisperer
who works for Exxon and Eli Lilly yeah
but not yeah I think yeah the clown I
think well no I mean II think it's true
for him but do I think that's true for
the vast majority of Democrats do I
think that's true for more than 75% of
the Democrats absolutely not okay like
say Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer I I
don't I don't know about Nancy Pelosi
and Chuck Schumer I don't know I mean I
I think we can test that proposition but
there's no doubt in my mind there's no
doubt in my mind that yes there are some
Democrats who are like I am I've lived
through four years of Trump I got my tax
cuts probably they would say I would
have to guess and they are afraid of
someone like Bernie Sanders I think
maybe even you could probably find a
small subset that would also be afraid
of Elizabeth Warren I mean there's no
doubt yet but you know what there was
supposedly you know a lot of Democrats
and Republicans who said like I would
rather you know have Hillary Clinton
than Donald Trump
I mean I'm none of that should be a
surprise I think I will I want to say I
mean I think
I'll meet somewhere in the middle but
anybody that was on the list of that New
York Times meeting reporting that came
out in April of you know meetings was
near a Tandon and Nancy Pelosi and P
Buddha judge was that some of them was
that we're literally specifically
focused on stopping Bernie Sanders I
don't know if I would necessarily say
that all the people in those meetings
would prefer Trump to Bernie that's a
that's a jump but there are certainly
people who are arranged enough to you
know be conspiring and burning at a time
when frankly they could support their
own candidates and just move forward and
think about a general election yes there
is there is a number a political party
though that is not going to be that is
not going to try and and ally against
someone who is threatening to completely
upset the applecart no doubt about that
that's important for people and the fact
I would say this the fact that there's
such a concerted effort to stop Bernie
as a good son indicates to me that the
problem they realize is that we've got
to support him in the general over Trump
I mean well there's a yeah I think
there's also I the other thing to watch
is the degree and the intensity like
there was a lot of people who and I
think this might actually change when
Britain goes for elections but in 2017
you know people like Tony Blair were
like I vote Labour
I always vote Labour as in yes I'm gonna
vote for Jeremy Corbyn but right they
did everything they could to undermine
that performance to the point where they
clearly would prefer a Conservatives win
and look we know that what was it 20 25
percent of Clinton voters did not vote
for for Barack Obama right in five
thousand eight and so this is dynamic
that's not I mean people you know I
think I you know there was 12 percent of
Bernie people who last time you know
didn't support Clinton so there's always
going to be a segment of a part I mean
look I need to tell me like how many
people do you hear
threatened not to vote for Joe Biden
over Donald Trump I mean look at that
dynamic exists it exists you know on on
all different sides I mean there you
know I if somebody invited me to a
meeting on how to stop Joe Biden I'd go
you know what I mean like Hasek the
media one thing the party do though is
get over its romance with people like
Mike Bloomberg and on a Navaro
who oh yeah absolutely not vote for
Bernie over Trump actually I have no
defense no defense of Michael Bloomberg
I hate Michael Bloomberg I'll put my
dislike against anybody that clip that
was going around a Bloomberg not
committing to endorse everybody I have
to say by Bloomberg standards was
shockingly open I think he's going to
pull away Michael Michael people he said
every single person in the Democratic
field running for president is better
than Trump yeah that was I mean that's
more unequivocal then you will hear from
people who have superficially better
reputation you say look they invited
Michael Bloomberg to the the convention
it was stupid
it was dumb and it was like they thought
they were being cute by half and etc etc
but when you talk about like the
Democratic Party's embrace of an Navaro
like I would bet you that 90 will like
her okay well I'd be but like whom like
I mean I think like the point is like
suburban moderates that famous quote
from a friend Chuck sure yet right that
was my point is I think they were trying
to fashion a a I think the Democratic
leadership was trying to fashion a win
and how'd that go for them it blew up in
their face and so I mean I think like I
guess I would I take issue to with is
this notion of the Democrats like you
know like the the Democrats in 15 years
could easily be AOC and and injustice
Democrats throughout the leadership will
be talking about them differently then
maybe hopefully I think I I think I
think I think easily I think easily
might be a junk because I think the
establishment Democrats are going to
fight it tooth and nail of course nobody
wants to give up power of course I
thought
