Adam is the co-founder of the p triple c
the progressive campaign progressive I
can never remember it's cool it's
progressive change campaign committee
progressive change campaign the
progressive campaign change committee is
actually a lawyer in California
so that don't please don't get us
confused way different also bold
progressives or law professors at Orange
see I remember you URL but not I
remember the importance yeah we did the
masterstroke of having a three brands
where the p triple c with a progressive
change campaign committee were bold
progresses are just as well if you
confuses people we've spoken many times
we have spent many times at the at this
conference over the years that's right
we are apparently we're moderating i'm
moderating a panel that you've put
together to be great what is the title
of the panel it's called why joe biden
is the least electable major democrat in
2020
I thought it was gonna is Joe Biden the
least electable or I'm pretty sure we
have a point of view on that right well
I mean I just actually know it's why Joe
Biden is electable oh okay well I'm just
moderating the panel
Amy Allison from she the people will be
joining us and Alejandro Rojas from
justice Democrats we just played an
interview with her from justice
Democrats I have yet to meet Amy I think
but it should be interesting
conversational again and we'll test that
premise all right but let's I know need
for you to give you preview because I
think I'm gonna record it and so we'll
be able to play it in the coming guns it
will maybe we could stream it live
that's conceivable but we will record it
and video put it up it'll look good so
Adam yes give me your thoughts of where
we are in terms of of what's happening
in Congress are you just are you focused
now on the
the presidential campaign we're focused
on on both this week our group is pretty
vocal in defending Alexandria Kashia
Cortez from the attacks from Nancy
Pelosi
it's interesting how everybody talks
about unity and no circling firing squad
and then progressives can get attacked
by the establishment progressives can be
attacked by the Conservatives and that's
fine but if you fight back stop stop the
fighting
right right we even put out a sticker
that said I stand with AOC and super
like why are you putting out that
sticker it merely says I stand with AOC
and people like stop it I was like what
are you talking about now the next day
it's actually a street artist in DC who
at one o'clock in the morning a couple
nights ago started putting up signs with
Pelosi space and the words visited the
camp's yet and they started you know go
put it on Twitter started going viral
and we decided to actually make a
campaign out of it so actually now if
people are on the bold progressives or
Gmail list we have a petition to Pelosi
being like visit the camps and bring
Josh goth heimer and Elaine Lauria and
Abigail's Bamberger and the other
conservative Democrats with you because
if you guys are gonna be undermining AFC
and others who are trying to help the
kids at the border at least see it for
yourselves
it is pretty stunning that you hear a
lot about things like purity tests are
problematic etc etc they may be but I
mean this is this is just you you've got
to toe the line and not fight not get
out in front of the sort of the
capitulation that is going on here I
mean it feels like Nancy Pelosi has
decided in like the second quarter of a
basketball game we're going to a four
quarter of four corners you know we're
just gonna run out the clock and
nobody's told her like well you just
can't do that like like like what is
supposed to fill the time between now
and if the if the Democrats aren't gonna
do any oversight yeah they're not gonna
impeach what's supposed to fill the time
between knows how many more messes yeah
exactly right I mean there's
this is a thing we just run up against
all the time which is a conventional
wisdom in DC is so out of touch with the
actual conversation in the country right
it's this idea of like oh if a OC wasn't
talking about X Y or Z we would just get
so much more attention for this random
bill that no one's ever heard of on the
House floor right it's like no that is
not true right are they telling
themselves that usually that's actually
what they think a lot of this is yeah
and then no I I had no idea that they
actually think the reason why people
aren't paying attention because three
weeks ago Mary Bustos or Cheri Bustos
was complaining that no one was paying
attention to bills well three weeks ago
that we weren't having this fight
between AOC and Pelosi either right
right yeah it's it's broken and in every
way so the other part of the broken
there we go
part of the broken should we stop right
here no just the slide over the other
part of the broken broken
conventionalism is slide down just a
little bit guys so that I could get on
we can get Ryan on camera there go Ryan
just a little bit further down a little
bit towards I know it's uncomfortable
but it uh Adam moved down a little bit
there we go all right here we go it's up
y'all there we go Ryan grim of the
intercept and of course TYT
what do you put on your a badge Ryan you
just put the intercept yeah I mean I I
didn't actually tell to put anything so
they just that's what they went with
yeah fair enough
I got ringing fire on my badge and so
bringing fire nice up I'm gonna add TYT
right now actually and I'm gonna add
strong arm press oh that's right
everybody we spoke to you about your
book and you have your your whole press
alright well Adam and I were just
talking about how apparently there's a
feeling on the hill amongst the
Democrats that the reason why America is
not paying attention to the messaging
bills and I think the messaging bills
are great I think it's important I think
we should be but the reason why America
is not paying attention to them it's
because AOC has been
testy with Nancy Pelosi's that is that
what the theory is
well I think that Pelosi and her
leadership crew will look for like any
answer to explain why the public isn't
paying attention to their messaging
bills other than the obvious one that
the public has sense and a knows that
these messaging bills aren't going to
become law through Mitch McConnell and
be knows it there you know mostly just
fortifying the you know the the status
quo there's some of them that actually
would make significant change in the
country like the HR 1 which is the
anti-corruption bill right but I think
the public probably also has a lot of
suspicion that you know if they knew
that HR 1 had passed and what was in it
whether they would actually pass it if
they knew that a Democratic president
would sign it because they've seen this
before with the Republicans repealing
Obama care how many times yeah 52 times
yes and I think like the value of these
bills really have more value to the
progressive base as a marker and holding
them to that in the future right like so
the general public I mean at what point
do they give up that ghost or is this
sort of like a sunk cost type of thing
like they can never admit that their
strategy did not work can't right yeah
how do you admit that if you admit that
you have to go so I mean it depends on
what you mean by strategy well any
strategy as they'd like that
hypothetical thing that should take
place when you run a major political
party like that like because I will say
this the reason why nobody noticed HR 1
was because Nancy Pelosi was on
a lil on Omar mm-hmm I mean if you go
back and you look at the the week and
the run-up she decided to engage in that
fight yeah and then three days later
with a whimper they introduced HR 1 or
they you know a champion I mean right
shot themselves in the foot and it
suggests to me that they they lack a
straw
they lack a plan to execute the strategy
and that at the end of the day the the
most they also lack an understanding of
the current politics and Iowa I was
actually talking to a Democratic
leadership about eight about that moment
just recently and they thought it was a
fairly straightforward play Yellin Omar
talked about Benjamins and AIPAC
Congress is gonna condemn her next like
that's the kind of thing they would have
done in ten minutes
in 1994 and then moved on to the next
thing
and he said that they were just floored
at the reaction they did they just did
not see it coming they were stunned to
see so many people supporting her and
condemning Democratic leadership and so
they had to then recalculate say oh okay
this politics of Israel have changed huh
right interesting
notice that when like you can't notice
everything well notice it when Tim Kaine
of all people wouldn't go see Bibi
Netanyahu when he was speaking on the
floor like are they not like I
understand I just I can't help you
understand that it wasn't that the
politics of Israel have changed it's
that given the current internet world
people like AOC and Ilhan have massive
grassroots following that they dragged
1984 right public has more of a voice
through these people and they can't just
you know things that used to be just an
inside play are now both yeah right so
we're talking about poor is that there's
so much broken conventional wisdom and I
feel like it it's broken conventional
wisdom compounded and compounded upon
more broken conventional wisdom so let's
use Medicare for all and this recent
child that hits a thing as two examples
right Medicare for all the broken
conventionalism in DC is oh that's not
popular or it's not popular in swing
districts right when if you make the
case correctly it's overwhelmingly
popular you just need to take on the big
insurance companies and make clear that
you can keep your doctors and nobody
loves their insurance companies but
because of that it's a nuisance when
progressives bring up things like
Medicare for all right so part of the
messaging thing and messaging bills
usually equal
lowest-common-denominator like what are
the lowest principles we can all agree
on
don't rock that folks that's hurting the
front liners he's red to blue people who
are scared right stand with the child
detention stuff like what could be more
American or human than children should
not be in cages don't separate children
from their parents honestly like that
should if we're gonna engage in the
immigration fight that is the equivalent
of the first trimester abortion in the
abortion fight like we want to be
arguing in that turf right we don't want
to be arguing about late term abortion
necessarily right there's other places
that they can move the debate but we
should be willing to say no we were
gonna stand up for these children this
is the only one with low-hanging fruits
to me the only other thing that could be
more low-hanging fruit is that you
should actively investigate and
criticize the former prosecutor who gave
a sweetheart deal to a child trafficker
right right like right that that's also
all this stuff is seen as controversial
in DC when it's not in the real country
and that means if aggressives are doing
the will of the people on the outside
and trying to insert it on the inside
they are then hit back right so we're
talking before about how it's fine for
Pelosi to hit aoc but if she pushes back
that's not unity and it's fine for Josh
got himer to attack a st that's fine if
she hits him oh my gosh you're hurting
the frontliner Scott it's really broken
a minute at many levels it's it's I mean
I feel like there should be some type of
law that they should pass or a rule in
the caucus that you need to hire you
know some there has to be some at least
one like token higher of somebody who
has not been in democratic politics for
like 25 years right like every office
has got to have at least one person they
go to like hey just to check this bounce
check I do they have their kids I do
respect to Christine Pelosi I still
haven't forgiven her for humanizing
George Bush in her documentary frankly I
haven't seen that well that was 20 years
ago 15 years ago but might have been
Alex blizzy was it oh yeah that was Alex
Pelosi who's out blows yeah okay Steen
does the
fireman stuff all right well my
apologies then but nevertheless my
apologies to both of them I think it's
gonna be outside your family I don't
think that's very good to be fair
so where's Christine Pelosi might
literally be a lawyer from California
all right well there you got her picture
that's called a callback that is so
where what happens like do we just keep
going in this like sort of Nancy Pelosi
think she could there's some type of
clock she can run out and then
everybody's gonna be yeah oh yeah forget
it
yeah she thinks there's a clock running
out she thinks that the August recess
bleeds into September
and then you've got Labor Day then
you've got you know a couple weeks and
then you've got Thanksgiving
and then you've got a Christmas break
and then Iowa's voting like that's her
that's how she's seeing the she thinks
once the voting starts today nobody's
gonna pay attention now you're voting on
who's gonna be President
why why do you impeach the one who's
currently sitting there there is a
serious serious I think like cultural
problem with the Democratic Party in
kids I think like that's been the
problem with Democrats is that they're
too reliant on the presidency and are
too focused exclusively on like let's
elect the president let's walk away
although I'm not even sure Pelosi is
thinking about that I think to her it's
those front liners like to her to her so
we're facing a fascist in the White
House children dying on the border now
11 years to make you know fundamental
structural changes to save the the
planet from tast raphy and her top
concern really is these front liners and
she would justify it by saying well if
the front liners don't win then you're
never gonna you know hold power in order
to address all the things you say you
want to address but in order for those
front liners to win in her mind
you can't ever try to exercise that
power so it's a self-defeating thing but
so I don't even know if she's worried
about I mean of course you'd like to see
Trump beaten but the House Majority is
her number one goal period what does she
think
but-but-but-but are those two things
mutually exclusive like is there a
scenario where Donald Trump wins and the
Democrats can maintain their majority
yeah because the this it's the fasten
fascinating phenomenon of the sub of the
suburbs which are you know which is a
lot away which is where Democrats picked
up a lot of their gains in 2018 they
were pissed off it at Donald Trump but
and they'll still be pissed off at
Donald Trump in 2020 so could return
Democrats to to the House Majority but
that doesn't mean that he can't run up
enough numbers in Wisconsin Michigan and
Pennsylvania to also at the same time
get reelected I see I think there's a
conceivable mu
in the country that that could that
could do both he would lose it he would
absolutely lose the popular vote again
right but there's a there's a there is
certainly a path that he could do that
and then hold on to those three key
states but if the if the suburbs are
gonna vote against Donald Trump then
they're not paying attention to wow
they're they're having too many
oversight hearings like I don't like how
many oversight hearings that show me how
corrupt the guy I hate is I think I just
don't understand the I think there's a
real risk of all of those people who did
all of that organizing and door knocking
and phone banking and donating that that
gave Democrats their huge wins in 2018
are now asking themselves why did we do
this well that's what I'm saying like
like I understand how it can work that
way where she loses because they're not
doing anything but I don't understand
what the argument is that people are
going to see that we're investigating a
guy who let a pedophile off easy or
people are seeing that we are
investigating how he didn't pay his
taxes or we're investigating how no yes
he DeVos owned stocks and it absolutely
makes no sense because like you said the
they won the majority on anger at Donald
Trump in these particular districts so
of course they want you to go after
Trump that's why they voted for you
they're not gonna get mad if you go
after Trump of course are you guys
noticing much more energy around
challenges to incumbents at this more
than before I know you you I mean you've
been engaged in primaries before people
cared about them are you seeing more
this time yeah I think for a couple
reasons one last time people were so
paranoid about we must take back the
house that some people were like even if
I technically agree with this
progressive challenge like I just want
to focus on taking back the house right
and now it's like all right other things
are happening I can I can divide my
attention but also aoc prove the concept
right she proved that Oh
not only can we win these races which
would have been nice by itself but oh
and they're a game-changer once again
there so the idea of less liked more a
OCS there's a phraseology that we were
applying to other candidates now I also
justice Democrat has been I think very
thorough about the types of candidates
that they're vetting people who are
truly viable you know I think last time
they had a wide game like let's endorse
300 or more I think this time they might
not have endorsed Ocasio Cortez well in
this new model well well I don't know
about that but basically they have a
president probably know the demographics
work for the district and she would she
pretty like she clearly was articulate
and good on you know good you're saying
they would have I'm not sure I mean
statistically speaking the odds of them
doing it would have been less right I
mean right but it's hard right it's hard
to go back and look at that but the idea
is there being more focused this time
who are truly committed to running
strong races people who fit their
district and come into our extra
out-of-touch places where in the past
there were there's low turnout which is
in a weird way and that advantage for us
in a primary if that means right we got
we got messed up with Tom Carper in
Delaware who is the most corporate
senator out there he does not represent
a very blue state but because of very
high turnout compared to other places
you know and a somewhat we campaign
against him we look we lost so I think
they look for a combination of things
and we're just being phenomenon right
because on some level that has been the
conservative the conservative path to
victory has been a maybe not as many
votes but votes that you can count on in
off-year elections and it's about the
depth of their commitment not
necessarily the breadth and it it feels
like we're in an era where these
primaries can be won not necessarily
with the number of people but the depth
of commitment of those people because
they're going to show up no matter what
that having that force it's almost like
the podcast model versus the radio model
Wow same or are you being facetious oh
well I mean this show I mean when I
launched this show for instance I knew
and was talking to Maren
I knew that meirin was going to make
more money on advertising but I might
have an opportunity to make more on
membership because this talking about
politics has a deeper connection to
people then you know well due respect to
Marc Maron although he doesn't care you
know him trying to hook up with some
actress by you know talking about
himself and but you know people love
that show a lot more a lot more
accessibility but they wouldn't
necessarily pay to be a member mm depth
right as opposed to two brother that you
know that's like okay yeah freemium
that's another word that has to do with
yeah Internet no way it's put a couple
specific races on the radar right so one
I think that I think he just announced
that Alex Morse just announced against
Reggina I heard that in city trip so
Richie Neil's is a powerful Ways and
Means Committee chairman who dragged his
feet for months in requesting Trump's
tax returns and dragged his feet for
months Michael Brooks is uh old
congressman I believe out in Springfield
that was worth the interruption yeah
yeah so drag is he four months holding
medicare-for-all hearings and when he
actually requested Trump's tax returns
people some people in the media treated
me like a hero like wow look at this
bold action it's like wait he was
dragged kicking and screaming by
progresses we were out there saying
we're gonna primary him right well still
he's an old-school you know calmed it
down from New York State we're gonna
give him trumps right state taxes and he
said no thank you now thank you we're
good right here we're good here we get
here so Alex were young I believe he's
gay mayor of Holyoke was in
Massachusetts is gonna be running a very
vibrant campaign against him and that
could be that that could be similar to
AOC
a shell shocker for the establishment
the Ways and Means Committee Chairman
who's you know putting the kibosh on
things like Medicare for all I think
also green new deal goes down it sends a
signal of oh our prison for decision
making was a little bit wrong right we
need we need a big victory like that
against someone who's a crusty old
insider you know it's interesting
because I thought the what you would see
in terms of AOC to Crowley would be like
what we saw with david bratt to cantor
now brats gone in a year and he did
nothing
AOC has been ascended she is probably
the most exciting political figure
particularly Congress person I don't
know Gingrich yeah honestly right and
yet totally dismissed in so far is it
having any type of like greater
repercussions like Cantor was like this
is shot across the bow for every single
Republican you know Lindsey Graham has
got to start talking like Donald Trump
you know as soon as they all adjusted
and they all adjusted they were told to
by Fox News as well which the left
doesn't have that's right with all due
to the institution that we're speaking
with right now I understand no I
understand I'm doing my due respect to
the intercept dyt right they they don't
listen they don't listen and it's gonna
be interesting to see if someone like
Neil goes down if they're going to
recognize like that that district is
largely rural one small mid-sized city
Springfield but there's a lot of it's a
fairly rural area and if they're just
going to say oh it's Massachusetts yeah
and its Western Massachusetts or if
they're gonna say like okay this puts
just about everybody in play it's gonna
be interesting to see if these threats
will have the desired effect it'll
change any behaviors but don't hit the
Quayle our race and the Elliot angle
would certainly I mean those are those
were a couple
I wasn't persuaded maybe I'll come
around to it that Cuellar was it was a
great target Cuellar is probably the
most right-wing Democrat
and so there's there's two sides to this
so he's not that much of a internal
player like he's not you know he's not a
Ricci Neal it doesn't run a runways and
means he's not in leadership and so for
that reason I thought that he's also
extremely powerful and popular back home
and he's comes from like a dynasty
doesn't mean he can be beaten but so the
question is is it worth the resources to
go after and be given given those things
the other argument is that he makes he's
a he's a powerful voice on immigration
and on a lot of fiscal issues in very
destructive ways in inside the inside
the caucus and so by taking that voice
out you're taking away one of the more
destructive voices that a lot of the
centrists who don't who could go either
way hear him say oh well this is a this
is a Hispanic member from Texas and he's
saying this so right even a cover for
I'll go with him so that'sthat's taking
him out with a strong progressive like a
Jessica Cisneros you know could be could
be significant eliot engel you know as
I'm not convinced he's not gonna retire
he would be interesting but he's
chairman of Foreign Relations Committee
would be a huge shot at the kind of
hawkish wing of the party if he if he
manages to get toppled who else do you
think we're gonna see go Lipinski has a
very good chance of losing but I don't I
don't think him going down would be seen
as anything other than like really an
unpopular guy who was out of step with
his district going down in the kind of
way that you could lose a primary in
2012 and it would just be seen as losing
a primary so first Alma Penske you know
the Democratic co-chair of the pro-life
committee voted against Obamacare since
Lee boats with Wall Street against
everything Democrats are for and it's
like a 15-point Hillary District so
there's no reason for him to be
represent you know his dad gave him to
see basically right so up against Marie
Newman professor
medicare-for-all everything one
significant site you see here is it's a
very early primary I think it's like the
first week of March right which means
and rehearse it was like July end of
June end of June so early means it can
have ripple effects a cycle right there
could be a fundraising boost in the step
of every other progressive Challenger if
he goes down so I see that is like
helpful into calendars well there's a
couple other primary challengers also
have the opposite effect though of like
putting a bunch of people on notice who
have been sleeping or those people know
their way keeping wide-awake and they're
so wide awake that so there are two
other people running for the Lipinski
seed that haven't done a lot in the in
in terms of campaigning and fit the mold
of the old these old miss old machine
tactic putting people on the ballot just
to draw votes away like people who are
upset with Lipinski are going to vote
against him so if you put three people
on the ballot
that's that dilutes the the opposition
you see you see that a lot and in these
kind of machine elections they may be
genuine candidates like and think that
they have some path to victory but they
haven't been haven't been showing it and
they know that Neuman you know came
within a couple points of winning
previously and has that has the edge we
just it's just watching Virgil oh not
exactly clear no we just we have other
guests in the greenroom and they're
waiting in the greenroom and there
we'll be over in a second but let's give
it to him well yeah do that but all
right so I mean there this is going to
be an exciting primary season it sounds
and if anybody wants to understand where
all of us came from they need to read
the book yeah I mean I'm doing I feel
like your book has gotten a lot of
attention and it really does capture
this moment I mean or at least it
explains how we got to this moment
yeah it's well timed now this is a
country that doesn't read so I'm not
gonna retire on this book is your book
on tape yeah it's coming
who's gonna read it a guy a reader of my
newsletter read it actually like a
subscriber to my newsletter he said he's
emailed me he's like hey I do this for a
living I'm gonna do your book I said
great that's good yes I mean it and the
book was copy edited or unedited in
interesting ways by like readers the
newsletter I allowed people to see an
early draft of it and they made very
useful comments like this is confusing
I'd love to hear more about this so the
the spirit of the book is it was
actually brought to bear on the
production of it - that's pretty cool
that's an interesting way of anybody
publishing books like that no just us
what do you mean by us strong-arm press
all right yeah are there any other books
coming out in the near future
yes what do we got we we have a very
cool book coming on Lane Evans Lane
Evans who was a populist this first
guide ever endorsed Barack Obama okay a
populist Illinois congressman who
represented a Republican leaning or
centrist district for decades but did it
in a way where he just took the fight to
the Republicans and took the fight to
business the seat is now held by Cheri
Bustos who claims that there's just no
other way to do it
except Lane Evans Cup just a couple
cycles ago was doing it I think he
retired in 2004 because he got ALS
fascinating any children's books coming
out there is a fascinating children's
book coming in September I believe by
Stephanie Taylor it is one of the best
children's books co-founder yeah but
it's one of the best children's books
I've read the moment I moment I saw it I
was like oh this this we have we have to
do this it's like a good I think it's
anything from two to eight nine title
ready what is the title actually it's
it's something like it so you can do
anything or some like that you can do it
yeah you can do anything it's it's a
cool book about use the power of
imagination and translating into like
real-world accomplishments it's it's it
cool and your book is called we've got
people you've got review all all right
majority Adam green yes thank you so
much guys appreciate it
all right folks now coming to well
