[Music]
speaking of religion did you folks when
you were watching Robert Mahler the
other day realize how irreligious
everything he was doing was almost
satanic but that in of itself is also a
religion isn't it and or even worse
Islamic I mean satanic is about as
religious as it gets they don't believe
in Satan people who don't believe in
religion hear you stumbling through a
very strange prepared speech in which he
refuses to take any questions thereafter
denies exactly that presumption of
innocence to the man elected by 63
million Americans to serve as our 45th
president that's who Robert Muller is
when he says that we could find no proof
that a crime was not committed he has up
turned hundreds if not thousands of
years of judeo-christian principles of
how we judge other people and the power
of the state posit for one moment
now I'm I probably should have spent a
little more time thinking about this but
there was the witch trials right where
the Christians were basically seeing if
the witches floated and if they floated
they were witches and they would get but
if they didn't float and they died then
they were obviously they were not
witches that was a judeo-christian e
then there was of course Crusades and
the Inquisition and all that stuff about
all those people who were like the world
you know like there's a universe in this
it was a Galileo like all that stuff did
he go to jail for a bit because of that
stuff and then the Catholic Church has a
long
three of loving justice yeah Jews and
Jews yeah
the expulsion of the Jews from
everywhere clearly afraid those days
they were all found guilty why they were
all found guilty whose was that other
thing like with Jesus was he was he put
on trial but that was probably about the
UH the Romans yeah I'm not sure I know
what he's talking about with this
judeo-christian notion of you're proven
until you're guilty if you're innocent
till proven guilty thousands of years
thousands the Church of Satan should
make Moeller their mask judeo-christian
but it's just that's a little bit
there's a little bit of hyperbole there
but good and what it takes to
denude us of our rights you do not get
to pronounce ever in the United States
on the innocence or the lack of
innocence of an individual who is
uncharged I'm using the technical terms
of the Department of Justice's own
regulations and the ABA he's even more
in love with his voice than he usually
is yeah you know that's what happens
where are those hands when you wear the
cans you really start to hear your own
voice that compression is really hitting
me nicely in the eardrum little more
bass justices own regulations and the
ABA you are a disgrace to the uniform
you once wore the badge you once had and
the credentials you once carried I hope
you have been escorted out of the Maine
DOJ building building because Robert
Muller you should not be allowed to park
cars
they go you know I know we have some
video game designers that listen to the
show and I know this will probably take
away too much money to ever do but it'd
be very funny to have a video game and
then just take snippets of Gorkhas audio
for one of the characters just out of
context yeah it's always like this stop
it now stop it now but he's like a
little like I don't know you know what
he I wonder if he stole that that that
that cadence from this you all remember
the movie Wall Street there was a scene
when father son actually we're in an
elevator this is when I can't this is
what's his what's his name Mikey no not
Michael Douglas Emilio Estevez with his
dad who played Bartlet the president I
can't remember but this is father-son
and in this instance Emilio Estevez is
the the assistant or the protege of
Gordon Gekko and his his father is a
union representative of a company that
Gordon Gekko is bought and then
basically raided in sort of a leveraged
buyout situation and the and they're in
the elevator together and the father is
admonishing the son he realizes he
hasn't taught him any of the values that
he thought he raised him with and this
is the way he delivers that line he's a
guy who never measured a man's success
by the size of his watt but you see
success by the size of his watt very
very apt um I'm also getting notes of
like Stewie from Family Guy okay well
it's doing from Family Guy ungodly got
it from that that that scene right there
became a big talking point it signifies
authority to begin to scream in the
middle of your sentence I
the equivalent of capitalizing your
lettuce is that like because he wrote
down that take and he's trying to spice
it up a little bit so it doesn't sound
like he's reading yeah maybe I don't
know I'll try that next time we record
the Intifada see how it goes
but you don't polish the means of
production what is amazing is they it
would be fascinating to know and I hope
somebody's going out and pulling this do
you think there was anything damaging to
Donald Trump in the Muller report that
to me seems like a good thing to spend
your money on if you're polling I guess
let's go to the phones
