from then was asked about Brett
Kavanaugh as drinking dishonest people
okay yes please go ahead these are my
question mr. president so if he did lie
about his drinking does that mean you'll
pull his I don't think he did I look yes
yes what I'm just saying I'm not a
drinker I can honestly say I never had a
beer in my life okay right it's one of
my only good traits whatever they're
looking for something that I said never
had a glass of alcohol I've never had
alcohol I've just you know for whatever
reason can you imagine if I had what a
mess I'd be would I be the WYD be the
world's worst but I never drank I never
drank okay but I can tell you I watched
that hearing and I watched a man saying
that he did have difficulty as a young
man with drink the one question I didn't
ask is how about the last 20 years have
he had difficulty last 20 years because
nobody said anything bad about him in
many many years they go back to high
school you know I graduated from high
school and and I while I did not drink I
saw a lot of people drinking they drink
beer and they go crazy and you know they
were nice they were 16 17 years old and
I saw a lot of it does that mean that
they can't do something that they want
to do with their life so but he did
another I mean yes that's the
entitlement obviously but he did another
like illustration actually of yet
another opportunity that Brett Kavanaugh
could have taken to even say hey I think
I really binge drank when I was in
college that wasn't good
like Trump's actually assigning him a
whole other level of conscientiousness
what he did was he whined and freaked
and obfuscated and didn't own anything
he even said in the famous like did you
drink too much and what would you
consider that to be he went to what is
the legally mandated blood alcohol
levels I mean he's not even doing
what Trump is suggesting Trump has a
better answer on self accountability
which I think tells you all you need to
know that's probably because you know
it's easy for us to say yeah I blacked
out drunk in college maybe because we
didn't participate in rapes in those
instances right and whose idea was it
for them to keep saying beer over and
over again be you know that's part of
the plan yeah I want to do a man said he
liked beer I do a mash-up of Kevin not
talking about beer and Mark Zuckerberg
talking about smoking meets Jesus there
you go any DJ wants a free it's already
 awful and it hasn't even
happened
James tutu
