I will tell you right now who is unhappy
about this and it's Joe Biden and I will
explain to you why in fact I wasn't
gonna play this till later but there's a
reason why Joe Biden would be the least
excited about the Democrats in the house
pursuing impeachment because Joe Biden
has built and this is what I think is
also another example of the Achilles
heel of his of his campaign Joe Biden's
campaign has one message that message is
Donald Trump is a horrible guy Donald
Trump has no integrity
Donald Trump is untrustworthy he's
dishonest
he's vulgar etc etc now I've argued that
this is a liability because the one
arena that Donald Trump can play on is
like you could throw mud at me but I can
throw mud at you and the only way that
Donald Trump is gonna win is if his
opponent is so muddy and smelly that
there that that opponents own supporters
are like ah I don't like it and they
don't show up to vote that is this been
the strategy there's a strategy with
Hillary Clinton it'll be the strategy
with the next person and if you are
running on a platform of I smell good
I look good I'm clean and I'm smell
sweet you are very vulnerable to Donald
Trump throwing mud at you if you are
running on a platform of this policy or
that policy or returning America to an
economic period with this or with that
health care dollar okay keep throwing
mud on you and you
may not smell so great but that wasn't
your appeal in the first place and when
there are other avenues to attack Donald
Trump what do you have left to say if
you're Joe Biden and here is a preview
of I think of what Joe Biden's the rest
of his campaign is he finds himself in a
situation where he I guess gets a sense
that this reporter is somewhat hostile
to him and he's completely flummoxed
this is in Iowa right is this in Iowa
and a reporter I get the sense that I
don't know you know what we're at what
venue she's from but I think it's just
basically you know Iowa reporter has
this exchange with Joe Biden while he is
ready to I'm not sure what this may be
this is in his his offices in Iowa but
good well in Iowa the unemployment rate
is two and a half percent people say
they are employed in Iowa and their
small businesses are growing I was on
fire before heat they're employed before
he got elected the president won by 10
percentage points and I'm not suggest he
didn't win my ten percentage points well
I'm suggesting this he's not the reason
for the unemployment rate being down but
why should I don't want to make a change
though well that's up to them to decide
why should they for them to the side
will make your case I'm not going to I
like though she was like yeah a few
you're not giving me a good interview
get home it's not I'm old this is I mean
this is this is pretty basic stuff
what's your pitch to the American public
and I quote this is Alexander Coburn
from 2008 change in hope or not words
one associates with senator Biden a man
so rightfully symbolic of everything
that is unchanging and hopeless about
our political system that a computer
simulation of the corporate political
paradigm senator in Congress would turn
out Biden in a nanosecond yeah but but
to be fair that was 11 years ago
right that Lee's been very transform the
first duty of a DS I'm sorry like how do
you not have an answer to that question
now maybe he wants say like oh yeah no
we're not gonna keep them campaign in
Iowa in terms of the general I write
like yeah we're getting the general
election we don't care I mean I guess
one could have said like well listen
right now I'm running in the primary and
you can ask Democratic voters themselves
do they not want a Donald Trump but the
problem is and then she says well okay
but what's your argument that you're
gonna appeal to people outside of the
Democratic Party because this is the
conventional wisdom that he needs to do
that but what what what's going to
compel them to come and vote for you
I like Iowa about as much as I like you
young lady I mean it stops trying to
trick me
right oh oh oh now I get to ask for
people's votes hold my brothers got gas
problem but the problem is is that is
that with impeachment ongoing and it's
not going to go anywhere but it's going
to hold Donald Trump to account Joe
Biden's gonna have less things to say
frankly on some level I think I think
but we'll see all right we're gonna take
a quick break
head into the you see this is kind of
the same thing Biden getting this is
from a reporter Tyler pager Biden
getting into a disagreement with a voter
over his health care plan she says his
plan is protecting the insurance
company's profits he questions whether
she would pay higher taxes for it she
says yes he responds you got the right
candidate and Bernie then yank you he
residue you mean mr. president we have
moved into the part of the campaign
where Joe Biden's like if you think I'm
actually I mean how much work do am I
supposed to do for this
