[Music]
yesterday at the House Judiciary
Committee hearings
CEO of Google
sundar pichai was was being grilled by
the republicans unfortunately not on the
basis of the fact that like you guys
have far too much market share and
leverage things and are your political
power is too great i mean steve king
kind of gets here in the end of this
does he really a little bit a little bit
and but sitting behind him was the
monopoly man which was fun
i don't know if we'll see it but here's
stephen king is this where he's okay
yeah which one is a six okay and here is
a stephen king trying to get to the
bottom of why people write bad things
about him on the internet make this
point and i and i believe i've made it
with a number of the of the internet
companies that have been sitting here at
this table in the past well remember
situation here is that there's a very
strong conviction on this side of the
aisle that the algorithms are written
with a with a bias against conservatives
so people on the other side don't agree
with that because of course it benefits
them and but what we don't know are who
are these thousand you know what I'm
convinced of I'm convinced that the
algorithms are written in such a way
that I do not get the promotion that I
deserve if you google great political
analysis I should be the first ten
entries on Google but I'm not now of
course other people can share similar
son of them yeah other people could say
though oh no it's working right because
it benefits them I put in the search
results and it got no life are who are
these thousand people and we don't know
what their social media looks like but
we do know that the people that come
from that County were about eighty
percent supporters of Hillary Clinton if
I listen to the gentlelady from
California correctly and so that would
be a built-in bias if I know people from
California and know their politics from
California and I think I do
so we've got at least theoretically a
built-in bias that's here it's not being
examined and not examining the social
media how would you expect that you
could get to an objective result which
you said that you know we build our
products in a neutral way but that
doesn't mean that your product comes out
neutral so how would you expect to get
to unbiased result with a built in
formula that I've described that I don't
think you object to or disagree with
congressman it's an important question
but the way we rank our results is
essentially based on user feedback and
that's what drives the iterative loop in
our you know in what we put in so I do
understand how its prioritized that way
and I watch what's going on
but I made this point that if we don't
know who the thousand are and we can't
look at their social media and we can't
see the algorithms to understand the
results of the work they're doing behind
closed doors and yet the public believes
that it's an open forum where there's an
a balanced exchange of open access for
information of course it's not and so I
have said we either need to know who
they are and look at their social media
and if that doesn't solve this problem
next step then is publish the algorithms
if that doesn't happen then the next
step on the line is section 230 the
amendments to section 230 and the step
on the line beyond that is a Teddy
Roosevelt step bingo
let's skip those other steps where we
invade the privacy of the individuals
working for Google and all those other
sort of highly invasive meaningless
gestures that Stephen King and let's
just go let's break this stuff up so
that we can have 10 different Google's
that will all give the same result that
Stephen King is an a-hole up until now
Steve King had all the worst parts of
Teddy Roosevelt right and if he could
just get the antitrust stuff that may be
useful well he still holds that seat
down do you think that he is being
purposefully ignorant as to what an
algorithm means and to what those a
thousand people do or do you think he
really doesn't know
well I guess we will answer the question
Stephen King evil or ignorant or poor
evil and Ingrid have a 7 year old
granddaughter who picked up her phone
before the election and she's playing a
little game kind of game a kid would
play pause it up on there look folks
don't give your seven-year-old a phone
all right I have a daughter I think I
think we waited probably till she was 8
or 9 or whenever she was walking to
school fourth grade ah too early get her
a flip phone okay but let's wind it back
a little bit go and she's playing a
little game kind of game a kid would
play and up on there pops a picture of
her grandfather and I'm not gonna say
into their record what the kind of
language was used around that picture of
her grandfather but I'd ask you how does
that show up on a seven-year-olds iPhone
who's playing a kids game Congressman
iPhone is made by a different company
and so you know I mean it might have
been an Android is just it was a
hand-me-down of some kind you know I
guess I'm happy to follow up and
understand the specifics it there may be
an application which was being used
which had a notification but I'm happy
to understand it better and clarify it
for you just reduced him to like any IT
guy like I can't what I can't
can you please figure this out and get
my iCloud and I think I'm getting
contacts from all different types of
people and you know what that is it
sounds to me like Stephen King gave this
kid a hand-me-down phone that he had all
of these news alerts for himself on
there
I mean if could what app do you have
that do you either have like news photos
showing up on your phone or just photos
of your grandfather with with like grant
sucks you know those free to play kids
games that are ad-supported dude check
where you're coming from so a political
could have came through when they were
playing candy crush or something that
said like hey this guy's a white
supremacist let's boot him out of Iowa
and oh that's pretty fun there's a lot
of really serious privacy and civil
liberties issues with these predatory
companies that's that's the bizarre
thing about seeing him go through this
minefield or whatever it is like he
doesn't calling all over the right
things and getting the wrong message
from it the there was a story in The
Times just yesterday about apps and you
know frankly our our tech guru here Kyle
has told me this the apps all track you
and even when you turn them off they
track you the way that the money are is
made through apps and I will say this
not the majority report app not the
majority report app I can tell you that
is a completely money losing endeavor
not only is it not it not only is it
money losing endeavor it makes nothing
it is not it is every dollar spent on
that is completely has been completely
unrecovered every dollar every I can
assure you of that
Sam's pledge to you yeah that's my
pledge to you but apparently what they
do is they put in these sdk packets and
they just send data back to just random
I don't have mostly hedge funds I think
little spies yeah figure out like
where's the best place for us to put
this Banana Republic well we know that
you know these pH a cure your where you
go and then they say with this and where
we need the Kroger's or whatever it is
and the hedge funds by the Kroger's
there and Steve knows didn't get it
excuse me a Conde my granddaughter is
seeing insults of me on the phone can
you fix it
