this report from BuzzFeed news
so Taylor Swift and look I'm not gonna
lie to you folks if Taylor Swift was
sitting in this office right now I would
be like his dream is that a friend of
yours and that what's oh my god you have
a daughter I do have a daughter but my
daughter does not play Taylor Swift I
can tell you that right now
my little cardi B cardi B was in here
I'd know about it
but Taylor Swift sorry don't know her
and apparently Taylor Swift has broken
the hearts of all right writers and
conservatives who are desperately always
on the lookout desperate for for anyone
in show business as much as they hate it
when anybody in show business speaks out
or when Hollywood or musicians or
whatever it is whenever they speak out
all that just melts away if they say
something nights about conservatives or
conservatism or I guess the conservative
icons like Donald Trump and my
understanding is that Taylor Swift and I
will say I did not have first two-handed
knowledge of this had to ask has not
been very political at all in her public
career she didn't say anything during
the 2016 elections and just by the fact
that she didn't say anything
conservatives considered her one of them
oh yeah she's their Aryan princess is
that was a big all right following is it
because she looks like an area I don't
you put a picture of Jamie do we have
one cuz I honestly yeah they're trying
to find like coated stuff and her music
that's like all right it's ridiculous
for years yeah okay and then so she
comes out the other day with the post on
Instagram and
basically said that you should vote that
Marshall black okay all right there she
is
no idea don't think I've ever seen her
before in my entire life god bless you
and she came out and said she's
apparently lives in Tennessee is that
right
and she went to say that she could not
bring herself to vote for Republican
representative Marsha Blackburn in
Tennessee's a US Senate race because her
voting record in Congress appalls and
terrifies me she voted against the
reauthorization of Violence Against
Women Act voted against equal pay for
women she believed businesses have a
right to refuse service to gay couples
she also believes they should not have
the right to marry these are not my
Tennessee values what does she have
against free enterprise instead she put
her support with Phil Bredesen and
Democratic Representative Jim Cooper she
encouraged her followers to make sure
they registered to vote before
Tennessee's October 9th deadline which
is today go to vote.org and you can find
all the info oh hey Wow
I think I know the chair of the
Tennessee Democratic Party Mary Mancini
said to have someone of her statute was
such a large microphone step up and
actually reinforce what we already know
here is definitively going to boost the
morale of people who have been told
Tennesseans are divisive apparently
vote.org saw tennessee registrations
spike specifically since that post they
received fifty one hundred almost fifty
two hundred in the state so far this
month and twenty one hundred were in the
last 36 hours up from twenty-eight
hundred in the entire month of September
so that's pretty big and the site had
seen a big jump in the number of viz
since Swift boats Wow
she should have made it a walk away
though she should have said I used to be
conservative hmm that would have been
much yeah she used to care more about
her bottom line than making a political
statement throw Bredesen apparently is
in some trouble in Tennessee since the
Kavanaugh nomination since basically he
came out in support of it he was leading
in the polls and when he came out in
support of it of Cavanaugh since that
time it's gone down now it's unclear to
me it's tough to disaggregate these
things but we'll see
see if Taylor Swift breaks the hearts of
concerns my understanding is that my a
good friend Charlie Kirk
it's very upset about this he was all
over the place and I don't know if that
will come up in the debate in a week and
a half at Politico but yeah if Trump's
helping the middle class so much why did
Taylor Swift endorse a Democrat hmm well
it was kind of a power move on Katy
Perry's part if you'd like to know the
history of why Taylor Swift didn't jump
on the Hilary bandwagon sooner Katy
Perry are you being facetious no no no
oh my god I used to be like a
pop-culture blogger I still know way
more about this stuff than I want to but
they they had a little Feud Taylor and
Katy they were kind of competitive and
Katy Perry in one of the smartest thing
she's ever done jumped on the Hilary
bandwagon first and was like appearing
at her rallies and stuff so then Taylor
Swift like what was she supposed to do
she wasn't gonna campaign for Trump hmm
interesting
didn't realize that was the dynamic yeah
I will you know what now that Taylor
Swift has finally broken her silence
about politics despite my you know
skepticism of the Democratic Party I'm
going to come out I have been known on
occasion to enjoy a song or two by
Taylor Swift well there you go
well here's the problem Donald Trump
responded to Taylor Swift and Taylor
Swift of course like I said earlier has
increased a voter
registration has broken the hearts of
all right wingers and here's Donald
Trump contra it is significantly
diminished Donald Trump's appreciation
for Taylor Swift well Marcia Blackburn
is doing a very good job in Tennessee
leading now she's a tremendous woman I'm
George Ellis whip that's nothing organ
that doesn't know anything about her and
let's say that I like Taylor is using
about 25% left now
daddy goes yeah pretty good 23 still 75
percent supportive of her despite the
fact that she's actively campaigning
against you know his retaining the power
in the Senate she's a great songwriter
yeah I guess it's I gotta listen to one
of her songs I got to say I like Kanye's
music about 75% less all right yeah I
know how he's thinking about these well
I think these things balance out
