come from a 3:05 area code who's this
well hello me yes who is this hi my name
is 8:00 tomorrow I'm calling from
Florida I'm sorry what's your first name
it's a Mart yeah I'm a recently
immigrated to the United States for from
Israel and obviously I'm very depressed
what happened on on Saturday I never
believed that something like that could
happen in the United States you know and
I wanted to I saw her on her yesterday
the Israeli ambassador to the United
States which is who is like uh he's like
a B B's puppet yeah anyone like play
with praising to accomplish that all
jump denounced this act he used with
some of the strongest words I ever heard
from a leader and I got I got mainly so
pissed really because BB is like he's in
one of the worst I mean is this new axis
of evil we want the worst I agree with
you look I mean and when we talk about
promoting this this right-wing fever
dream that that Soros is you know sort
of trying to drive these caravans up to
the United States ostensibly to destroy
you know us white culture here is a
story from Breitbart from April 2018 I
don't know if you have this one but here
it is it is a picture of Soros Netanyahu
Soros backed new Israel fund seeking to
quote erase Israel's Jewish character
it's the same story they were just
completely Wow yeah this is back in
April no just a while back I think it
was last year he and there's like 40,000
African refugee
yeah in Israel and reached a decent
agreement with with governments in
Europe to to send some of the refugees
there and spread them around Israel like
half of them spread around Israel has
been sent to the u.s. there today to
Europe to resettle and he cancelled that
agreement because he got heat from let's
say Judea Nazis in Israel and then he
said he blamed source for that so he's
feeling the same the same the same
right-wing rhetoric
elin israel and i mean III followed
every time on on Twitter the creator of
The Wire and he spent the last week just
arguing with Israelis on inter and on
Twitter because it was like you
bebe it naturally been at the the
education is too we don't want you here
and he got so much heat from Israel's
like ah how dare you how dare you were
compared to they're the same yeah
they're the same I was a teacher for
seven years in Israel I'm telling you
the younger generation is like mirror
images of the generation in our United
States they're much much much less open
much less liberal and very vicious I'll
have to say very racist towards Arab and
towards non-jews I mean the kids here in
Israel now frakking ignorant about
anything that had to do with you know
liberal democracy and liberal democratic
culture you hear the to hear the Ron
Dermer yesterday praising Trump like he
stopped the greatest leader to the to
the for the American Judas that I was
sick to my stomach and I gotta figure
there was a caller before me that said
can you settle me settle for me the fact
that Monica is the Jewish I will set an
out settle it for 51 there are Jewish
anti-semitism I'm not saying she's an
anti-semite I think balance
is that sophisticated for that but there
are Jews anti-semite there is a selasa
for a Shia label which I don't know if
you heard of him be coined a phrase to
jail Nazis in the sixties and he was
talking about the mentality of Nazism of
a mentality not necessary to practice
but the mentality of Natalee which
started in Israel after the occupation
but now I have to say the cancerous has
grown so big and if you ask kids today
in Israel if they think the Jews are
special if they think that Jews have
like you know superior blood a lot of
them would agree so they did not see
mentality right do do not you are
I mean Israel will be nice baby son
shares this stuff I mean directly right
tomorrow I appreciate ya BB son you know
was sort of like a Donald Trump jr. I
mean he literally shares this stuff
right I mean what you're exactly what
you're talking about is shared by the
prime minister's son tomorrow I
appreciate that I appreciate the
perspective thanks for calling him all
right thank you call back and I really
would look at you know again he's a very
complicated figure but a hoot Omer in
another interview just a couple days ago
again said and it's a bit self-serving
but he's like I was taken down by
Sheldon Adelson and he explicitly said
right-wing Jews who did not want a deal
yeah there's truth of course huge amount
of truth to that and they did it
partially it was an analog version of
fake news it's a free right-wing
newspaper that Adelson flooded the
country with and part of the criminal
investigation that he owned right yuen
yuen part of the criminal investigation
BB right now is trading media monopoly
favors for a good coverage so who better
to defend Donald Trump on charges of
anti-semitism when Donald Trump gets up
there and talks about you know the
globalists the globalists
with their parentheses and we I read
earlier this piece from someone at the
Southern Poverty Law Center an African
American who wrote this piece about how
anti-semitism animates white nationalism
right the anti sound the it's the Jew
who actually allows they've been the
reason why African Americans have any
rights and the reason why women are
ascendant in our society the explanation
for why the superior race of white
people cannot completely subjugate
everyone else is because there is an
inside mole there's someone inside who
is undercutting the white supremacy and
that's the Jew and that's that is the
the role that anti-semitism plays in
white supremacy and white nationalism in
this country anyways and maybe
internationally I mean we have there is
actually a history of anti-semitism in
Europe I'm not sure people are aware of
this but who better to speak to the
complete absence of anti-semitism in the
Bush administration then the guy who
wears the lapel pin from the order of
Vitesse which is a Hungarian nationalist
group that was active from 1920 to 1940
for its it's an homage right their
leadership apparently was very eager to
help Adolf Eichmann who was the guy in
charge of the trains and transportation
of the Jews in sending four hundred
thousand Hungarian Jews to Auschwitz so
who better to speak about the complete
lack of anti-semitism in the Trump
administration first I'd like to point
out the facts to them Donald Trump's
grandchildren are Orthodox Jews
his daughter confer converted to Judaism
Donald Trump is the first president in
23 years to keep our nation's promise to
the people of Israel and to recognize
Jerusalem as its capital and to move our
embassy so those are the facts the only
thing that is evil in this instance is
the man who perpetrated this massacre
and the anti-semitism that he was
propagating also note that we now know
from his social media that the
perpetrator of this Massacre hated the
President as well so we've got it we've
got to stop the people who are
exploiting tragedy for their own
political purposes right we've got to
continue to loud those people who are
promoting future tragedies for their own
political gain and yes this guy this
shooter thought that Trump was actually
not the the nationalist that he claims
he is he's actually a globalist even
though he said this the other day and of
course here this is what Trump said
radical Democrats want to turn back the
clock barred the rule of corrupt
power-hungry globalists you know the
globalists is right you noted lovely
a globalist is a person that wants the
globe to do well frankly not caring
about our country so much and you know
what we can't have that you know they
have a word it sort of became
old-fashioned it's called a nationalist
and I say really we're not supposed to
use that word you know what I am I'm a
nationalist okay so the idea that this
shooter hated Donald Trump was exactly
it was just simple he was exactly the
same function that Donald Trump is using
there right I'm a nationalist they're
globalist they're good they're
controlling things this guy completely
bought in to that dynamic it's just that
he thought that Trump was actually
controlled by those people he was a
false nationalist
and that the Jews were actually acting
upon him but still there's the idea that
he was influenced by Trump adores
ridiculous
you asked me am i an anti-semite asked
me if I'm an anti-semite asked me if I'm
an ass I said are you a as I said I am
NOT a mock cyst my father was not a
communist this is actually a common
thing on all right reportedly like they
think that Trump is not sufficiently
anti-semitic when I wake up in the
morning and I see that that beautiful
Ivanka is being handled by that Jew I
literally get sick by Sunday oh I'm
sorry oh we are now probably shouldn't
have said that but they still view him
as sort of a useful idiot
they understand lesser evil voting bears
gonna say they actually have a beautiful
talent to understand I I made this point
you know they actually for them it's
actually more evil I made this point in
in Idaho
yeah they're they understand the crucial
importance of good guys lesser evil is
still less II take the lesser anti
battle okay yeah
yes I tried to say this to these people
at Boise and one in one panel I was like
I saw a clip once I'm a neo-nazi I maybe
I mentioned this on air before but he
literally said he's like I'm not gonna
say this right before the midterms I
don't think that helps but I was like
that's beautiful only people on
my side could learn from that I admired
it so much
