[Music]
let's watch this from Jeremy Corbyn
brexit continues to grip the intention
of the United Kingdom it's even though
it's been punted until the fall I did a
video which you can check out on TM
vsonic sort of broader analysis and
brexit but the point that I always make
is that there is absolutely no guarantee
that the people's referendum would
reverse the result people really need to
know that on some level those who are
singularly obsessed with brexit should
be advocating an option where frankly
the Parliament just ignores the will
referendum and is undemocratic in its
approach I don't think that that's
viable and it's not the approach that I
would advocate but if you go and you
have a second referendum that affirms
brexit again then the crisis even deeper
and of course the crisis is already
existing the crisis in terms of real
people's lives in the UK goes back to
2012 when David Cameron's government
started pounding the working people of
Britain with austerity this is and
poverty is increased and so on this
Jeremy Corbyn explaining why you need a
Labour brexit brexit that would only
work for the richest those who want to
deregulate to slash public services deny
rights at work and still further it
would be a Donald Trump brexit leaving
us at the mercy of a reckless and
bellicose US administration Nigel
Farage's brexit is a brexit for
conspiracy theorists for those who see
Muslims and migrants or George Soros as
their enemy only labour can see off the
Faraj snake oil in this election
Faraj is that you Kipp leader who's this
sort of along with Boris Johnson and
others was the kind of prime engine of
the conspiracy driven xenophobic
head Torrey exit campaign and he's
exactly right it is important though to
remember that as there were plenty of
lies about economic populism from Donald
Trump people like Boris Johnson lied
that the money that went to the EU even
though the UK actually has a great
arrangement with the EU the EU because
they don't have the euro and they have
all the advantages of being part of the
of that market so that's an incredible
advantage they have but they said that
the savings from leaving from brexit
would get plowed back into NHS they
dropped that lie literally 24 hours
after it passed but this was their bus
this is the brexit bus and again this is
as with all of these things of course
xenophobia of course anti-establishment
blah blah blah yes but you can't forget
the economic lies that these people tell
and if you don't think that those have
an effect you're also being blind to
reality if people wonder why I'm
personally maybe a bit cynical about
that sort of Nate Silver's or they say
Glenn Kessler Washington Post fact
checkers it's because I spent the summer
of 2011 in the UK working for a fact
check an agency called full-fat org
right and a lot of the most of the fact
checks were you know propaganda
about brexit right and I it's you
realize you're you're I guess peeing
into the wind and a lot of this stuff
and like the season we fought on a
political ground and not on a sort of
discourse blog and look at I just want
to read that straight people are
listening and then please go Jamie but I
just want to make sure everybody gets
this this is the tortoise was the brexit
bus with the slogan let's take back
control that was a slogan of the
campaign we send the EU 350 million
pounds a week let's fund our NHS instead
vote leave now
even as Tony Blair has pointed out this
is gonna you know the Tories are gonna
cut NHS through their beg the brexit
plan yeah it's a more more queer version
I think of what Trump did as well to try
to win in 2016 that liberals still don't
want to acknowledge which is
to include some elements of
quote-unquote populism populist
economics in his stew of you know racism
and xenophobia and like for a lot of
people it's probably not one thing or
the other it's probably a mixture of
things but it is a very potent
combination and shows the need for an
actual left critique of globalization
and neoliberal capitalism and the real
reasons why we're having all these
problems and it's not it's not
immigrants but I wanted to ask you where
where the left brexit currently stands
because as I understand I mean I don't
know a ton about it but we did an
episode on the Intifada as I understood
before it would preserve the free
movement of people more or less but
introduced some like elements of
economic protectionism like they have in
the Scandinavian countries I mean I
don't know where I know that what he's
proposed in Labor's continuing a part of
the customs union so that the trade can
generally still flow and I think they've
I don't know where they are on free
movement of people I know that
definitionally it would not exist in the
same way because that like the law would
just change I mean that that's like one
of the reasons why Ireland is in crisis
the whole the trick of Good Friday
accords is that there's an open border
between Northern Ireland and Ireland
right like so that they could all just
say okay like everybody's sort of
satisfied with this arrangement because
if you want to treat it like you live in
one country you kind of do because you
can just move and but you're still
officially part of the UK so I don't
know I mean I know more broadly the left
case for brexit goes back to like you
know people in the 70s and 80s who had a
problem with the EU and from the
perspective of socialism which is fine I
agree with that critique but it's like
it isn't on the table and any type of
real recognizable way in modern politics
so well that's not why they voted for it
I mean it might even be why a handful of
people voted for it but it just wasn't
like what pushed it and what like the
people behind brexit are people that
don't
want the minimal standards that like the
EU does have standards it's the only
transnational organization that does
have standards like that they don't want
those they want the they want UK to be
like I mean not even I guess they would
probably say like Singapore but I would
I don't even think to as they're not
strategically positioned like Singapore
I mean they're not really part of a
rising continent in terms of you know a
place to enter and a country that's
already been trained in such a specific
way since the 60s to function as a
fulcrum of global capital so all they're
gonna do is just continue to degrade
their standards it's tough like you
really can't put the toothpaste back in
the tube where globalization is
concerned you know like unless you have
an autarky like they were talking about
in the interview like we're so
interconnected and we're so into
interdependent and like my hope is that
socialists can use these networks and
you know hopefully reform them or even
eventually overcome them but use these
connections to build something that's
not completely subsumed by the market I
mean that's why I think the very focus
at least idea on an idea level like he's
right because that's like he's like okay
we have this transnational
superstructure it has all these problems
it's destroyed Greece it's destroyed the
southern zone but the fight is to flip
it the fight is to flip it not end it
and I you know that's that's what I
think and I certainly think you know
like if Lula's vision and Chavez's
vision of like a Latin American bloc
that could function in a synchronised
way to counter to some extent counteract
the United States and improve standards
that would be a great thing absolutely
short term flip it long term over coming
