[Music]
this is great da-ad Anne Bonny what is
he doing these days
fox news hits base Oh does he do
does he have his own show or does he not
have his own show oh I don't think he
has his own show no no not anymore ever
since the NRA stuff that's too bad
nobody wanted to pick that up that's
really that's a real shame but here he
is there brain and there was a fencer
guy who fences gold medalist I guess in
the pan-american games who took the knee
during the playing of the national
anthem good for him
and apparently this guy
according I guess he was interviewed
later he knelt to protect a protest
racism gun control mistreatment of
immigrants and President Trump there was
another guy too named looks like Gwen
Barry who was a hammer thrower who
raised his fist good so yeah all right
well here's Dan bond J know who's really
offended by this on Fox in for yes
you know Griff I saw this story and I'm
really tired of these people and I think
a lot of America is too you know we
share nothing in common with them number
one it's all about their own
self-promotion it's rarely about them
engaging in any kind of a positive way
to change things for the better
you know kneeling is a positive positive
for one second we have heard Dan bungee
no really really go out there and praise
people for positively trying to change
things in this country Reverend barber
fan right exactly yeah I really you know
like I was gonna take some time from
praising Reverend barber and you know my
work in trying to reestablish
acorn which really represented a lot of
underprivileged people to just say hey
guy come on come on Kaepernick right you
know kneeling is a sign of disrespect to
our flag which
many of the patriotic Americans who
watch this Network know shuts the
argument down right away so whatever
you're trying to argue for you know what
would a Capra dick say you know social
justice or and I believe his this Neal
or at the pan-american games
I believe his thing was he was
protesting some systemic racism those
are all horrible things we should all be
trying to combat these things but you
shut the conversation down immediately
when you disrespect posit for one second
I hope people understand and appreciate
the irony of the fact that that's
probably the first time I've ever heard
a clip of Fox News where someone said
like racism is bad like we want social
justice right like guess what Dan it it
looks like he's successfully started a
conversation going but let's go back a
little bit I know you think he realized
it's like oh my gosh I'm defeating my
own point I'm doing what he wants me to
do right dan bungee no is really a
conversation ender roll the tape let's
listen to more damn bungee no said this
Neil or at the Pan American Games
I believe his thing was he was
protesting some systemic racism those
are all horrible things yeah we should
all be trying to combat these things but
you shut the conversation down
immediately when you disrespect their
flag what what would you know people
have now come home and boxes for this to
support this and it reminds me again one
more thing either we share almost
nothing in common anymore with liberals
you know this was once a common space
sports where Americans could go for you
know refuge from the back-and-forth and
the friction of politics and liberals
have to destroy cuz they're a forest
fire every single thing they touch and
they've now destroyed this too by the
guy the guy by the way the guy was
representing the United States get up
and put your hand over your heart and
then give a speech later about how you
want a protest racism that's great we'll
all be with you for that but you don't
do it this way Wow first off I don't
know if there's the first time that Fox
has ever even acknowledged that systemic
racism exists and Dan bond Gino is
saying that he's gonna be given speech
is that right Dan budging dude I mean
how many episodes do you think of his
NRA TV cover
systemic racism in this country a little
bit zero he's gonna start now right now
remember the conversation really with
Tomsk oka about ventriloquism yeah on
Friday this part I think brings back to
back to our flag which many of the
patriotic Americans who watch this
network know shuts the argument down
right away yeah there you go
yeah and the fact that the flag sends
people home in boxes maybe isn't a great
argument for it
well that was also weird he I think he
was saying that they have the right to
go and participate in sports and that's
why guys get sent home in boxes which
they've they go and sacrifice themselves
for free speech apparently and this is
how you're using your speech to like
meal during the national anthem it's
it's just down the conversations oh it's
just down the conversation to exercise
the the rights of free speech or I don't
know if he's same like did the other
teams that were there that they all have
to have sent home people in boxes to to
go play like I mean if it's if it's
really pan-american games they all need
to like you don't get into those games
unless you've sent a certain number of
people into war and they've got the
truth is it was just a spasm of like
sort of patriot patriotism whatever it
is means and Dan bungee knows head so
you just just mentioned you know
soldiers coming home in boxes right men
we win the argument right you know what
they're pissed about that mentioning
people coming home and boxes does not
shut down the conversation anymore
that's what they're exactly it's still
so weird to hear them say like lead with
that when they're talking about why we
should uphold this country right they're
just pissed because it doesn't work
because it doesn't make any sense
here's an idea let's see if we don't
send home our men and women in the
military if we don't send them home a
boxes if we still get to go play in the
pan-american games we can we could test
that problem that premise right there
