here is the greeting that Roger stone
got when he came walks out of a federal
court in Fort Lauderdale apparently not
a huge hero down there
[Music]
as I have always said the only thing
is not being talked about two-year
Inquisition the charges today relate in
no way to rush in Fallujah
aberration or any other illegal act in
connection with the 2016 campaign I am
mostly accused of making false
statements during my testimony material
and without intent
lock him up yeah that was pretty fun
very good
the FBI agents they when they knock down
the door they should have screamed get
me Roger stone right he's guy I I do
hope you see jail so that he can talk
about oh no I didn't get this I didn't
get this thing here I got this before I
came to jail big neck interview he
literally has a Nixon tattoo would you
uh would you hire Rudy Giuliani as your
attorney if you were him absolutely
complete chaos and chaos what do you
think it's going down with Julia now
Larry Larry come um the last thing that
I heard was that they asked him you know
Trump tweeted basically no collusion and
then they asked Rudy Giuliani and I
think they must have him on a gag hold
now he's not allowed to speak so he was
just like I did speak with the president
I spoke with the president about it and
the president said shut up that's the
face well okay here is uh like Trump
really losing it but still together
enough to realize that we're Giuliani
should really shut the up here's
John no usually it takes 48 hours for
him to realize what happened
who's that Giuliani yeah I thought that
was grown don't catch it in real time
it takes like it takes a little
processing how does he process it little
delay what
how does he process it Oh what would
when they asked me about that what am I
supposed to say him just don't say
anything don't say anything about that
got it got it boss listen hypothetically
speaking if he talked to Bruce ap'to if
these two are in communication if he
worked for the Kremlin if at some point
they got on a three-way call that's not
a crime
not if he didn't say anything on the
call not that he did and if it was on
tape did you don't have those tapes yes
you the best is what he why did he
mention paint why did he mention that he
think that's weird
well yeah it was weird and he said
because I should I should have said
[Laughter]
nothing like no taping system no taping
system inside the place no surreptitious
cakes were ever made by the president by
anyone that I don't think there's audio
of it it was in the interview with shot
nur and he said he says look I've
reviewed the tapes I have reviewed all
the emails they didn't mention anything
about it and then China goes
you heard tapes I shouldn't have said
tapes yeah he was a lot our copyright
was murder and like he was torturing
like here's this is it this is it right
here all right
okay so he goes he goes but I could tell
you from the moment I read the story I
knew the story was false and China goes
because because I have been through all
the tapes I have been through all the
text I have been through all the emails
I knew none existed and then basically
when the Special Counsel said
just in case there are others I might
not know about they probably went
through others and found the same thing
wait what tapes have you gone through I
shouldn't have said there were texts and
emails that corroborated with don't
saying and there were no texts no emails
that's trusting oh my god you stupid my
kids so hate you
so there were no tapes you listened to
though no tapes well I have listened to
tapes but none of them concern himself
it's unbelievable it's unbelievable I
mean he's a PR wing right I mean isn't
this isn't this just to come out ahead
of something before it gets exposed yes
that is he actually his lawyer like is
he doing any legal brief right with an
actual lawyer right I think that we
should establish whether he our guy so
what is the point I think that's what
they're starting to realize I think what
every single like figure from the
Gambino and Bonanno family's that this
guy put in jail start his career should
be released from prison immediately and
they should all have new trials well
they're all good
without a doubt they're all the Trump
but Trump can't get outside counsel
because no one will work for him because
he doesn't pay people part of it you
have somebody who will just be there and
do it like process of largely smoke
tonight but isn't it largely that he
thought that he might be culpable in the
end for crimes Giuliani loves attention
it's part it no I think I think it could
be I think it could be both a good job I
don't think of protecting himself
I think it also do you think he's trying
to get back on after now I think I think
yes I think it's I think it's he enjoys
it I think he also monetizes it I mean
he is as long as he has the ear of the
president he's out and he's getting
contracts for millions of millions of
dominos doubt he's going to but he's
going to Brazil I would put so much
money on that he's already rent he ran a
business throughout the Obama years of
teaching like governments in Latin
America how to even have more ruthless
police the bright he's gets all these
private contracts from the Department of
Homeland Security yeah no he's a
horrible human being and and I think and
part of it is it's also a political
process and so he's trying to he's
trying to you know muddy the waters but
the real question to me Minoo I always
circle back on this is like these guys
are bad at this they're bad at this
anyway things like they're good at it
well when it comes to even being why did
it take they know what they're doing is
illegal it doesn't seem like anyone's
clandestine did you hear did you see
some of the things that came out with
Roger stone where it's like hey since
we're gonna talk about something illegal
should we switch to our whatsapp app you
know the one that's encrypted so that
they can't read the illegal thing good
idea yeah it's like whatsapp I can't get
past who saw the pro you know the the
time story the Pro Publica stories that
show that basically Trump has been just
his entire enterprise has been criminal
for decades how is it that these people
have been able to act with impunity for
decades in this city where you have some
of the most ambitious political
prosecutors in the country right I mean
this is not just we're protecting the
big week's is not like Donald Trump had
some type of like broad constituency
there's a real sense that everybody
thought he was a schmuck yeah 25 grand
but I mean how much better would he run
I know it's a little my bag well that's
25 grand is is a decent amount but for a
DA but how much better would he have
been off if he was the one who took
Donald Trump down oh yeah I mean it's
that's I just think that rich people get
to use New York as their personal
playground and see themselves is above
the law and a lot of people in law
enforcement just don't you know turn a
blind eye I just don't think it's at the
top of people's priorities I think
generally that's absolutely true
particularly people who are in the
system but I just sort of feel like
Donald Trump was is if you were a
prosecutor and you want to make a name
for yourself kids there would there have
been a better person to take down the
Donald Trump and it seems like it would
have been the easiest thing in the world
to do the unlike no consequences because
he doesn't represent any actual power
exact just a trust fund he's just Jack
yes exactly it's not like actually going
after it right they're not going after
people you can't go after he just seemed
to be tolerated by all of society like
oh Donald's gonna show up again I think
that's true too that's a type person you
go after right yeah but I mean there's
also this celebrity worship - he was in
each kinds of circles I mean before he
became really right-wing he was
hobnobbing with the Clintons so it's not
like he was a hated sorority figure for
a majority of his public life definitely
that was also that was one before right
now he copies Fox News but that was when
he was like I was just reading this
piece about Hindu Nisha in the near
times big stuff going up big stuff
getting stuff yeah it's true the Thomas
Friedman column boy what a smart guy big
stuff going on India globalization Larry
yeah Alexander's writing about Palestine
yeah big league oh yeah about time yeah
Larry now do you go through some of that
too I mean do you find I'm not gonna say
specifically we're in Massachusetts you
live but do you find that you basically
have carte blanche because of your
status what do you mean car plunge I
mean like I mean can you get away with
all sorts of stuff because you
celebrity DUIs get away get away with
what what am I getting away with right I
mean why don't you list off some of the
things I don't have a lot of interaction
Sam I really don't it's limited yeah
he's like I'm not gonna do a yes answer
larry built a an unpermitted shed his
backyard the new Larry allegations that
are Sam really Larry let me ask you this
did you get a permit for that slab that
you put down did have a slab and you
never got a permit there's no problem
with it anyway because you wouldn't know
about it there were no tapes of the slab
being discussed Ron okay here is this
guy John Berman on on CNN talking to
Sarah Huckabee Sanders you sent me a
picture let's just look at the picture
first she looks like she is crying I've
been told I look like her Wow can you do
like that that that that face though
that she has there like we already said
we're not gonna respond to what Jenks
had said before I'm not even bringing
I'm not gonna bring what Ben mankiewicz
his comments into this alright let's
let's listen to this exchange Roger
stone the president's longtime political
adviser placed under arrest
what's your reaction look my first
reaction is real simple this has nothing
to do with the President and certainly
nothing to do with the White House this
is something that has to do solely with
that individual and not something that
affects us here in this bill was it just
the president is literally named not by
name but as you know whatever he is is
all in the passive someone is ordered to
do this stuff who else would be doing
the ordering there's all sort of but
they're good at something that affects
us here in this building nothing to do
with the president on this show a couple
months ago Corey Lewandowski who was one
time campaign manager to then candidate
Donald Trump used to tell me it would
make him crazy
well then candidate Trump would talk to
Roger stone on the phone and it would
happen a lot it is a connection between
Roger stone and the now president of the
United States you would concede that
look Roger stones is somebody who's been
a consultant for were dozens of
Republican presidents and candidates and
members of Congress but conversations
between those individuals have nothing
to do with the fact of what these
charges are about and that's about
whether or not he made false statements
will let the courts make that decision I
think a bigger question is if these
state if this is the standard will this
same standard apply to people like
Hillary Clinton James Comey clapper when
we see these same people who we know of
also made false statements will that
same standard apply and that's a
question that we'll have to see what
happens on that front mmm like what
Obama had Axelrod coordinated with the
Iranians to get there done Mitt Romney
it's like you go you got through Assad
you're listening well as if you're
listening yeah you get more get more
you've got more stuff like more on them
is this mustachioed axle rather not in
the statue because they're totally
mustachio right if we're gonna keep
talking about crimes we should get on
the what's hat
