[Music]
meanwhile since we're in this in this
neighborhood steven crowder has been
pushing yeah let's just go through the
whole thing you know the NRA and one of
the revelations of the NRA that there
were two years of state investigations
and numerous lawsuits the NRA stopped
offering its carry guard self defense
insurance products the the NRA rolled
out the carry guard in 2017 it's a
multi-tiered insurance program offered
with policies up to one hundred and
fifty thousand dollars in criminal
defense reimbursement and a million
dollars in civil liability protection it
it basically it was defense coverage for
criminal actions essentially right like
if you accidentally shoot somebody or
criminally shoot somebody they would now
in this didn't stick in in in New York
because the NRA was based in New York so
they were subject to New York
regulations it's quite possible that
firearms legal.com firearm legal
protection is an insurance company
somewhere else and so they are able to
get away with this
but here is steven crowder with not only
selling a some type of junk insurance
program but also doing one of the
world's worst ads for it it's unclear if
they produce this ad or not or just
reproduce it but this is a scene which
is going to in some way I guess capture
when you would need this insurance
whatever you want just take it and leave
I will use it I will shoot what did you
expect I am gonna show you so hard you
can simply face ridiculous civil
liability with the defensive use of your
firearm
that's why you need firearms legal
protection with our 24/7 emergency
hotline now we need for a second first
off I I'm that voice on the other side
of the door sounded a lot like steven
crowder to me and maybe it wasn't and
then of course they get this you know
Brooklyn hits his love this is just like
they were just like hey are you tired of
making soy lattes you ought to be a
judge and sentence gun overs to jail for
civil cases but here's yes it's
supposedly I'm going to sue you and
apparently the lawsuit was for putting
hint we're gonna do I'm gonna I want put
handcuffs on you as my compensation
which of course does not happen in the
context of lawsuits what also doesn't
happen is that the court officer when
they come to cuff you they don't reach
for your hands that are behind your back
and then somehow magically will put the
cuffs on in front of you this this is I
mean I hate to be a critique of the
filmmaking here but watch this watch
watch the the cut where they go for the
hands behind the back you can see a face
ridiculous civil liability with the
defensive use of your firearm
that's why you need firearms legally
they come behind him there are
firearms owner firearms legal protection
is the best legal protection you can
have for self-defense
there you go so they will and it's
unclear what they'll provide some how
they will make sure that you don't go to
jail if you get less sued just say if
you do have a gun for self-defense maybe
don't shoot blindly through doors you
know that's the amazing thing I got my
Fred's door I'm just picturing some
monster from like Fraggle Rock or
something that's just like eats bullets
and spits them back out again and goes
ow wait Fred you shot another babysitter
that we still have our murder insurance
yeah I think so no pay god all right
holy cow look at least remove the body
I'm slick well let's go to the phones
