with sass where everyday casual Friday
that means Monday is casual Monday
Tuesday casual Tuesday Wednesday casual
hump day Thursday casual thurs that's
what we call it and Friday casual
Shabbat
come on jarred a report with sam Sita
it is Friday October 19th 2018 my name
is Sam cedar this the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
cliff chef cliff schecter will be here
with us folks starting early today end
of a long week got to get on a jet plane
go to California meanwhile this sounds
amazing but conservatives are now
mounting a smear campaign against Jamal
khashoggi presumably to justify why he
was murdered and chopped up into pieces
as a way of defending Donald Trump
welcome to America ladies and gentlemen
meanwhile last night Donald Trump
promotes more violence against
journalists absentee voting already
underway across the country including in
Georgia where Stacey Abrams is neck and
neck with voters who are presumed to not
be disenfranchised so important to get
out and vote folks because you know
there will be other people's whose votes
are not going to be counted probably
because they're black meanwhile rick
scott may have a me-too problem as well
as his me corrupt problem he already had
and the us to eliminate the palestinian
mission and merge it with the israeli
embassy and lastly annex trump advisor
is suing chapo traphouse all this and
more on today's program yes ladies and
gentlemen it is Friday my computer's not
working that well so forgive me if I'm a
little bit disjointed I've had a rather
like technically difficult past 24 hours
have a night you know but hopefully this
doesn't extend to the plane all right
geez that's me knocking on wood right
knocking on wood will be fine everybody
will be fine ladies and gentlemen it is
November 19th and back of the envelope
well I'll count them out because we have
less than are we less than two weeks
away no we've got about two and a half
weeks it's going to be November 7th is
election day
and all hell is going to break loose
after this election I'm telling you this
now
that could involve firings of DOJ
officials that could involve potential
attacks on other countries but this
lame-duck session is going to be nuts I
think this is my sense well let's not
get ahead of ourselves well it's it's
gonna be a lame-duck session the
question is who's gonna return On
January 21st or January 20th whenever
the Congress is inaugurated and but
there's no doubt in my mind Democrats
win Republicans win we're gonna see some
firings and the question is and and we
may see some attempts to engage in a war
maybe it'll be worse if the Democrats
win in the short term till they get into
office in terms of the way that Trump
reacts it's unclear but I can tell you
that in terms of long term if Democrats
are not controlling the house look two
cuts in Social Security look two cuts in
Medicare look two cuts across the board
think about the sequester without the
military cuts and it will not be like
the first two years of this
administration because there will have
been a validation of Trump and the
Republicans and they're all you're
starting to see this now right the never
Trump movement is basically dead there's
a couple of stragglers who have decided
they're really not never Trump anymore
they're just gonna call themselves
Democrats and all well and good it's
nice to have four more votes nationally
but
the never Trump movement is dead there
is no hesitation anymore about
Republican leadership signing on to a
Trump agenda signing on to a Trump
methodology and we're gonna play this in
a little bit when cliff is here but make
no mistake about it
Donald Trump has showed them like this
is the way Quinn and I don't know if
they're right or they're wrong but they
don't have many options that's the
problem there is no there is no other
options for them so trumpism and and I
don't mean that in terms of policy in
terms of policy it's the same but
fascism is politics aestheticized right
right and and the but the the the
politics like the actual policy
prescriptions are more or less the same
but the methodology is a little bit
different and the style is a little bit
different Kevin I really clarified
things regards to let know the never
Trump errs yes and and it did two things
it did that in terms of saying where
everybody's aligned but it also was the
first time where we had in the post
Trump era a the adoption of the Trump
methodology which is basically total
shamelessness not mostly shamelessness
where I think Republicans had been for a
long time but total total shamelessness
the idea that Kavanaugh could sit in
that room and say the Alumnus thing was
an homage and every single human being
in that room knew exactly what it was
and that he was lying every single one
and it somewhat they were just like well
he's gonna get away with this and the
others were just like I can't believe
he's gonna get away with this but no one
said a word and there are other lies but
that to me was just the most sort of
like unequivocal I thought the way he
lied about the process like I've been
investigated X number of times prior to
this there there was there's a half a
dozen other lies and at least you know
outright lies like the man II Miranda
stuff and stuff like this but that was
the most sort of obvious like colloquial
there was no hedging in the language
that was not like you needed some type
of special information you didn't need
to know the backstory you know it
literally would have been like if he got
up there and said 12:00 noon is the
night time you don't need to know
anything you know the guy's lying he
knows he's lying his crying wife behind
him knows he's lying every senator knew
he was lying every person in the room
knew he was lying and nobody did
anything and that is to me sort of the
aside from you know knowing where the
Republicans stand that moment was when I
think a lot of people in the Republican
Party were like ooh the the even the
notion of like shame is no longer a
political constraint and that is super
dangerous
III don't know that it makes I don't
know that it wasn't inevitable and that
we certainly were on the road but it
just basically means that like you know
power must be taken at any point and if
he wins here if the day of the
Republicans win here and there the the
lying that they're doing is just you
know also shameless we will talk about
that but
you know we saw a glimpse of this in the
past but we'll save this for for cliff
schecter but with that in mind we have
the Secretary of State Mike Pompeo he's
at the White House ostensibly he's flown
back from Saudi Arabia right when he's
making this speech and he's he went to
Saudi Arabia's like I need the hard
answers here I need to know what the
heck there's there's reports that your
own personal bodyguard
well I'm it's a been Salomon was was
there you did his Clouseau impression
and Pompeyo got the goods here he is
he's coming back to announce like I
figured out what's going on I had a
chance to brief the President on the
travels that I returned from last
evening where I had travel both to
Riyadh and on crupp had a chance to talk
within in Riyadh with the king with the
crown prince from the foreign minister
all of the United States counterparts
there we made clear to them that we take
this matter
with respect to mr. khashoggi very
seriously they made clear to me that
they to understand the serious nature of
the disappearance of mr. khashoggi they
also assured me that they will conduct a
composite posit the disappearance right
he disappeared
god I love that passive voice well it's
it's also sort of like we don't we don't
know what happened to it we don't know
if he's dead or alive he for all we know
this could be an insurance fraud scam
the old life insurance think or maybe
maybe he just really didn't want to get
married
spontaneous combustion spontaneous
combustion is possible maybe didn't want
to get married and so this is the only
way that he didn't have the the guts to
break up with his fiance so I did the
old go into the embassy and go out the
back door type of thing maybe maybe
maybe he was picked up by a UFO stranger
things have happened you know or maybe
not but you know at one point it's
possible someone gets teleported up to a
UFO or picked up by a tractor beam
there's multiple different explanations
but he disappeared go back a little bit
understand the serious nature of the
disappearance
mr. Khashoggi they also assured me that
they will conduct a complete thorough
investigation of all of the facts
surrounding mr. Kassabian that they will
do so in a timely fashion and that this
report itself will be transparent for
everyone to see ask questions about and
to acquire with respect to its
thoroughness and I told President Trump
this morning that we ought to give them
a few more days to complete that so that
we to have a complete understanding of
the facts surrounding that which point
we can make decisions about how or if
the United States should respond you see
what you're doing in real-time
we are watching people make up a story
right and it's and apparently it's not
gonna be too easy because there's so
much evidence that what it appears to be
like physical evidence in the form of
like a recording that they're really
having to work on like what's going on
so like they have to do some type of
investigation now incidentally one
person who was reportedly of that 15 my
understanding from last night already
had the misfortune of dying in a car
crash can you believe it can you believe
it so there may need a couple more days
to investigate in other words like maybe
maybe let's see if you got one in one
day it made it maybe they made two weeks
you have someone they're going to kill
all of those guys well I'd like to call
it tying up loose ends right and the US
government is covering for them so
that's where we are ladies and gentlemen
I mean I I hope we see more this is why
all the Republicans who are running I
think that's you know we were sitting in
here why why are the Republicans the
Conservatives are doing a whisper
campaign smearing khashoggi which is I
just don't even understand what the
outcome of that is they don't want to
alienate I guess their base but the fact
is is that none of these Republicans I
mean I don't know how going into this
election a single one of them running
for reelection
could actually say like anything other
than this were like every democratic at
this point we have a government where
you know and it's slightly different
than when we just kill people right
because everybody sort of bought into
that as a as a nation but the idea that
we are running basically interference
for the just naked murder of a
journalist that's been crazy the base
loves that stuff so well yeah they're
gonna need a little bit more than the
base that's the problem so they may like
it from Trump but if I'm running against
Dave brat in Virginia let's say I'm
gonna be like will you denounced the
president for covering up on this murder
by the Saudis the Saudis aren't
necessarily you know it'd be interesting
we'll talk to cliff about this because I
think there is a pipe a reason why
Donald Trump was praising GM Forte the
other a journalist abuser all right we
gotta take a quick break when we come
back cliff Schecter
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen it's casual
Friday and of course in this era
nothing's nothing's even nothing's
casual about Friday's anymore because
it's usually just huge news dump or
something else going on
nevertheless I am wearing a soft
collared shirt and I have queued up this
little dingy
[Music]
oh I've missed that theme song the the
went back in the days when Jimmy reefer
cake was a little bit more
I don't know baladi with mrs. reefer
cake cliff schecter how are you cliff
yes I'm hearing a little what nope now
it sounds good I was hearing myself for
a second that's all right everybody's
having a little difficulties around here
today
everybody's having a little technical
problems cliff how are you I'm doing
well how are you doing man well you know
as well as one can be expected I am I'm
not going to lie I'm starting to feel a
little bit of like energy slash anxiety
about the midterms I think this is one
of those that like democracy is that
what you're saying well I'm I'm I you
know I am a fan of democracy but I'm
also I think the my feeling is less
about the fear for democracy and the
more the fear for just the Republican
rule frankly right in this country and
because I think the the days of
Republicans hesitating and being unsure
about Donald Trump
they've always shared the same policy
prescriptions
but now I think they they have basically
worked out their differences and can
will you know but I think you're under
counting the impact in all the sad faces
that Ben Sasse and just like make yes
that's true but the main guys are
they're gonna be gone right while Ben
Sasse will still be around it'll still
be there to make sad faces and then go
into unprecedented judicial hearings
during what should be the break so that
he can then keep going and destroying
norms on being very sad you know I find
that really helps I wanna I you know and
it's just me III would like to touch on
that in in in in a few of for folks who
don't know
sure despite the fact that Chuck Schumer
made two separate deals to fast-track
fifteen Republican judges each time
total thirty lifetime appointments
apparently he didn't talk to chuck
Grassley about it chuck Grassley is now
holding comp you know hearings for more
judges with I don't know three or four
people are showing up I mean it's it's
is there anybody in the entire sort of
left of let's say the Republican Party
anywhere in there the things Chuck
Schumer doing a good job
kind of wondering it's stunning to me I
I but I know we plan to talk about other
stuff but yeah I do think we touched on
that because I just the deal for not
sort of making them I mean I'm not a
Senate expert you probably had people on
the show who are but I do understand
from my friends you've worked on the
Senate floor that that if they do not
provide unanimous consent they can drag
their thirty hours of debate you have
these folks which is essentially they
could have just sent I mean Tim Kaine is
not what you'd call in a real race he's
running in a state that's leaning left
against a neo Confederate and the
Virginia that would've been a problem
thirty years ago no longer and then
otherwise you've got you know Maryland
is right there we happen to have some
senators from there a same with Mark
Warner from Virginia they could have
just had somebody on the floor like they
need to do yep and and I mean I'm sure
McConnell wouldn't do that he would
never just to be a dick you know and
that's what's so frustrating it's like
after Kavanagh you're gonna make deals I
would just do even if you can't stop
them I would do it just to ruin
their vacation and make them make them
work harder
yeah it's what no I agree with it we
talked about it yesterday too with Jeff
Hauser and I know that's driving me
crazy but alright let's talk about this
though because reports today by the
Washington Post that conservatives and
you know how this goes right there the
line between what constitutes the lowest
rung of the conservative taxonomy you
know is basically now functionally
equivalent with your typical Republican
senator there is no you know there was a
day where it was like oh these people
the bright parts in the you know the the
the low end folks they're kept at arm's
length
you know Mike Serna Vichy isn't gonna be
dining at the White House but those days
are over right and they're all right now
yeah the the Conservatives are trying to
mount a whisper campaign saying that
Jamal khashoggi was Muslim Brotherhood
and that's why he should be chopped up
when he goes in to get a marriage
license and so here is with that as the
backdrop right and we just played a clip
of Mike Pompeo coming back and saying
we're gonna give them a couple more days
to get their story straight and figure
out how they're gonna make up something
we to catch the real killers
exactly it doesn't matter but but this
was interesting Donald Trump last night
he's in where was he in Virginia was it
Missoula Montana sorry and he's at his
rally and he's added a line now granted
jim forte is from that area yes right
but how he talked about GM Ford you had
a choice and here here's where he went
for well here's what he went for he's so
smart you know we've had people you're
in live television all over the place
and we've had people get up speak for
20-25 minutes and these guys are going
crazy that's not the deal
but Gregg is smart and by the way never
wrestle him
you understand that never any guy that
can do a body slam he's Mike
oh my god
I shouldn't say that you're not but this
is nothing to be embarrassed so I was in
Rome with a lot of the leaders from
other countries talking about all sorts
of things and I heard yeah heard about
and now he's referring to when g and
forte criminally body-slammed
a reporter he was indicted right charged
and convicted he was and you know what I
loved about that though well you
finished first I'll tell you what I love
nothing to be embarrassed about but I
have a theory about why Trump
highlighted that you do go first well
I'm not giving a theory about why you
highlighted I'm just saying I love how
impossibly the most unintended metaphor
of all time it was like when I was in
Rome right like the perfect metaphor for
the falling of our empire right it's
sort of you know like when he was in
Rome the well the other places that
allowed a once functioning at least on
some level democracy to become so
thoroughly corrupt allow allowed the
people like Gian Forte and others to
cross the line the Rubicon if you will
and to come inside and behave that way
and of course which led to Rome turning
to dust and that's that's his but that's
how he of course I need too much of a
 to have any understanding of
anything but yeah I mean I if you're
gonna say your theory is is that part of
this is to kind of ease the burden of
what happens what's going on with Saudi
Arabia yes
they defend kind of his attacks on the
press because so many Republicans of
course have passed you know a and push
back your Ben Sasse and others they
never do anything citizens much matter
but at least they've critically said oh
well you know Susan Collins tweeted out
and and of course we all knows whose
columns gonna follow up with us until
that first phone call from McConnell or
W you know and that we need those back
off this one then she will but how
terrible and horrible is gonna show me
with these to the bottom of it and you
know we have to whoever it is must pay
for it but we all know in the end that
they're not going to do anything so once
those voices we've seen this movie a
million times more those voices will
grow quiet the new cycle will move on
and Trump will do what you're doing
right now which is
find ways to kind of to loosen the reins
and justify the media had it coming
they deserved it and and this is part of
that with Aegean port that would be sort
of my theory but go for yours no I I
agree I think that is exactly it I mean
I think that you know there it is again
to muddy the waters around this
particular topic that you know to sort
of take the baseline of what kind of
violence is appropriate against the
reporter saying those words but that you
know just creating this dynamic of like
look government officials reporters
there's always like this tension that
gets resolved in some type of physical
thing and you know how the Saudis are a
little bit more just they're they're a
little bit more intense than we are
that's all that's going on here and I
think it is to mitigate you know the the
impact the potential impact that this
could have on the midterms I mean I I I
think we're probably a couple of days
away from seeing that's become a
campaign issue where you know trolley
well a little bit right and all sorts of
things that we believed a couple of
years ago and I would say when we I
think you meet others who are already
very cynical about who the Republican
Party was but how they just pushed past
the boundary on and everything child
molestation treason sexual assault
I mean nameless name the issue obviously
not paying your taxes for 30 years
although that might have always been a
positive and in the Republican Party but
so yeah why would this become a he-said
she-said issue why is that why would
they make this about if you're with our
team because everything again this is
this is what fascism is you're with the
team and if you're what the team the
team can do no wrong you know I mean
reality is what the team says it is so I
don't mean I don't see where I mean
clearly already trumpets at the tone of
oh well you know they're out there
looking for the real killers it may not
have been them all the evidence we have
from a naught
according to what the Turks are saying
that on the Turks are the most
trustworthy right now but in general
what what a variety of evidence is
telling us witness apparently you heard
things going on and the rest is all
wrong just the way all the people
corroborating what dr. Ford was saying
you know the big general behavior of
breadkappa things that she told them
afterwards everything didn't really
happen it was just he said she said and
then I mean there's no doubt that's
where they're headed with that and you'd
mentioned your Serna and your
perso be a core heavy pronunce a stupid
 name and and right and Breitbart
and all those guys they're you know
Laura Ingraham and Sean Hannity the rest
of the Wailers they're gonna all get on
board with that and he had it coming you
Muslim Brotherhood and you know that
kind of thing I have no doubt all right
let's turn to another element of the the
campaign and that's that's going on
across the country and it's fascinating
on some oh I guess it's I mean it's to
be expected on but on another level it's
pretty it's it's not necessarily what I
would have guessed a year ago right
we have almost to a person I'm sure
there's some races where we don't see
this but you have Democrats running on
health care largely either against the
attacks on the ACA and there is an
active attack on the ACA right now 20
Republican states suing in federal court
to get rid of putting multiple attorneys
general we're running for higher office
Polly is running against Claire
McCaskill of Missouri Mike DeWine here
where I am in Ohio in for governor just
think it's worth pointing out some
people know Yahoo ads the one in
Michigan running for governor just so
you know who people are who are claiming
oh oh uh Scott Walker in Wisconsin
running from reelection they all claim
that they're that they were the
pre-existing condition protection should
be kept and of course every single one
of them either supported with what
they've said or is actually officially
on a lawsuit that is what is going on
after making that to be something that's
not required anymore and okay so watch
this I remember last night had a
compilation of Republicans this is a
pretty good exam
what we're talking about here play this
clip
everyone knows Republicans have spent
years railing against Obamacare they've
tried to repeal it dozens of times in
the house the politics though are
changing this is a story you may have
missed but look with the midterms
approaching right now Republican
candidates in the Trump era changing
their to I voted to protect people with
pre-existing conditions we cannot go
back to where we were before Obamacare
where people were one diagnosis away
from going bankrupt
we can protect pre-existing conditions
and even you need to understand everyone
agrees we're gonna pre-existing
conditions individuals with pre-existing
conditions should not be denied health
insurance coverage I'm taking on both
parties and fighting for those with
pre-existing conditions that's Dana
Rohrabacher now every single one of
those people in that video okay
voted in every single one of those
individuals in that ad voted to cut
Obamacare and get rid of pre-existing
conditions protections every single one
of them and across the board I mean this
has been the rallying cry for
Republicans for 10 years and this is you
know this is one of the things that I
think people anticipated with the
Affordable Care Act is that once you get
you give people something that's a
little bit better or significantly
better than they had before it just
becomes like an expectation and and then
the next step goes from there but that's
pretty impressive
and we have now Donald Trump tweeted out
today I guess this is yesterday because
this is becoming a huge liability for
the Republicans and he tweeted out all
Republicans support people with
pre-existing conditions I don't know if
they did if they don't they will after I
speak to them I am in total support I
don't even think he understands it all
so Democrats will destroy your Medicare
and
I will keep it healthy and well now I
think what he meant he supports
pre-existing conditions he's in favor of
cancer he likes he like any purchased
condition you could get he's in favor of
I just think that I like people with
pre-existing conditions that's what I'm
saying yeah I mean look at my
african-american over there in gray
yeah he doesn't know what he's saying
the ones that aren't in dumbest yet they
know what they're doing
look there's a hundred thirty million
American pre-existing conditions
pre-existing conditions include terrible
things like cancer and include much more
sort of not great things but things that
affect many many more people like oh
acne and anxiety depression most of
you're a woman and you've been pregnant
that's a pre-existing condition and
there's a whole long list of these
things right and I'm working on an
independent expenditure project here in
southwest Ohio against the congressman
Steve Chabot so he's done the same thing
lied and said you know even ordered 56
times which is how many times they voted
overall so many House members are
sitting there right alongside Chabot and
districts across the country
I'm sure Rohrabacher who you played
there's probably one of them the vast
majority there's very few that maybe a
half dozen or less who voted against
junking Obamacare and even those guys
board against it's voted for it some of
the times against the other times and to
be very clear if you voted for getting
rid of Obamacare that is the only thing
that provided this protection that said
people with pre-existing conditions
would be treated like everybody else
when it comes to health insurance they
would be charged anymore so what you
have is you first you've got that
they're flat-out lying then you've got
on top of that a lawsuit initiated by
Donald Trump who of course sent that
tweet up by his Justice Department that
is going after in court because of what
the Supreme Court did a couple years ago
with with Obamacare in saying that that
in undermining and because of what the
the Senate did and the house said sorry
Congress and getting rid of the
individual mandate now they're saying
well there's no individual mandate you
can't require priests in condition
because that's too much of a burden on
businesses so essentially he leading a
lawsuit to take away your protection
if you have a pre-existing condition and
again you know think of whatever state
you're in in the population I'm in Ohio
I know it here it's four point
million people of a population of about
12 million tends to run between a third
and 40% of the population has something
that falls in that list so if it's not
you and somebody you're friends with
that you love and they realize this is
back bargain they spent years going
after Obamacare so they are lying like
banshees now there have been guys on TV
ad Direct Mail they're saying it
everywhere that of course they always
were all and our protection is for
anybody listening who's gonna go out and
vote they're all why it's it's amazing
and and and here's what's also extremely
irritating to me about that well I mean
obviously that is naked and hopefully
Democrats across the country are taking
advantage of that right I mean it's it's
pretty easy to say you're part of a
lawsuit that is attacking the ACA is
pre-existing conditions provision or you
voted against the ACA is pre-existing
conditions and without an alternative
you've ordered to get rid of Obamacare
and there was no alternative plan
absolutely you can say that maybe in
your heart you care which I don't
believe either but say that but there
was nothing you were going to vote for
that would make up for that to provide
that protection for all these people and
and and here is I just I hate to you
know weep because we brought up Chuck
Schumer earlier here's I just want to
show you how you could you could drop
the ball on this all right
here's Matt house it's a tweet from
Chuck Schumer spokesperson he's
responding to Trump's tweet and he
writes did he drop his lawsuit to
eliminate protections for those with
pre-existing conditions and just not
tell anybody like I'm this is super
nitpicky of me but it's indicative of
their just that office just seems to not
be able to do politics because you don't
imply that Donald Trump did the right
thing and just didn't tell anybody you
say that Donald Trump is lying because
he's actually attacking these people I
mean like you like this is so nitpick
maybe you toured the country and you put
stuff all over TV and radio and yeah I
mean I know there's no there's a
remember a bunch of Republicans are
retiring so they don't have to be they
will never be held accountable for this
vote but there's about thirty thirty I
mean
if you know Topher Spiro or follow him
yeah on Twitter he sent out a list that
was in in Mother Jones and there's 32
Republicans on this list I would I'll
retweet it I get it already a little bit
maybe I'll share it with you if you want
to share it with people on your page Sam
so people can know and look and see you
know there's a list here they're on it
they're all live and even the ones who
call themselves you know moderate here
Carlos corbello from Florida who tries
to pretend you the moderate you know
Elise Stefanik from New York upstate who
tries to pretend she's a moderate and
some of these other ones or at least
moderate ish they're not they all voted
to get written multiple times they're
all liars and the other thing and I'll
say this just as somebody who's worked a
lot of this issue so I know pretty well
that people should be careful of them
can be ready for is what they're doing
now is is they've created some other
just piece of garbage bill right whether
they're pretending so they can come out
and they've got a fig leaves to hide
looking for that that would present that
would require that people with
pre-existing conditions be covered in
that legislation which didn't exist
before by the way all the other times
you've already guessed Obamacare he's
now out there at least Republicans and
put it together but here's the thing
that you need to know about that is that
it doesn't it says you can't get rid of
people kick them off insurance or having
a pre-existing condition however it says
you can discriminate against somebody
treat them differently in charge than
whatever you walk right it's kind of
like I could say to you hey look at that
Lamborghini over there I won't ban you
from buying it you just need to come up
with the three or four thousand dollars
to afford it right and that's basically
how that worked anything quickly right I
mean that's more or less how it worked
before we're just going to price eat you
out of this so that it's completely
impossible for you to pay for it and and
they tried this have you had Laura
Packard on your show at all him no I
don't think so you know Laureus you know
she's been a mattress nation that she's
a progressive I just bring all bring up
quickly she's a progressive activist has
been for years and a year ago when the
doctor she's made this very public and
she's got a tour around the country
works with health care lawyer and was
caught had a sort of cost that wouldn't
go away
and was diagnosed came out with a
diagnosis of stage four cancer oh geez
yeah and she's been effective
you know thank God fighting it thanks
but if she'd point out me well she's
been touring the country because she's
still doing that even while she's sick
and while she's fighting this that it
costs four million dollars to keep her
alive last year so basically what the
company could say hey we're not going to
ban you from having insurance if you've
got pre-existing conditions well that's
illegal because all these Republican
side under that we're just going to
charge you you know half of that four
billion
good luck I mean that's what they're
talking about here it doesn't matter if
they say that you think you have to be
allowed to have insurance you you don't
have to be treated like everybody else
in price them like everybody else they
can charge you whatever they feel like
so I'm very important to know that I'm
curious is what your sense is you know
the one of the things I've seen the
Republicans push back on too is this
notion of Medicare for all Paul Ryan has
gone out there tried to talk about it
what's his face Azera is at it from
Health and Human Services as on oh yeah
and and I I mean just give me a sense of
how that's playing like you are you
seeing any of that in Ohio yeah
absolutely
that same congressman I talked about
Abbott in his debate the other night was
trying to pull that up and and the guy
in Hawaii what mentioned running for
governor and what they're trying to say
is this is their line also and that's
the line that Trump kind of fudged
because he always gets the talking
points at least half wrong because he's
such a so he's like oh and
they'll destroy your medical I can
remember Medicare and disturbing you
couldn't remember to say Medicare for
all will destroy Medicare which is what
they're talking point it right because
they know that Medicare is one of the
most popular program if not the most
popular in the country it cut up their
with Social Security it's incredibly
successful its administrative costs and
all that are so far below the overhead
of price and private insurance companies
for the most successful and and and cost
efficient medical programs in the world
and so the people love it so the only
way they can turn people against ages by
trying to scare old people and say you
know well by giving it to other people
it's gonna cost more and so let me just
sort which of course is anybody who
understands healthcare economics which
is like easy if you know understand what
it does look at this knows that they're
lying because the truth the matter is is
that everything gets better the younger
the
more people you add into Medicare who
are younger and healthier so a
50-something is likely to be healthier
than a 60 something and a 40 something
is likely to be healthier than a 50
something so you bring in younger people
it actually is more likely to for extra
costs Medicare Plus and some of the
other things you get another actually
likely to bring the cost down right band
you'll benefit up right right yes the
dual benefit of your then you're also
doing the opposite and taking the oldest
people out of private insurance so that
becomes cheaper too it's one of these
win wins or where everything works so
they're just making stuff up right I
mean it's just all a lie but that's you
know that's what they do it's
interesting because I don't know if you
remember when Paul Ryan had his plan for
Medicare which was basically to
voucherize the whole thing right and
there was this big argument people are
like well too if you privatize Medicare
it's almost definitionally not Medicare
him but he was like no we caught a
Medicare and there I remember the press
I mean you know that's it I don't know
if people can fully appreciate this the
press at the time said well he is
calling it Medicare that was the line
and and really Medicare right and we
were pushing back you know I don't
remember when this was maybe this was
like some time during maybe Obama but
maybe before then and it's like well but
if you privatize it that like the the
scenic one on like the the the the thing
that makes Medicare Medicare is that
it's a government-run health insurance
program and if you voucherize it so it's
just money to go to get private
insurance it's not Medicare wait if I
call my roof Medicare does that make my
roof Medicare well the interesting thing
was and it's an alien well they're
calling it Medicare but do we know
anything that makes Medicare and it was
beaten back because people were like
it's it is not Medicare as we know it
and I've noticed the Republicans are
using that same line now it's a lot less
effective because basically you know the
reality of the policy is ya know
Medicare exactly as it is but just
or of it and maybe on some level it
should have they should have branded it
Medicare more you know something like
this but it look they're out there and
you may have caught up your show already
I would be surprised if you know what
McConnell said just last week which is
oh well you see the 17% increase in the
deficit which is of course caused by our
tax cuts you didn't say that but you
know a ridiculous tax cut waited to
corporations and do all sorts of
loopholes for pharmaceutical companies
because they're not making enough money
and and you know the top one percent
which 83 percent of the benefits went to
oh yeah by the way we're gonna need to
cut that deficit so you know we're gonna
talk about entitlements which means of
course Medicare and Social Security you
allow these guys to stay in office
you'll have them continue to control the
House and Senate
that's what they're coming for to get
that they need to get that money from
somewhere it never changes I want to ask
you about that too because Mitch
McConnell is out there saying we're
gonna have to cut Social Security and
Medicare more or less that's what he's
saying right
I don't know how explicit he's been but
he's we're you know we're gonna have to
look at entitlements that's what that
means meanwhile you have people on the
ground who are running for office who
are saying you know III I'm gonna
protect your Medicare what what's going
on with that like Mitch McConnell must
know that at least in terms of messaging
he's crossing things up what what is
this what do you think the theory is
behind there I think it's to keep donors
happy I think they're always trying to
balance you know Koch brothers and and
guys like that on the corporate wing
that are giving the money you know
Ricketts to the rest of them that want
Social Security and Medicare to be
destroyed and know that if they're
refusing to mention it or whatever they
probably would have the guts to do it so
in a way I think he was sending a signal
to them because it doesn't there's
nothing else I can make any sense
again Social Security Medicare are
incredibly popular
so was when unlike numerous Democrats
including Elizabeth Warren leading the
charge and even as far to the right as
joe Manchin came out in favor of
increasing Social Security
so these are not popular things to cut
and the fact that McConnell would come
out and say something so tone-deaf right
before a midterm election makes no sense
to me
so I'm using Occam's razor here because
I can't figure out anything else which
is he said that because they're not
having different Republicans up for
election say that around the country
just the leader saying it to sort of
reassure you know the the the economic
class the inclu included Kratz
who want to get their money's worth
interesting like yeah interesting
all right well cliff I think that's
right III mean that sounds right to me
and but it is interesting to see which
way they will go with that I don't know
if they're actually just I mean I don't
know but it is yeah I think they're
hoping that they say they demonize
immigrants enough and run on these kinds
of things enough that that comment out
there by McConnell you know he maybe
won't even say it again he said it once
you know reassured the people he needed
to reassure and then you move on but be
quite sure that that's what they're
coming for that's not scare mongering
said it many times in the past they've
tried it and again after George Bush
when the election in 2004 this has been
on their list since they heard that
foundation drew up a line of attack
around 1979 when Reagan was coming into
office it's been a long and he really
it's been a plan since ever since FDR
passed it but they've you know they want
this it's a pool of money that can
provide further tax cuts and all all the
things that they live and die for don't
did cliff Schecter always a pleasure
buddy thank you so much thanks cliff
Schecter everybody there it is there is
the week do we have a song from Jimmy
reefer cake no Jimmy reefer kick song
today
that's all right well we got to go I'm
gonna be a little quick because we're
going to take an airplane and go to
California we will do a fun half because
that's the way we roll even even when we
get to get GIGO going we're gonna do a
fun half folks just a reminder this
program relies on your support too for
it's very existence you can become a
member by going to join the majority
report com join the majority report come
when you become a member not only do you
support the free show every day we give
you extra content every day
and you can get to access our archives
whatever it is so join the majority
report calm also don't forget just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
get 10% off also for your listening
pleasure this weekend the anti fada they
answer your questions right Jamie indeed
we do there you go questions answered
you have questions if Randy Fatih they
answer check it out on YouTube and on
patreon.com slash the Intifada and we're
ever free podcasts are sold and wherever
free podcasts are sold for free oh and
we're gonna talk about Jamie last night
was hobnobbing last night with some
major political figures we'll talk about
that in the fun half Matt literary
hangover the Corey Robin episode on the
react and his reactionary mind book is
available on YouTube so check that up
check that out folks all right gonna
take a quick break add into the fun half
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is the number six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty is the
number I am firing up the the phones
right now I don't know if I'm gonna have
I am scuzz I don't know if I can set
that up but we'll see people can tell
them to you over the phone
there you go I'll be right back
[Music]
sweetheart
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
get me a beer
[Laughter]
who did that one after I look up who it
is I don't have it listed here that's
pretty good
it's just my zero-sum game sweetheart
get me a beer thing that should be your
walk-up music in Sunday's debate oh that
should be it would be pretty good I can
just see myself coming out I'm gonna
tell you right now that I'm gonna make a
prediction about the debate I am
debating charlie Kirk on Sunday I
believe it's at 4:30 is that right yes
at politican the debate topic will be is
Donald Trump good for the middle class
and here's my well I'm not gonna predict
what he's going to say because we're
gonna put out a video on this
announcement I don't want him to know to
to know what I think he's gonna say
right he's probably hired an intern to
monitor the show well they do have a
team they have a lot of stuff here's
what here's my big prediction there are
going to be over 20 probably under 70
people from turning points USA they're
paid people for they have an HR
department they have a human resources
department
at this grassroots organization that
ostensibly is - I mean it's very busy
dedicated to scrubbing your questionable
tweets that's right they scrub your
questionable tweets they might need to
get into the what's up so I'm just gonna
tell you when you're watching this
ultimately on video I don't think it's
gonna be live but when you watch it
ultimately on video understand that the
reason why there's gonna be a lot of
cheers every time Charlie says something
and not so much when I do a lot of like
oh there's a there could be some
groaning a little bit mm-hmm
because there are going to be a lot of
paid operatives there who are a lot of
paid operatives who are there to cheer
on Charlie Parker Kirk Kirk that's his
name if you are planning to attend it
will be at Liberty Hall at 4:30 at
Politico Liberty Hall what a better
place what a better place I wonder how
big Liberty Hall is wonder how many
people will come to this a couple
hundred there's not too much competition
we'll see you got the deep state dynasty
typewriter
Scotty nails Hughes versus Kyle kolinsky
that's pretty good how does that happen
at the same time yeah and bomb bomb bomb
bomb Iran with Bill Kristol you gotta be
kidding me
that is a I'm sorry to miss that yeah
wait so it's actually Bill Kristol doing
a bomb bomb that's what it's called
right that is performance
he wrote a musical right so that is it I
mean so people should keep their eyes
open I don't know if it's going to be
live-streamed would probably not but the
video will come out at one point let's
go - oh this is funny you remember Dave
brat Dave brat was the was the Tea Party
guy who took out cantor I can't even
remember his name Eric Cantor Eric
Cantor was the whip it was some people
have compared
essentially what a OC did to Crowley the
what happened with the Cantor in Bratz
in Virginia and the difference is I
think AOC is going to have some
durability right and I don't think
you're going to see two or four years
from now a Republican beating her in a
congressional election they brat not
quite as politically adept it seems to
me here is Dave brat attempting in know
this is what's let's first do well yeah
let's do that one first here's Dave brat
trying to reach out Virginia one of
those states and there's a lot of states
but Virginia is one of those states
that's been hit hard by the opioid
addiction problem and here's Dave brat
going trying to make it seem like he can
empathize with this and understands that
it's a problem and that a lot of these
people probably you know we're just hit
with a tsunami and here he is trying to
show that he's got empathy we don't have
video that's right it's just audio just
audio yeah okay so Dave brat talking to
an inmate at a Chesterfield County Jail
this is a part of an addiction support
group and here he is the inmates
describing some of the difficulties that
he's faced my daughter
I think now feeling maybe nothing too
crazy but do you think I'm a congressman
all I see these guys off having steak
slices bowl of we go I got daughter
she's got to deal with that crap on the
TV every day right to get stuff anyone
that thinks no one else there's got some
easy life right and you got heart I'm
not I'm not dismissing it right you got
some fears real anxiety coming up with a
job whatever and what you've got to find
a support system there you go there is
Dave can we listen to that again because
this is pretty amazing this is a guy who
is there to show that he cares about
this and he is saying you think cuz I'm
a congressman I've gone out having a
bunch of snakes which I would be willing
to bet anything that yes he is going out
and having a bunch of snakes but it but
even put that aside like the idea he's
like you know my daughter's got to look
at these attack ads and you got anxiety
like worried about a getting a job and
stuff like that what you have trouble
because you've been criminalized for
addiction well you should try being a
public figure
yeah exactly you know I mean it's as if
like you know a poor Dave brat right
this is how Eric Cantor lost is his
primary he was like so stuck in
Washington you're let's play this again
this Dave brat talking to an inmate my
daughter
pause it pause it did you hear what he
said I missed this the first time you
know he said you have a hard time no he
said my daughter you think you have a
daughter
are you sure go back to the beginning my
daughter
I think I'll feel like I have nothing to
pray but do you think I'm a congressman
all I see these guys off having steak
slices bowl of we go I got daughter
she's got to deal with that crap on the
TV every day right to get stuff anyone
that thinks no one out there's got some
easy life right and you got it harder
I'm not I'm not dismissing it right you
got some fears real anxiety coming up
with a job whatever and what you've got
to find a support system right so
instead of any help from the government
you know I'm here to tell you you need
to find a support system are we sure
that's not plagiarized from Tony Robbins
that is that is just amazing I just want
to stop by stay hello tell you I'm going
to steal some cachet from you to show
that I care and that's it as far as my
care goes it's just like you need some
help bud trust me on this you need some
help
how do you think my daughter feels when
her black friends ask her why I'm
suppressing votes
I'm joking my daughter's a black dranzer
yeah the implication being you know
we've all got a tough buddy so just you
know buck up and and the phrase nobody
has an easy life is interesting in the
time of a Gilded Age I was gonna say
this is like people image have imitated
Trump on the campaign trail but this is
like a very subtle sort of take on it
like yeah I've got a real rough the way
that trumps you know doing deals as a
burden I don't I I don't even have to do
this so what do you do if you're Dave
brat and you're running you don't seem
to have any political skills that
translate to normal people right
like I mean with your going and your
you're talking to someone who's
suffering from opioid addiction and
every probably all the fallout that that
entails and maybe all of the
circumstances that happens into that
moment and you tell them like
everybody's life is hard for me it's
hard for my kid to see the attack ads
against me and I'm not having steak
every night and maybe you got to find a
job whatnot
well what do you do if you've got
nothing to offer except for support
groups you've got to try and demonize
your opponent and what is the way that
Republicans demonize a person running
for Congress well it's of course you
called them you say they're Nancy Pelosi
clones because it reminds people that
hey this woman is a woman and that's bad
and comes from a place where there's a
lot of gay people hmm and that's bad
California right and that's what's
behind this smear so here is a Dave brat
trying to call his or I say not trying
repeatedly calling his opponent her name
is Abigail Spann burger and this is and
she has a pretty good response I I don't
know what's gonna happen in this
election but Dave brat seems to be
outmatched Nancy Pelosi Nancy Pelosi
Pelosi Nancy Pelosi the Nancy Pelosi
liberal agenda and if you look at blue
states can I finish the question if you
vote for
Abigail's Bamberger the result will be
Nancy Pelosi liberal policies across the
board on every single issue
[Music]
my question again whether congressman
brat knows which Democrat in fact he's
running against I am NOT Nancy Pelosi
and I am not President Barack Obama I am
a woman who grew up in Henrico County
who grew up in this community who was
taught service hard work and a
commitment to the belief that the
American people can be anything and we
will lead the way in this world it is
absolutely hypocritical that we would
have someone stand on stage talk about
fiscal responsibility after adding one
point nine trillion dollars to the
deficit after voting against hurricane
relief after voting against the omnibus
bill after voting against budget after
budget because he didn't want to add to
the deficit however when it came time to
get forty two billion dollars in tax
rates to pharmaceutical companies there
he was
I want to serve this community it's the
community that made me who I am and I
asked for your vote on November the 6th
abagail's Bamberger is that's pretty
good I mean unless they had that debate
in like a Democratic Party headquarters
which I don't think they did I died it
didn't go so well for Dave brat 5:38 has
it as a toss-up as well yeah I think he
could be in some trouble
I mean his name's Dave brat it did more
do we need folks tell it to tell it to
that's the next attack Cantor sounds
like he's like it sounds like it's close
to canker like canker sore so that's
true this is how I this is how I predict
politic his people are always going to
say that he won and her people are
always gonna say that she won what's
that in the debate yeah in that exchange
these people are deranged well yeah I
mean I but at the end of the day
somebody else is going to be watching
it's not just there's got to be some
people who haven't made who haven't made
their mind up yet or haven't decided to
vote and that could be yet all right
let's
let's go to the phone and then we'll
talk about that gone from a seven one
seven area code who's this were you
calling from I'm having problems with
the computer explaining some yes within
one second of this or um trying to give
an update about the window suggested
filled that I called in the other day
about snart some huge updates and it's
all bad news
just as a brief you know Rica the bill
would remove the statute of limitations
for any future cases of child sex abuse
and for existing victims or for people
that were victims of child sex abuse in
the past they would have a two year
window in order to pursue criminal
charges because as Pennsylvania law is
now victims of child sex assault have to
file a civil lawsuit by thirty and then
pursue criminal charges by the time
they're fifty which presents a huge
problem because the average age for
people even come out about sexual
assault as a child is 52 in Pennsylvania
so the first I say this happened I want
to say Wednesday is that the state
Republicans added a provision to the
bill that would prevent any institution
from being sued at all that being the
Catholic Church which is ridiculous
because when you're talking about these
cases you know let's say you're in your
fifties or sixties now let me ask you
this what what is like when when they
say we want to give these institutions
whatever they are immunity and it's not
like the Catholic Church doesn't have a
lot of money but when they say they want
to protect these institutions what is
the argument that they make when they
say they want to
you know have these sort of like hinky
things with the status statue
limitations what is the argument they
make that's what I just think I was
trying to figure that out but that gets
is the other thing where it's like you
know we didn't know exactly which groups
were lobbying at the time but now we do
it's specifically the widget let me just
check with the Pennsylvania Catholic
Conference and the Insurance Federation
of Pennsylvania are the two groups that
were lobbying against okay Phil very
heavily to get this provision in that's
for the argument they're producing there
is none I've been you know reading all
the local news trying to find any sort
of statement for any of these senators
about he fill and why they're against it
and when I asked Senators they're at the
protest none of them said anything they
would just say hi and give a fake smile
and then move on they had nothing
because there is no argument right
against it you know unless they want to
just do the whole well if we remove the
statute of limitations then just imagine
all of the I don't know people coming
forward about sexual assault to see
justice like saying integrate the yeah
and then the bill failed to he didn't
receive enough clothes to pass because
with that provision in it became such a
toxic mess that if it did pass you know
if your assailant is dead already
you couldn't be able to take action
against I don't know the institution
that covered it up and provided
protection for the various predators in
their ranks so the bill is dead and it
can't be brought back up again until
next year so it's horrible yeah well
listen I appreciate your your telling us
about it
and I mean hopefully there'll be some
type of fallout I hope you know
certainty Pennsylvania Democrats the DSA
might be a good idea to primary the hell
out of all the Republicans here because
they're all scared shitless this could
ever become a campaign issue they said
as much there what do you mean by
primary you mean what do you mean by
primary them did I say primary I just
meant to be to the campaign against them
beat them in a general election yeah
it's a pretty crazy because they're not
getting any attention at all to this
issue I mean it sounds like an issue do
you'd imagine there'd be a lot more you
think a lot of local news outlets like
Penn Live and then the various like
local ABC channels have been giving
coverage to it but I haven't seen
anything nationally from CNN MSNBC or
any national news outlet and just say
hey you know there is a bill going to
prosecute the or to allow the
prosecution of child sex predators and
the Republicans trashed the bill you
know you'd think that that'd be
something that more people would mention
yeah you'd think yeah who are they
protecting but well the just said that
the church and the insurance companies
who would have to pay it out I
appreciate the call Danny all right
right horrible call from a 605 area code
who's this where he called from me I
think it is who's this this is a Malik
in Minnesota and I was calling I just
wanted to say thanks for that
conversation at the end of the show
yesterday about some voters and their
motivations yeah
but I also Jamie had a little bit of
pushback just because I think that that
conversation was a sort of prime example
of why the the burning left really
struggles in minority communities and
you have to be willing to accept what
all the data says which is that this is
about you know race and culture and less
about the economics and Mehdi Hasan made
a great point I can't remember if it's
your show or on a is about how
low-income minority voters
we're not drawn in by Trump or you know
that sort of economic message and that's
you know more proof that this has more
to do with race than economics
and if it's you know the burning left in
our left doesn't figure that out then
we're going to have a Biden 2020 so I
think it's really important that we
accept that and move forward
I never said it's not about race or
racism right I just thought not only
about racism I don't mean to minimize it
it's clearly a very important factor but
also I would argue that the economic
base plays a role in where racism and
even the concept of race comes from so I
think part of the reason we might be
talking past each other is I'm not
really that concerned with the
psychology of individual voters I'm
looking at it more as a systemic process
you know but I think see well and Malik
can't connect this point yeah I just
point out one thing in in Scandinavia
exactly which Scandinavian country it is
but it's one that obviously is socialist
it has no higher standard of living than
we do and even there there is an
uprising among the far-right pushing
back against immigrants so the the idea
that if you just raise the standard of
living and if you just raise it economic
well-being that will take care of this
it just doesn't hold on that's not
really important okay I will listen I
agree I mean here's here I mean I here's
the problem is I think
and to the extent that you guys are
talking past each other I think here's
the problem is that one of these things
is the determinate there's no doubt in
my mind that there are a myriad of
elements that go into a a you know
racism in terms of what drives it your
dad was racist
your mom was racist or maybe you you got
beat up by you know somebody of a
different race or or or economic
pressures or whatnot and but let me
finish let me finish one sec and what
activates it in the moment may be
different but the data in this study I
was presenting showed that if you
control for what was going on
economically your your things of race
determined who you were going to vote
for and so when there is this pushback I
think people who are subjected to racism
whether it's good economic times or bad
economic times say hey this person
doesn't get it
and so by unless there is a better
argument which isn't there then this is
the message that's being sent this is
the message being sent and and I think
like Bernie I think has maybe maybe
gotten wiser about this but if there is
a I hear you about racism but dot dot or
I hear you about racism and dot dot then
it starts becoming really problematic I
think well I'm not a strategist for
Bernie Sanders right my message I don't
work for him my message is not his I
support your strategy I you it's and I'm
saying like and for and and to to to
promote that notion and so whatever the
response is to a study that says
racism was the determinant factor maybe
it's 51 percent maybe it's 55 percent
but racism is the determinant factor
here the to to push back on that there
needs to be something more substantial
rather than racism comes from economic
situations because I think people who
have been subjected to racism no that's
not the case that like you know like if
if economic anxiety can hit everybody
across the spectrum regardless of the
context in which they're living in and
it just appears without any way to
measure its existence but just it's
deign that it lives in that person then
it doesn't mean anything then there's
never a time when people don't have
economic anxiety I mean so like that's
what's problematic about that pushback
well you're still talking about the
psychology of individual voters though
and I'm really not well I've not all
right you don't have anything to do with
that conversation as to why voters went
from Obama to Trump because you want it
to be something else and all the data
says it's something else like you want
it to be one thing and the data says
it's another thing and so it's it's
quite possible that those people voted
because of their psychological reasons
that they don't like black people that
they don't like immigrants it was one
thing to give a break to the to the
clean-cut Negro but I'm not going to
have somebody come in and give stuff to
other people and the interesting thing I
also saw that was reading about is that
you know Barack Obama probably talked
about race a lot less than Hillary
Clinton right never mind what what
Donald Trump was doing Barack Obama
stayed away far away from race as he
possibly could and the idea of like
racial justice and that was what I think
you know made him a little bit more
palatable and so
it's it's fine if you're not interested
in a psychological explanation in racism
constitutes psychology but that mass
psychology ends up being
institutionalized and it appears caused
a lot of individuals who voted for Trump
I mean a vote for Obama to vote for
Trump well here's two things first of
all I think Bernie's popularity among
people of color is greatly
underestimated by a lot of folks right
now yeah you lost the South by a million
like over a million votes I mean we've
got polls saying that he is the most
popular politician in the u.s. currently
and people of color like him more than
white people do he also won like the
Millennials what you got a problem there
he won the vote of young people of color
which is something yeah that's fine okay
but and Democratic primaries might not
be an accurate representation of all
people of color all right America but
we're changing topic two things question
why do you think that people have gotten
more racist since 2008 or 2012 are you
asking me
definitively I mean I mean I don't know
how you would define more racial
evidence for that hate crimes gone up
like people are getting more violent and
number of ways
I just think another white supremacist
groups your honor I mean I I think those
are three pretty substantial ways of
articulating it I just think the level
present in the United States is actively
promoting racist memes well that's how
it's expressing itself but the raw
materials right the system okay and I
don't know if there's more races I don't
think but I think that voting for a guy
who who is going to in you know attack
black people and brown people maybe that
doesn't mean I'm more racist but I'm
willing to take that step of like
checking off and letting that guy do it
so I don't know what the word more
racist means well here's the thing I do
not believe that the level of racism in
our country or the world because this is
a worldwide phenomenon right I don't
believe that it has changed
substantially in the past decade or so
we have always been a racist country we
are still a racist country the thing
that has changed is that global
capitalism is in crisis well in a way it
experiences itself even can I just say
one thing one thing I am made like a
black mixed-race person with half my
family being white and half my family
being black and I will absolutely tell
you that since November of 2000 well
actually since early in 2015 that has
absolutely changed okay and you may not
experience it but I am telling you that
it is wholly different now than it was
two and a half years ago and it's
different it's absolutely different why
is it different because you have a
president who is validating this
economically every single economic
measure is better than it was two years
ago every single one point to one that
is worse I mean baby you and I are
looking at different stuff but okay
you're looking at global capitalism is
in a state of crisis the people in this
country don't give a about other
countries including America all right
Jamie tell me what data you're looking
at that suggests that we are in worse
economic situation materially worse
economic situation today than we were
two years ago I mean I don't have it at
my fingertips I but I'll admit I'm not
an economist I listen to Marxist economy
I'm not I'm not maybe I'm asking you I'm
just saying that you're making an
assessment you're making an assertion
that the reason why racism is greater
today than it was in 2016 or in 2015 I
mean a when Malik says that racism is
worse and you want to say it's because
there's more economic anxiety there is
that's not what I'm saying
what is it I wanna start over I do not
mean
to dismiss anyone's experience of racism
that is real we live in a very racist
country we always have I don't know when
it's going to get better and there
probably was a bit of a feedback loop
from Trump but which came first which
came first
right populism or Trump racism or Trump
I think yeah it's it's really it's
complicated and maybe I need to start
over I don't know but we are in a state
of crisis the Scandinavian countries -
where people still have the remnants of
a welfare state it's not a direct
one-to-one comparison I'm not saying
people feel I'm economically anxious
therefore I'm going to get more racist
although I think that has played a part
at points in history I'm just saying
it's more complicated than just racism
and when you see a rise in racism you
want to look at what other factors are
papinek I would add one thing is I think
the difference is racism proximity to
power I think that's the main thing
that's changed yeah especially less to
you which is getting a license to make
it to act upon it in public in the
public sphere right like racism is
fought fundamentally by making it just
essentially toxic within your your
social environment and and and why is it
happening all over the world right now
why is why is it happening all over the
world
why is right-wing populism a thing all
over the world
well III think there's a myriad of
reasons I mean you know the millions of
refugees that have had to come in from
the Middle East could have something to
do with that there in some instances
maybe it could be economic anxiety but
there is no data in this country the
economic anxiety that people may have in
Hungary is in no way impacting people in
this country I am 100% sure of that and
so like right in front of you there are
some very obvious things we have a
president who launched his campaign by
Mexicans are rapists okay and we have
people telling you and all the data
shows that I don't know what more racism
means I don't know if that means that
there's more racists or people have more
racist beliefs in their thought but we
do know there have been people acting
out of racism more in the public sphere
they've been organizing they've been
starting groups they've been painting
things they've been creating means I
mean all of that is true and
indisputable and so we have no similar
data on economic deprivation we don't we
simply do not there has been no greater
economic deprivation today than there
was three years ago maybe in specific
individuals but that's it and so we have
those two things and that's not to say
that it's 100% about race but in terms
of what is determinate you're you're
arguing against data and studies and
what is obvious to people and outside of
like there you need to bring something
more to it than theory well I realized
that and I'm not trying to make a
one-to-one connection between economic
economic anxiety people are consciously
feeling and racism I'm trying to look at
the bigger picture and clearly I haven't
framed it in a way that is very clear so
I'm gonna work on it and get back to you
because I really think this is an
important thing to understand liberalism
liberal democracy is collapsing in on
itself
people no longer have faith in it and
there's a rising tide of nebulous
populism that is being expressed in a
bunch of different ways I I think that's
absolutely true and I think that like
you know the the I think in terms of how
to ultimately fix things that
perspective I think is its career
like you have to address that but what
Malik is talking about is in terms of
like a vehicle to doing that in terms of
elections and in terms of in terms of
being able to have a message like
it's not enough for people to run
against Donald Trump right you need to
come in and offer them something
material benefits even if people you
know even if Donald Trump is the least
popular politician in the country the
flip side of that is even if Bernie is
the most popular politician in the
country and even if he is the most
popular politician in the context of of
the of the the Democratic primary he
needs to get to 51% and in the context
of the primary broadly speaking and
there has to be an understanding from
people who who and in my estimation who
perceive the that the the heart and the
overall problem with our society is
fundamentally economic even if they have
that analysis they have to speak to the
material interests of of minorities and
there is a tendency and I feel like this
is an example of it there's a tendency
to not to to shy away from doing that
because there is a sense that it that we
need to maintain the the narrative that
the fundamental problem with all this is
economic and even if I have some
agreement with that it is denying the
material wants of a large segment of the
population now it may be the case that
Bernie Sanders is the most popular with
african-americans right now when you
when you poll I don't know but I have a
look at but but even if I stimulate that
he's not going to get it's not I'm quite
convinced it's not 51% he's not beating
the entire the the entire field and so
it was a liability for him in the last
election a lot of that had to do with I
think building relationships with
leaders in that community but at the end
of the day like it's not going to help
to address these material things about
racism if there is an and or but if
there is a lack of understanding as to
just even what moved those Obama to
Trump voters and I mean I don't disagree
with much of what you're saying I guess
I don't even think that the problem is
economics necessarily I think that the
problem is capitalism and it created and
supercharged race and racism as we know
it in America as well as gender by the
way because these people are all so
horrible misogynists right when do you
say capitalism started oh my god it's a
test no I'm just saying like I don't buy
that like when people say it did invent
a yeah I wouldn't jump up the line and
have to be a theories to appreciate the
exchange of ideas I think about that I
think it definitely monetized racism but
I think like if you like if you look
back at the 16 like the 1600s racialized
slavery did not exist before capitalism
and the u.s. slave trade or not the now
I'm nervous
well I mean because like I use it just
depends cuz like I mean Hobbes bombs
capitalism starts and like after the
French Revolution right but there's
clearly like the Pequot Indians were
killed because I mean and there's
primitive accumulation stuff there but I
just don't I don't buy the fact that the
racism was invented by capitalist no
racism as we know it like race combined
with a system of economic domination
racialized slavery was original to this
land mass right here yeah did not exist
before that it was literally before that
and there was like certainly bias
against other kinds
people but that particular thing didn't
exist right but I see that more is a
colonial thing than a capitalistic thing
that's how I view it so that's why I
just say like I think I think you can
talk about the relationship between
racism and capitalism without falling
into the thing that capitalism is the
precedent always oh there can be
colonialism under other systems right
and I'm and that's why I think it's like
I think you can't reduce it to
capitalism but there can't be
colonialism and socialism right but
that's not but that's changing what he's
arguing but all right look let me just
say right now Adolph read on Marx race
and neoliberalism he says it much better
than I could in the time that I have
he's overdue to come on the show again
but let me just say this right now at
12:36 we're gonna have to end this show
earlier then we're gonna want to at one
point so I just heads up because Brenda
and I have to catch a flight so we got
about a little bit less than 20 minutes
left
oh and capitalism and colonialism arose
together by the way I think oh my god
mercantilism right mercantilism people
I'm gonna put together something wasn't
wasn't Rome pretty big on colonialism on
some level or no am i is that just it I
mean well you have a citizenship thing
where every place is covered I mean
that's that's why I have I have issue
with blaming everything capitalism
because oligarchy existed before
capitalism like well feudalism was a
horrible oppressive system right but
they didn't have like I'm talking about
race as we know it and as people
experienced it in the u.s. right now you
mean okay all right let's let's
oh this is pretty funny and it has
nothing to do with race and nothing to
do with capital folks you remember
what's this guy's name now Jason Miller
Jason Miller of course
Miller not to be confused with John
Miller the alias that Donald Trump would
use when he would call media people back
in the day Jason Miller was a former
senior campaign aide to Donald Trump he
had to leave after he had an affair with
another former aide to Donald Trump and
they had a child out of wedlock
and Jason Miller of course was married
to someone else and the I don't even
know if Jason Miller and that woman
talked they had a very rocky and I think
that was public I'm not going to say her
name it's not important to this story
because apparently Jason Miller was
super busy at that time because if
you're gonna have one lady on the side
why wouldn't you have two and so
according to court documents or I should
say according to reporting by Caitlyn
Krueger right is that who was and she
works at a buzz Flener at splinter
there was a story that she wrote that
Jason Miller had impregnated a woman and
or you know it had an affair with a
woman and the woman got pregnant and the
woman he was afraid that she was going
to carry the baby to term so he made a
smoothie that included the day after
pill and she made these charges after
obviously having a an acute situation
that would follow a taking the day after
pill and so this guy Jason Miller
decided to sue the this woman Caitlyn
Kruger at splinter News and you know the
you had here it is X CNN pundit Jason
Miller files a hundred million dollar
lawsuit over the abortion pill
story now it's very hard to know what
the story is here
[Music]
maybe the reporter got it wrong
maybe the reporter didn't get it wrong
and Jason Miller knows that if we put
enough money behind a lawsuit we can win
because the other side can't necessarily
defend it so it turns out that Caitlin
Kruger has a boyfriend and this
boyfriend is a guy named will menaker
who of course we've had on this program
a couple of times he is one of the hosts
of chapo trap house which apparently
engaged in name-calling and so will man
occur took to Twitter to say to call
Jason Miller a rat-faced baby killer and
Trump PR homunculus and says he's suing
my girlfriend for a hundred million
dollars cool exclamation point and so
now it appears according to court
documents reviewed reviewed by The Daily
Beast that Miller and his legal team
have added will menaker to the hundred
million dollar defamation lawsuit
against splinter news in Gizmodo a media
group and the amended suit filed on
Thursday sites that tweet that rat-faced
baby killer and Trump PR homunculus
Jason Miller is suing my girlfriend for
a hundred million dollars cool Miller is
seeking unspecified damages for the suit
calls me man occurs misconduct now
that's a good spin-off show first off
I'm not an attorney but Jason Miller is
clearly a public figure right I mean he
was out there he was on national TV
multiple times during the campaign
that alone makes you a public figure so
the defamation laws are that you need to
knowingly report out or to make
accusations without anything backing up
now it seems to me that will min occur
is simply reporting what another
reporter has written now I guess he's
saying you know he's made up the part
about rat-faced but that's an opinion
and let's be honest hmm I mean if I if I
was gonna describe necessarily a bad
thing it's not actually a bad half a rat
face it's not particularly your face
looks like a rat and baby-killer is
simply you know I guess the argument is
that he he killed the fetus it was
reported that he killed the fetus I
didn't realize well Medicare was
pro-life well Medicare don't try to sue
me Wilma quicker push some type of but
what's the theory behind this like what
what what is the theory here that that
will melt like why would you sue Wilma
no one detail that I think we might have
overlooked is that Miller is being
represented by the same attorneys that
sued Gizmodo media and took down Gawker
with the terry bow Ella or Hulk all get
in lawsuit so those guys were funded by
Peter teal as well so this could be an
attempt to finally take down every
aspect of Gizmodo and now they find
maybe an opportunity to throw Chapo chat
but I don't understand what the theory
is theory is looking like that you can
attach will menaker to this suit I mean
it's one thing to go after splinter
media but but this is just a guy you can
see like there's no there's no
transitive property where you can sue
someone because this is a boyfriend or
girlfriend like you've got on a date so
you're part of this well the theory is
apparently Miller is accusing Krueger
and yaa shirali of being in cahoots with
AJ Delgado who's who Miller is I guess
blaming or who's AJ Delgado was the
first woman right that he had
and fair with right and so apparently
this is the this is all a cabal of
people trying to smear Jason Jason
Miller which I mean you can see why
they'd be in a hurry to do that the guy
with his importance and prestige right
the we we've got to go after Miller and
how we gonna do this I know all they did
get the Chapo guys this is the way we'll
take down Miller first up which we're
going to get we're gonna get someone who
has does a far left wing the podcast who
has a tremendous amount of credibility
menaker has an S that we've been
cultivating for a long time and we found
the perfect person to set him up there
we go and who else is he gonna bring in
on this with yah sure yeah sure Ali who
doesn't I I don't like his politics
personally I've seen well that's the
that's what makes it even more perfect
oh yeah we're gonna surround him with
different politics anybody take out
Jason Miller funny it's funny because
that's what they're doing
who's it it's all projection from the
Peter teal side oh well yeah well and
the project Veritas thing right like
we're gonna float a fake story or some
fake story is gonna be floated and we're
gonna get our people in the media to run
with it and yeah by the time doing a rat
F which is interesting I wonder if it's
a rat face a face maybe what we can do
is get Miller to grow a goatee therefore
it'll be more difficult to say that as a
rat face does that make it more
difficult or less difficult good a rat
 the rat face initiate somebody go
get Jason Miller's tail trimmed so that
they when they call him rat face did we
clearly enacted defamation I liked the
idea though that if we're going to you
know operate or you know activate agent
menaker and Krueger we're gonna do it on
mill I'm gonna do it on Miller right
Miller is the key to the maybe Pompeo
right Miller's the key to the entire
operation if you could take Miller out
what is Miller doing these days
like is he on CNN believe he's no he
stepped down from CNN but I believe he's
still on the keep America great
reelection campaign and just to clarify
all splinter did was report on
allegations made in the lawsuit they
reported on allegations in a lawsuit
perfect we've got them right exactly
where we want them that is pretty
impressive
apparently somebody just stepped up and
said we'll pay to just do this lawsuit
you're never gonna see a dollar this is
just gonna tie them up and be a pain in
the ass that's so bad it's total this is
a slap suit right this is a slap suit I
mean this goes without saying but the
fact that individual billionaires have
the power to single-handedly execute any
publication that they don't like because
they like made fun of them or whatever
not great for democracy yeah that's just
a little problem the threat to free
speech right now I wonder if there is
actually like a mechanism to deal with
this revolution
well if short of revolution there is a
mechanism to deal with this because I
think like the first amendment would
have seemed to have been well but but
but but clearly they're not going to win
this lawsuit if it was just that
splinter news was just simply reporting
on a a court filing and that was in the
Delgado custody battle and apparently
the filing was sealed so that would be
on Delgado though well no it's not
defamation if you she may have like you
know broken you know she may be in
contempt of court if you release
something that is sealed that's a
different issue but in terms of
defamation just because it's sealed
doesn't it doesn't implicate the
reporter if you get a leak you can write
it I mean even if it's a top-secret
thing about yeah exactly
now it's possible if the reporter did
not confer you know the report had to
trust somebody either that they were
getting the right documents or that you
know they weren't being lied to but even
then the defamation laws for a public
figure are much tougher and this lawsuit
is completely nuts
agent Delgado is saying that it she says
I'm just amused that their entire
lawsuit seems to rest on reporter
couldn't report on what was in a court
filing that was sealed and in
parentheses she says hey morons it was
never sealed and isn't sealed and here
look at this nameless faceless affidavit
from an unidentified person denying this
yeah I don't I don't quite follow that
but but what is going on here is
completely a lawsuit to intimidate and
so there are slap laws but maybe this is
filed in a place where there's not a
jurisdiction for that or they don't
think that they're gonna make some money
but there should be a countersuit here
because this is this Malone out very
quiz in Florida get a Papantonio on it
mmm
doesn't do those that small bore buddy
here's the other thing that's total
small bore like there were people who
gleefully watched Gawker go down and had
no sympathy for them because it wasn't a
very sympathetic scenario to a lot of
people right they published someone's
sex tape without their consent
but the First Amendment isn't just for
people that you like things that you
like and I saw I didn't like I mean I
thought it was kind of a shitty move of
Gawker but like I understood the broader
implications and that this is a slippery
slope and we're seeing it right now
absolutely yeah there's a real problem
all right let's take couple I let's just
do this it's Tom Friedman really can
this be the last time I wish all right
look Tom Friedman this guy he just can't
let go he just can't let go Tom
Friedman's inability to say I was woo
I was rude wrong is Wow
what's the Cody's word that's gonna say
like wait this is his Fonzie this is his
this is his Fonzie move all right so Tom
Friedman as you know wrote glowingly
about MBS in contemporaneously with his
writing about that he got a law degree
from people at the time yeah like they
did maybe he gone a little bit overboard
looks like I don't can't like a million
people said let's put this one in the
time capsule and see how it ages I don't
care
I see somebody who's trying to do
something in the Arab world and I'm
gonna support them and I say eff that so
all right that was contemporaneous it
wasn't may be completely obvious that he
was getting completely snowed by a guy
as a horrible human being who would go
on to basically bring Yemen to the brink
of genocide still time could be full
genocide as well as ordering the
dismemberment of a journalist who
criticized him so Thomas Friedman come
back on to CNN let's have you say you
were wrong and then we'll begun with it
I was quite skeptical but here were the
five things I saw on that trip that I
had never seen before watching say
something about five things okay when I
get fired from Air America for the last
time a charlatan who stole on us a stole
a charlatan who who in my estimation in
my opinion built the company out of a
lot of money by telling the owner who
came in who didn't know what he was
doing they you got to spend money to
make money and one of the things he did
is he got rid of Randy Rhoads and he
brought in Montel Williams and he and he
he really just junked up the place
pretty bad and he said yeah this is my
fault the economy went really bad and I
said well but you didn't just lose out
revenue you lost you lost market share
it's one thing we've maintained market
share but the value of the market is
just last and the thing he said to me
that goes there were five decisions he
did exactly that shame there were five
decisions that were made before I got
here I think that's like they teach you
that in management school like you gotta
have five
cuz you have three it feels like you
can't come up with a full hand but if
you do six that looks too ugly you just
go five and let's hear what those five
things were that he he's now saw at that
time in before in Saudi Arabia I saw
someone a Saudi ruler ready to remove
the religious police off the streets a
huge deal for Saudis second I saw him
giving women the right to drive
third we saw him opening the country to
cinema western concerts and sporting
events force I saw him
actually taking on the rat the hardline
clerics in the war of ideas saying no
you don't have the right interpretation
of Islam I have the right interpretation
no Sony no Saudi leader had done that
before and Christian most importantly
what I saw were young Saudis who are
coming back to Saudi Arabia because they
thought a real change was happening in
my column I said Arab Spring from the
top down not the bottom up and that's
that's what I saw and now some people
said you know what Tommy it's all it's
all it's all fake because look what he's
doing in Yemen look what he's you know
people that he's arresting here and my
attitude was maybe there's clearly a
downside here there's clearly an upside
and I thought it was worth investing a
little hope in the upside if we could
curb the downside and so I basically
spent the next nine months writing
column saying kids got a big upside but
a big downside it would be nice if we
had a link to the Facebook group the ice
if Trump actually talked to this kid
about curbing the downside
why don't we appoint someone like
Secretary of State Baker to come here to
be your envoy all right yeah no I just
want to just clarify some this is
exactly also what he said about the Iraq
war incidentally like I thought they
were there for her for democracy
it turns out they weren't and that was
the problem that was it was not my fault
it was not my assessment that was wrong
it was their behavior after the fact so
he's got some upside having concerts
having concerts letting women drive some
down side creating genocide in a country
here's the problem with what with with
with his calculation like he can't seem
to sort of weigh out what might be a
little bit like every piece of evidence
it's exactly the same to him
right right every piece of evidence has
exactly the same weight there's no like
a he's willing to kill an entire country
from what basically seems like no reason
to have concerts
well you had five things on one side and
you had the genocide and and what else
and yet in Saudi Arabia so that's five
versus two so boom
I mean that explains it I think
everybody knows five bigger than two
because they were like I had five
reasons to come for it and they just had
to I would split off shopping malls and
movie theaters into two different
reasons actually sometimes shopping
malls has the movie theatres in them you
gotta have five you can't do six and you
can't do two gonna have five it's a
shame there's only two things that you
could find fault with Saudi Arabia Yemen
was one is he thought it was good right
that was one of the five collars I'm
sorry we don't have any time I'm gonna
do five im's and then get out of here
but before we do ladies and gentlemen in
the studio right now we have a someone
who's been going out hobnobbing some of
the ODE political figures of our time
there is a there's a little blurry but
last night Jamie whose socialist cameras
out partying with ALC oh you mean
Alexandria oh you call her Alexandria no
let's uh we're friends did you call her
a no no she doesn't like that
what were you guys doing you uh you guys
like
from chugging competition or what what
what goes on at these these maybe some
jello shots with like a little hammer
and sickle John on top of them and
frosting and did you guys what would you
guys do pay for your drinks haha how
does that work who took this picture
what did they use it with what had they
take their picture
was it an iPhone and capitalist camera
right yeah Cleon took that picture
within the show with an iPhone I believe
so unbelievable
the Cabal exposed what was the event oh
it was that Sean McKelvey's blue and
gold happy hour there you go it's at the
bar blue gold it's like a leftist
political a PR yeah it was cool to meet
her we talked about GSA's various
projects she just did a town hall with
DSA members in Queens the night before
that and I heard it went pretty well
we talked about de creme and Y which is
a sex workers rights organization that's
just form that I'm a part of and she met
with them the other day and basically
just like how people like her and people
like me are gonna team up and use our
inside outside strategy to undermine the
system abolish the value form and
basically turn America into Venezuela
old coded all coded totally coated I'm
not even gonna tell you what part of
that is true there you go folks you're
gonna have to wait and find out if those
white guys get them yeah that's that's
audio from their actual conversation I
don't know why you guys sound like Bill
O'Reilly that's weird
I'm a bit sick alright folks do uh ten
AIIMS and I gotta get out of here
just Gartley seriously I want to know if
you're doing another live show and
documentary on it seriously hoping to
but we're not sure these Ben are there
any known details of politican
livestream so we can get the onslaught
that's going to take place this weekend
left his best I've heard that the
Socialists non-socialist panel will be
on c-span plus the revolution will be
televised
contagious chameleon Sam the Jamal
Khashoggi disappearance is very credible
but it wasn't Saudi Arabia with somebody
who looked like Saudi Arabia a
doppelganger if you will John Brown said
Sam I woke up early this morning caught
Chuck Schumer on a Morning Joe I turned
on the volume
mainly to see how closely how closely
your and Michael's impersonation of him
was it was spot-on I mainly see how
Michaels impersonation was spot-on but
that's not my point Schumer stays
started for the first 60 seconds by
saying that he hates your Boston Red Sox
the Dodgers and doesn't know who he'll
root for in the World Series even though
the Brewers have a shot of getting in he
went as far as comparing the Dodgers to
Stalin and Hitler no joke I wish he
showed this much passion when he when
the visiting team was Trump's judicial
nominees Rama and Saint is there any
scumbag more deserving in the Hellfire
fear mongers then Pat Robertson he said
we can't afford to risk a hundred
billion dollar arms deal if something as
trivial as human life did we have that
video that Pat Robertson should have
played that that's horrible
Colin from Nebraska yo Richard wolf put
out a video destroying Daddy lobster cry
Barry Petersen
two days ago worth a watch I did watch
it I thought it was pretty good David
Letterman voice and the number one
reason I'm eagerly anticipating the
midterm elections is DJ Dan are Keys
inevitable drops in the Blue Wave Josh
from Chicago can Sam wish my friend Ryan
congratulations on his impending
marriage Ryan congratulations
[Music]
Congrats and joy of marriage one at a
Gorka voice Sam's tinder profile gross
why did I tell you everything you need
to know about masks class-action
lawsuits left is um leftist motto go
what's up at micro hey Sam I wanted to
drive you to you to drive hard hit your
killer crossover and use your right side
fade away to score points on Charlie
Kirk I think Jake and the efforts
Wallace and debate is gonna be a having
disaster give them hell new human the
ticket price from Politico and seems
pretty high do you have any think it's
normal possibly way of controlling the
audience that gets in I don't doubt it
Mitch from Houston have you heard the
radio ad for French Hill and Arkansas
it's absurd oh well I guess we'll have
to play that on Monday nuclear negroid
Republicans are going to soothe voters
with health care lives and feckless
stems with the support of media and it's
so goddamn frustrating establishment
dear bets is it possible provide all
those great snippets for download I
don't get that DX fault hey Paula Terry
I heard Stephanie Miller read a tweet by
Mayday Mindy yesterday I hope you'll run
into Stephanie and her Facebook friend
Kathy Griffin at Politico tomorrow I
noticed the political website lists you
as part of the TYT gang not part of the
Ring of Fire contingent why is that I
have no idea
you're a five-time podcast a winner you
answered in nobody peaches yeah I'm not
sure exactly what that's about they
wanted to all-mighty I'm with Jamie on
the whole economic anxiety racism thing
a study showed that the belief that
Obama's secret Muslim is a bigger
predictor of trump support than even
Republican identification well no it's a
well-known fact that anti-muslim
conspiracy theories are rooted in
economic anxiety not racism and the
second final matthias you guys should
look into the giant tax fraud scheme
that is currently being employed to
defraud European taxpayers there's
already but he used to steal 55 billion
euro it's come come' acts and come come
get your mind out of the gutter several
big banks like Deutsche Bank had
departments that were tasked with
committing the fraud geez and the final
I am of the day this is a good one
election day is November 6th not the 7th
Samantha that's right Michael will be
here Monday with a pre-taped interview
that I did and see you Tuesday
bye-bye in that cig Sogetsu
[Music]
but I know some
I'm gonna get the
I was just got cut
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is tickin
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
