[Music]
let's go to this first thing here is
Donald Trump contemplating a and this is
sort of mysterious to me on some level
but it also shows the the great
disconnect between the Conservatives and
normal people and that is this notion
that somehow we're going to punish
sanctuary cities by sending them more
immigrants that sort of really
fundamentally misunderstanding the point
of sanctuary cities but here's Donald
Trump explaining with a crew of people
and I will tell you this I know people
who work construction and they don't
wear their construction outfits just
around town they wear them when they go
to work presumably they're these guys
who are standing behind Donald Trump are
not working and the White House these
active duty construction they're they
gotta wear the unified
I like the big guys get the big guys do
with the big suspenders I like that okay
here we go
yeah we're gonna and you know the thing
is our country's doing so well
economically we're setting records that
a lot of people coming up for that
reason a lot of people are coming up for
bad reasons too we have a lot of very
very bad people with big criminal
records trying to get through and the
Border Patrol's done an incredible job
with them those are a focus they really
have done a really incredible job and
when they have been through and when
they've been let through over the years
ice all over Long Island and they come
and they get them and they take them
back and we get them the hell out of
here
that's happening all over our country
ice but the job that ice and that
that really Border Patrol does is an
incredible job and law enforcement in
this country is that the job they're
doing is really incredible you know I
don't know if you saw the crime stats
but these statistics are that crime is
way down in our country over the last
year way way down
and so that's despite all of the
problems we have at the border and we're
straightening that out so on sanctuary
cities as per your question we are
giving very strong consideration to
having people after a 20 day period
because again you're not allowed legally
to hold them for more than that we will
move them into sanctuary cities thank
you very much everybody thank you okay
so aside from how muddled his message is
things are very dangerous except for
they're going great in terms of crime
but bad in in terms of like the
immigrants but it great overall but the
immigrants the big guys to do bad and
ignore the fact that crime has been
precipitously dropping for over a decade
things just particularly in the last
year despite the fact that there is
immigrants all over the place who are
part of ms-13 it's going really great
it's miracle that we're able to sort of
like have this two-track success story
you know what he thinks this is he
thinks it's like when your dad catches
you smoking a cigarette so he makes you
smoke a whole pack well that's yes here
is that that's exactly it
but the difference is is that a whole
pack of cigarettes when you're a kid
will make you sick if you're sick for
another you think you immigrants are
cool what's going to happen if the if
they follow up on this plan is that
sanctuary cities who have an
appreciation for what immigrants bring
to their cities are going to be psyched
because there's going to be such a more
vibrant type of City I guess absolutely
the first one that he said where I was
like I will make that trade right here
we go oh no here he is this is where
he's more explicit right on the specific
so-called threat
we're going to send you the people that
you have already opened up your arms to
here we go we could fix that in so fast
if the Democrats would agree but if they
don't agree we might as well do what
they always say they want we'll bring
the illegal early it calm the illegals I
calm the illegals they came across the
border illegally we'll bring them to
sanctuary city areas and let that
particular area take care of it whether
it's a state or whatever it might be
California certainly is always saying oh
we want more people and they want more
people in their sanctuary cities well
we'll give them more people we can give
them a lot we can give them an unlimited
supply and let's see if they're so happy
they say we have open arms they're
always saying they have open arms let's
see if they have open arms
the alternative is to change the laws
that we can do it very very quickly very
easily okay I mean I I think this is a I
think this is a good test let's see I
think the what happens I mean now why
not go full-bore why not say we're going
to send all of the undocumented
immigrants to the sanctuary cities and
if they can live there for a year
without the cities you know imploding
then they get citizenship I mean that's
the way to really teach them a lesson
those those sanctuary cities you could
really teach them a lesson by doing that
I mean this is the mentality I think of
the right where they that there's some
type of like we're calling their bluff
if you think immigrants are so great
here's some immigrants as if there was
some type of I don't know what kind of
like eighteen dimensional chess Trump
thinks that the Democrats or the
sanctuary city cities are playing like
we're going to be a sanctuary City so
that the immigrants go somewhere else
and therefore we
I don't understand what the theory is
here but it is a fascinating insight
into how what conservatives think
liberals want he thinks that all
liberals are hypocrites so he thinks
that liberals want to let in tons of
immigrants that are gonna you know ruin
other people's neighborhoods or whatever
but when it comes time to open up their
own they're gonna be like oh no no no
but that's not true on a mass scale well
but that part I get but they're
literally opening up and saying we're
sanctuary cities I mean so it's not like
yes like the idea like that I think
you're right about that it's just that
they've made a catagory error here
they've they've done the hypocrisy thing
except for the those cities are
specifically not being hypocritical
autocracy they are sanctuary cities oh
you're gonna legalize weed well here's a
bunch of read the smoke if you oh really
what about other dispensaries but it's
really more a city it's really more just
saying like oh you're gonna legalize
weed well then in that case we did legal
where you live oh no anything how that
it's with you you keep saying you want
to legalize weed and have dispensaries
okay guess what you can have dispensary
here's a little proposal for you it's
illegal now well you've been working
towards is happening now I thought that
was the best win-win of his presidency
it's like we need to figure out how to
maneuver him into these situations more
awful yep prison abolition too on the
lips
let's go
