[Music]
and this lastly let's to get to this
clip and then we'll just take some ions
and get the heck out of here
Fox News Fox and Friends they want to
promote this notion of basically I don't
know if this is like a Kevin Sorbo movie
Pro tie in but they're talking about how
everyone is outraged by this sort of
rash of attacks on the New York Police
Department people are throwing
milkshakes at them and dairy products
they can't go anywhere without it this
is just um and it's because the
Democratic Party is promoting this and
of course New York is a pretty heavily
Democratic state and that's why this
must be one would imagine this would be
completely rampant where people are just
like for no reason at all just go throw
a milkshake at a cop day oh and by the
Clinton Global Initiative he's a black
power and so Fox and Friends these big
assembled a whole studio full of New
York City first responders because they
care except of course when the
Republican Party was standing in the way
of funding the 9/11 Victims Fund
okay greedy but first responders that's
such a good umbrella term to include the
cops we got people we actually like yes
there's people who say people from
buildings that are burning and there are
people who go and harass kids on the
street but nevertheless they assembled
all of them in the studio and they
really wanted to drop the bomb we're
gonna show America
how horrible the Democratic Party is by
encouraging all these people to pick on
first responders here is Steve Doocy
they always give do see the the job
because he doesn't care at the end he's
like I whatever I can't even believe I'm
here can we see the hands of the people
here today the first responders in law
enforcement who have encountered
anything like that in the last year or
so in New York or wherever you are with
water hid with milk disrespected taunted
alright know anyone that has well that's
good all right well let's talk let's
talk a little bit yeah let me tell you
let me tell you what was good about that
no one raised their hand there was one
dude far in the left hand corner do you
see him like right if you're looking far
and left the corner sort of like
half-heartedly right are we supposed to
raise our hands and there was nobody
else nah ma'am it's been fine I saw a
very rude Twitter comment yeah aren't we
supposed to aren't we then the guys told
me not to slam his suspects head against
the roof of my car I found very
threatened by that people want to fire
officer Pantaleo that triggers a PTSD
response to me because I could have just
as easily been being the one choking out
the fat black guy so there's a lot
there's a lot of adventure motional
imagery of the job so mow raised by air
by bad haunted he tries here's how he
tries to save it like he gets faced and
then he tries well let's see if we can
get something that's even vaguely
remotely relevant to the spot that we've
used to lead this in in New York or
wherever you are with water hit with
milk disrespected taunted know anyone
that has have you heard any stories did
you hear our report when we claimed it
did you hear what we were saying 20
seconds ago and nobody okay well that's
good all right well let's talk let's
talk a little bit about just generally
who would like to talk on TV right now I
would imagine everybody where's Gerard
Gerard's over here on the end all right
George yeah we got yeah anybody want to
talk about this no I just you know they
told us we had to come here so it's
we're getting paid so you know yeah not
really I mean you know because you look
at something like Pantaleo you know
there before the grace of the Blasio go
why right yeah I know the the police
union told us it was important to come
to to crap on de Blasio but I don't have
any stories I just you know just want to
say I was on TV so one time this woman
was telling me not to drag a kid off of
the squad car the yelling was so loud
about it like heart did Rumble what not
for fun I guess
that was traumatic there was a week
where I had to say like what what did
you say I couldn't yeah yeah okay so
there it is ya know move on chief
show's over yeah shows up shows off with
those we appreciate your work in your
manual that we that Mitch McConnell
signed off on the first responders bill
thank you thank you for that thank you
for wanting interference that
