[Music]
I'll spend a huge amount of time talking
about tulsi gabbard I would say I'm sure
some people think we do I would say in a
different political environment there's
some things that are good about Tulsi
Gabbard I absolutely find it mystifying
why people would orient around her
campaign when Bernie's in the race but
look I'll be honest I find it mystifying
white people would orient around any
candidate besides Bernie but the problem
is so there's a variety of problems as
an example with Senator Warren relative
to Bernie and a lot of folks who support
Warren over Bernie essentially you're
just overtly saying that they don't care
about the US footprint in the world they
don't care about military spending they
don't care about foreign policy that's
really complicated all right it's you
know what they don't care about class
struggle well they certainly don't care
about I'll bring it up after this but he
said if there's gonna be a if there's
gonna be a class war it's about time to
work in class one I've got the RT for me
absolutely
the distinction with Tulsi Gabbard is a
Tulsi gabbard's whole selling point is
that she is a warrior well right but
that she's a warrior against US
militarism and foreign intervention and
you know look if this was 2008 or 2012
and you had a Democrat who said that
they opposed foreign invasions and we're
talking about the global environment and
the military-industrial complex which I
actually misspoke on TMDs I said that
she does not talk about the
military-industrial complex in the same
way Bernie does but that was actually
that's something I'm glad to correct she
does use that phraseology and she does
speak on on that so absolutely credit
where credit is due but there's also
been this extraordinary tension which
now with as Bernie Sanders gets more and
more clear and has a voting record on
cut
defense spending he's voted against
every single Trump military budget
increase Warren's voted for all of them
I believe Tulsi voted for one of them as
and and going back really to his record
in the eighties as a mayor calling out
the u.s. dirty wars in Central America
his Bernie's records perfect absolutely
not is anybody's record perfect
certainly not but you don't have this
other parallel Lane of at times
aggressive support for drone programs
ambiguities about torture Tulsi several
weeks ago put out a tweet that she was
alarmed that John Lynde was gonna get
released from prison and on to probation
I mean this is like if you're worried
about John Walker Lindh I'm sure 99% of
you have no idea who he is in today's
environment I've been that guy in a
while uh to say the least right let me
say you probably didn't remember who
that guy was the American Taliban so you
know that that's the type of obsession
that you know find someone that loves
you as much as Tulsi loves the war on
terror in that Ridge and she's sending a
message when she says stuff like that -
absolutely and she is and and and
there's parts of it again that I agree
with but she is trying to create what I
would call is a left isolationist Lane
and we're gonna get to this clip in a
second because it's very revealing
actually we'll do the clip first but
then I'm gonna sort of I'm gonna say a
few more things about this this mo G
Modi BJP stuff because it actually
really matters because this should be a
door and two people having a much better
grasp of Indian politics and the
ideological currents that are running
through it right now but first and I
think that Jamie was right to say what's
her main selling point she's a troop but
a lot of people who obsess over her
gonna tell me that it's because she's an
anti-imperialist now again if somebody
says hey she was right about calling out
regime change in Venezuela yep that's a
totally valid point there's a number of
more narrow valid cases you could make
for her
they don't still stand against Sanders
but I hear a lot of talk about her
radicalism which is not backed by policy
and now quite radically not backed by
rhetoric thanks to our buddy Virgil
Texas from Chapo Trap House what a
bizarre world we live in
asking Tulsi this question at a campaign
event in Iowa you consider yourself an
anti-imperialist I consider myself a
pro-american everything that I'm saying
everything that I'm doing comes from a
place of love for our country and love
for our people recognizing how important
it is that we have unifying leadership
in this country to bring people together
so that we can bring about the kinds of
changes we need to see and as far as
their foreign policy goes to end our
wasteful failed policies of regime
change so that we can focus on serving
the interests of the American people
using the limited resources we have to
do so so that's to me again let's first
of all I'm just gonna concede right off
the bat she's not running for you know a
DSA chairmanship or what like of course
she's gonna say she loves America and
every political candidate should say
that so don't try to distract with you
know defending the basic pablum the
pablum is fine she should say it that's
great what she did say and she
constantly frames this interventionist
stuff is essentially a waste of money
and resources versus a moral
condemnation of the killing of civilians
across the globe then when she talks
about these vague bipartisan solutions
I'd ask you to look at her vote against
Syrian refugees which to me is a very
fundamental vote a very fundamental
redline and I'd ask you to go back to
her rhetoric during the government
shutdown when basically when the
government was getting shut down because
of even more demands on this immigration
war of the Trump administration these
are not areas where you can find sort of
common ground
there's broader questions about Civic
spaces about even how you make your
arguments and appeal to a broader
population which are fine I'm all ears
for but when it comes to ice policies
when it comes to
terrorizing Syrian refugees No . . and i
want to get to india because you know a
lot of the things have already been
litigated with thing assad and well
general Sisi is different her visit to
general Sisi was not attacked in the
mainstream media because the mainstream
media whitewash is the Egyptian record I
would say to a pretty significant extent
as well but there is clearly an interest
in leaders in the Middle East who framed
themselves a secular strongmen who can
clean up Islamists now that coupled with
the refugee vote that's something to
consider and be serious about now in
India the answer that Tulsi has put
forward and others have put forward that
talking about her political relationship
to the RSS and the BJP to the extent
that exists as a form of Hindu phobia
and that her interest in South Asian
affairs a you know should not be
presented in that way and so first of
all I just want to say that you know I'm
a veteran of this stuff because I've
been accused of being the self-hating
Jew of harping on people's Jewish
identity because I am absolutely willing
to call out people who may be of Jewish
descent who back the Israeli Apartheid
loyal very disloyal so you know so the
kind of like petty base identity
politics is not something to come at me
with a frankly period I'm not here for
it now when she went to India she
absolutely has also met with members of
the Congress party and incidentally the
Congress party which has to some extent
preserved an Aryan vision narrows vision
of a certain pluralism is not a party
that I support or something to write
home about in terms of their
neoliberalism corruption and even
horrific rights abuses under Indira
Gandhi in the state of emergency in
particular but what you have right now
is you have an Indian leadership led by
Narenda Modi
who going back to 2002 is already
credibly implicated in some of the
greatest atrocities on
earth and I see a lot of people talking
about the 2002 Gujarat riots when
Narenda Modi was head of Gujarat there
was a killing spree of Muslims that last
a couple days I think the estimates are
over 2000 people murdered in the span
and look I apologized and I mean this is
an authentic trigger warning I'm just
gonna say you know lighting people on
fire cutting you a woman's stomachs open
with babies cutting pregnant woman's
stomach sopin I mean we're talking truly
savage horrific atrocities now in 2012
there was an Indian appointed Supreme
Court wasn't the Supreme Court by
belugas of Commission appointed by the
Supreme Court that cleared Modi of all
wrongdoing and that has been upheld now
there have been over 60 enquiries about
this by national and international
bodies including a National Human Rights
Commission of India report that
concluded that violence was supported by
state officials in Gujarat the u.s. is
State Department on internal Religious
Freedom report concluded that the
attacks and I'm quoting now that the tax
had been premeditated and that officials
were complicit and that there was
evidence of police not acting during the
assault of Muslims the US State
Department also cited how Gujarat's high
school textbooks described Hitler's
quote charismatic personality and
achievements of Nazism to go back to the
founding of this group to RSS which is a
kind of far-right Hindu nationalist
paramilitary group and it's it's
somewhat akin to maybe it's a very
imperfect analogy but if you thought of
the KKK is the paramilitary and the
southern Democratic Party was the
political arm the BJP is a political
project subsumed in a larger RSS project
when the RSS goes back to the 20s and
the 30s and their leaders in addition to
being ardent and correct fighters for
Indian independence were also in some
cases very fascinated by Hitlerian
models and Nazis so people
come at me and say oh the Indian supreme
you know a commission report appointed
by the in Supreme Court cleared the
Prime Minister of India okay I
understand that but I'm thinking that
all of us with some type of left
inclination we probably generally have a
deep skepticism of state and legal
procedures that clear people of
wrongdoing when there's overwhelming
evidence to the contrary including ones
from independent bodies and including
even our own State Department and just
to be really clear this is the State
Department under the Bush administration
when the Bush administration was making
very very tight moves with India for a
variety of reasons including the
counterbalance China so there was zero
interest in sort of playing interference
for a you know for for Muslim rights in
India like let's let's be obvious and
part of the reason that issue actually
grew in Congress was that a lot of
Christians were killed as well this is
in 2014 where and and again people also
say this yes Barack Obama was very tight
with the morinda Modi now I make I
co-wrote a piece before dinner OD in the
render Modi was elected prime minister
saying Obama should at the very least
keep some distance because of Gujarat
and the ideology of BJP but I also
recognized the difference between a
congressperson
eagerly sort of seeking out a
relationship with the head of state
versus a by now bilateral head of state
relationship this is from a piece in the
New Indian Express in December 22nd 2014
Tulsi Gabbard talked to said that India
that Obama and motive may have buried
the hatchet
she said that Modi was quote a man on a
mission
and I'm quoting from the piece Modi was
denied an American visa for many years
after the Ghidorah axe incident which
claimed the lives of thousands in
Gujarat
now it's back to Tulsi I think it's
clear from both Modi's perspective as
well as Obama's perspective of the past
has been buried and both are looking
towards the future there's been a lot of
misinformation surrounding that event in
2002 Obama's visiting India on its
Republic Day is further evidence that
both that that the past is the past and
both leaders want to collaborate in a
way that benefits both of them and then
it goes on to talk about her role this
is some V role of a gabbard's meeting
with Modi there was a personal message
for Modi to gabbard's wedding now again
people who want to say that this is a
function of Hindu phobia are making
precisely an indistinguishable a
carbon-copy
argument of people who say criticizing
Israel is anti-semitic or criticizing
Pakistan is anti-muslim the reality is
we should be criticizing and fighting
against rightward forces in all of these
countries and there is a reason by the
way that you can actually see a very
tight relationship between Netanyahu and
Modi there is a incredibly diverse Hindu
tradition there's an amazing book by
Omar TSN called the argumentative Indian
I'd recommend people read it you can
criticize BJP and RSS and Hindutva
within Hindu sources that's not the
issue at all and I really would like
people to not only be a little bit
honest about Gabbard in this regard
but actually use it as an opportunity as
I say to try to understand the politics
and the dynamics of one of the most
important countries on earth and who's
actually running it right now and the
types of escalation that we're seeing
with regards to Kashmir and that would
have been a lot for Virgil to pack into
a question but I think you take my point
[Music]
