[Music]
let's go over this this Diane Feinstein
thing because at this juncture in terms
of legislation there is potentially two
pieces of legislation there's the one
that Dianne Feinstein drafted in
response to the green new deal coming
out of the house and then there's the
green new deal and there will not be
anybody sponsoring the demise of
capitalism in the meantime and it's
quite possible that that under our
capitalist under capitalism we're not
going to be able to address this and and
if that's the case you know it's really
more about planning for the day after or
or you know when there's a broader
understanding of how devastating this
the global climate change will or may
will kept and will be majority report in
2060 will be will can capitalism help us
recover from climate change
yeah exactly capitalism get my house out
from under water but here is these these
kids most of them are kids there's some
moms of the kids and maybe a dad or two
activists as Glenn Beck would call them
yes they're activists and they're from
the group which would sunrise sunrise
movement and like I said earlier these
are the people who occupied Nancy
Pelosi's office they occupied Mitch
McConnell's office today but they know
and this is very reasonable there's only
one party that has the potential to
address this that party may not address
it but there's only one party that has
even the potential to address it and
there's only one party where these
people may have some leverage with
that's why they're protesting Democrats
that's why when people wanted to protest
about daca years ago they did it with
Barack Obama who didn't want to move
anywhere on daca but those protests that
were considered rude at that time trying
to make Barack Obama look bad
we're we're highly effective in the end
I would say the same thing with marriage
equality but here are these kids from
the sunrise movement and they're talking
about they're about to go see Dianne
Feinstein I'll tell you what we have our
own well it's not around what's
interesting about this group it's I've
been doing this for 30 years
I know what I'm doing you come in here
and you say it has to be my way or the
highway I don't respond to that I've
gotten elected I just ran
I was elected by almost a million vote
plurality and I know what I'm doing so
you know maybe people should listen a
little bit I posit now I just want to be
clear I just want to be clear that
segment there was not edited she said
all that now granted as the as the video
goes on later we'll play a little moment
of that she softens a little bit but
make no mistake about what this
conversation is and in addition to being
condescending and dismissive and real
lying on her authority in the fact that
she got elected which are completely
irrelevant to this I mean I I could see
her saying like look I've been at this a
long time and I know what you know how
we can take the first steps in this but
I watched the whole video there was none
of that she does argue that this is the
one thing that we could get past but
they made the point we know nothing's
going to pass we know nothing's going to
pass as long as Republicans have power
because even if you could pass it in the
Senate it's not gonna pass it Donald
Trump is gonna veto it they say you can
vote for both you could vote YES for
both and she keeps brushing that off
because that's the thing she doesn't
want to answer she doesn't want to
answer why you won't vote for both she
tries to make it about you got to be
practical and then she tries to make it
about you got to trust me and she tries
to make it about you got to respect me
but she will not answer why she won't
vote for both even the people I mean
look at someone like her other the other
senator from California
Carla Harris she signed on to all three
different versions of potential health
care reform in the Senate as co-sponsor
so you could shoot for the moon she
could argue shoot for the moon but I
want to be there too for the possible
practical solutions but Dianne Feinstein
doesn't want to even open the door to
that she is not making the argument to
these kids I know how to build this this
takes some skill and I have this skill
and you can trust me to have this skill
because I'm going to pass this and then
we're gonna pass that she doesn't have
the respect for these kids or the
fortitude to say that it's too radical
that's too dramatic
she doesn't do that instead she shames
them she this and that and when it
doesn't work and she realized got to go
she starts get she get starts warming up
a little bit but continue here I hear
what you're saying but where are the
people who voted you you're supposed to
listen to us that's your how old are you
I can't be a misogynist I have a mom I
have a daughter I have a cousin who's a
woman ask the moms senator the cost of
not taking this action is far higher
than the cost of what the green new deal
will be and there is an enormous
popularity for this bill around the
whole country here and we're asking you
to be brave and do this for us and for
your grandchildren I'm trying to do the
best I can which was to write a
responsible resolution a plan that does
a full transformative action is not
going to be what we need well you know
better than I do so I think one day you
should run for the Senate she won a big
election now for all fairness a lot of
people like oh you're just talking about
that you're putting out the edited
version of the 15 minute exchange or 20
minute exchange I watched the unedited
version and yes there are moments where
towards the end like I say in fact let's
play that the Denia ma here where they
start to usher the kids out of the thing
and one of the staffers even said like
I'm for conservation I like the backpack
which is not in any way condescending or
missing of the point at all I'm
reassured about the future of the yes
I'm for conservation like conservation
what what the f are you talking about
guess what buddy you'll be able to back
a lot of people be backpacking a lot of
people are gonna be backpacking you
won't be able to be backpacking because
you're gonna be dead you're gonna be old
or dead like me but when people come in
to talk about climate change and you say
I'm with you
I like the backpack you might be giving
away a little bit too much of the
narrative but put that aside I'm not
gonna hold Dianne Feinstein responsible
for one of her staffers I mean I imagine
she hired him but whatever but here's
the moment that redeems everything for
Dianne Feinstein according to those who
said you're being too mean by passing
around an edited video here she is
talking about we need to focus on what
can pass with the Republicans in the
Senate but this is absurd because we
know that Donald Trump's not gonna sign
off on this
and so what she's doing is just as
futile in terms of the ultimate goal as
promoting the green new deal and I would
argue it's even more futile because if
you're going to lose lose big win the
principle set it up for the next time
when you do have more votes nobody your
pre negotiating you get yourself and
looking at these kids and saying you
don't get it you idiots no I'm not
saying it it I'd actually even give you
an internship how can I wait sorry how
can
starting internship you want to do an
internship Clark alright okay okay Jim
ain't too happy I can a man I can assure
you that there it is there was the big
magnanimous think she she basically said
you kids don't get it I've been here for
thirty I don't know I don't get in a
million years frankly what whether her
victory was by one vote or ten million
votes why that has I mean so she's dead
she doesn't have to listen to them or
they automatically are wrong because she
won by so many votes I don't understand
why that's brought up yeah popular
people's opinions hold more weight than
unpopular people's it's like a law of
nature I wonder if she says that to the
to the fight the industry folks who can
we look which is actually probably more
relevant I would let me say it to those
people that's how much I won by
California gas company exactly I wonder
if those words I mean I suppose it I
mean maybe it was but yeah stuff like
that just reminds me that despite my
left critiques of the green new deal as
necessary but insufficient solution
we've still got to do it and it's
pissing off a lot of the right people
it's not yeah I mean newsflash you don't
have to be seven or ten to understand
that Donald Trump is going to veto
anything that in any way he's they are
assembling a team of basically paid
scientists who will say that there's no
climate change but we're gonna we're
gonna find a
be medium that what that what
