[Music]
all right let's play one clip Beto or
Roarke out on the campaign trail there's
some video out of of him at the town
Town Zoning Board meeting from his days
back in El Paso we got to go through
that first before we play it but here he
is and you know he's getting getting a
lot of enthusiasm out there a lot of the
candidates are Bernie's like get a lot
of enthusiasm Kamala Warren let's hear
what Beto has to say because that's what
the proof is in the pudding folks the
full political democracy is only
possible if we vigorously pursue a true
economic democracy every child every man
every woman in this country must be able
to see a future for themselves in this
country otherwise this country will have
no future as a democracy that means that
this extraordinary unprecedented
concentration of wealth and power and
privilege must be broken apart an
opportunity must be shared with all stop
stealing my wipe all I mean the you
know the the rhetoric is you could pull
it apart the rhetoric is you know
there's some platitudes there you know
the here's the thing is that at the end
of the day the the real trap here is to
talk about opportunity because it means
essentially like no structural reform it
means that there's really no way to
measure if you've succeeded
right because conceivably everybody has
opportunity now the only way you can
assess whether people don't have
opportunity is to look at the relative
change
in outcomes and even then that's a a
mushy metric you just simply can't
because look I mean my argument like
everybody has the opportunity to do what
I'm doing here they're just the reason
why they're not doing it is because
they're not smart enough and they're not
talented enough and whatnot and I can
assure you that is not the case which
one you want to steal from me or the old
Joe plagiarist what do you think he
thinks economic democracy means it
sounds like a good line to use right
speech I think he answers it yeah
opportunity opportunity that is
literally not what that means well well
that's right I think that's exactly
right I mean it sounds good it sounds
good it sounds like what Bill Clinton
said in the nineteen nineties thinking
where if you work hard and play by the
rules you should be able to raise your
right it's the same message there's not
there is no change the basic message
structure or ideological presupposition
yeah I mean I guess the issue is that
the words he is saying do not mean much
of anything well there's also the
problem of the Cold War which is that
democracy became synonymous for
capitalist democracy absolutely there's
also problems of branding like if you
look at like like even books on like
brand strategy from like the 90s and the
arts it was super trendy to like you
know even use language from like Maoism
and like apply it to creating like a
social marketing I think it's I think
it's possible for us to sort of like
over dwell on this stuff but the but but
the the point is is that there needs to
be real proposals that are on the table
that define for us what he means by that
rhetoric and that is ultimately the
problem is that I'm sure we could find
clips of Elizabeth Warren saying
something similar and we could find
clips of Bernie Sanders saying something
similar and we could find clips of Joe
Biden saying something similar the the
problem for for Beto
is that we could find all those clips of
those various people but then we could
look at their policies and to assess
directly as to how you know what those
words ultimately mean and for some Joe
Biden in the past it meant things like
empowering credit card companies to make
sure that you couldn't escape your debts
or empowering loan institutions that
made sure that like you your student
debt couldn't be discharged or but for
someone like Elizabeth Warren or Bernie
Sanders it means we're gonna start
producing generic drugs and as a
government or we're going to do patent
reform subsidy but we should say that
every time that bado has indicated on
this any time he gets close to policy
it's usually not good so it's the extent
he ever does get specific it's a bad
signal and I got to say like I'm not
into the Buddha jig thing at all but
it's very clarifying to have him in
contrast at bado because he really is
making like even he in his interview he
had recently he said that because of his
age which is a very interesting
generational argument that he's out of
that Cold War mindset that Matt was
talking about essentially and he's not
he's certainly not a socialist he's not
even particularly left but he's
triangulating actually and he's saying
well we're the generation that actually
understands that capitalism and
democracy clearly have tension and he's
making a very different argument to get
out of it but I'm just saying like
having him there really reinforces not
only how empty beto is but that when
Betty
Beto goes to his comfort zones it's to
the right and it's not even really a
triangulation between left and right in
the modern Democratic Party it is not
democratizing our economy to propose to
cut Social Security I can just tell you
that those like by any definition of the
word that would not be the case
now I he's obviously I don't think he's
promoting this on the campaign trail
I don't know where he is on Social
Security maybe he's talking about
expanding it but I'll tell you something
that is quite a turnaround six years
seven yes it's also not democratizing
the economy to expect people to pay 10
percent of their income for health care
what about 9.5
