so you have these reports of children
under the age of three who are all had
to be sent to the hospital not by the
customs Border officials but by lawyers
who went in to examine them you have
children taking care of children you
have them punishing some of these kids
in some instances by having them all
sleep on the floor no soap no
toothbrushes they the facilities are
completely overrun because they keep
taking more children they slow walk the
processing of them and they discourage
family from picking them up and people
are very concerned about the other
people calling them concentration camps
because that's rude that's a really rude
thing to do they're short-term
[Music]
hostels they're youth hostels
essentially that you can't leave here a
aoc shows every Democratic lawmaker
really just about anybody how you
respond when the Trump administration's
defenders pretend to be outraged that
you would use the word concentration
camp for this stuff
well I think he should apologize for the
deliberate conflation an attack on these
terms I think he should apologize for
the conditions that he's supporting on
the border he should apologize to the
children that have been separated from
their parents he should apologize for
the his support for widespread human
rights abuses that's what he should
apologize for and until he stops
supporting the absolute dehumanizing
conditions on our border I will not
apologize for holding him to account for
it I like how she does that with smile
at the end how's that you wanted a quote
there's your quote that's what
concentration camp means I mean III
needed to get into the pedantry and read
that what would the merriam-webster
dictionary definition of concentration
camp and one of the definitions is a
place where certain category of people
including refugees specifically mention
there are detained yeah what the word
means yes I mean it seemed but to like
to even let yourself get distracted into
an argument about definitions while an
administration is literally torturing
and kidnapping children is already a
huge failure but even on those annoying
paedon should not even be being
discussed grounds they're wrong that's
what the term means
