[Music]
I'm going to see and it's apparently
sold out a Billy Bragg at the Brooklyn
library next week as the in a
conversation with Amy Goodman lucky you
I am lucky Brendan got me a ticket right
before it sold out I think and we had
Billy Bragg on the show the other day as
you know and in his in his pamphlet he
mentions Eric Weinstein who is one of
these people he works for a Peter teal
and then he has his own now podcast he
is one of the IDW guys supposedly he
coined this phrase that that despite the
fact that he's obviously got a pretty
decent position in society with Peter
teal teal and that he has access to all
of these
IDW platforms that they feel like they
are somehow in a dark web now the dark
web as you know is where a lot of like
Nazis hang out and neo-nazis and white
supremacist and also I would imagine
people who are doing illicit things yeah
I was gonna say right forget about the
drug deals right and a lot of drug deals
and but the idea is that they're not
allowed to have that because of their
ideas which are which are because of
their ideas that they are not allowed to
have a public forum they have to have a
secret forum almost like if you were
let's say a you know practicing religion
in certain societies or you know you
wanted to hide the fact that you were
celebrating Shabbat under Nazi
occupation and you had to do it in the
dark and you had to do it secretly and
they're so quiet and secretive about
their opinions right as opposed to let's
say
being able to go on to a show that has a
couple of million views or being able to
get a book deal or being able to tour or
being sponsored by I don't know turning
points USA or I mean on and on and on
and so Billy Bragg and Weinstein had
this exchange where and I don't know how
this initiated I'll look it up now it's
a little bit weird right I mean I can't
quite tell how Weinstein has but I don't
know if Billy Bragg initiated or not but
so Eric wisely said so I'm not a welcome
in front of your audience on your
upcoming dates to discuss this or show
some solidarity and any coming together
right yeah the Billy Bragg wants to pull
people apart and Billy said no thanks
I'm interested in how you square your
statement about refusing to engage with
certain arguments that you don't
consider intellectually rigorous with
the IDW supposed commitment to free
speech this is the point that you got
you all fired up can you address it and
so here's how Eric addresses it of
course because of his because of his
openness to debate and the importance in
the esteem in which he holds the
exchange of ideas so I was open to
exposing protest singer and cultural
icon Billy Bragg and his claims against
me to my audience I was willing in
exchange to go on to his stage where he
has home court advantage I don't know
what that means but it's it's a real
shame that Eric perceives this as some
type of game where one would have
home-court advantage you imagine I'd
show him on one stage in the middle of a
performance well sorry I know it's just
so unfortunate bad entertainment you
need to look at it like that
as opposed to just simply a platform and
I'm sorry go back go back to the other
one to show his audience that he was
straw Manning me
it was not to be door still open now I
find this to be fascinating because if
this is really about ideas certainly I
think people who watch this show and
know that I've been doing this for 10
years in this iteration and been doing
this for 15 years and I think I've been
quite explicit about a whole range of
ideas I made a similar proposition to
Eric Weinstein some time ago when he and
I should I should say that his never I
never brought him up in any context as
far as I know I mean maybe but I don't
know but he went on to make an
accusation about what I was engaged in
on Joe Rogan show with a huge following
of course here it is I think that
there's a very strange thing going on
not with Dave Rubin but with the crowd
of people that is just trying to eat
Dave Rubin and hadn't been blind him and
confuse him mmm and this you know this
is this guy Sam cedar who do you think
he's a Russian I hope he is well I don't
know I don't think he's Russian but I do
think that his his I think he has a
grassroots following I don't think this
is inauthentic that just loves to dark
harass well a dunk dragged I hate this
language I just can't honking I like the
word dunk
oh really yeah that's fun no I'm not I'm
not a fan no no no because it's just it
cheapens all converse oh you got dunked
on your home court advantage Tom this is
that thing in third grade that I think
Eric never as well they found out that
he won't engage them and so they think
it's cute to just constantly on
them and they also think it's cute to
take anything that he says and interpret
it in the worst possible way possible
and not think of it as him just being a
guy who's trying to talk about things on
the fly and maybe isn't even prepared
about the subject at hand like let this
show you know we were talking before we
were
we were and talk about my come on let's
just talk yeah and so when you do that
come on let's just talk thing yeah you
never know what the is gonna come
up and you might have a piss poorly
formed idea of what a subject is just I
ramble yeah what that's what I've done
work to previous yeah well no here's not
but it seems you know it's easy to think
that you did that
but with Dave you know there's enough
moments where he's miss stepped where
they just feel like okay we got a
wounded antelope yeah yeah the try pick
him off and you know I think there was
probably a move to do Shapiro and there
was a period where you were saying I
just want to address I mean it's not
first off like look I understand maybe
you don't realize you're gonna be
talking about Jesus on any given day but
if you don't have the basic
understanding to know that Jesus and
Muslims were not contemporaneous then
maybe you should really really do your
best to stay away from anything remotely
close to talking about that like I mean
I guess if you say like look I didn't
realize that we were going to be talking
about you know I don't know the planets
so I up in knowing that the Sun was not
inhabited I mean there you know there's
there's there's some baselines here but
I don't know why Eric Weinstein felt it
was necessary to bring up my name in the
context of people who have a problem
with Dave Rubin I don't know what it
means to blind somebody with criticism
on Twitter but he is correct that we
want to eat Dave Rubin though here's
Eric Weinstein apparently he just
learned by watching my show or somebody
snitched
yes that's somebody snitched and the
fact is I asked Eric to to discuss
publicly with me what was going on with
Ruben I invited him on to my show I said
I would go on to his show but nothing he
does
want to engage now I don't know if it's
because he doesn't perceive that I have
the the proper size audience or that in
some way but it's it's interesting to me
the way that he decides to whose
criticism he will address and who's he
won't and that he feels it's okay to
invoke my name on a platform that I
don't have access to and at least imply
that somehow I am you know using my
followers to corral a wounded antelope
with a perma swarm with a perma swarm or
something and allow Rogan to
characterize it as something that I
think is cute I don't think I don't do
this for cuteness it's how I do it I
take incredibly demeaning cute is the
way you describe a little puppy or a
little kitten or a little child this is
not I'm not being cute here I actually
think that what these people are doing
is incredibly dangerous I think it
creates a lot of societal ills very very
extreme societal ills I think actually
that in many respects it provides
support for some of the worst things
that are happening in our society today
I don't think that's cute and I am happy
to discuss this more with Eric Weinstein
and if he apparently it takes him a day
or so to hear what we say on this
program maybe he'll hear it now maybe
you talk to me first and then maybe
Billy will see that you can actually
have an engage with people who with whom
you disagree with and maybe he will then
respond more positively to to your
requests you're worried about not being
welcomed in front of Billy Bragg's
audience you're welcome in front of mine
there it is
so come on let's discuss this we can
talk about Dave Rubin we could talk
about Ben Shapiro whoever else you
invoked in that segment with Joe Rogan
I'm happy to have this conversation I'd
look forward to it and I am
sure because of your intellectual rigor
you're incredibly smart guy I have no
doubt I've listened to you speak I have
no doubt that you're far more
intelligent than I but I still think
that my my ideas are worthy of
engagement so when you come on you'll
have the opportunity to make your case
I'll have the opportunity to make my
case so we'll see if you actually have
the integrity of the principles you
espouse because I know I have no doubt
that you have the intellect but the
question is you make these
pronouncements about what's so important
in our our discourse but you don't
follow through you only follow through
when you think that maybe I don't know I
don't know I'm what why you would engage
in this way when I've invited you and
you know you know what I'm about you
know it very well and I know it that you
know it very well so we'll see you know
what I'm about what's up Irv Gotti look
at Sam's language changing I love I went
on I did a you know it added out I did a
I did a segment with Irv Gotti on
and re members uh fallback Friday and we
got we went deep into it
