[Music]
we covered some of it yesterday and we
covered the virulent homophobia and also
just the the you know sort of fascist
bromance or whatever you want to call it
I will say on t MBS we did about a half
an hour kind of run-through of different
elements so there's a lot going on here
from the assassination of Mari le Franco
who was a hugely important activist in
Brazil please everybody look up and
honor her legacy the cartel that
assassinated her is directly materially
connected to the balsan ro family from
all available evidence we don't know
more than that and um you know a variety
of other things some of which will
actually touch on in a couple of minutes
but there is no mistaking the facts I
mean the fact that bolson ro went with
Sergio Moro is also very suspect and
questionable and almost certainly
corrupt justice minister which we'll
talk about for a couple of minutes that
they were at CIA headquarters tells me
first of all that this broader project
that began in the Obama era of reversing
pink tide governments across Latin
America is highly coordinated and
directed with link to u.s. foreign
policy and even things like the
political imprisonment of Lula might go
above the Brazilian Oleg our key and
judiciary and that secondly even though
Brazil's military does not want to
engage in Venezuela militarily there is
absolutely a serious appetite in the
United States to continue pushing this
process and bolson ro is the stupid
fascist steward she is is open to it
this exchange on Fox is you know okay
Stuart Varney is an idiot um and it
takes a kind of you know libertarian
from the Cato Institute not to morally
object but to logistically object but
these converse but this is actually a
microcosm I think of exactly the kind of
arguments that are taking place
in you US and Brazilian and Colombian
situation rooms right now should we use
the CIA I realize I'm going back to the
lake that like the 1950s or something
but I mean why not why not well first of
all you're going back to always CIA has
been involved in Coos across the globe
conservatively over fifty nine in Latin
America from the 50s through the
attempted coup in 2002 in Venezuela the
2009 coup which we backed in Honduras
the and then if you broadened out from
CIA the Justice Department's role in the
judicial and and political coup that's
taken place targeting the Workers Party
in Brazil but just really Zone in on
that just face value for a second I'm
going back to the 50s when we deposed a
Social Democrat Jacob Arbenz in
Guatemala because he would slightly cut
down on the profits of United Fruit we
deposed him and set off a mass killing
wave of which was echoed actually in the
1980s when the Reagan administration say
literally supported an actual genocide
in Guatemala so I guess at least it's
good that Stewart knows what he's
calling forth should we use the CIA I
realize I'm going back to the lake
they're like the 1950s or something but
I mean why not why not the guy is a
corrupt socialist dictator he's killing
his own people in the street why can't
we have the CIA have a quiet word with a
couple of generals get them out of the
country why not well if it was that
simple it'd be nice to do the challenge
of course is who replaces him we can't
be certain that whatever follows him is
going to be something better you know
the question is how can we make it
easier for the people there to overthrow
him what we're doing now I think has had
extraordinary success of building
international support other Latin
American countries are actually willing
to push on this we need to keep this up
he needs so what's interesting there is
that actually that is the strategy that
we've been doing going back to Bush
through Obama and accelerated under
Trump which is try to make this
situation they're so miserable
the people will overthrow them that is
not happening and I say this as somebody
again people have real difficulty with
cognitive dissonance the Maduro
government is absolutely engaged in
abuses 100% there are also structural
problems in Venezuela that implicate the
military that existed through Chavez and
they existed before Chavez
there are institutional realities and
countries that if you don't
fundamentally change they persist and
fundamentally changing them is basically
impossible which ironically most you
know credulous moderates who all of a
sudden support a coup in Venezuela will
tell you about the United States
sometimes they have some defenses of
people like Obama that I disagree with
but they're actually somewhat
institutionally correct will apply some
of that same measured thinking to
completely reordering the Venezuelan
government so there's real problems in
Venezuela some of which are self created
by the government and the US has
squeezed and attempted to ferment Akua
to instigate a coup there for at least a
couple of decades under three
administrations and there's still a
critical mass of Venezuelans primarily
Venezuelans of color primarily poor
Venezuelans who have absolutely
benefited from Chavez and some of those
benefits maintained under Maduro
and they would all be totally stripped
away and destroyed by some us back
puppet by guido like wydo
and so and also there's others that are
just nationalists you know believe it or
not other countries have a right to have
a nationalist sentiment Americans and
there are some people who might actually
there's contingents of people who
critically support Maduro because they
still believe in the Bolivarian
revolution for very justifiable reasons
and correct runs and then there's also
people who may be actually totally loath
Maduro would love to see him go but
don't want a right-wing us engineered
coup that would almost certainly send
the country into even deeper crisis that
guy pointed out even the libertarian
pointed out that what how do you know
what replaces him is better well I could
tell you from a left perspective there a
diplomatic process mediated by people
like Mexico and Oregon in the video that
can might produce something that is more
responsive and better a us-backed coup
and military intervention back with
Elliott Abrams orchestrating if you
don't see that that will automatically
make the situation if Venezuelans
infinitely worse and mostly the most
poor and the most vulnerable who the
Bolivarian have delivered for it some
degree you're delusional and if you're
also interested in things like
corruption or the military tied a cartel
business you think that a right-wing
us-backed government is gonna be the
government like you know anything about
Latin American history you think that
the us-backed right-wing government is
gonna be the one so we really gotta get
out of the cocaine trade it's not who we
are
you are again are stupid or delusional
hello hello Thank You Dennis Prager
