[Music]
so you'll recall you'll recall about two
or three weeks ago right Robert Kraft
was named as being one of the John's
essentially who was no busted or
patronizing a massage parlor that turns
out to be a you know to provide I guess
what they call happy endings orchids of
Asia orchids of Asia and it is a chain
of day spas in South Florida and they
have gained a reputation for offering
sexual services and the I guess the
police said like there's gonna be bigger
names right I don't know if they've come
out with bigger names than Robert Kraft
but this is after Robert Kraft you know
basically became the most successful
football owner in the history of
football he's really well know what and
apparently the woman who started this
chain of of Tokyo day spas who claims to
have no involvement in the day spas
whatsoever although her family seems to
continue to own it was at mar-a-lago
with Donald Trump cheering on the the
Patriots I guess to their victory this
is the picture right now the the selfie
right there I think this is the picture
of the selfie and go Pat's
apparently her name is Cindy yang or Li
yang and there is concern that the women
who are ostensibly working or staffing
these spas
are victims of sex trafficking to fill
the demand here Yang's family still
owned several South Florida spas the
families Tokyo Day Spa branches have
attracted the attention of at least two
local police agencies over allegations
of prostitution before the 2016 general
election yang offered no evidence of
political engagement she hadn't voted in
ten years so she was not a heavily
political person something politicized
her to have you get any time to get
involved President Xi has now become a
fixture at Republican political events
up and down the East Coast her Facebook
is covered in photos of herself standing
with President Trump his two sons Eric
and Donald Jr that's coming from the New
York Times Florida Governor Ron de
santis Florida senator Rick Scott Sarah
Palin the president's campaign manager
an assortment of other high-level
Republican operatives operators she's
met at charity events political
fundraisers and galas many of which
require hefty donations to attend she
sometimes carries a rhinestone encrusted
Magga clutch PERTs put it back go back
go back right there boom can you zero in
on that gold
Mogga Oh
agents are so classy so you know I don't
know and you meet them and you say happy
ending and they say we big deal there
you know maybe it's a coincidence craft
obviously good friends with Donald Trump
mr. Santos there's DeSantis governor of
Florida she's got two pictures people
would never be involved Oh a different
picture with the sand this is wearing a
different suit that time yep so I have
to do a resistance style if what do you
do Barack Obama you have and of one's
blink I mean David Axelrod goes to jail
his lead attorney testifies in Congress
before going to jail about
in Congress and then there's pictures of
him the Superbowl watch party with a
potential human trafficker just let's
just like fake hand jobs
fake a job hero to what young they go to
what job there was there was a lot of
talk at the time like why would Bob
Kraft
a billionaire be going to like a not
pratik Ida maybe I mean how upscale of a
spa that's a good question because
stupid another reason to tax them out of
their money it's like a strip mall yeah
that's weird place I don't know it's
very like to go so what John in it an
autoloader everything in Florida is in
strip malls I barely know David Axelrod
tangentially I read about this bust and
the alleged trafficking victims were
given a care package that included a
religious text by a megachurch pastor oh
my god in addition to some like you know
shampoo from CVS I thought you were
gonna say like a Patriots like Uzi or
something as part of their care a lot of
them don't even read English it was just
this guy's ego weird and horrible so
