oh let's do this
pat buchanan it's been a long time since
we puts up a Pew can people forget pat
buchanan used to have a show on MSNBC
when I first started doing hits on MSNBC
it was as if I was going on to like the
baby fox
Scarborough country Pat Buchanan show
took a Carlson show I think it was I
can't remember who else and here is a
pap you can and on wow that is a very
flattering picture of him in oddly
flattering picture because he's younger
they're too much younger but Laura
Ingraham Fox News host has a radio show
and here he is I remember in 2004 being
in radio row and at the Republican
National Convention and or maybe it was
the no I'm sorry that's the Democratic
National Convention and talking to a guy
who didn't quite understand what air
America was I think but you know I told
him I so he knew that it was on the you
know liberal I guess and he was
bemoaning the neo-cons he was like he
said I'm a Pat Buchanan guy myself
oh my god that's right neo-cons they're
all Jews and I was like ah that's my
understanding yes just sort of like they
so comfortable with their bigotry it was
it was stunning really stunning I was
just like yeah tell me more but I've got
to but here his pap you can and still
carrying the same torch he has for the
Republican Party for 30 years
well more but it was 92 when he ran as a
president under the auspices of a
culture war and the really the death of
the white race
that was taking place of course takes a
long time white
yeah the white genocide to take place
and here he is you know with a slight
twist on what's going on here this is
well we'll unpack this statement cuz
this is really sort of unbelievable
we give 1.3 million green cards which i
think is way too many every year in the
United States most America polled say I
think it's either keeping the same or
90% of these are folks coming from what
you might call the second or the third
world and people are you know people are
fundamentally basically good but there's
no doubt there's a greater difficulty in
assimilating people from different
civilizations and cultures and
ethnicities and and and and racist in
the United States it then there then
then other folks and we know this is
true african-americans have been here
since 1619 they helped build and create
the nation they're part of its culture
and history and yet we haven't fully
assimilated African American citizens at
the same time we're bringing in millions
and millions of people were conducting
an experiment which you know it to me
I'm a pessimist I just it's not working
it seems to me but miss Harris what you
say mean she's up virtually in the first
part of it that comments image is
calling for open borders that's the end
of countries to be fair I haven't
listened to the full interview when
Laura Ingraham says hey Pat I got to
stop you there the idea that somehow
African Americans have not assimilated
to our culture is stunningly offensive
and the idea that African Americans you
know have not blended in with white
people enough yet and with have not
adopted white culture after all we did
to beat beat it into them literally is
really offensive bad
I mean this is the idea that she can
maintain a radio show that is sponsored
by major corporations for allowing
something like that to be unchecked is
stunning I will say I was a little
surprised when Kamala Harris said no
nations no borders law and order
she's really pandering to the far left
there even if Kamala Harris said that
that would be a second-order issue like
they want to criticize that but the idea
of claiming that African Americans their
presence is somehow some other to
America like America existed as a white
nation we brought them in as like in the
annex and the idea that they you know
like the idea that America doesn't that
American culture does not include black
people is beyond like it's beyond
offensive it is the idea that coca-cola
or whatever it is is going to advertise
on on on Laura Ingraham show the idea
that somebody can have media cult media
critiques and support the outlet that
pays her money really yeah I think the
slave states and then the subsequent Jim
Crow South assimilated black people
exactly to the extent they wanted to
yeah and I also I mean just the idea
that like somehow like African Americans
have not assimilated to our culture what
off where is he living they created the
good parts of our culture let's be real
that's just stunning to me the white
nationalist sentiment yeah and when he
talks about civilization that just goes
back to all those ideas about the West
as this
that have been constructed fairly
recently as part of the right-wing
authoritarian white nationalist program
it's just it's
we got one more clip of Donald Trump and
this is really this is really the most
important one in many respects this is
going to have the most of sort of like
real-world implications because the more
responses he gets from this the more
he's going to say it like he doesn't
care what it does to the Republicans and
so I hope that he every time he brings
up
