[Music]
calling from a 2 for 8 area code who are
you where he calling from oh I know you
guys hate when people ask that no it's
fine what ha what I am worried calling
from
I'm calling from Massachusetts
originally from Detroit Michigan cool
what's your name and I've been
Austin Austin and yeah I started
watching you guys like a couple weeks
ago and the first video I saw from you
guys was actually you dunking on Dave
Rubin and it was like something about
ben shapiro not wanting to bake a cake
for him oh yeah yep and just cracks me
up because you do anything a while I was
kind of sorry what no sorry I'm sorry go
ahead for a while you were kind of what
for a while I was kind of sucked into
that kind of IDW kind of right
web for a little while right and so like
I don't know you know I kind of
considered myself a centrist for a
little while but I think what I really
was was just a leftist but you know I
was kind of too afraid to admit that
because you know it's kind of its kind
of tough to put yourself in a position
where you know if you're if you truly
believe in your convictions you know you
have to stop being friends with certain
kind of people or you know you know
can't hang out with certain kind of
people so it's kind of or even worry or
maybe if you do like cuz I'm not a big
you know I joke about it but whatever
like but you know be friends with
whoever you're friends with but even
just like the it eliminate I noticed in
certain groups it does eliminate a lot
of social niceties like when somebody
repeats a piety or a cliche like oh well
both sides or some like that
and you are the one to be like well
actually not like what do you mean like
you wait you think when Howard Schultz
says the Democrats calling for
medicare-for-all is an equivalent to
putting children in cages that's an
example of both sides being irrational
like are you actually saying something
that you know immoral and catastrophic
ly stupid you know it did yeah it makes
conversation a little bit more difficult
when you don't just sort of nod your
head along with the
but uh welcome aboard oh yeah welcome
aboard Austin yeah thank you and you
know the kind of I'm also a former Sam
Harris kind of a I guess fanboy and I
guess listening to you just like dunk on
him enough just kind of made me realize
yeah this guy kind of is this like a
whiner you know trust fund baby you know
it's like always playing the victim card
and you know it was right around when he
started referring to himself and you
know Maajid Nawaz and bench appear on
Jordan Peterson at this like
intellectual dark web you know that just
you know my initial reaction to that it
was just like I cringed that that you
know that's an era cor it's embarrassing
it's embarrassing because like you know
especially from my point of view you
know I'm somebody who used to you know
when I was in high school I used to go
on you know like spore chin and you know
all that kind of so you know when I
you know I was very familiar with that
kind of stuff so when he started things
 like that I was just like oh man
just stop this is like it just kind of
made me realize just like how flawed his
uh perspective and you know you kind of
just like made me see that even more I
mean I'm working I'm you know I've got
this book that's gonna be out in the
summer about not just the idea it's a
critique of the IDW but it's also a kind
of Cosmopolitan socialist answer to a
lot of the questions that are rising
around the IDW so it includes the the
symptom this power this you know cuz
it's like you know it's it's a this
whole popularity this thing is obviously
a symptom of bigger problems that's why
you would live in a society where people
want to read you know Jordan Peterson or
something but also you know it's it is
interesting though in terms of just kind
of micro like even in short term history
and it like when sam harris came on the
scene he was writing mean both that
there was an enormous amount of fear and
lack of information and just sort of
ranked stupidity about muslims so on one
hand
he's just kind of like aggressive
bigotry towards them along with the
pseudo sophisticated thought experiments
and the substitution for like word games
and hypotheticals over policy and
history could work but then on the other
hand that was also like you know it was
just so simple it's just you know I'm an
atheist you know I and and to be fair I
get and you know I mean we always say
this I know that these issues don't
matter as much to me as it does to other
people in some ways I'm it's really
matter about people being brought up in
religious environments that are harmful
to them and I don't want religion of any
kind legislating for sure but you know I
don't know if so if the president says
god Bless America I don't I don't have a
this does not put me into conniptions
for days did just me right but that
being said maybe high school uh Richard
Dawkins viewing often might have cared
about that but right so he grew out of
that
right so I just you know so I but it was
just interesting though that he was
writing this really open mileage of on
one hand these really a historical
vicious stupid stuff about Islam and
Muslims on a policy and historical arena
and then on the other hand just sort of
like this open and super simple lane of
just like hey I'm an atheist as to
actually ironically basically a form of
identity politics if we're being blunt
about yeah and then and you know and
then I know even then I didn't really
understand it because Hitchens gave you
the same thing but Hitchens was fun and
Hitchens's writer and all the rest of it
and a rock on tour but then now it's
like I mean obviously he's got his own
weird intellectual fixations and that's
why he gets into the race though you
know you know he's I don't he's a
bizarre guy still haven't kind of
figured him out but I think oh yeah also
when I started falling off the train
like whoa what what are you doing man
you know it's just kind of one of those
moments I put my hands on my head and
I'm like what are you doing dude I think
this is but for those nine you should
definitely and for Sam Harris I think
for those guys
it is as Matt would say it's like you
know you the differences on the left you
his stores size on the right you
mythologize and some people also might
not like this but if you use scientism
as an ideology is a distinct from
scientific method that becomes its own
form of mythology and people like sam
harris were boxed in because they didn't
have the intellectual capacity or
empathy to grow into the conversations
that people are having today and by the
way i'm not saying there still might be
strong disagreements I'm not saying like
become a particular type of left or
whatever but all he did was just kind of
become and that whole scene just sort of
degraded into lazy reactionary politics
because there wasn't the emotional
empathy or intellectual capacity to take
on the issues of the day it was all just
quite literally reactive and there
wasn't anything novel to add to any of
the conversations so that's how it
worked out I'm glad you found us thanks
brother that's awesome
so is if we're getting more and more of
those girls and it's sort of making me
revise our position which was like you
don't really convert people we're going
to the point where I think people do and
you have to think about the way people
approach these things for the first time
sort of how people watch local news
thinking they're being informed about
their community but they're not they're
being informed about like whatever the
local police department has to give them
right and whatever it like the
meteorology is maybe some news and then
whatever decent video that one of their
reporters could wrangle up and it might
be even from like a national corporate
headquarters so but but people still
think they're getting informed and they
leave watching the news as if they have
been informed right and the IDW is all
about like yeah let's have these
conversations we're gonna be hard
conversation we're gonna get into the
nitty-gritty we're gonna love nia nuance
and they're selling themselves and
people if they don't know what that
stuff actually looks like what actually
getting into like historicize and
substance they might think that that's
it and then you get that sort of like
dunning-kruger effect where like were
the brain geniuses we've thought through
all this stuff rationally but really
know you've been living inside of like a
walled garden where you're pretending to
do all this precisely but that's and
then that's also where do Ben Burgess
critique of the left comes in where it's
like you know I mean look I I've no
problem
condemning them on
their ethics and I do but also actually
taking time to dissect and really pick
apart their arguments and even also
acknowledge areas of vulnerability where
we're falling short that they're
exploiting disingenuously of course but
really taking it apart
and again I could tell you this yes in
addition to the calls I've had plenty of
other anecdotes where it's like it was
some combination of a failing of certain
kind of pop forms of leftism to deal
with you know certain not even arguments
just a kind of off-putting sort of ethos
combined with you know a sort of fake
you know the pseudo intellectualism of
that scene and then as simple as yeah
but then I you know started watching you
guys or I found zero books or something
like and yeah I'm done those guys are
Schmucks
