[Music]
speaking of shoehorning as you know
Donald Trump announced very late
relative to European countries and one
would expect when you have look American
or I should say air travel and across
the board has become so incredibly
advanced than safe in the past 20 or 30
years that it that it's sort of the
stunning so when you have an airplane
that goes down and it's a specific
airplane that goes down twice in a
relatively short period of time relative
to the time line of airline crashes and
you have an extended record of pilots
reporting hey there's something wrong
here right it should be a fairly obvious
reaction to grounding the planes now if
it's trying to not work Donald Trump
right Donald Trump of course has a deep
relationship with Boeing his favorite
they're big supporters they give many to
the inauguration all good things
best planes best planes and so he did
not immediately ground these planes but
later did and made a big show of it that
he was going to do it how does he know
that there's something wrong with these
planes maybe it's the fact that there's
been reams written about it maybe
there's all the reports from the pilots
know ladies and gentlemen he gets under
the hood how do we know well Katie
Pavlich tells us how pack boxes which
will give them a ton of information
flying is so the most it's the safest
way to get around the world around the
country much safer than driving in your
car
positive incidentally I think Katie
Pavlich must know that you cannot drive
around the world because of the oceans
but go ahead for then driving in your
car that's for sure but there are
reports of US pilots complaining and
reporting problems with this plane that
are similar to what happened with these
flights that went down now
they have to ask the question about
standards of training are the pilots in
the United States are getting the same
training on the Boeing as the pilots
overseas and that might not be the case
there could be different standards and
training that are not being upheld so
we'll just have to wait and see what
happens but I will say you know to get
President Trump some credit everyone's
like Oh what does he know about planes
for the guys own planes is entire life
and you know when you own a private
plane you know about the way it
functions so I think totally this is
about as ridiculous of a take as you
possibly could get first off have you
owned a plane yeah I've known a plane I
have owned cars for the better part of
my life
and if there was something wrong with a
specific model of a car I would have
really no more insight into it than
anyone else a B you don't study I also
there is a difference between a private
plane and a 737 or whatnot
but even even if there weren't I mean
the idea I don't know I would sit warned
you it is I'm gonna take a look into the
end I just before I come on I like to
sit talk to the pilots about the
computer assisted navigation tools and
then I the highest marks that would a
lot better service privately hey Mike
Mike Pompeo you need to call word and
threaten to drop a drone on them they
released my grades
they are very selective about when they
think standpoint epistemology is okay
that's unbelievable these guys are just
completely nuts don't you contradict my
lived experience
