[Music]
let's play this clip from Bernie who and
the premise here is you know we just saw
Elizabeth Warren and I and I don't know
Majorca gotten better I mean look it's
inevitable they all get better yeah
although it's true by does not
Fighting's not yeah he's not he I mean
go back and watch him in a 2008 debate
versus now a man it's and particularly
like compared to Warren and Sanders yeah
I mean H impacts people in different
ways
and I don't know if Biden is older than
them or not but he certainly he hit a
threshold where it's it's just it's
different and but from your perspective
is Warren gotten significantly better uh
I don't know I mean she's got you know
what she's gotten better at doing that
that particular TV thing I guess right
because well you were talking about
before where a few months ago no one
could quite put their finger on what it
was but they thought she didn't have
enough of something I do think it was
because of her background a professional
background in part where the thing that
people were worried about was that she's
professorial right and she is has now
gotten better at the at sort of
practiced down-to-earth ness right so
that's what I think that she actually
had like she's translating this stuff
that is specific into sort of more
general and general notions that capture
the experiences of more people yeah I
think so all right so here's uh Bernie
Sanders on Morning Joe I think was this
this morning
this is just on MSNBC yesterday and here
is and this I I just I find this
fascinating and mean it's part of and
we've been saying this for a while that
Bernie Sanders is talking about
not just having the plans but how to
execute the plans in the context of a
highly polarized country no matter who
wins they're still gonna be dealing with
them and despite the fact that Joe Biden
seems to think that it's all gonna go
away they're gonna be dealing with
almost half of the country which you
know support the likes of Mitch
McConnell and Donald Trump the ideas
that I am talking about whether it is
taking on the greed and the corruption
and the illegal activity of the
pharmaceutical industry whether it is
guaranteeing health care to all people
through a Medicare for All single-payer
system I think that those ideas are
popular and I think once we rally the
American people which is what I intend
to do as president I'm gonna run the
presidency differently than anyone else
I'm not only gonna be commander in chief
I'm gonna be organizer in chief we're
gonna go out to Kentucky a very very
poor state with people our earning low
wages can't afford health care can't
afford insurance or pharmaceuticals and
we're gonna rally the people there to
tell their Senators to stand with
ordinary Americans and not with wealthy
campaign contributors and I mean I think
he made a point of saying Kentucky too
because right now there is a protest in
Harlan County I mean I protested say
when I guess it's a protest they are the
miners there have been literally like
blocking I mean it's a pretty yeah
strong protest blocking roadways because
they're their company which is in
receivership apparently is just not
paying them their wages yeah and I think
I think it absolutely right that's why
he said it his campaign and he are all
hyper aware of all of these strikes and
labor movements happening all over the
country I mean it it strikes me that
Bernie is setting it up and I had asked
him this question when he was on the
show shortly after his his Democratic
Socialist speech
whatever he's building he intends to run
it yeah yeah regardless of what happens
with this election yeah I think so and I
find that well that I mean that was that
wasn't really interesting maybe this is
not the correct reading but it feels
like a pretty pointed critique of the
Obama administration right which and one
of the original sins of view of the
flesh of the first term the massive
demobilization of the organization they
built in favor of their sort of inside
strategy right yeah remind people of
that because we have a lot of young uns
around the you know that I mean they
they the the the 2008 Obama campaign was
a massive massive grassroots
organization you know they built this
giant list they could have done so many
things with it and then sort of what
happened when they actually got into the
White House was they brought in people
like Rahm Emanuel whose strategy was
totally inside he was like okay here's
your legislative agenda we're going to
get corporate stakeholders on board
we're gonna woo congressmen and Senators
the traditional way and they let their
grassroots organization that they had
built their campaign around wither on
the vine I I would even say it more
pointedly they they suffocated it they
did yeah I mean III don't I think that
they were afraid of that existing
outside of their it wasn't just a
question of like it was in attention it
was I think a deliberate because you
remember in the 2008 the summer 2008
right after he became the nominee you
remember that word went out to all
outside donors do not contribute to
outside groups mm-hmm yeah do not I mean
it was in and there was you can find
there was a lot of people who were very
across the board all of a sudden that
the the funding for everything people
who were agitating for Medicare for all
was a big thing at that time
trying to push there was all sorts of
people you know marriage equality
immigration I mean a whole host of
different things and they and they put
out the word you donate to us donut you
do not donate to them yeah and they were
very clearly afraid
of of ofa yeah it which was Obama for
America and then became something oh
that became organizing for America for
America and it literally just
disappeared
yeah they never ever used it and and I
think that was by design and and Bernie
Sanders seems to be saying like I don't
care who's president yeah I mean I'm
gonna be President or you know but guess
what that ofa that I'm building yeah
that's gonna you know this is what I was
sort of alluding to it's remarkable that
his campaign is already doing this by
telling by sending you know text alerts
to people that there's this there's a
strike happening
you can go demonstrate in support of it
you know like that's that's only barely
presidential campaign politics right
right that's just organizing right I
mean I I you know I think there is an
argument that it could be detrimental to
the campaign I mean you're you're using
resources yeah to organize but it is
certainly not detrimental to being
president no and it is certainly not
detrimental towards obviously building
and you know an organization that is
going to have if handled correctly is
gonna have a lot of power and a lot of
ability to help or hinder an agenda that
the president has you and so that you
know did you see the New York Times
thing with the map of other donors that
they just sit up a little while ago yes
actually we just you were you just were
just at a pre-show we were all just
looking at it and it's it's remarkable
because you know not to fall into the
fallacy of like geography equals
population but it's Sanders is all over
the clique every corner of the country
yeah every corner of the country
okay this beautiful map here here get it
you get it see if you can get it in full
full full size there okay so there it is
the red dark red is beta O'Rourke that's
the that's Texas the light red is clover
char she's up in Minnesota of Bernie won
in oil country North Dakota look Bullock
is doing pretty good in
from Montana right yeah and then you can
see Biden look at the Biden support it's
just Biden support is yellow orange and
it literally looks like just the the Sun
froze on the horizon like it just crept
up and just froze there and then the
world stopped turning on its axis Buddha
judge is doing all right in his part of
town and then it is Sanders everywhere
yeah California yeah California was
crazy to me because Harris has has a lot
of donors and a lot of money but that's
remarkable yeah it really is crazy
and you don't I mean I I don't see
Warren has the second biggest yeah
number so just like if they have another
map where they took Bernie out and it's
Warren it's basically the rest of the
map is Warren right but he's just like I
mean he's what got double her
practically yeah double the number of
individual donors practically it's it
really is stunning and now of course I I
guess the really the other thing you'd
want to see is like what what is Trump's
look like yeah right and I would also
want to see this in terms of like I
would love to have seen this graph for
for Clinton - yeah particularly at this
stage right because you know the real
question is going to be and let's turn
to Joe Biden obviously I imagine Alex
you watch the debates this week I did
yes this is what are we watching here
this is the the go to Joe three okay now
we now give me your sense of what Joe
Biden's performance was in the debate up
to this moment like treading water I
think or like I don't know did that does
that seem fair yes yeah I thought I
thought it was like shaky in some areas
but would have forgotten about
yeah if it got about heavy IDIA yeah
there was I think like you know like the
vite get that vise thing that that they
put up let's play that one first because
i don't think this gets made this vise
compilation gets made if Biden doesn't
have this problem at the end let's play
the one at the end first and then you
can play the device one yeah go to Joe
303 300 there
and it was it was it was it was tough
but it wasn't just that - he had a slip
right before that in his closing
statement go back in that closing
statement for a moment you don't have
any time just in that clip you have the
hole closing statement there you don't
and that no I just have to Joseph you ha
he had a slip in there too and then I
think that becomes in some respects the
that becomes the the the narrative yeah
and then people start to remember this
do we have this the the rest of the
stuff we'll pull it up and I'm curious
is what your sense is like I have not
had the time to watch the oh yeah here
here's this this was by was this the
vice one oh these are the full closing
marks okay here it is sure I'm going to
lead this country because I think it's
important to restore the soul of this
nation this president has ripped it out
it's the only president our history who
is equated racist and and white
supremacists with ordinary and decent
people he's the only president who has
backed engaged and embraced dictators
and thunder knows that our allies I'm
secondly running for president because I
think we have to restore the backbone of
America the poor and hard-working middle
class people you can't do that without
replacing them with the dignity they
once had last thing we got to unite
the United States of America as much as
anybody says we can if we do there's not
a single thing the American people can't
do this is the United States of America
we can do anything if we're together
together so god bless you all and may
God protect our troops
[Applause]
wait that was it that wasn't that
couldn't have been it because he didn't
do the Joe threw oh three well
nevertheless but you saw that was from
the Daily Caller right and this gets to
the point is that he's gonna go up there
and Donald Trump will mock him for that
you will yeah and it also like it also
has me a little bit concerned because I
have seen footage of Joe Biden in the
past and he may say ridiculous things
yeah but he doesn't he doesn't have that
fumbling asthma no that that yeah that
delivery like he's you know usually he's
very confidently saying foolish things
right exactly and I I mean what what
actually kind of bugged me after the
debate was done was I noticed that but
it felt like no one wanted to talk about
it I'm CNN like maybe just because they
all had their sort of pre baked cakes
and they had to get their sort of the
the take say it developed before the
debate started they had to sort of get
those out there but I did I don't know
it felt like I felt like it should have
been mentioned how shaky that was yeah I
would
