oh we got what do we got well just look
at the t-shirt that Milo is wearing it
it underscores your point and it's also
very funny and well are they an events
yes oh did you get send that to
everybody this is a broke ho picture
oh no different sure everybody's on this
one this is a listen this is a
heartwarming story for me this is a
heartwarming story for me to tell you
folks it's being reported now that far
right-wing activist Milo Yan innopolis
was more than 2 million dollars in debt
during the 2018 a year is according to a
collection of documents assembled by his
former Australian tour promoters seen by
the Guardian Australia creditors listed
in the document include employees of his
company a wedding venue apparently spent
like 50 grand on his wedding my
husband's black and his former sponsors
the billionaire Mercer family it always
sucks oh you're right wing daddy that
they were Johnny back see see why you
should hate all the guards he owed Eddie
tasks for them yeah that's a lesson for
anybody thinking they want to be the
next milo yeah six million dollars to
his own company so in other ways he was
trying to get that money out without
paying taxes on it right and supposedly
I guess I'm gonna pay it back I don't
know four hundred thousand dollars to
the Mercer's so if he owes 1.6 million
dollars to his own company what that
suggests to me is that he has tax
liability somewhere in the neighborhood
of like five six seven eight hundred
thousand dollars maybe maybe you know he
owes a four hundred thousand dollars to
the Mercer's 153,000 to his former
lawyers seventy six thousand two former
collaborator and Breitbart writer Illume
Bukhari and twenty thousand to the
luxury jeweler brand Cartier mm-hmm and
of course he owed us a hundred several
thousand dollars
far-right far-right writers including
Pam Geller
Theodore bill or Vox Dei and Gordon T an
Annapolis he√µs even more than that so
sad ladies and gentlemen so so sad
he has been attempting to organize
speaking tours in 2018 in Australia
nobody's interested sorry so sorry gab
McGuinness was there the other day
Florida not quite there we're not quite
there he made it I think to the
outskirts of the airport and then they
did he actually get to Australia I don't
know that would have been very funny if
he was refused a visa to enter so there
you go
oh yeah innopolis apparently also
recently quit the proud voice imagine
that Milo Yan innopolis quits the proud
boys right on the same time as Gavin
McGinnis and sadly no one even knew it
and then we have this t-shirt he's
wearing stop being poor well I would say
to you young man turn around his Fair
Play he he recently posted on Instagram
the Instagram post where he had said
claim that he is actually more in depth
and the stories say he had a t-shirt
that said broke ho and it was a picture
of a ho the garden implements express
himself t-shirt very very clever well
what do you think like let's do office
pool all right before we go and wrap
this up I'll read a couple Iams office
pool here let's say within like 6 to 24
months okay Michael let's start with you
what is my lo Yan innopolis doing how is
he making money this is a really
interesting question
I could I won't say this but I can
envision some very disturbing criminal
okay this is all guess there's a pool
where 25 bucks each at the end of the 24
months sure yeah 10 bucks 25 bucks Matt
you got we got MIT Romney over here put
aside 9020 psychology put aside my
dollars put aside 85 cents a month until
then how do you determine that
who won if we're all wrong where you
draw it let's just call it six weeks
what like the first story that comes out
about Yann innopolis six months from now
that mentions a new gig okay so it's
five bucks each can you handle it it
might not even be any stories that come
well there may not may not and then
nobody would nobody has loading into
pure okay you're saying real crime sure
man I mean I would have said probably
some sort of drug-related activity
because I imagine he's gonna try to be
sedating himself and then he's gonna be
sitting on supplies okay well that's
that's distinct well no it's just I mean
okay I just didn't want to spell it out
but yes that's what you think I'm
talking about stealing uh watches like
he could he could okay
they're both down drugs if you want me
to change it to well no I'm not gonna
you got to be more specific he takes
drugs he's gotta be an OD oh there's
gonna be a selling or Rosie I thought
you said money really okay so you're
seeing selling okay I wouldn't I got
from from Matt was like an OD or
something okay all right okay okay fair
enough
that's actually a good one I think he's
heading to Brazil but Joe yeah for the
new fascist hunter there oh that's a
good idea I think that's enough just to
be working in Brazil you know he's
probably most marketable whoa whoa whoa
whoa whoa whoa you ready I say after he
comes out of rehab that he didn't really
that he may or may not have needed he's
going to be like a self-help self-care
okay I think it's more likely what I was
gonna say is I'll change my answer to
make it more distinct from Michaels if
he's still with his black husband I
think they get into some sort of online
pornography don't really be his more
camming marketable yeah yeah I don't
think he comes a ham boy yeah I don't
all right somebody better write this I
probably can't good reaso either because
both scenario hates gay people yeah they
don't do these are they don't do the
ironic gay thing there yeah yeah there
there pretty boy he could be the only
one like a court jester in a way like I
have my one ironic gay guy imagine being
a gay fascist in thinking we just need
to update the society just enough to
where I can be cool here
