[Music]
but we'll get to that but the important
stuff is Muller right now and we have
footage of Justin Amash apparently a
doubling down in front of cheering
crowds of his own constituents calling
for impeachment
Robert Muller today I think got up there
and basically said in a very much more
reserved way
hey what more do you want out of me I
just gave you your impeachment
indictments you know uh charges but
let's go through these a couple of these
clips we also have a clip I think that
shows fairly conclusively that the bill
bars just liar I mean let's start with
Robert Muller saying that they did not
make a determination that Donald Trump
did not commit a crime if they had they
would have said so we had had confidence
that the president clearly did not
commit a crime we would have said so we
did not however make a determination as
to whether the President did commit a
crime the introduction to the volume 2
of our report explains that decision
it explains that under long-standing
department policy a president president
cannot be charged with a federal crime
while he is in office that is
unconstitutional even if the charge is
kept under seal and hidden from public
view that too is prohibited the special
counsels office is part of the
Department of Justice and by regulation
it was bound by that department policy
posit okay so alright take that away so
there you have it this is not an
exoneration for Donald Trump I mean he
specifically came out and said that
we did not if we had made a
determination if it was really clear
that the president had not committed a
crime we would have said so they did not
determine that he made a crime but what
does he say immediately after that the
Department of Justice says we can't make
that determination it is impossible for
us to make that determination when the
investigation starts when there is no
evidence investigated whatsoever there
is nothing that we can find that can
allow us to charge the president with
the commission of a crime and he just
said or he will in a clip in a moment he
will say we would never say that he
committed a crime because there is no
judicial means in which for him to
defend himself so we're not in a
position to do that by we he means the
Department of Justice now here is bill
Barr lying about this a couple of weeks
ago now he does it very very carefully
the words but for is something that you
learn in law school and it means that
but for the existence of something
something else would have happened
that's what a but-for is but it's it's
an all-or-nothing thing and so bill Barr
thinks he's being pretty clever here but
listen to the language he uses versus
the language that Muller is using bill
Barr basically creates a straw man but
four on March 5th we specifically asked
him about the OLC opinion and whether or
not he was taking the position that he
would have found a crime but for the
existence of the OLC opinion and he made
it very clear several times that that
was not his position he he was not
saying that but for the OLC opinion he
would have found it
he made it clear that he had not made
the determination that there was a crime
okay so he made it clear that there was
that now that is true he may he did not
play that last just last line again the
the the number of double negatives that
he's guys using is very very I think a
specific good and he made it very clear
several times that that was not his
position he he was not saying that but
for the OLC opinion he would have found
a crime he made it clear that he had not
made the determination that there was a
crime okay so yes he had made the
determination that there was that that
that there was not that he had he had
made the determination that there was
not the plate one more time it really is
tough to get your arms around this but
basically what Barr is saying is the
last sentence he says is true but that's
not necessarily a function of the
sentence that precedes it he he was not
saying that but for the OLC opinion he
would have found a crime he made it
clear that he had not made the
determination that there was a crime
yeah because he couldn't ever make that
exactly and he wasn't saying that
but for the OLC opinion he would have
found a crime because that's not the
order in which this goes he wasn't
looking for a crime because he could not
look for a crime not the game he was
playing not the game he was playing and
here he is a Muller making that point
very clear today Muller has a written
statement he says he doesn't want to
testify in front of Congress because his
report speaks for itself
reports don't speak incidentally you
have to read them but that aside the
words he speaks today you know were very
specifically to address what Barr has
said about him in the past listen
carefully what he says here about why
there was no charges brought this
follows
exactly after he says we did not
determine that the President did not kid
at commit a crime and we did not
determine that he did commit a crime and
if we had the former we would have said
so we did not determine that he did a
crime and then he says why and the why
is because that's not possible we are
not in a position to determine that he'd
he committed a crime we're not allowed
to do that we don't have that ability we
don't have that ability any more than
Sam cedar has that ability he doesn't
have Sam cedar does not have the right
the means the capacity the standing to
determine that a crime was committed
neither does Robert Muller this is all
him saying to Congress this is your job
here's the evidence but I can't do it
any more than Sam cedar could second the
opinion says that the Constitution
requires a process other than the
criminal justice system to formally
accuse a sitting president of Hanoi to
accuse he cannot accuse period end of
story
he can't even set out to accuse the
president period end of story he is on a
fact-finding mission and is supposed to
give that information to Congress
continue bidding president of wrongdoing
and beyond Department policy we were
guided by principles of fairness it
would be unfair to potentially it would
be unfair to potentially accuse somebody
of a crime when there can be no court
resolution of the actual charge so that
was Justice Department policy those were
the principles under which we operated
and from them we concluded that we would
would not reach a determination one way
or the other about whether the president
committed a crime posit how can anybody
say that that's not a but for from those
principles that we can
charge a sitting president with a crime
that there there's a constitutional
process and not a judiciary process for
charging him with a crime and basic
fairness says that we could not accuse
him of a crime that's a but-for well
that's his job right he's the liar
general a bill bar and so this is Muller
got up there today and basically said as
about as explicitly as you could there
Donald Trump could have shot somebody
we could add video tape with of it and
we could not accuse him of a crime that
is the bottom line and he is saying to
Congress we found the videotape we got
the testimony from the people in the
room it's your job to accuse him of a
crime and that's what what we witnessed
is today can I ask a potentially dumb
question
how did the OLC come to the opinion that
you can't indict the president because
that just seems super wrong to me well
that is I mean there's a there I mean
legal scholars would say that that
opinion is wrong or some what some would
and we need to go to the Supreme Court
and have this argument Supreme Court may
or may not take it up the office of
legal counsel is basically the
Department of Justice's opinion wing and
they basically say that's our opinion
and we're gonna operate under those
auspices unless a court tells us
otherwise very unlikely that a court
would say otherwise because they don't
wanna get involved in that and they say
look there's a constitutional remedy for
this it is called impeachment and that's
the way that it was set up but yeah
there's a lot of people who think that
opinion is wrong but this is where law
and sort of practicality smash
up against each other and this is what
when they say about there's a
constitutional crisis these are the type
of things that they're talking about
