is this an acceleration here is Mike
Pompeo he was was he in Brazil Brazil
for the inauguration of jr. balsan ro
this guy bolson ro is by all accounts a
if not a full-blown fascist a blossoming
fascist and there's a literal thing I
mean I just want to say really quick
he's a literal fascist and the reason it
matters is because this is not even
neo-fascism was coined as a term to
explain the 1970s and 80s Brazilian
regime of which he harkens back to and
as a product of so it there's some who
argue it never really went away it was
all just sort of dormant flying in like
well it's a little more complicated that
but dead well I mean though the
structures were dormant so I just want
to say like there's zero like where does
he fit in between being a far-right
authoritarian like all of these pedantic
the bright I don't have much time for
anyways frankly but in this case it's
like no he literally is what the core
the term neo-fascism was coined 'fl so
Pompeo our Secretary of State is down
there and you know look one of the
things you really need is first meetings
yes one of the one of the things you
really need when you're a fascist leader
is an outside enemy and in this case the
United States is going to be an ally a
very warm ally and I think Michael you
made the point that the the way that the
elite in Brazil rallied around bowls an
arrow would unlikely to happen with
really any other president is sitting in
the United States because Donald Trump
made it perfectly clear that he was
perfectly comfortable with balsan ro and
in a way that it's very hard to imagine
other presidents regardless of their
politics for the most part I mean we'll
see what tom cotton does president
cotton but
the to be as accepting but here is
Pompeo basically handing up the option
of there's always been as well I mean if
you really need a war here we go we have
the chance today to talk about the Vlado
relationship between our two countries
we we believe that the opportunity
between President Trump president
Paulson now and our two teams creates a
truly transformative opportunity for our
two nations for our two peoples and we
in the United States are committed to
working alongside of you to do that in
lots of areas certainly in economic
areas making sure that our two countries
businesses have great opportunities but
also deeper collaboration on the
security front as well hm-hmm the u.s.
Brazil permanent forum launched last
year provides a great foundation to
further enhance these opportunities and
we know too
we will have the opportunity to work
alongside of each other against
authoritarian regimes around the world
it heralds while today heralds a new
beginning in Brazil it also marked 60
years to the day of repression of failed
policies in Cuba and we had a chance to
make the threats that emanate from
Venezuela and our deep desire to return
democracy to the Venezuelan people as
well I'll close with this thought if we
do this well we can make the lives of
the people of Brasilia the people of the
United States there you go we're gonna
make the lives better for everybody
through our invasion of Venezuela right
I'm not like at the table and I mean
this is a guy who's explicitly
threatened that in 2017 when he was head
of the CIA I saw I mean it's it's like
not exactly I'm gonna want to wait until
February of 2019 February time because
we need to be a I thought what happened
to Falkland it work really well David
Koch's been on the phones too I'm sure
with talking about deforesting the
Amazon and the first products for
georgia-pacific and also that oil whoo
the first steps of that have already
been taken place and it will be like a
genocide of Native America of native and
indigenous people there also he's
already stripped protections in the
Constitution that the Workers Party put
in for LGBT community immediately any
scanning social media accounts of all
federal employees but God have loyalty
got a habit gotta have it but I also
think yes I think that Donald Trump was
a huge permission giver and I also know
that Clinton and Kerry state departments
under Obama or abysmal and doing nothing
to stop what was happening in Brazil
going back at least a 2014 that's at
this it's not like the United States has
a great history no they don't democracy
and central we look at the way that the
Obama and into Trump did a supported law
fair and this sort of in this this
quote-unquote anti-corruption politics
which has only been used to target pink
type leaders it's gonna be a serious
mark on their legacy and it's already I
mean but just the notion that you could
even frame it it's as a restoration of
democracy reminds me of like the big lie
cuz I when you read like Jean Kerr
Patrick's old si where she tried to make
this fatuous distinction basically
between like right-wing dictatorships
that we support and left-wing
dictatorships that we oppose but it was
all like there's a difference because
ones authoritarian and one still tell to
all this pedantic nonsense but at least
there was actually an acknowledgement
that we're supporting a bunch of regimes
that rape and murdered rights and throw
people out of helico we have a good
reason to do it but we've good reason
this is bolson ro is a Democrat when a
third of his cabinets military leaders
and they are promising to summarily
execute people on the street I mean it's
the the level of just base dishonesty is
kind of awe-inspiring but not surprised
