[Music]
so a longtime friend of show David Dan
welcome back to the program thank you
Sam
now David you guys at The American
Prospect are launched this week a like a
series that is entitled the day one
agenda and we have exquisite timing and
the timing of this it would have been
nice if Nancy Pelosi gave you a heads up
as to when impeachment was going to come
down now if it normally does
I honestly if if impeachment had not
been announced this week I feel like
this would have been and I and I still
think it will be because there's gonna
be two parallel stories going on one is
going to be the election and one is
going to be this impeachment right and
the biggest question that I think people
have in terms of a Democratic president
excuse me is um what are they gonna be
able to do so let's talk about this and
then I want to get your thoughts about
impeachment but the impeachments going
to take a back seat to the day one
agenda because all right oh you for just
this moment on just this particular
program that's right we got some
precedent that's right well no wait wait
let me just start with this start with
this because one of the things there
were there were many of us who were
critics of Barack Obama for things that
he did and did not do in terms of the
things that he did not do the pushback
that we all got was this is magical
thinking this is Glink Green Lantern ISM
explain to us what that is so that we
can dispense with this notion because
that's I mean I would have loved you to
have been executive editor of The
American Prospect eight years ago so
that we could have had this conversation
then right so the
Green Lantern theory of the presidency
is something that was pushed by
defenders of Barack Obama and his
political approach and it was basically
meant to highlight the fact that that
presidents are constrained constrained
by checks and balances by the Congress
by the courts by public opinion what
have you the the idea was that foolish
presses have this concept of the green
lantern theory of the presidency as you
know green lantern is a DC Comics
superhero who had a ring and he was only
sort of bound by his wilt of conjuring
up whatever he wanted with that ring to
fight crime or whatever he wanted to
fight and and the the theory is that
progressives or people disappointed in
you know Obama thought that Obama was
Green Lantern and all he had to do was
was was summon up the will and he could
enact whatever he wanted and foolish
mortals that that's not the way that
that politics works that was that was
the very condescending Green Lantern
theory of the presidency it turns out
that leaves just a whole bunch of things
out of the story the you know some were
particularly the Obama administration
the fact that they had already
appropriated a seventy-five billion
dollar kitty for foreclosure mitigation
that they ended up using almost none of
to help protect people and and and keep
them in their homes that was the one
that I you know typically brought up
during the administration right but you
know in this package I lay out the the
you know we lay out the other point
which is that there's just this whole
other area of
the presidency that is not really
constrained by Congress and that would
be the execution of laws that are have
already been passed and it turns out
there's a robust agenda available to any
president that manages to use these laws
that have already been passed to their
fullest potential and and and and you
know the to move forward the preferences
that they want and we've seen this under
Trump right I mean obviously there are a
lot of ways in which Trump is using
executive power in an illegal or radical
fashion but there are also ways in which
the president is using executive power
by simply executing laws that are on the
books so you know the the tariffs for
example that have been put forward most
of them are being done under a section
of the trade expansion act of 1962 which
gives the president the ability to enact
certain tariffs for national security
reasons or what have you the farm
bailout that the president which is in
response to his own failed terror system
where he's deliver twenty eight billion
dollars to farm interests mostly
agribusiness but but to farm interests
that is under a New Deal program I
called the commodity Credit Corporation
I believe that so so you have Trump
using a New Deal program to funnel money
to the farming sector that wasn't
appropriated a it's it's just an avenue
that's available under this particular
legislation which is all still on the
books and has never been repealed in in
any way and so that's an indication of
the fact that a president can be
creative innovative and persistent in
enacting
her agenda through the laws that are
already available and the authority that
is already available to them well and I
want to go through at least you know and
you say there are 30 like you say you
said 30 meaningful executive actions
these are not executive order also these
are not executive orders these are
things we found in the law and and 30
really scratches the surface there
really are so many things that can be
done but we focused on on 30 through a
series of articles that we have and and
the tag is prospect org slash day - one
- agenda so so if you go there or if you
just go to the top of our website you
can see a not brand new website I should
say prospect that org every piece in
this series is listed at that day one
agenda tag and these include I mean just
a broad overview the next president can
lower prescription drug prices they can
cancel student debt they can break up
the big banks they can give everyone who
wants a bank account wants one a bank
account I have a feeling I know what
that is that is that is our our old
bailiwick about the postal banking it is
counteract the dominance of monopoly
power protect farmers from price
discrimination and unfair dealing forced
divestment from fossil fuel projects
close a slew of tax Hope loopholes hold
crooked CEOs accountable mandate
reductions of greenhouse gas emissions
allow the effect of the legalization of
marijuana make it easier for 800,000
workers to join a union much much more
you right and I mean let me ask you this
well why didn't why why have we waited
why why did we have to wait for you to
become the executive editor of the
American Prospect and build a beautiful
new website and then come up with this I
mean what like honestly like I have the
same I have the same question
I mean it's if I'm it's stunning
to me that I was able to put this
together and not be stooped I mean I was
thinking about doing this when I
interviewed to become exactly better the
prospect so that was like last summer
I've been thinking about doing this
package and the fact that we have such a
and inadequate political media that
doesn't understand the capabilities of
the presidency and doesn't really carry
out the campaign coverage in a fashion
that is at all relevant is is really
absurd and disappointing like I I'm
stunned that I was able to do this and
we we have gone through months of
campaign season asking presidents what
they want what legislation they want to
pass when that's not their job right and
nothing about what legislation they want
to implement which is their job and it's
it's embarrassing to to the the are the
media in this country that they don't
look at the the actual roles and
responsibilities of the presidency when
it's you know practically all they talk
about is is what the presidency is so so
I mean it's it just just makes no sense
to me and and so I have attempted with
this package I think we've attempted to
remedy that and and to really look at
what a president can do without
legislation without needing Congress
without needing Mitch McConnell decide
on and it turns out there's a lot that
can be done without expanding
presidential power it's just simply
choosing to use it so let me ask you
this I I mean it's it's easier for me to
understand why the media has not
undertaken something like this
it's even harder for me to understand
like why sitting in the White House was
there not one individual who said hey
you know what maybe we can do some stuff
like why was there so much effort
expanded I mean it's one thing to say
like oh it never occurred to me to go
and do a piece like this it's another to
say oh I've expended a tremendous amount
of energy to argue that we can't do any
of this you know we coined the phrase
that's what I'm saying
did expend a lot of energy I mean you
know I remember the first six years of
the Obama administration getting a lot
of pushback on a whole host of issues
even at the executive order level you
know you think about daca and DAPA and
and and the president saying no I can't
do that no III don't have the authority
to do that and then finally six years in
after having no agenda able to pass once
Republicans gotten a the Congress saying
oh I have a pen and a phone remember a
pen found that that's that's what I'm
going to do but it took six years to get
to the pen and the phone and there was
no reason that it had to take that long
this was this was something that was
available on day one and one interesting
thing so so we did one on cancellation
of student debt that's that was written
by marcia brown prospect writing fellow
and she tells this story that's when the
for-profit colleges were blowing up
these these predatory colleges that were
defrauding students uh and and and
claiming that they could you know
improve their their their livelihoods
and their situations by getting
placement after taking these courses in
terms of that was all live llamas were
kind of worthless uh at that time they
were think about well what are we going
to do because these people had thousands
of dollars of student loans and they
were they were all defrauded too
lawyers from the National Consumer Law
Center went the wrote a letter to the
Education Department saying well
actually under the law you have the
authority called something called
compromise and settlement authority to
settle up any student loan that was
publicly issued and you can cancel them
entirely if you wanted to and the
education barber said well we can't do
that no we're not going to do that they
ended up coming up with this very
bureaucratic bungling process that still
hasn't been fully implemented years and
years later so it's not like they didn't
know it's just they were resistant to do
it and the PostScript to that is of
course that the Education Department
under Arne Duncan several members and
high-level officials in in that
department now works for the for-profit
college sector so if you're asking
was this incompetence or was this very
deliberate indifference to the powers of
the office that that tends to make you
think it's the latter and so do you
think at least in terms of the well and
I guess you you have a it's not even
just a question of speculation I mean
you've gone to the all the candidates on
these on these questions from a broad
perspective then people can go and read
and see you know which candidates have
signed on to what but I mean broadly
speaking what what's your sense of their
willingness to do so I mean yeah I
imagine regardless of what was happening
the Secretary of the Education
Department that have Barack Obama had
said I want all hands on deck I want
every one of my my cabinet secretaries
to come to me with five things that they
can do right now they have statutory
authority to do that or that are you
know if not game changers game slightly
changers and at the very least and and
come to me and I want to know what they
are and I want to know what they are and
I'm
and and and you got yes you got three
weeks at Obama demo right I mean there's
a town at the top right okay so it all
starts from the top and and goes down so
the reason yes we sent a questionnaire
to every presidential candidate the
short version is that Warren and Sanders
were pretty favorable to this and and
bind and send it back you know I don't
know if there's anybody else that we
should even talk about in this race but
that's that's the top line version we
sent that questionnaire for a couple
different reasons
well wait a second let me ask you that
before we get more specifically overall
I'm just curious as to where because I'm
not surprised that Joe Biden has no
interest in these things and frankly I'm
not surprised that Warren and Sanders
would would be receptive right to the
extent that the other people sent it in
that gives you a sense of like where the
where what what the sort of I may be
broadly the conventional wisdom is as to
the validity the efficacy the just the I
guess the the general sense that this is
something that should be done I mean
what all the old with general terms I
mean sometimes it's depended on the
issue right all but you know I mean Amy
Klobuchar is big on she happens to sit
as the ranking member on the House
Judiciary Judiciary Subcommittee on
antitrust so she has endorsed a lot of
the day one actions around anti-monopoly
rules
Carla Harris has has talked about this
sort of 3 a.m. agenda and she has backed
up some of her plans with things like
and if you don't do that Congress I'm
going to take executive action so you
know one of the more wide-ranging ones
that we have in the in the package was
around prescription drugs where you can
literally seize patents of excessively
priced drugs Harris's valve to do that
so
you know there are it kind of depends on
the area and better work has some things
where he's agreed to do stuff but just
what I want to say here is we we sent
this questionnaire for two reasons and
the first reason was to say well what
are you going to commit to and then we
can write about what they commit to and
and you see these all inside bars that
are at it hatched to every single story
in the package that we did the second
reason that we sent the questionnaire
now was to just sort of make the
candidates aware that we know that there
are these actions that you are able to
take and we're watching we we we are we
are fully aware that if you get into the
the presidency and six months later you
know your press secretary says well
we're just hamstrung by Congress we know
that that's not true we know that
there's an agenda sitting there waiting
for you to pick it up and we're going to
be on day one not six years in with the
pen and the phone on day one we're going
to be talking about why these things are
getting done so so so it was really a
two-fold reason to do the questionnaire
at all and it hopefully people will go
there so that when we start to see I
don't need to name names but that that
guy and that other guy on Twitter talked
about Green Lantern ism and then that
other guy say like wait president
blankety-blank is doing a great job he's
not she's not Green Lantern folks can
say day one agenda go read the prospect
and that's that's the idea we want to
preempt this thing and and and really
lay it out and I do think that you know
the way that we talk about presidential
politics is just wrong I mean the
definition of a president
constitutionally is that they
take care that laws are faithfully
executed and here we have a bunch of
laws that are on the books they haven't
been repealed by Congress
they were duly passed legally pass and
it's up to a president to execute them
and for some reason we don't talk about
that in terms of any campaign I mean
it's fine to know somebody's platform
and what they want to do but it's also
good to know what they're going to do
and what they have the ability to do and
so in order to inform people of what the
stakes are in the election I feel like
these issues have to be front and center
all right let's pivot to the election
itself on some level then the there's
two parts of this election there's going
to be the Democratic nominee and there's
gonna be the Republican nominee who at
this point is looks like it's gonna be
Donald Trump but who knows let's talk
about this impeachment what you you
wrote a piece that this symbolizes the
an era of or the end maybe of the era of
no accountability I doubt it broadly
speaking but it's nice to see some
measure of accountability Nancy Pelosi
did not want to do this and it was
supposedly because she was afraid of
what it would mean to literally like
eight House seats it's my understanding
but it is I'm just amazed at like the
the idea that well yeah no of course we
don't want lose eight House seats but
it's not like a guarantee right there's
just no like iron law that says those
eight House seats have to be lost to do
this but what is a guarantee is that
like if you do not hold this president
to account for his actions what who are
you gonna hold to account yeah I mean
I'm starting you're starting to see a
lot
responses of well Nancy Pelosi as
gangsters she finally picked the right
moment the clearest indication of
corruption and and she just waited and
waited and and and she got it done and
that's just gonna have the whole the
whole country on board did what happens
over the last week is the final
recognition of the complete failure of
Nancy Pelosi's entire political project
for 2019 so her political project was
we're going to pass these these bills
were going to get so much attention for
these bills we're gonna show that we're
working for the American people and then
she had this idea that she was going to
sew up the majority for the next
election this year there was this idea
that through fundraising and which of
course the fundraising affects what the
agenda is and and the agenda is pre
compromised through fundraising and and
and just a various other factors we're
gonna sew up the election and and that
meant you know fighting people to her
left the squad and and and they were the
biggest threat to this political project
that you know calling them out in the
media and using Maureen Dowd as an
interlocutor for that purpose but this
was the political project that she put
forward well here's what happened in
2019 nobody cared about the things that
she passed that the Senate was obviously
not going to pass and weren't they
weren't viable or interesting enough for
people you know the the mass public to
get behind them anyway it was about
sixty pieces of legislation I think by
last count I mean and you know some were
we're good
HR one was really good of course nobody
literally on the day of the rollout of
HR 1 which was their huge broad
anti-corruption bill that rolled in
voting rights etc etc on the day they
rolled it out that entire week was
dominated
Nancy Pelosi going after Ilhan Omar
liked it there was no they stepped on
their own you know semi I mean I thought
it was a decent thing to start with but
it should have been that and then now
move on to other stuff but they stepped
on it because they were so determined to
yeah the bills weren't important that
they obviously in the age of Trump the
idea that the house legislation in one
fit chamber of Congress was going to
dominate the news cycle is ridiculous so
that was stupid
the the infighting just made them look
you know just kind of Democrats and
disarray all over again and and most
important the in the ignorance of what
was happening from the the the the level
of Trump and how holding him to account
was was one of if not the main reason
why Democrats were elected in 2018 the
failure of oversight the the you know
going along with things like the the
border supplemental with the caging of
children all of a sudden what these
moderate frontline members were hearing
in their districts was actually the
biggest threat to their their election
was Nancy Pelosi was was her bungling of
this this agenda and miss caucus and
allowing essentially aiding and abetting
the corruption that we were seeing
coming out of the White House and so the
reason that this thing turned on a die
in the last week was not necessarily
just because of this Ukraine phone call
it was because they needed something to
turn this around because it was becoming
you know the agenda for 2019 the
political project was becoming a
liability for for House Democrats
and so so what we're seeing this week is
really a representation representation
of the failure of that political project
not some you know long game twelve
dimensional chess success and this
provided a sort of a perfect moment to
pivot and make it be about we haven't
changed our mind or my strategy hasn't
been wrong or anything this it's just
that the facts on the ground have
changed which is true to a certain
extent but it's also it's a good thing I
guess that they found this this
obviously corrupt you know very neatly
put together peace but it's not like you
wouldn't have found one last week right
before or the week before or the week
after it it's it's sort of you know you
could have done it at the Lewandowski I
mean that the Lewandowski hearing could
have easily been that as a pivot as well
you could have come out and said I mean
it fell into their lap yes is what
happened and and Pelosi finally had to
realize this because her members were
telling her you better do something
because I'm getting killed at these town
hall meetings where I'm being told that
I'm ineffective that my my party is is
doing nothing in the face of lawlessness
and that this elite impunity is causing
you know unrest among my constituents
and so all right so there's a couple of
things from this point that's the that's
the backstory that's how we got to here
what what do you think is now and I
guess I should say that the the flip
side of that is is that this this bodes
well regardless of how this turn I mean
the Democrats still have the opportunity
to screw this up and we could talk about
that in a second as well as the
Republican response but from an
electoral perspective it seems to me
that the grief that they were getting at
the recess particularly those frontline
Democrats the ones who hadn't signed on
yet to impeachment
is the the inverse or the converse of
why it will help in the election against
the Republican because this is an
opportunity for Democrats to sort of
nationalize or localize Donald Trump in
every race right yeah I mean I think
that's that's that's definitely true I
think looking to pass performance as an
indication of future results when you're
talking about impeachment when you have
a sample size of one this is not really
a that that useful a rubric certainly we
saw you know post Nixon resignation that
Democrats took this commanding super
majority in Congress certainly after the
Clinton impeachment which was seen as an
overreach
we saw Democrats do well in the midterm
elections of 1998 when that was being
talked about so so we don't know how
this is going to play politically what
we do know is that the last 20 years is
kind of what I wrote about the last 20
years or so we have seen just total
impunity total lack of accountability
for elites we've seen who you are
mattering much more than what you did in
all facets of society and and and what
we're seeing over the last couple years
with Trump is just sort of an indication
or an avatar of of that lack of
accountability and my feeling is is that
this has really disrupted the country as
has broken down our institutions and
someone anyone standing up and saying no
were actually are going to hold you
accountable I feel will be rewarded by
the electorate but you know I don't
really know right we're going to see
this play out certainly we saw today
this this
summary of the phone call between the
Ukrainian president and an and Trump
which looks pretty bad even though Trump
is trying to sort of Gaslight about it
and say that you didn't even read the
transcript which is in the transcript
I'm totally innocent it doesn't look
that innocent to me and and if that's
the best that they got if that's the
best foot forward then uh you know it
seems like the Democrats have a pretty
strong hand to play now how are they
going to play it are there they're going
to be hearings is there going to be a
laying out of the evidence is there
going to be you know for all to see not
in a report that that ten people read
but but on national television
is there going to be and you know an
explanation of you know what this
particular piece of abuse of power is
all about and and maybe connecting it to
others I think I think now we're what
we're we have to think about is how this
goes down and how that will affect the
implications for the election and beyond
rather than whether to do it or not
right I mean I think we're we're we're
past the the do it or not
phase what so what so when you say if
the Democrats play their cards well what
is that what does that look like at the
end I mean let's assume for a moment
that Mitch McConnell either has a vote
in the Senate and Donald Trump is not
convicted or doesn't even bring up a
vote he just pretends like it's not
happening like it's like Merrick guy I
think it's gonna be the latter he's like
I'm not even gonna do I'm not gonna
dignify this with a vote I'm gonna
pretend like it's not happening now
there would have to be under Senate
rules if an impeachment resolution is
forwarded to the Senate the Senate does
need to act but those rules can be
changed just like the nuclear option
that we saw you know the changes of
Supreme Court so that vote
you know there would be a vote because
that would be challenged but it would
devote would be the vote would be on
change rocket right okay so there would
be a proxy vote change the rules that
way
no senator has to say oh I didn't vote
to not impeach him I just voted not to
have you know a vote essentially and
that would be seen as a proxy for okay
let's assume that let's assume that's
gonna happen what do the Democrats need
to do to win this on their term we did
it it seems to say I mean and and you
know I don't think it's about winning or
losing it's about you know actually
standing up and saying if abuse has
occurred at the highest levels we need
to need to do what we can do within our
power to prevent that so I mean
certainly doing the ostrich maneuver of
ducking in the sand didn't work that was
not making right Democrats popular so
now I think you have to go in the other
direction
gotta lay out the facts you need to do
it publicly you need to I feel like the
momentum is inexorable towards
impeachment in the house and and and
that vote will be a very high profile
and then force Republicans to go on the
record defending the conduct that you
lay out in a long and and very
informative way or not and that's on
them that to line up with with their
their their leader on that so I think
that's I mean that's kind of the only
thing you can do with this right I mean
IIIi don't know that there's another
option out there I mean the worst would
be that this impeachment inquiry which
was announced yesterday just becomes
pretty much exactly what's already
been happening which is sort of a
fumbling set of attempts to attempt to
whether it's putting together hearings
and asking for documents and then not
getting them and going to court I mean
if it's the same kind of fumbling
oversight that we've seen over the first
nine months only it has the words
impeachment inquiry in front of it
that's going to be bad there needs to be
a vote there needs to be an
understanding of when these articles of
impeachment will come out there needs to
be a schedule here this is you know
especially if it's it's just focused on
this call and this can I don't think it
can be and I and my sense is it won't be
I mean that's why you have all these
different committees that are that are
getting involved they all have their six
committees that are going to be sending
I think they're potentially impeachable
offenses you know ranging from
emoluments and and whatnot I agree with
you I think earnestness on this is the
is that this is actually very easy for
the Democrats to win and by win I mean
and that is to simply hold him account
to simply like they they're not going to
get them out of office to just simply
say we are mending a message to history
that this guy did wrong things and that
wrong things done by the president are
are are not right I mean it's almost
it's honestly it's like it seems to me
to be that simple and we need to make it
we need to have every American hear this
we need to know that we need to be able
to say to every American that this is a
president who was impeached because he
broke the law and I think if they can
achieve that that's all they need to do
to make this work for them I think it's
you know it's it's it is to come out
with a strong position and be strong
about it and there'd be no hesitation
there be no mitigation just to come out
and do this and then it is then just
press the point on
publicans and nothing else need happen
it seems to me then then than that and
that is you know and and there's
obviously you and just a flip back I
mean Democrats are really bad at being
able to tell more than one story at once
right you can walk into chew gum here
you can get these do everything that you
were talking about being earnest being
speaking to history talking about the
the corruption at the heart of this
presidency and also talk about the fact
that what we need to do in in the wake
of this is a a positive agenda that
presents tangible results for the
American people
absolutely and now it seemed to me the
presidential candidates are freed up on
some level to do that right they don't
have to go to war with Nancy Pelosi to
impeach they can say that's that part of
it's done and now here's the vision for
what happens in the future that process
is happening
I support the impeachment investigation
I support the inquiry I will vote for it
if I'm you know on members of Congress
and now what we can talk about is you
know all the things we could be doing if
we if we we get Trump out of office
David Dan I cannot emphasize enough the
need for everyone to go to Prospect org
and at the top of you're very well
designed very attractive website you can
see you've got like five major issues
that are facing people right now
trending topics trending ok trending
topics that's interesting and one of
them is impeachment the next one is the
day one agenda and then the climate
crisis working in American immigration
click on the day one agenda folks
because this is this is super important
we cannot if we are fortunate enough to
have a Democratic president we cannot
let them off the hook with the argument
that they are in unable to deliver for
the American public because Mitch
McConnell or because Joe Manchin or
because of you know what's that guy
running in Arizona whoever is the next
you know ben nelsons gonna be we cannot
allow that to happen this time and the
way that you can prevent that is to
understand what the president can do on
day one so that when that guy whose name
I'm not gonna mention but we all know
who I'm talking about at least do you do
the guy you know that moderate who's
always there to protect whoever the
Democratic president is in the center
says you guys are fantastical and all
you're gonna do is drop that link right
into their Twitter feed so David de
enero yeah I appreciate it
you've done a big service for us and
we'll keep well I can't wait to read
more of it well great thank you very
much all right folks
