so Heather you in the last segment
definitely walked us through this
government shutdown which is by now the
the the longest one that we have have
seen in the history of our government
and it is we are on the brink of it
becoming a serious serious problem for
more than just the people who have not
gotten a paycheck of course things like
big infrastructure programs are put on
complete hold because nobody can predict
when they're going to get payments
you can't run businesses that way we are
in jeopardy of seeing a lack of funding
for things like Snap the the we're
looking at housing reimbursements for
landlords for people under Section eight
this is going to be problematic very
shortly so the pressure is mounting and
the the interesting thing to me is we
have a we have now four or five
Republican senators who are saying hey
let's just you know can't we figure out
some way of punting this can't we put
the the wall stuff to the side but Mitch
McConnell has to up to this point not
brought a bill to the floor and he says
he won't and he's trying all sorts of
things they're bringing up like a you
know a bill to to penalize any type of
entities that are involved in the the
BDS boycott movement which is just an
absurd and maybe unconstitutional as far
as I can tell but the interesting player
in this is Mitch McConnell and yet we
don't hear much about him in the media
because people forget that the same
people who were excoriating Donald Trump
for potentially sort of sidelining the
wall whatever that means are the same
people who are also demonizing Mitch
McConnell in the the summer of 2016
I mean Mitch McConnell is one of the
most ostensibly hey
figures in the Republican Party at that
time and as far as I know Mitch
McConnell is going to be up for
re-election in 2020 and I think he is
afraid of getting blamed for a
Republican cave on this because
certainly Donald Trump will blame him
right and I this dynamic seems to me to
be the most unreported dynamic that's
out there right now well it does I mean
let's look at Paul Ryan just you know
retired from from the Congress and as
Speaker he had a 12% approval rating
Republicans hated him I mean you know
there was a time when Trump would show
it back in the 2016 election when Trump
showed up and Paul Ryan didn't show up
with him and he was the pinna they they
booed Paul Ryan in his own district same
thing as you mentioned with with Mitch
McConnell you're absolutely right that
this dynamic is is underreported in the
press and you know you have to look back
look what happened to John Boehner I
mean this is he was chased out of his
job because of this dynamic as well
because he was trying to make deals and
that was also to keep the government
open by the way this is Boehner retired
because they were demanding that he do
is shut down and he ended up making a
deal that he would quit and that they
would fund the government he walked out
with two years of government funding he
was actually able to do that and that we
we settled this down a little bit during
that period of the election and a little
bit beyond McConnell also tried to do
sort of something I mean before as I
mentioned or in the earlier segment that
you know before the before the the break
at Christmas he had put you know I in
the lame-duck he had put together a
decent plan which was simply look we're
not going to do a government shutdown
let's let this go for a year except for
DHS and we'll argue over that and I
think he really felt and I think maybe
wisely so that he had an upper hand in
there because what would then be
happening is it would be Border Patrol
be uniformed men you know down at the
border who weren't being paid and
they're keeping us safe and all this
they would have had stronger argument if
it was just that
on the line right I mean I think I don't
hopefully the Democrats wouldn't have
caved on it but you know I think it
would have been a stronger argument for
them and Ann Coulter and Rush Limbaugh
pitched a bit Trump backed out of the
deal I mean it was pretty clear that you
find on so that is a dynamic that's
happening here these people have all of
them you know absolutely you know by the
neck on this and and it's very very
difficult for Republicans to do anything
different now let's not forget that
there's a new option on the table and
that is this option of Donald Trump
calling a national security emergency
crisis and declaring that he is going to
have the military he's going to use
military money and deploy military
troops to the border to build his wall
and take it completely out of the
Congressional you know process there now
you know he's done this before he did it
with his trade war he did it with the
aluminum and steel steel tariffs he
declared a national security emergency
on trade and there is some obscure you
know trade regulations that allowed him
to do that even though it's clear there
was no national security emergency I
guess there was no failsafe to stop him
so he did it he's shown an inclination
to do these things if he wants to he
already deployed the military to the
border before Christmas and they're
still there and they're going to put
some more wire up and beautiful barbed
wire as he calls it so I would not be
surprised at all if this is this is
where they end up I think in my view
it's the only way that Trump can
actually get himself out of this and I
think in some ways he assumes that this
will make him look good with his base
which it probably will make some a big
macho dude as you know basically you
know autocratically you're using the
military for his own political purposes
they like that sort of thing and it
would get Mitch McConnell off the hook
now all right Digby if you'll join me in
the next hour I still have a lot of
questions to ask you about this because
I'm not quite clear why Donald Trump
didn't do that already this week and if
that didn't make it harder we're going
to have to save that
that question and that answer for the
next hour but we have more to talk about
and I also want to talk about the the
question that no one seems to be asking
in the Democratic Party
what is the Democratic Party's position
on immigration it was very hard to tell
after the the so-called rebuttal by
Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer following
Donald Trump but we will talk about that
in the next hour I'm Sam cedar this will
bring a fire radio we'll be right back
and digby will join me in the second
hour of the program
