[Music]
here is Ilan Omar she is at Netroots on
Saturday she is explaining this her
perspective on this interest interest
scene is that what you would call it
internecine internecine fight amongst
the democrats and what she feels people
who are perceive themselves as the
insurgents of the democrats need to do
there's a constant
I think struggle often times with people
who have power about sharing that power
and we are not really in the business of
asking for the share of that power we're
in the business of trying to grab that
power and return it to the people so
that we can push for an agenda that
frees young people from the shackles of
student debt that make sure every single
American has access to health care that
young kids in our country who had
parents who had to make a really
difficult choice to survive are not
being caged at our borders that we are
not carrying the water for this crucial
this cool administration that we are
doing the job that the people sent to us
when they put us in the majority which
is to resist and insist on policies that
must that push this country forward
that's the work that we're doing
I made the I mean you imagine how
celebrated Alana Morrow would be if she
was just like talking about how we need
school choice and like if she just like
sort of just toed the line like do you
have like any idea how celebration
should be like she would be on every
serve every like Glamour magazine cover
like we like it would be it would be
crazy every every time she used a you
know search for a word landed on the
wrong one and changed it would be
celebrated as a national holiday if she
was espousing anything other than sort
of politics that are just like
marginally to the left of where the
Democratic Party you know the the
mainstream supposedly leadership of the
party is I mean it's just it's stunning
people they would be falling over
themselves every single Democrat would
know the story of a woman who was a
Somali refugee and is now a
congresswoman it's it's just that her
politics are challenging are challenging
people now you do there's no way that's
not the future that's no way that's not
the future and frankly anybody standing
in front of that he's got to go and not
only that people who are not actively
helping them have got to be if got it
either go or they've got to be pressured
that they're gonna be gone so that they
reorient their sense of where their
incentives lie
yep it's go time it is go time
