[Music]
this clip here the state Senate
Judiciary Committee in Arkansas took up
the discussion of a bill on stand your
ground and basically rammed it through
the committee process and one of the
state senators Stephanie flowers
basically lost it because of the lack of
debate that was taking place in this
Judiciary Committee and she basically
gave the chair an earful here is state
senator Stephanie flowers in the
Arkansas legislature I'm Jerry and I
don't know really where mr. ballinger is
from but I can tell you that for a long
time since I've been back here in
Arkansas I have feared for my son's life
now he's 27 he's out of Arkansas can I
thank God he is when you're bringing up
crap like this it offends me and then to
limit the debate to this is crazy you
don't have to worry about your children
will I worry about my son blackberries
and girls and people coming into my
neighborhood into my city saying they
got open-carry rights walking down in
front of my doggone office in front of
the courthouse that's a belly right to
stand my ground I don't know what the
hell he intends to do but I know I am
scared I feel threatened just like some
of y'all walking around here up in the
legislature with these damn guns
that what's-his-name garner came in here
walk around here with a damn gun in it
underneath you can see the damper you
need to stop - no I don't know I don't
whatever you gonna do shoot me
senator help I'm telling you this
deserves more attention you want to come
up here with all these little NRA bills
bills that do what the hell you wanna do
go ahead but you can't silence me
you got your damn silenced gun out the
damn chamber today but you are not going
to silence me
[Music]
the center flowers if anybody hasn't
tried to silence you it's me we
literally just watched him try to
silence her yeah that was really really
good I mean every single person Gio
Pierre who's pushed these gun open carry
bills should that's what they should get
every single time
exactly and she's right these are
basically written with via Alec and the
all those legislators are sent to Alec
you know retreats and they get their
marching orders and then we see these
laws go state to state to state
