[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat da
majority report with sam cedar it is
Friday November 30th 2018 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA it's casual Friday folks I
am wearing my soft collared shirt and
will be inviting on the program Ben
Dixon from the Benjamin Dixon show also
on the program today
matthew film guy from a Learning Annex
JCC in Long Island City also on the
program today in the wake of the Cohen
plea deal Trump reminds people it's very
good and an excuse me it's very cool and
legal to do business with the Russians
and presumably so to giving Putin a 50
million dollar penthouse apartment also
on the program today g20 kicks off in
Argentina the world leaders are
snickering at Trump and the racist
judicial nominee from North Carolina
going down elections may actually have
consequences
meanwhile CNN fires mark Lamont Hill
because of the consequence of advocating
for Palestinian rights and 500 million
user accounts at Marriott Starwood
hotels have been breached over the
course of four years so they're on it
meanwhile Joe Crowley's role revealed in
the Hakeem Jeffries win also on the
program congressional Democrats to
release HR 1 the first bill of the new
Democratic caucus Paul Ryan suspects
something weird it's red flag all over
the place in California he says totally
red flag E and migrants stage a hunger
strike at the Mexican border meanwhile
fat explains Millennials spending laurel
umer seems to be still chained to half a
door solidarity and the plans to
maintain or I should say build on the
yemen resolution in the Senate yesterday
and will Chuck Schumer stop Joe Manchin
from being the committee chair of the
Energy and Commerce Committee
what prosper I'll hold odd the Bailey's
arad the lied not only this Joe man
should get the committee chair he gets
the keys to say yeah I have the
counteroffer for you you're the
committee chair of two different to
total of two committees that one and
we'll also put you on the this and more
ladies and gentlemen on today's majore
report we've got a lot of stuff for you
today
later in the fun half I think we will
get to the first shots fired in the war
on Christmas which will provide us an
excuse to recount my contribution to the
war on Christmas that is now as old as
the Christmas tradition almost we will
get to that later in the program but
first ladies and gentlemen as I remind
you that this program relies on your
support you can become a member of the
majority report today by going to join
the majority report com want to read a
little bit of email that we got well we
got this on my birthday which I thought
was was apropos as you know last year on
my birthday the mic Serna vich started
his campaign to get me fired from MSNBC
this year on my birthday and I don't
know if it was a coincidence or or what
but we got an email and the email is
it's quite interesting we have decided
to to do it as a little playlet we
thought it would be more apropos the
email is from a doctor now we do not
have a doctor in the building
so instead playing the role of this
conservative doctor will be the
character right-wing Nelson Mandela and
I will yes thank you for joining us I
will be playing the role of myself who
goes through the emails and particularly
when I see a hate email I respond very
quickly so the only thing that relieves
y'all sciatica that's right it's joy
there you go what a coincidence playing
a doctor already providing okay so if we
could now we take you to our email inbox
at majority reporters at gmail.com
where this email came in so Sita says
that Trump supporters should kill
themselves
really CEDA you should kill yourself you
fascist Pig you are disgustingly stupid
dr. Charlotte that's right and we have
we've gotten rid of this second name
obviously to protect the non innocent I
responded link please not sure what
you're referring to and dr. Charlotte
came back with this quote MSNBC host
says Republicans need to kill Sam Sam's
etc and she and I was like what what's
going on here
I don't recall I said that but it seems
very similar to what happened a year
earlier when Mike Serna vich but in fact
so she said she wrote that and I with a
link to the American Journal review
which also got this from the Washington
free beacon you know go to the American
Journal review which is the link I sent
you and it it indeed says MSNBC host
says Republicans need to kill themselves
okay we'll just drag that in and if you
can scroll down scroll down you get to
keep going exactly as it took place and
then he scroll down and then there it is
MSNBC host says Republicans need to kill
themselves in all caps quote suicide may
be the only option for these people he
wasn't kidding
it says and so let's and there's a face
I look maniacal in that picture
and so let's go die let's go to the
video if we could and here it is this is
a
shengc√∫n free beacon you have the video
set up right
acute up okay calculation is correct
right they will abandon him if and when
it's political peril the question is at
what point that would be the case yeah I
mean okay they're underwater right but
you know when you look at the map right
you know look at where Trump went into
those red states and he helped right the
problem is that the polarization is such
that suicide may be the only option okay
well now the problem is with this clip
is that just before that Chris Hayes had
said they can't stick with Donald Trump
speaking of the Senate and House
Republicans because that would be
suicide and so I responded suicide may
be the only option and I wrote back to
the doctor listen to the video your news
sources are lying to you the question
was posed is supporting Trump suicidal
for elected Republicans and I sent that
off and she said thank you for the
clarification so there it is ladies and
gentlemen another one of my birthday's
go by and I remain unscathed that is so
awesome to come out swinging like that
though and they'll just get it correct
and you just fast on the turn Russell oh
my dad hey that's how the marketplace of
ideas should well that's right you
fascist Pig oh thank you for the
clarification
now where do right-wingers get this type
of of mentality I will say this good for
her
for actually you know coming back and
and looking at the video and looking at
the context and appreciating the
clarification because there are some
right-wing leaders who will never ever
learn let us go to Nashville Tennessee
where Steve do she has put on the
world's most obnoxious sport coat to go
along with Kid Rock's outfit now I don't
know why the two of them are in
Nashville maybe Kid Rock is getting I
put in drunk yeah drunk knows but he's
on Fox and Friends because of all the
kid rock fans who tuned in to that to
that show and here's what Kid Rock has a
simple plea for all of us to just get a
little more civil you know the division
in the country right now that it's so
hard for people just to get past that we
can disagree and still be cordial with
one another you know and just talk about
things without going for each other's
throats and protests and everything and
god forbid you say something a little
bit wrong your racist homophobic
Islamophobic this that and the other
people need to calm down get a little
less politically correct and I would say
you know you know love everybody except
I've seen screw that Joy Behar
everybody listen she's just got a
different point of view than you're
doing exactly no hey maybe we'll go on
and I'll hash it out whether we'll talk
about it but anyway exactly aside she's
okay I was it's just go out you
know hash it out with people and have
here and have your thoughts and ideas
but be able to still go have a beer with
somebody let's have different ideas but
you know what do she means and dodge now
joy behar turns out is Italian so yeah
she said he's not there's nothing
there's nothing loaded about his car let
me say this and obviously a copy racist
because I'm saying it but one word more
that's the only thing that the crowd
erupts in applauding we got to be
friendly with people we got to be you
know take him out and this and that and
of course she's a well it's a
hundred percent more honest than when
they usually say that stuff we can
long we should all have beers we should
all talk to each other except each one
let me finish my thought do see you week
this is them just continue yeah let's
let's just hear them do si means aqua
 in Flemish it's a party of seven
thirty six in the morning their local
time I began those two one Fox nation
every day we do need to apologize we
don't we don't feel that way about Joy
Behar so that's and we don't condone
that language yeah I'm gonna voice bomb
that segment yes rose I like how they
apologize it's like we had no idea Kid
Rock was such a classy act we had no
idea he would say something like that
and we don't kill means like I want to
 I want to go there guys so cool we
can I go to national next time alright
folks we're gonna take quick break
head back we back in a moment with Ben
Dixon
you
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program Ben Dixon a
host and proprietor of the Benjamin
Dixon show and now the also I should say
the I guess the co proprietor founder of
the North Star which you can get more
information at building the North Star
dot-com and wow man you're already
you've already got over 5,000 members
have joined that's amazing yeah well
actually we're closer to 8,000 today it
is it's out of control a lot of people
are supporting the project what we're
trying to do of course Shawn King my you
know it's kind of weird so the North
Star has already been founded but we're
the rebounders so okay I thought
ourselves like the Ricoh founders so
Shawn King is my Rico founder and of
course he always has a huge audience
people who want exactly what we're
proposing so that's you know it's a it's
a great model and now we're in the stage
of creating content that's great and so
when does it actually launch do you know
so we're going to have our first we're
launching in two stages
we're only building what our audience
helps us to be able to afford to build
right we're kind of its grassroots media
and still and so we're launching the
podcast version we are we are the
audience full line of content for
podcasts that we're going to try to
release before the new years the first
one is going to come out in the next two
weeks the first series and so we have a
lot of great conversations patrisse
cullors of black lives matter she's
gonna join us and she's gonna co-host
one of the first our flagship podcast we
have a lot of other great people we have
lined up and then we have some voices
that you haven't heard yet that are
creating the amazing content to be a
part of this network so that portion is
going to start rolling out before the
new year the video portion if we hit
10,000 members we're going to launch the
daily news
broadcast and I'm actually at a facility
which is why you know I couldn't stay as
long as I normally love to stay with you
but we're looking at the facilities here
in Atlanta to build the next studio oh
that's fantastic well I'm glad to hear
that
all right well folks can get more
information and become a member at
building the North Star dot-com
very exciting so alright so Ben um this
week a crazy week starting with a
climate change report that was put out
by the Trump administration
congressionally-mandated Trump said it
was fine but he didn't believe any event
leading into Trump obviously he's head
to the g20 they just signed and have
prepared the new NAFTA for fast-track
it's not terribly different than the old
NAFTA in many respects some help
theoretically for auto workers but
15,000 just got laid off or about to be
laid off by GM so I'm not sure how
helpful that's actually going to be and
the the some of the biggest news has
been what's happening with the Muller
investigation this thing seems to be the
pace seems to be picking up and the sort
of the narrowing of it seems to be
picking up but Paul Manafort sort of
left the building but it wasn't quite
clear to me that Robert Miller wasn't
anticipating something like this give me
your sense of what you've seen this
weekend in the animal front yeah so I
this week it seems like everything is
accelerating and the closeness in the
proximity to Donald Trump the walls are
closing in on him clearly the Michael
Cohen guilty plea that the implication
of it and just the cook the fact that
they have corroborating emails and other
people who are going to testify
verifying the count and even that I
think Rudy Giuliani came out and said
that the president confirmed his
testimony confirmed some of what Cowan
or what we've been told about Cohen it
clearly paints a picture of a president
who missed that the people while he was
running for president
carrying out his business activities
with Russia in terms of the opportunity
to open up Anna luxury hotel there and
telling the American people
simultaneously that he's not doing it
and he doesn't have any dealings with
Russia I not want to regularly like to
agree with dursa which calendar swords
but I think he summarized it pretty
succinctly this is it's clearly reason
for people not to vote for Donald Trump
but is it to the point of he's in legal
peril that were still I think that
remains to be seen I don't know what do
you think I don't think that there's
anything from what we heard from Cohen
that puts him in in legal jeopardy but
we don't know what he's testify on Piz
testified so on some level it could be a
you know a perjury trap in some respects
but it's it is clear that Muller seems
to be sort of mopping up the ends and
the Muller the the man afford thing it's
interesting that it all came down this
week right after Donald Trump had
written his written testimony my sense
is like we're seeing shadows of shadows
do you know what I mean like there's
just stuff going on that we just don't
know and everything that we're seeing is
almost like the you know it's like if
you're outlining you know you look at
out you have like a little picture and
you just keep outlining it and outlining
it and outlining it and by your time you
get to that like xx Cohen centric
outline it doesn't have the same shape
as what's really going on in the middle
and I get that feeling but I get the
feeling that Muller's in charge of this
like he's setting the pace in a way that
I don't know that we can even really
tell in some respects I think he's
really in a way swinging his weight
around a little bit but this week in
particular but I like that you pointed
out the the perjury trap because III
think the timing of this really tells
the story of Muller giving the president
the opportunity to either tell the truth
or not right so all of this came
after the president gave his written
testimony to Muller and so you know we
really do have to question you know how
effective were his lawyers in making him
tell the truth because we know the
president in his own left his own
devices it's pretty much incapable of
telling the truth so this is really
gonna be a testimony of how good his
lawyers were before they made those
presentations gave those testimonies
rather to to Muller but the timing of it
and Hilma his weight and really kind of
showing the president that he's not in
charge of this ship I think that's
really a statement that whether or not
he tried to make it that's the statement
that Muller made this week I also wonder
like we hear so much about Trump we're
not hearing is about Donald Jr we're not
hearing about Ivanka and we know that
they haven't come in front of Muller and
we know that at least it was reported
that jr. thought he was going to get
indicted or was saying that at several
weeks ago I can't help but think that
the stuff that we're hearing about right
which is not coming from Muller's
investigation
all the stuff that we're hearing about
is coming either from from court filings
or from defense attorneys who are
looking to help out their specific
clients and I couldn't help but think
that like you know the first thing
that's just out of nowhere is gonna come
out of is an indictment against one of
the children and just because we're not
hearing anything about them and we know
that at the very least Donald Trump jr.
was intimately involved he was
physically in all of these sort of
instances that seemed little dubious
right right the meeting with vest
Messiah in Trump Tower just he I mean
the email chain that he released himself
that he thought exonerated him which
actually implicated him even more
there's it the level of intelligence
that he does not operate with suggests
that he's in trouble yes I would agree
and here's a question now I will pose to
you that was posed to me earlier in the
week well at what point do you think I
mean we're
now you know we're seeing like polling
on what Trump is starting to drop part
of that I think might have been drop
amongst Republicans part of that may be
a function of what kind of whooping the
Republicans took in the midterms part of
it may be a function of what has come
out with with Muller recently at what
point do you think Republicans or is
there a point where Republicans
basically cut him loose I mean the the
the one thing that we saw this week that
had any meeting and I've been reminded
that a broken clock is twice I mean his
brother is Right twice a day Jeff Flake
actually came through it looks like this
far this guy from North Carolina who's
been a an expert in voter suppression in
North Carolina is his judicial
nomination is dead because Tim Scott and
Jeff Flake basically have said we're not
gonna vote for him on the floor um that
just happened because I thought he did
yeah I thought he flipped on that this
morning what yeah I think this morning
he decided to go ahead and give him the
vote but again I mean it's also fluid it
could have changed again you know Jeff
Flake heads this is the this is my worst
dad joke ever Jeff Flake is so flaky you
just don't know where he's gonna be at
any time of the day I'm apologizing to
that joke no that's all right but I
didn't is anybody else seeing that can
you guys cuz at the last I'd heard but
I've been you know sort of pulled I've
been in the last I saw was that flake
was not gonna vote for him because you
know he said he's not gonna vote for any
judicial nominees that until til there's
protection from Muller are you guys
seeing anything Brandon we haven't seen
any updates as of yet no article that I
saw the headline so you know well I
guess we'll see let me see if I'm like
no I don't see anything new about flake
but but as your product was about
when will they ditch him honestly that's
still a function of how strong his you
know where his bottom is the bottom for
Trump has always been in somewhere
around 36 34 percent and those are
people I mean those people are pretty
committed to Donald Trump if he starts
losing there then the Republicans have
an opportunity to ditch him but um I
just don't know how much of this is
going to affect his core base it none of
it that's my guess none of it he's never
gonna lose that 36% whatever that floor
is and the thing the problem the
Republicans have is that increasingly
those 36 are represented in their
politics by Republican senators and
Republican Congress people I mean that's
that's that's why those people showed up
at work basically or coming in January
because they're in very red places right
like North Dakota the it was a Kramer
who's coming in he's never going to
abandon Donald Trump that's why he's
there in these districts where the
Republicans won for the most part
they're never gonna abandon Donald Trump
because his people are their people
seems to me that's their mail ticket
right I mean if you look at the race
Trump said one thing that was pretty
accurate he said that the people who
embraced him won
you know the more people embraced Donald
Trump the better they perform in those
particular districts that are blood-red
so uh you know Republicans do have a
model problem like how do they model a
win outside of Donald Trump I get a lot
right I agree with that all right now
let's say so let's turn to for a moment
to the the Democrats and we should just
say you know Tim Scott I think I mean
Jeff Flake obviously he's on his way out
he made one promise assuming that he
kept it which is you know a big
assumption assuming he kept it Tim Scott
obviously it was a little bit harder for
him being the only African American
senator in
the Republican caucus to basically say I
don't care about a guy who's whose
entire career seems to have been built
upon voter suppression that any other
Supreme Court that you know if the DOJ
was still doing preclearance would not
have allowed at this point right right
you know and you know it's a small wind
so I'm not going to knock some stack
completely but he's wrong with so many
other issues that you know this is just
the broken clock again but do you think
that also like a weakened Donald Trump
also has something to do with this I
mean a slightly weakened Donald Trump I
mean you mean really at the edges well
possibly I mean you have to take that in
consideration but then you also have to
ask yourself at what point do you have
any soul left you know what do you what
do you have anything in letting you jump
stats that you would fight for are you
gonna bend over for for someone who
clearly has animosity towards minorities
and their capacity to vote are you just
gonna castrate I'll be a prostrate
yourself for them and so if it could be
a function of Tim Scott having a
backbone finally on something but you
know which one is greater
III don't know all right so let's turn
to the the Democrats in in the House and
the Senate
Robert Lee lost and there was a story
for her her you know the the one one
position in the House leadership that
was sort of up was in contention this
was I think Joe Crowley's previous
position barbara Lee was I don't know at
what point Hakeem Jeffries jumped into
that race but Joe Crowley the guy who
who because he lost his primary to AOC
was vacating he apparently according to
a piece in the intercept went around
told a bunch of Democrats that barbara
Lee had sent a check to AOC in the
primary right so the implication being
this person in the Lea who wants to be
in the leadership
was gunning for four Democrats
incumbent Democrats now right there's
nothing right or wrong you know there's
no rule against that and and I am
obviously in favor of all primaries but
from the perspective of some of these
House members they're like I don't want
to put someone into leadership who is
willing to go after someone in
leadership you know in a primary right
like if someone's willing to do that
then she's out of control well it turns
out she sent the check after the primary
when anybody from Steny Hoyer to you
know across the board sent checks to AOC
right you know just as a way of saying
welcome on board you know you won the
primary your take on that um so that's
the the level of pettiness and
entrenched politics that I'm glad he's
gone right no but like this is this is
perfectly this is this is a perfect
example of why even though he was seen
as progressive by some for whatever
reason this is a perfect example of why
we don't need that style of politics
there now for the people who remain on
the hill the Jeffries the people who
voted against Barbara Lee you know what
I mean I want to make the statement
first you know their vote is their
prerogative we try to influence it as
much as we can but they're not found
today they're free agents right I want
to say that because I think sometimes we
take that out of the equation that's
always a part of the calculus but they
have a bigger problem on their head they
may have stopped barbara lee but they're
not stopping alexandria LoCascio cortez
and i don't think they're gonna stop
barbara lee i actually think this is
going to empower her a little bit more
in terms of the grassroots support from
the people so in they thought they did
something but actuality I think this is
going to backfire on them in the long
run which specifically to say all of the
leadership is imperiled they may have
preserved are at some you know some
revenge because of his position
Crowley's position
but now all of the leadership is in
peril and for good cause like we're not
just switching out corporate Democrats
we're talking about some truly
progressive people who have gone up and
have significant influence and power
that they have to be held that they have
to take into account yeah I mean the
problem is that you know Hakeem Jeffries
now has a bunch new set of resources I
mean that's what we're talking about
right is we're talking about just you
know resources ability to sway votes and
he is you know to put it mildly
less than optimal in terms of where he
is politically this is a guy who is like
a big charter school supporter certainly
within the context of New York State he
is a guy who takes a lot of big PAC
money he's a he's a Wall Street guy yeah
definitely and he is as situated to be
the the speaker as anybody who is under
the age of you know 60 right and and
that's just about there's nobody else
there's yeah I mean maybe 70 under the
age of 70 in in the house I mean Steny
Hoyer and Clyburn and Nancy Pelosi all
north of 70 and so it's not just a
question of age in terms of sensibility
Marbley was over the age of 70 I believe
or you know maybe just but there's a
sensibility that she has that's
different but the age is important in so
far as like we know there's going to be
a leadership change relatively soon and
who's gonna fill that are people who are
you know have the inside track and that
may be Hakeem Jeffries now yeah I I
totally agree with that analysis I think
you you made a great point but I I can't
discount
I can't discount the populist uprising
that's happening and and I I don't want
to over count it but I can't just kind
of I think that with the momentum that
AOC seems to be able to maintain so
pharmacy when January actually gets here
and she actually starts serving and the
energy around that that that that
groundswell I think that can carry over
into the 2020 election and send even
more progressive voices there's there's
a possibility I just want to say we're
not out you know he won that position he
isn't in a good position to become the
speaker if that's what he wanted to
pursue but there's still a good chance
that we can have a more progressive
future if we continue to model after
what a OC has done and others have done
in this last election cycle I mean he
only won by ten votes now
so it was 123 to 113 there's I don't
guess maybe three or four more Congress
people coming in play well right and you
realize that they got it wrong that this
check was donated after the fact right
and that this was a manipulative
manipulative tactic by Crowley that's
not going to play well for Jeffries over
the next two years I would think right I
mean that's what I didn't I didn't
necessarily see much of that in this
story that you know by any Congress
people going like hey wait a second we
just got hoodwinked I got to imagine
right that there's there's at least 10
people out there going like hey man I
got screwed over I you know I had my
colleague lied to me and I find out hard
to believe that Hakeem Jeffries didn't
know about it and if he's gonna lie in
this context how can I trust another one
exactly that's that's a critical thing
right there and you know who can help
with that us people like us people in
media people social media like this is
literally this is something that we can
remind people of on a regular basis this
is not something to let them forget you
know they wanted to be Petty and
vindictive and they were wrong about it
so let's let's return in favor because
in kind because this actually does have
a lot to do with the future of the
leadership of the Democratic Party
right and and can folks do me a favor
here don't say this election was rigged
don't say it was stolen it was the guy
running or you know someone supporting
the guy running basically told a lie in
support of his own candidate and that's
not rigging that's not a stolen election
that's an election and the people who
voted for Jeffries we can encourage them
to see their the person they voted for
as distrustful but if you oversell this
stuff as being rigged and whatnot people
are just gonna stop listening to you Sam
you actually that's a perfect dovetail
for this conversation because that's why
I put that at the beginning people have
autonomy man they say you know when you
say it's rigged you you ripple you strip
away someone's individual autonomy to
make their own consciousness ISM these
people made their conscious decision but
now they made their conscious decision
based on a lie so it's far more powerful
to say that you've been lied to than
it's a oh this is frigging this is just
corporate film selling now that line is
not going to get us anyway put it
anywhere but if you remind them that
their uh their autonomy was robbed
because they were lied to
that's an entirely different argument
that sticks and resonates yeah and it's
I mean it's just I it's infuriating I
mean I feel I frankly I mean I I've said
this before and I think it's the the
same thing with when it came to the the
Sanders primary with with Clinton and I
don't know where else I've seen that
frame but it's it's it's it's a stupid
frame and it's not helpful because
people it you can't convince anybody of
something when you when you go and
oversell it in that way yeah yeah and
when you I mean it really it's a it's a
it's an irritating frame because you you
in that sentence you're saying that this
person that these people who make these
decisions have no capacity to make some
decisions on their own their
just a part of a machine that was freed
against XY and Z and in this case you
know what they made their decision on
the best information that they had at
the time it just turns out that they had
been lied to and that's the frame I
think that's a winning frame to keep
reminding people as jeffrey strives to
move up in the ranks that his presence
there is based on a lie you know that
stake over the next two years uh let's
just talk briefly about what's going on
in the senate too because and in touch
yeah ma cheese and i don't know if this
is part i know in the house there has
been there has been talking we we spoke
to david day and earlier it wasn't was
it this week maybe it was like yeah i
think it was this week about a monday
about the the progressive caucus in the
house went to pelosi at the beginning of
the week she's still involved in a
fairly robust leadership fight right she
seems to have made some type of peace
with those No Labels folks but there's
still people who who voted against her
within the caucus and and and and my
understanding is that of the twenty some
odd people who voted against her in the
caucus or thirty some odd people who
voted against her in the caucus the she
released them to vote against her in the
caucus because they're gonna vote for
her on the floor it's easier for these
people who said like i'm not gonna vote
for Nancy Pelosi to be Speaker until my
option is her or Jim Jordan as Speaker
and and and that's what you know I
that's what I think is happening there
but the progressive caucus got the
ability to put forty percent of its
members or I should say forty percent of
each major committee to be members of
the progressive caucus and they're
trying to convince their membership to
leave maybe their seniority in one
committee to go on one of these more key
committees like Finance and ways and
means and appropriations and and two
others one's the Intelligence Committee
I can't remember the fourth maybe it's
uh Energy and Commerce in the Senate
there's a similar dynamic going on
with Chuck Schumer joe Manchin and Joe
Manchin is sort of seems to be poised on
that committee to have the seniority to
step in and and become the minority
leader in the Senate of that of the
Energy Committee committee and of course
he's from a coal state he's gonna he's
gonna get a lot of coal money and really
it's up to sort of Chuck Schumer to sort
of block him from doing that yeah I mean
I I'm seeing this conversation it's two
monsters and just let them fight and
destroy each other because Chuck Schumer
stealing with the trying to offer some
funding for the wall I and then now he
may play the role as a hero against Joe
Manchin who to me is is just as
disgusting
I honestly don't have a positive thing
to say about either one of them so I'll
just let them destroy each other it'd be
good for me yeah but the problem is is
that they could also not destroy each
other and we get the worst of both
worlds where tremors like sure I mean
have a seat you know
thanks for sobering me up really quick
that's probably what's going to happen
right I mean Chuck Schumer is how do we
get stuck with Chuck Schumer this is the
biggest question of all and and how do
we make a path to getting rid of him and
somebody particularly joe Mantin like
it's the first person that has to go
it's joe Manchin but Chuck Schumer III
Sam I got nothing yeah I don't mind
Chuck Schumer in the Senate per se I
mean I would rather him not be but the
real problem it seems to me with when it
comes to Chuck Schumer is that he's not
just one vote it's that he's the the
leader in my understanding it's just
that it was both Durbin and he were
positioned when Reid left to become the
Senate I think at that time Minority
Leader and just the Durbin just did not
have the sort of killer instinct to be
that guy and Chuck Schumer took it
Chuck Shumer the one thing that Chuck
Schumer seems to be very adept at is
getting Chuck Schumer into where he
wants to get Chuck Schumer into but they
don't know it's an amazing juxtaposition
of skillsets right because then he just
prostrates himself in front of Donald
Trump to offers him this money to build
this monument to white supremacy so he
has the ability to get his own power but
he's not willing that to the benefit of
anyone else anyone that has a hint of
progressivism in their blood so um you
know I I'm at a loss I don't really see
the path forward in making changes in
the Senate the way that we see the
potential for changes in the house yeah
I don't know what the answer is either
but I guess we all have more time I'm
not sure maybe maybe over the course of
a presidential campaign maybe one member
of the Senate jumps into the
presidential campaign gets out
relatively early but has increased their
stature in a way that maybe might be
helpful I don't know I just I don't know
maybe maybe if we have someone to the
left of Chuck Schumer in the presidency
you know Chuck Schumer who is extremely
transactional it seems to me we'll what
can be can be steered in a better
direction I don't know but right there
it's a having somebody in the White
House still further left than Chuck
Schumer because otherwise we're stuck
with a Chuck Schumer who rewards Chuck
Schumer Ben Benjamin Dickson's show
building the North Star calm thanks so
much for your time today man I really
appreciate it
always a pleasure Sam thanks for having
okay bye-bye all right folks I'm gonna
take a quick break when we come back we
will be talking to Matthew film guy oh
you know what I gotta update this just
coffee co-op usually we give a 10%
coupon which gets you 10% off and you
use the coupon code majority until I
think it's the like the next two two
weeks
at just coffee co-op it's 30% off you
don't need a coupon code 30% off Jamie I
just like Jamie is literally making a
note to herself right now
this is a great deal
free shipping still you can get a
five-pound bag of coffee 30% off if you
buy if you're one of those people who
goes to the supermarket and you don't
buy like the ground like I don't know
you don't buy you know Maxwell House
anymore
but you actually go and get decent
coffee good coffee in beans in a bag
you should check now is your time to
check out just coffee they do this I
think only twice a year and this time
it's shorter
just coffee dot co-op you can go you can
get the majority report blend which is
Brendan's favorite I don't think he says
that just for my sake but you can get
any other type of blend their Fairtrade
coffee started in the Zappa C Zapatista
a region that's why they have that red
star on their coffee Fairtrade check it
out they get a bunch of different than
gets Lightman you know Bowl and bold
roasts and all that so what's that I
just said hell yeah there you go well I
was just in the southeastern region and
it was beautiful and amazing so you're
supporting a beautiful Society when you
buy just coffee go up there you go 30%
off do that over the next two weeks all
right we got to take a quick break when
we come back
Matthew film guy
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen every now
and then the day is Friday and every now
and then on those every now and then
it's a smaller subset of Friday's but a
significant subset on those Fridays we
have the opportunity to play this song
[Music]
[Music]
film guy Matthew film guy hello Matthew
film guy hello Sam cedar hola samito
should I say uh porque ya just in in in
celebration of Jaime returning from
Mexico is that what's going on I'll go
with yes alright car tenemos que
practically stress pan yo ah she she
needs to practice her Spanish apparently
its verdad see we're so close to making
this show all in Spanish I can only take
and I'm only imagine
Matthew film guy what is new with you I
know at this time of year you start to
get very holiday oriented and you know
your your eBay page going explodes what
is that what's happening
definitely everyone should go check out
my eBay page you can find me at uh at
Langdon boom on Twitter and there's a
link there and usually it's just turning
over last year's Christmas and Hanukkah
presents to pay for this year's
Christmas and Hanukkah presents you
follow my logic there yeah I totally do
and it's an environmental dance more
than anything else
Wow now you have a list that you have
posted if I am not mistaken on Twitter
that you did just moments ago maybe an
anticipation of this every movie I have
seen since 1995 that is correct
I've taken the the natural lull in the
editor business cycle at the end of the
year to finally get on top of a project
that I've been wanting to do ever since
basically the internet was invented
which is take the extremely nerdish list
that I've kept of every movie I've seen
since around
December 1995 and commit it to posterity
on the Internet to share with all my
fellow film guys and gals out there and
I used the social media platform
letterboxed which is like a movie based
social media platform and it's pretty
cool you get to see the posters and you
can kind of talk about it with other
people and so it's out there for your
film guy extravaganza experience now I
help me out here what what's the what's
the order about is is life a Brian the
first movie that you saw in 1995
well actually here's here's here's
actually how it breaks down the first
about 40 to 50 of those are what I was
able to recreate from a file I've kept
as a stone guy of all the sort of
receipts from movie rental houses and
like movie tickets and and all the kind
of just paraphernalia I've accumulated
and I was able to kind of recreate the
first like lists and things that I've
kept the first few movies I started to
see when you know I turned like 13 or 14
and I had an uncle who was like a real
film loving type guy and he said you've
got to see these movies so the first
about 10 or 15 are all the ones that he
said if you think you're going to be a
film guy you've got to see these and
then somewhere around I don't know 50 or
60 it starts to be the actual list that
I kept accurately every single movie
I've seen for the past whatever that is
23 years so so this is the order in
which you saw them starting when you
were 13 is that what I'm to understand
yeah I mean there's a gap there's a gap
between like I'd say 1989 and 1995 I saw
a ton of movies that are not represented
there but I wanted to include those
first 30 or 40 because I feel like if
you're if you're becoming a film guy you
could do worse than watching those first
20 or 30 all right no it is one like
yeah go ahead should we go through some
of those just so you can say rebury life
Brian I assume most people well no I
mean maybe that's my own bias I assume
most people are aware of that film it's
a Monty Python it's very funny it's not
you know the holy what was their first
movie the Holy Grail the first one that
was their first one yeah and that you
know off the air and 71 yeah all right
and do you want to say something about
that ever I mean I think I've probably
said enough well just my personal
connection to it was the reason that's
the first one is that you know I I had
like a lot of kids my age I picked up a
video camera and was making ridiculous
sketches and things like that in the
backyard and my uncle saw some of them
and they involved like you know chopping
off hands and and and kind of bizarre
morbid humor and he said the first two
he said to me is you've got to see the
life of Brian and you've got to
understand who Monty Python is and that
sort of started me off loving Monty
Python and then he said you've got to
see Harold and Maude because he said you
sort of remind me of Harold with all
these if you've seen Harold and Maude
the sort of fake deaths so all this kind
of stuff absurdist violence and things
like that that was the the end for me as
I you know I feel I was closer to 14 or
15 I think it that inhaled Maude of
course is the famous spring fall roman
ring deep winter yeah maybe you might be
my early spring maybe like March and
early February yes many years is the is
the dark night is that the one and is
that Holy Grail
no that's yeah holy ground black Brian
that reminded me of Sam and Serna
actual right that's right yeah he was
trying to kick in the kneecaps as you
were just like walking away laughing
life a Brian was was about Jesus or more
or less yeah what is the Roman River
tour us Jesus the guy born in the manger
next to Jesus if that doesn't tell it to
you then nothing what life of Brian's
great I mean not most great yeah at
close range
what's that one oh that's an awesome
movie it's about a Christopher Walken is
like a criminal and his sons are Sean
Penn and Chris Penn it also has Crispin
Glover and it's sort of like a family
crime drama but it's sort of sort of
like a cult movie and it's not exact
hi you know it's not like I on the list
of cinematic masterpieces but it's just
a great sort of 80's crime drama that if
you're into that kind of stuff because
around that time you also sort of said
you got a t taxi driver and mean streets
and this kind of stuff so this is this
is where am I thinking was at that time
but I highly recommend it still to
anyone fans of those guys it's really a
tour de force of those actors and Joe is
the number four what's Joe I don't even
remember that one well I think I just
recommended that too I guess was I on
just with Michael or remembering that
bad I'm Joe Joe is I think one of the
most important movies that anyone can
watch these days it's about the sort of
the racist at the end of the bar and he
argues it's not ringing a bell no either
Boyle Peter Boyle plays the
quintessential Archie Bunker character
and it's basically about a rich middle
class or upper middle-class banker who
goes looking for his runaway hippie
daughter who is like tuned tuned in
turned on and dropped out and she's
living in like a commune and he and he's
going after her and he runs into this
guy Joe at the bar and it basically
becomes like they stalk these hippies
and they try to like hunt them down but
I don't really want to give away what
goes on they kind of like wind up
hanging out with the hippies and it's
it's just real like you know generation
gap movie from 1970 and Joe himself
embodies who basically Donald Trump is
like the Joe president and at the time
he was just a crank at the end of the
bar now he sort of moved into the
mainstream but yeah everyone needs to go
out and see Joe if they haven't yet seen
it and in fact I'd be remiss if I didn't
thank one of your listeners who actually
works at olive films who put out the
blu-ray recently of Joe who unbidden
sent it to me is thanking me for
promoting the movie on your show uh-huh
and he also sent me he also sent me a
new leaf by Elaine May one of my classic
favorites that I've mentioned on the
show so yeah that movie has just come
out on blu-ray and I think every
listener this show who's into politics
if there are any need to go see this
right away
Wow all right I guess that makes sense
that you would get the DVD not
platform that you were promoting but
that's alright we don't need to get into
that um I got the blu-ray he sent me the
blu-ray okay
they weren't tracking the core of the
point there no I don't you missed it I'm
not talking about the actual you know
the the mechanism like he totally did
alike Oh a nice tool you can you can get
one Sam they're out there as well and
then I have to get a blu-ray player and
I don't know what that uh he didn't send
me the only one all right I understand I
think you missed the point number five
you have the devil's yes don't know that
one either don't even know that man Sam
this is a great day for you yeah the
devil's that's Ken Russell his story
about Cardinal Richelieu and how they
kind of had a real-life witch hunt
amongst certain nuns who are getting a
little too politically powerful in a
city-state
it's like political intrigue Oliver Reed
Vanessa Redgrave some sort of psycho
sexual perversion in a way I don't want
to give too much away but if you know
Ken Russell's movies they always have
this kind of dark sexual aspect to them
yeah but it's really a great political
movie again not that these all have to
be or are but it's really about the
power of the cardinal richelieu
you know his reign is his hold on power
and the way that the federal government
basically was taking advantage of this
city-state that was getting a little too
powerful um for its own good and it's
about nuns who you know masturbate
basically right of course Annie Hall
also about nuns who masturbate exactly
they're all director list is none to
masturbate the Annie Hall of course
Woody Allen's
probably maybe his most famous of films
maybe definitely and I think definitely
it's best movie better than bananas oh
yeah I mean the early funny ones are
what they are but this is the one that
it started to be more about like not
just the yucks but about sort of like
relationship insights and a little more
those are better he's so pretentious um
I mean they get more pretentious than
that than Annie Hall I find I found like
crimes and misdemeanors to actually be
like insufferable I do like Annie Hall
but a lot of movies that people point to
it Woody Allen is like profound I'm not
even sure ratably pretend look at Woody
Allen's not exactly a super deep
philosopher he's still going for jokes
but it's some they're pulling from less
slipping on a banana that's the size of
a car then like you know why doesn't
this woman want to talk to me you know
so to me that's a little bit of a step
up can you guys still enjoy Woody Allen
now knowing everything that yeah you
know that's a good question that I I've
held on to Annie Hall just because it
was so sort of interval to me but um
it's complicated now it really is and
there's moments in all these movies now
that you're like
especially like Stardust Memories and we
had in Manhattan where he comes
literally dating a young girl you know I
don't know I'm very conflicted about all
that so yeah I hadn't watched Michael E
I don't think I've watched one in in
ages maybe and maybe it's been in part
of the function of that like I don't
feel that comfortable with it anymore I
also feel like it's you know it's dated
comedy I find gets dated that's my
experience that a lot of comedy gets
super dated because it is so much about
a shared understanding at that time that
is I think less universe offended yeah
yeah my deep comedic insight from
Samantha yeah but out I will say there
are some comedies that manage to do this
the life Martin brothers movies that you
laugh at you know certain aspects of
movies in the silent era that right I
guess they don't strike as deeply into
their cultural milieu that they can sort
of wider body pressure on movies holds
up because they're well I think part of
it is they're historical films that may
be part of it
instigated a Python level yes ones you
picked the Flying Circus Deborah doesn't
hold well I've been right well again
these are not my picks this is the list
that I've every move
I've seen since you know a certain time
period but the life of Brian I
definitely think still the political
insight into the hypocrisy of sort of
religion and cults and groupthink
that still is relevant today as it ever
was so you know in a sense it it
transcends all that as long as people
are our group gathering together and and
our hypocrite but part of part of the
problem too it seems to me in terms of
the is that the that new comedic forms
become adopted into the sort of the
broad comedy culture and then they get
tired they get tired out very quickly
like you know what was groundbreaking
Metairie format yes the mockumentary at
but I don't you know I wouldn't use
format I mean that's like saying you
know cinema is is tired maybe it is it
may okay I hope I don't put it but my
point is is that when Woody Allen was
doing Woody Allen you know he was unique
now it just becomes like oh everybody
was doing that type of comedy everybody
adopts it so that's actually interesting
because that's like the difference and
this is obviously subjective but like
when I first heard Lenny Bruce I was
like well I understand that he's
historically important but I'd whoa this
is not actually that funny and then
George Carlin was like oh this is
historically important it and it still
seems pretty funny to me like that's it
that's an interesting like how do you
pull that off I never found George Cohen
never found now but hey say what you
want about Woody Allen guys got a great
sense of mise Anson there you go that's
right Sam would you like to say
something about that no I would not
yes I would I'm going to tweet it out
right now o'clock where it's a totally
different situation Woody Allen was a
genius Clockwork Orange your next film
number seven that you watched of course
I was gonna watch that clockwork torrent
you know Kubrick Kubrick's not one that
really stuck with me I'm not like a
Kubrick worshipper he you know I respect
him and everything like that but his
sort of austerity and kind of sort of
mechanistic film style it's not I mean
he's definitely a genius filmmaker but
it's not my my favorite flavor of cinema
but you you stayed in that neighborhood
you naked lunch in the back to stay at
dr. Strangeglove Strangelove rather yeah
yeah it's basic 101 like a film guy
stuff you've got to see that to
understand what is being done out there
a cut above just your you know sort of
Saturday kids movie it's not just
strange la is a great one
yeah why duel I didn't know my favorite
funny I've seen it recently yeah I feel
like everybody's watched that or they
certainly should but duel that first
Steven Spielberg is it the first Steven
Spielberg movie that's right that's
right it was his TV sort of movie debut
and that's what that was another like
you know ground floor movie to get in on
that he was able to make this movie that
was just you know before the shark and
the man on the boat it was the guy in
the car and the and the tractor-trailer
trying to run him off the road now was
this the one that ended with the guy
driving into the tractor-trailer and
blowing himself up or something spoiler
alert you know what who cares about
Steven Spielberg because what's
problematic about this ride off the
cliff
well it's problematic with this film if
I remember correctly is it's the one it
didn't do well and Spielberg was like
I'm never making another movie for me
again I'm only gonna make garbage films
that make a ton of money now I don't
think that's the exact quote but that's
the paraphrase yeah you know I know I
don't know that story I didn't hear that
and I think dual was like you know it
wasn't his first TV that he had directed
he done a much as episodes of other
shows and things like that so I'm really
not sure if that's what that is when he
served maybe maybe I'm thinking
Sugarland Express yeah it's like
Schindler's List right man that's my
approach to podcasting hangover did hit
them come tell part - coming at you
exactly and then here comes all the
President's Men but you know
particularly apropos I think in these
days yes my uncle was also very eager to
teach me about politics and sort of
Nixon and what that was like and now a
just recently got a text from saying
like I'm so glad you live to have your
own Watergate like thanks a lot there
you go
next Madame Butterfly interests and when
I accept on the theater that's I know
you can skip that ok butterfly David
Cronenberg not his best moment yeah and
in the hand
Cronenberg sometimes bothered me a
little bit but we don't even I think you
got a problem with like I had like
scanners scanners I liked um sure but I
didn't see that one but scanners hit at
the perfect time for me because you know
like I think I was 13 when that came out
and I was like bloating head the hand
what's that I never saw that one that's
Oliver Stone that it's crappy but it's
Oliver Stone's like first movie so it
was like he got to see Oliver Stone's
first movie don't you not really but I
did at the time now this one the next
one is very exciting to me because I
remember when down by law came out I
think I was in college around then it
was like the first I feel like
independent film that I saw and I feel
like down by law started the whole I
guess you know modern independent film
maybe that you know or was part of that
anyways around that well it was it was
actually Jim Jarmusch's previous film
that I would hang that title on stranger
than paradise alright okay I'm thinking
of strangers paradise yeah exactly
sorry don't I was a follower
acknowledged by film guys everywhere
yeah and I got to say Jim Jarmusch I
think just like favor did a tweet or
like to tweet that mentioned me and I
was extremely excited by that that's
cool I mean Jim Jarmusch is also another
one of these sort of original film nerds
who's his influences the thing once I
started to love his films realizing who
he was referencing and ripping off and
so on that led me down a whole other
sort of tributary of amazing artists
that led me to like Chantal Akerman
who did John Dillman the movie I think
I've talked about a lot about the woman
doing housework for three hours more
guys like a zoo or some of these type of
other filmmakers Nicholas ray make Ghost
Dog that's that true yeah you made Ghost
Dog that's right yeah very
I enjoyed it yeah ghost of a chameleon
Jarmusch is sort of a chameleon some
would say you know a dilettante like
he's just doing a little of this he does
a little of that you know but I always
enjoy what he's done
deadman was his Weston with Johnny Depp
that's another good one Innes and also
by the way Jim Jarmusch from Akron Ohio
same as me and same as LeBron James yeah
interesting look I can definitely see
the I can definitely see that you all
yeah we all pray very similar character
in the soup you took like sort of a
weird turn here you right I mean or no
it was no Alexander Rockwell he was in
the soup premiered at the same Sundance
Film Festival as el Mariachi and
Reservoir Dogs and getting the soup okay
yeah no I got confused right of course I
remember this yeah oh yeah yeah and
Alexander Rockwell has gone on to make
some other sort of obscure independent
films but in the soup just came out as a
4k blu-ray which I did not get a copy of
but maybe you will Sam um and that
people can rediscover that now but it
was sort of out of print for a long time
I think that's actually like when it
came out is that point in the list where
I saw it
but it's great it's got Seymour Castel
from all the Cassavetes movies and it's
about an independent filmmaker trying to
make a movie you know so it really
appeals to the the burgeoning film Guy
Buscemi was in a bunch of those like oh
yeah oh yeah independent movie about a
man independent movie right while living
in Oblivion is Right famous example
where they're on the set and it's a you
know haphazard series of mishaps yeah
like that's a great one to do you like
truth that's the only bridge area film
film nerd film guys you like living in
Oblivion Truffaut movies about making
movies day for night it's okay yeah you
know unfortunately I saw the dubbed
version which at the time was the only
one I could see so it was really hard to
kind of you know take seriously dub
movies are very hard very awkward yes
yeah all right so let's talk about this
much money I mean this one interests me
I'm curious your perspective on this a
perfect world this is directed by Clint
Eastwood not only is it directed by
Clint Eastwood
the the music was composed by Clint
Eastwood and and I still remember the
for a long time I was into what do you
call it with that cage in the Cajun
music and he wrote a song in there that
big daddy I can't remember what it was
it's a pretty good song actually I did
not know that fam yes there you go
this as good as Steven Seagal's reggae
hello is good but he tried directed but
I cannot imagine anything that good
Eastwood directed this one what it's not
a movie I would have imagined that it
was in you know the first 15 that you
saw yeah well here's the thing that
right there is basically where it starts
the lists of of actual printouts of
receipts that I have had from renting
movies when I lived with my grandmother
in high school so I have a feeling that
was her pick and we watched that one
together so - uh what I mean
thoughts I can't say it was amazing but
I remember thinking it was pretty good
it's a sort of like a neo-noir kind of a
thing with Kevin Costner again I
literally have not seen it since them
that must be 1993 when it came out so I
wouldn't necessarily put that on the
film guy must-see list if I'm a Clint
Eastwood uh daddy had a great
movie but invictus total smear job lies
 yeah all right
JW posing as a patriot that's probably a
good one too a good place to stop and
and catch up although I see you got
Straw Dogs that was the original I
presume
yeah and deliverance it comes up clerks
of course that Kevin Smith film people
should check this out we should put this
on we should link to this on the
majority report blow up I see I'm just
going through their paths of glory
amazing movie obviously the Graduate
blew the big blue all the blue films
everything that area had a blue period
you had a blue period Heat horrible
movie as far as I recall tape heads I
remember that one it goes on and on
folks so you yeah I'm happy to talk
films with anybody that wants to tweet
at me or to talk to me through letterbox
I'm brand-new account that I've opened
so yeah put it up there and let's have
at it so Matthew film guy what is the
film that you would recommend that we
watch if we didn't want to have to weed
through your your list of movies that
you've seen since 1995 well this week I
want to recommend a movie that was
directed by someone who I actually went
to film school with and as a very
talented filmmaker named Ryan Sarnowski
he did a documentary on this guy named
merle hayden who was basically the last
adherent to a system of economics that
came out of the 30's post depression
called la sauna me and it has a really
fascinating history to it i never heard
of it has anyone there ever heard of
loss sauna me you know it sort of was a
you know it a the basic tenants as far
as the film kind of lays out for you is
that lending money at interest is
abolished and the government will give
what they call direct credits to people
so banks don't own anything it's it
seems like it had some aspects of
socialism some aspects of maybe like
Henry George's a single tax but the
basic idea was that you know usury and
lending an interest is outlawed and then
it became kind of like it took off as a
as a political movement and then it sort
of became like a cult and it sort of
eventually morphed into a religion where
they had their own sort of Church and
they had a Center in Iowa that actually
became very controversial that it sort
of was accused of like kidnapping kids
and having kind of uh you know basically
a cult compound but the the guy who
started it Alfred Lawson was actually
like the inventor of the passenger
airplane he had the first commercial
airliner and was like this very sort of
a polymath kind of inventor type in the
30s and then he started doing these sort
of speeches that were about how the
banks and the
the fat cats were using you and this guy
Merle was like in his teens at the time
and all throughout the last whatever it
is 75 years he sort of kept it going
where every year he sets up a booth at
this air show in Wisconsin where their
university eventually wound up and it's
the sort of look into his life which is
I thought extremely sort of touching and
really informative and also at the same
time this history of this obscure kind
of capitalist alternative that I was
surprised I never heard of and it sort
of just sort of speaks to what was
coming out of the 30s the kind of
possibilities for alternative economics
after the depression it kind of is a
good lesson for anyone today thinking of
similar things what's the name of the
movie man life the name of the movie is
man life man life this Alfred Lawson I'm
looking up now fascinating guy he's a
baseball player yeah he actually they
say in the documentary that he may be
the first one to put numbers on the back
of baseball players jerseys like he was
just innovator in various different
forms and then he basically became like
a religious leader and this kind of
occult weird
he also and so don't let that happen to
you DSA what's that do become a become a
cult and then Oregon morph into a
religion and a call yeah cuz you know
you start off with what sounds like good
principles and then you know
personalities intervene I'm not saying
it will but it's just an interesting
alternative history of these of some
similar groups and I'm sorry the the
name the title of the the the film Ian
man life man's after the title of one of
his many tracks he wrote all these
tracks it was about how to live
healthily and how to you know have your
business be healthy and it was very
interesting and and the documentary is
basically an intimate portrait of the
last guy to basically carry the torch
and he has like stacks of these
pamphlets still in his house and he's
still sort of carrying the torch for
this weird and obscure all kind of
things now I can't believe it all I see
is the Budd Dwyer but where does the man
life is it where
it's available on all systems available
on Amazon available on iTunes
Mimmi and I'll L IFE one word yep one
word
ah man live everything Ryan's house key
if I'm not mistaken yeah yeah I'm not
very very talented gentlemen not the
best looking guy but still very talented
all right
regarding the DSA I'm actually working
on a psychedelic earth worshiping
religion that's going to fuse and create
a synthesis with socialism but it's very
different it's not a call it's a
movement there you go it's moving your
pamphlet Samantha
ha ha and everybody's and you just got
to send in you got to send in cash right
for that and no yes all right well there
it is folks
man life anything else we should know
about film guy Matthew for the for the
time being anything else you should know
about what what are you what are you
insinuating I'm saying if there's
anything else you need to tell us
anything else I need to tell you what
could that be
I don't know that's why I'm asking I
will say this it's actually the central
Queens ym and why WH a that I teach at
not Long Island City JCCC but you know
that's ok Federman who wants to come
take my class central Queens ym and YH y
wh a in a horse built queen that is what
I was waiting for film guy Matthew thank
you so much for your time today folks
we'll check out man life and your list
of every movie that you have watched
since December of 1995 my god thanks Sam
talk to you soon all right bye-bye
Matthew film guy everybody Matthew film
guy I don't believe that we have a Jimmy
reefer cake song do we oh darn I do not
see one
maybe it's because of Michael's attitude
though Michaels attitude on social media
yeah I don't think so I don't think we
did have somebody somebody who
pulled some Gorka sound clips and check
me out all the hypocrisy private part
punch Mitt Romney and burned this mother
effort down there you go alright folks
well in that case we're going to head
into the fun half of the program on
Monday Marcy wheeler will join us to
walk us through the latest developments
in the Muller case it is for those of
you who have not been engaging in this
it sound it feels like it's probably a
good time to start because when this
stuff goes down it's probably going to
be you know something that people are
going to be talking about because now or
with Russia because of - how do Marcy
wheeler get compromised into the war
agenda well well that will be the first
question I asked her by the way the
whole Russia thing's a hoax it could
very well be seen a little hoax but you
hate WikiLeaks and you love my wife so
much that you're willing to take us to
war there you go so on Monday the US
somebody else I saw on cult it MSDN see
exactly interchangeable probably more
independence of thought on MSNBC they
might occasionally criticize the
Democratic Party MSW Wasserman Schultz
and do you know what Rush Limbaugh I
used to call it you know there's other
Jews besides her to support in public
life and this I'm Sam cedar I love
super-delegates say do you know what
what Rush Limbaugh's call MSNBC MS PMS
or PMS in PMS they're doing exactly this
just in the 90s oh my god that would be
amazing if
all right we're gonna take quick break
PMS means until you've met my wife ass
feds Foster okay so hashtag just a
reminder this program relies on your
support you can become a member by going
to join the majority report calm when
you do you support this live show you
put support our interviews and then as a
way of saying thank you we give you
extra content in the fun half today
we're going to be launching the war on
Christmas first shots heard between
tucker carlson and dave rubin
not between them of course they were
holding the gun together almost like at
the range where you see somebody
teaching their young child how to had a
fire again don't take Dave Rubin to the
range just just general sort of public
service announcement don't I think that
could end very bad yes coordination and
basic processing level don't forget
folks that just coffee co-op for the
next two weeks thirty percent off you
don't even need a coupon code just head
over there just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate this is a great
time great time to check out just coffee
and see you know maybe maybe change your
blend maybe try it for the first time
maybe try a bunch of different blends
this is the time to do it you will not
have this opportunity again at least for
another four or five months so just
coffee co-op very to your chocolate also
the live majority report show at the
Brooklyn pod fest at the Bell House is
more than half sold out now you we're
about am almost a month and a half away
I would imagine we are going to sell out
before Christmas so you better get on it
now makes for a great gift if anybody is
over the age of eighteen it's only 15
bucks and we should have a very fun time
there so check it out you can go
directly to the Bell house or you can go
to our website at majority dot F M and
get the link today is Friday which means
that sometime during this week one of
the days was Tuesday and on that day
Michael Brooks had his show yes Michael
Brooks show go to patreon.com/scishow on
YouTube get it all and our live show as
well like a sack of potatoes quickly
emptying you can get your tickets there
at majority dot F M as well how fun
would it be to go to both shows super
fun super fun super fun
Jamie yesterday or not yesterday but
Wednesday when I asked you seemed still
to have me a little bit like like had I
got tequila hangover in a way what is
the story they have good security AAPIs
they do that's cool damn good take
tequila in Mexico
there's also tequila right I actually I
actually Jake mostly must go cool but
now that we got that other way what's
happening with the anti Fattah yeah
so we were it's been we've been very
tired but we've figured out what we're
doing this weekend
Sean and I will be recapping our trip to
Mexico particularly our visit to the
autonomous Zapatista community of ov
antique where we got to speak to the
hunter there and got a little tour of
their amazing beautiful libertarian
socialist society um that was pretty
special experience for us we're gonna
give a little background on this app at
Easter uprising and the continuing
struggle in Chiapas and we're also going
to talk about the caravan of internally
displaced people that we saw there and
give some background
that okay and Matt the literary hangover
yeah this weekend for patrons there will
be another installation of the audiobook
I'm narrating Katherine Maria
Sedgewick's hope Leslie and next weekend
will be my breakdown of democracy in
Chains by Nancy McLain ooh everybody's
waiting with bated breath not a research
and a lot of and are you going to is
this gonna be the definitive like
determination as to the charges about
that book a few people have written some
decent pieces on it but in terms of
podcast no we got to make this travel
far and wide cuz that's a really
important good movie you know
libertarians at least this is my bias
maybe I'll be corrected but libertarians
manipulated the constant liberal urge to
own goal by slightly there's there's no
this incredibly there's some pretty
liberal historians who have some issues
with it too yeah yeah there's there's a
variant I mean leftist is high honors
there's a bunch of different types of
takes on it and I'm gonna try to do just
like well but I think the libertarians
that respond to it do so in a revealing
way which is the thing I'm most excited
about alright folks see you in the fun
half all right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna we bring back DJ theater yeah or a
couple you put them in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough little break
that's
[Music]
I do not have Markinson and the alpha
males are like
almost says what
[Music]
on the back
back
a lot of back
[Music]
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
that's birthday - made you boy I have an
onyx benefit for you
the alpha males
[Music]
somebody's to pay the price reprise be
around here I am a total
shoot alright we are back it just occurs
to me that would be worthwhile to play
in relationship to this we've got some
pretty crazy stuff today to play in the
fun half of the program ladies and
gentlemen we will get to that shortly
first let's go to the phones come from a
to10 area code who's this where are you
calling from
good come from a two one zero
area code who's this where you calling
from good afternoon John the name Sam is
John from San Antonio
good afternoon Sam I'm John how are you
yeah I'm ok ok
sure yeah the majority report has
covered the Yemen warned the
humanitarian crisis better than just
about any other media outlets and so the
the War Powers Act resolution
co-sponsored by Bernie Sanders and Chris
Murphy which seeks the in support for
the saudi-led campaign in Yemen had 55
votes for and 44 against last March and
it seemed dead but because it didn't he
meet the 60-vote threshold required to
advanced a bill with 10 Democratic
senators opposing the resolution and on
Wednesday all Democrats slipped their
votes in the resolution passed 63 to 37
hopefully the Democrats will pass the
bill in the house in January and if
Trump vetoes the bill all the Senators
they would vote it for the advance the
bill continue to vote for it the scent
of all you need to flip for seats to
overcome a trump veto so well avoid a
second event but won't the makeup of the
Senate be different then yeah that's a
good point that's a good point my
understanding is that that that it
becomes harder for him to to to veto
mckay ssin with it being a preferred or
I guess a privileged bill in the house
I'm not exactly sure but
he could theoretically veto it and then
there will be Republicans who are you
know we've lost a couple of seats right
I mean that's I'm not sure huh yeah
that's true I mean I you know I'm not
really I guess I should have done more
researched into who actually passed you
know the people that are going out well
it I mean it's still a possibility
though I mean the fact that did a lot of
Republicans slip like Lindsey Graham you
know you'd never think would flip and
and all the Democrats slipped ten of
them so I mean I'm just saying generally
it's good news and yeah I mean you still
still need four votes but you're right
it's different people so uh so I'll do
some more research into that and I'll
look at look at the people going in and
going out and see see how it goes from
there so it's also been a great week for
Bernie Sanders on Tuesday he released
his book of where we go from here last
Monday night he had a book release party
in Manhattan at the Town Hall last
Tuesday of an event at george washington
d.c the the Sanders Institute gathering
started last night with Bernie giving
the keynote speech this morning I've
been watching the live stream which is
as exceptional panels covering how how
will we win Medicare for all the second
panel is a medicare-for-all I like it
how do we pay for it which features
Robert Pollin who's the co-director of
the political economic research
institute he's a professor it economics
at UMass Amherst and a fellow at the
Sanders Institute he was interviewed by
Michael whitey who is also a fellow at
the center's Institute pulling a
defended centers Medicare for all plans
during the 2016 presidential run and
he'd be a great guest to have on so I
encourage everybody to listen to all of
this show but you know if you listen
live I would encourage you to listen to
the the days remaining panels on a
criminal injustice at 3:00 p.m. Eastern
featuring Nina Turner dr. Cornel West
and Shaun King and Danny Glover and at
4:30 Eastern there's an international
roundtable
feature Burnie and a Yanis of Vera focus
and panels for tomorrow includes civil
rights immigration and human dignity on
the front line
the mayor's roundtables Puerto Rican
austerity or green New Deal short takes
on ideas into action the climate crisis
and it housing Fernando Haddad is gonna
be up there as well as and Bernie
invited him and made sure that the
Workers Party and Brazil is represented
in that as well which is just incredibly
important and I just think Yemen and
Brazil are really underlining Bernie's
very unique value so just to echo John
all right John yeah definitely
appreciate the call thanks man I guess
it you know usually give me a little
more time but that's okay I need me a
little more time whoa shots fired
well what do you I mean come on John
what uh well I got a I got a little take
down on you from the pay-go from
Monday's call but you know what was it
it was well you said it was you said it
was part of sequestration but actually
it was a separate vote signed on
February 10th by Obama the the
sequestration was actually scientists a
part of the Budget Control Act of 2011
in the fiscal so that that's what that's
what the fiscal cliff triggered
sequestration it actually started in a
March 1st 2013
okay well suicide I mean technicality
right yeah I mean it is a bit of a
technicality
John but maybe now we know why you were
gonna get short shrift today alright
I'll keep it in mind
I'm sorry stay positive all right no I
appreciate your you're keeping me honest
John I appreciate that added I want to
be like Mike from pets John he'll kick
your ass
also on the Trump thing you know shrimp
also went to Montana Arizona Nevada
Wisconsin and all those candidates law
right didn't just join that out there
you know along with the North Dakota and
Missouri and Indiana where they want in
Florida fair enough but the redder has
been about 50/50 right rather state yeah
that's right I mean he did work
Connecticut that that's that's a good
point good right
thanks all right thank you I appreciate
that thank you thank you goodbye sir
usually give them a little more time
what are you talking what are you
complaining about
just say thank you please golf row a 401
area go to who's this where he calling
from hi this is Jo Snuffy from inside
the u.s. overall so I was calling in
because I wanted to talk about a poll
that was covered a different set the one
that you guys usually talk about that
was done back in October right before
the midterms so can you hear me yeah all
right so I'm referring to the military
times it's like basically a magazine
flash newspaper that Armed Forces does
technically it's a separate group but
affiliated um does they did a pretty
large and good poll back in October that
amongst other things talked about what
the overall approval rating of President
other met key members of the
administration were as well as few other
policy issues and that kind of stuff arm
and the Oval I guess overall big take
away from it is that this year 44
percent of service members that were
polled have a favorable view
Trump 3% have a disabled down quite
considerably in the park the favorable
goes and up quite considerably for the
unfavorable back in 2016 right after the
right after the actually right before
the presidential election it was 46%
approved and 37 roof and one of the key
differences since then is that the
percentage of respondents that had no
opinion that basically said they've been
in care either way or they hadn't and it
made up her mind yet that has actually
dropped from 13 percent okay
all right so the the point being that
you think he's losing support amongst
the the US military well and it it goes
into a bit more depth and breaking it
down just a really quick trends on that
the main group that supports it more
than any well within the Marine Corps
but just alright so he's lost support in
the military I mean what what do you
make of that well so oh there's there's
a and this is another one of the things
that they cover there's a growing
perception that you and asked are we
that likely that we're going to get
involved in another war year or so the
percentage of people who responded yes
that that has gone up dramatically so on
so Jojo huge reading me the results of
the poll just tell me what you make of
it
oh well overall that a lot of people
gave him were willing to give them a
shot when when he first uh that's a
pretty normal circumstance or people in
the military when you have a change of
political leadership but a lot of okay a
lot more people are so basically the
same thing that's happened you know in
amongst Republicans has happened in the
military that the the middle
Terry started out by giving him you know
a benefited out and then they saw that
he's an idiot
and they are a little bit worried that
that's gonna become problematic for them
I appreciate the call whoa no more time
I would I mean I appreciate I mean I
think that's true I think you know it
probably has gone down even in the wake
of this deployment to the to the to the
border where people are like what what
what is he doing now yeah mahjongg I'm
literally pressing the button and it's
not working I don't know what's
happening I can't again okay
I'm Joe I'm sorry well I was gonna make
a serious point based on the
conversation I had with our boy Spencer
apone but that just erased it from my
mind
but if they did do a very good episode
recently of his eyes left podcast that's
exactly about that the madness of trumps
foreign policy deploying troops to the
border
what skeptical troops can do in that
situation I highly recommend it check it
out
I mean what can they do beyond what an
avert you know beyond what an average
brother is gonna pull that came out that
I honestly cannot there's something the
phone's frozen Joe is still on the line
Joe hang up the phone okay will you
believe that okay all right I mean you
can resist order I never mind you just
did alright yeah this on when the phone
settled go to that well the phones
there's a problem with the phones
so I mean I I can I can do that but I
don't see it's not I mean if it's not
showing up in the there's something on
the server end it is a problem you have
a wonderful day bro and I'll see you
again soon I cannot get him off the line
I got myself off the line now I'm not
there
yes Joe it's actually Joe show now yeah
it's Joe's military pulled up were you
able to get him out thank you for
calling into the majority he's still
there then we'll be with you shortly
I don't know what if he's cracked some
type of code where he can somehow stay
on the line and I can't
he's got some numbers for us dude Joe
hang up the phone Joe Joe sorry he's
gone now thank God oh my god
huh no I got him off now he's gone Jesus
to help with connectivity yeah yeah I
don't see it oh wait maybe let's see
here
nope don't see that number let's go
first to Donald Trump he's on the White
House lawn he's a little bit concerned
because his consigliere has basically
gone in and admitted that he perjured
himself in front of Congress maybe
Donald Trump has perjured himself we
don't know there's nothing wrong with
being cool and doing a cool building
with a cool country and giving it's cool
leader if I said I wasn't cool it would
be perjury it would be perjury so took
an oath took an oath took an oath to do
it all I had to be cool for everybody
but here here is Donald Trump here he's
back does it mean I'm not allowed to do
business I was doing a lot of different
things when I was running after I won
obviously I don't do business
from January 20th but more importantly
which is a following year but I ran a
business in fact I often joke about the
fact that I was the only person that
campaigns and simultaneously ran a
business but that was posit that was I
don't do you recall that like maybe
maybe he did there was a lot of joke
yeah it was all personal jokes it was it
I did it and I thought he was joking
about how he was going to like distance
himself from his business and that was
funny my best I will totally separate my
business look at the classes of folders
of binders that exactly a number that's
funny yes with the sad lawyer from
midtown that was great bit all right
eject that we didn't do I didn't do that
was a project that wasn't done for a lot
of reasons number one is that I was
really not that I had to do it but I was
focused on running for president I
wanted that to be my primary focus not
running or building a building now
well this was a deal that didn't have
four that was no deal
I mean if you look this was an option I
guess I don't know if I want to I want
to be very specific so of thinking it
was an option that I decided not to do
so we didn't so if you look we really
didn't have Disney so excuse me excuse
me this was an option in a forum but
here's very simple we had new person a
position to possibly do a deal to build
a building of some kind in Moscow I
decided not to do it the primaries that
could have been other reasons but the
primary reason it was very simple I was
focused on running for president there
would be nothing wrong if I did do it I
was running my business while I was
campaigning there was a good chance that
I wouldn't have won in which case I
would have gotten back into the business
and why should I lose lots of
opportunities so here's the story go
back and look at the paper that Michael
Kohn wrote before he testified in the
house and/or Senate it talked about his
position what he's trying to do because
he's a weak person I'm not a very smart
person what he's trying to do is end and
it's very simple he's got himself a big
prison set and he's trying to get a much
lesser prison sentence by making up the
story night look what I'm doing the
people would have trouble articulating
that my personal lawyer of 13 years whom
of whom I was his only client is going
to prison for a long time and it's
because he's not very bright and we a
lot of people say like hey are you not a
little bit concerned it's a charity case
I hired him as a favor the dollar that's
what he said time I know that's what he
said yesterday it was a big favor idea
there he is so right now you
could see he's a messy bed he'll
distress though when he gets like
that that's and he's just like I don't
like how this is going
I told Nancy I liked her so this
of all stops unbelievable but we shall
see I really has anybody seen Donald
Trump jr. lately no is he still like out
and doing stuff stop hearing this is Don
Trump oh I get it
I'm a very good developer happily living
my life when I see our country going in
the wrong direction to put it mildly
against all odds I decide to run for
president and continue to run my
business very legal very cool talked
about it on the campaign trail yeah
45459 am like a part of a very
psychically emotionally healthy schedule
where is he when he writes this is he in
Argentina
oh he's in route okay I can't sleep on a
plane all right so I get up early to do
my exercises and then I I i tweet at
4:59 lightly looked at doing a building
in russia lightly put up zero money zero
guarantees didn't do the project witch
hunt scroll down to see the first reply
that might actually be funny yeah there
you go it's just somebody's in the
Trump's are like the Bluths but less
charming yeah do you know that the
Bluths are actually modeled on the
bushes in some ways and the whole
housing development thing is it's a some
of it is a parable or for the invasion
of Iraq yeah that that sure lives on and
memes but I'll say speaking of our
comedy conversation yeah I don't think
it ages I tried to watch it like a few
weeks ago really the first seasons don't
age that wow I gotta check it out now
that's surprising I remember that show
just being incredibly funny ladies and
gentlemen oh let's just let's pick up a
phone call here we go there we go come
from 646 area code who's this where you
come from and this meet here yeah six
four six hi
this is yes this is train boy from New
York how are you doing I'm doing great
what's on your mind well mom I just
thought I'd call in and share a story
about how I harassed or Loomer when she
decided to handcuff herself to the New
York City Twitter headquarters doors
last night
so for those people who don't know Laura
Loomer she is the how would you describe
her the right-wing provocateur who got
bumped from Twitter and she has made it
it is almost like a human rights
violation from her perspective that her
human rights were violated when she got
bumped from Twitter is that an accurate
assessment of her um she's pretty much
indistinguishable tell me Lauren accept
the fact that she's a Laura Loomer is a
brunette and apparently she's Jewish
okay he's a Jewish Nazi she's also much
less successful than tell me Lauren
numbers an outsider Tomi's on the inside
okay so with that said let's hear I got
an analogy sorry Tomy Loomer is sort of
like to Tomy Lauren what what James
O'Keefe is to Ben Shapiro okay so there
we go so you saw Laura Loomer and we
will play video of this soon but she was
she handcuffed herself to the Twitter
entrance in New York City and you you
did what so it to Twitter office in New
York about 5-10 minutes from my office
and I had a bit of downtime so I just
say to I though there see how she was
all teed-up and while she was there
while I was there I I told her to go on
come town oh that was you
Wow that went somewhat viral cuz I
saw that Laura luma rolls like she's
like are there any Nazis that want to
date a Thai Lee disturbed
Jewish girl please I'm Jewish I have
severe emotional and psychic issues and
I just wanted skinhead now I won't
anyone help me and what did she say she
say she'd think about it she no doubt
like I was her PR person there or what
well she was too busy complaining about
Louis Farrakhan who is apparently
relevant Louis Farrakhan of course is
the the CEO of Twitter and when I call
Jews bloodsuckers I didn't do it on the
Twitter platform
it's called Terms of Service all right
well I appreciate the update we're gonna
play some video of her now let me go
yeah I took the liberty of buying the
domain name cedar for senate.com mmm
check out all right well you know battle
of the we know where to go for
that we'll see I'm not I'm not ruling it
out
these days I mean I think after i given
joe manchin the deed to my house i will
have seen off any potential challenge
from a progressive I mean you know if
nobody ran against him I'm you know
somebody needs to run seriously we're
we're we're gonna rent out sublet the
office and we're all going in a camper
van and do this the the listening tour
across New York State all right Pam so
let's get down to brass tacks ladies and
gentlemen
Laura Loomer who was last seen where was
she last seen she was last seen like
shoving Alex Jones out of the way so
that she could talk to Jack Dorsey after
he had testified in front of Congress
Jack Dorsey did not get involved in a
conversation with her
Laura Loomer the right-wing provocateur
or almost would be provocateur some who
have rumored to have been a paramour of
Mike Serna vich al I can't those maybe
they were not still looking into that
he's still looking into that okay and
tell me some laments it's so sexy in the
meantime she she handcuffed herself to
the Twitter headquarters let's play the
video it's not where's it start this is
this is just right when she's
handcuffing herself okay so she
handcuffed herself I'll tell you the
thing that I find sort of offensive here
and and and I will say that you know
around the time of Pittsburgh people
started wearing I saw some people in
Brooklyn wearing the yellow star that
was the star that the Nazis made the
Jews wear to identify them as a way of
reappropriation it laura Loomer has your
go to the beginning of this video so we
can watch how it starts is this how it
starts oh this is not oh oh I see
okay and she's wearing a yellow star on
her outfit and at first when I saw this
I was like you gotta be effing kidding
me and then I thought about it for a
while and I was like you gotta be effing
kidding me to equate yourself having
been kicked off of Twitter to Jews who
were ultimately taken to death camps
seems to me to lack a certain
perspective now it's possible that
there's something deeply deeply wrong
with Laura Loomer which means that those
people who are enabling her are really
responsible for this but on the off
chance that there is not something
deeply deeply clinically wrong with her
and she's just an incredible narcissist
we're gonna play this video and and then
mock it here she is she has handcuffed
herself and here's a couple of moments
of that
Laura why did you handcuff yourself to
both doors so if you're just listening
we'll go back a little bit if you're
just listening it is a two door you know
like there's two doors and there's
handles on both darts you only
handcuffed herself onto one door so
she's not actually preventing anybody
from going in or out it's just I as if
like she's it's almost like people who
are looking for a quarter and they open
up the bank like the bank ATM door for
you
she's there and trying to hand out a
piece of paper with a Jewish a yellow
Jewish star sewn onto her outfit all
right continue Laura why did you
handcuff yourself to both doors look why
didn't you they're still getting in and
out
do we have an example of maybe some of
the that that wonderful humanitarian
defense that Laura Loomer has blessed us
with on Twitter back in the day here's
one stefan molyneux writes over 2,000
migrants have died crossing the
Mediterranean so far this year
presumably these are are ones that are
coming from Syria maybe I don't know
when this was this this tweet was from
and she wrote good period clap-clap-clap
here's to two thousand more I guess
would the hopes that none of those those
migrants were were you know Muslim
Muslim or none of them were women
because she's so protective of women etc
etc what else do we have other examples
of Laura Loomer spreading her goodness
on Twitter yeah this is this is a nice
one she wrote Muslims are in full force
at the scene of the New York City Isis
attack today rubbing it in everyone's
face aimlessly walking around in his
jobs there was two women who were
wearing Muslim headgear who are just
probably on the way to work or somewhere
else
we're walking laura Loomer at one point
was banned from uber and lyft after a a
tweet storm back in about a year ago now
about about anti-muslim tweets that she
was pushing she wrote someone needs to
create a non Islamic form of uber or
lyft cuz I never want to support another
Islamic immigrant driver
oh I mean come on now warm fuzzy there
no this is exactly what they was
struggling against in Nazi Germany
yes and and of course it is because of
her clear
you know Jewishness that comes through
in this that is why she was banned ban
Muslims date Nazis there you go it's a
third way for Judaism unbelievable tired
and go home so what happened did she pee
her pants as she had promised she no is
that what was gonna happen she was gonna
pee well Tim Poole dubious reporter Tim
Poole had reported that she was ready to
defecate and urinate well but I don't
know if it ever came to those but the
other thing the first thing I heard
Laura Loomer was this women I can't
member if this was like Charleston or
some sort of white nationalists tea
protest and she said someone just
slashed my tire I'm honestly speechless
one week after someone talks me and it
was clearly just tire rot right it was
pointed out that her tire like which
have almost no treads broke not a slap
apparently if you guys want it this is
also another instance of fascist all of
a sudden realizing that because these
platforms have so much power over our
lives and because in fact in the long
term this could well it poses an
immediate concern to them because they
get kicked off of the platform for being
disgusting and all of a sudden we need
to nationalize it so that free speech is
protected apparently Laura Loomer I sent
you the sound if you want to said just
that the other day too amidst her her
rants you know it's interesting the the
D platform and now Laura Loomer I don't
know was that big of a pundit in any way
she's definitely trying to build her
brand but it is interesting to note now
with some time the implications of D
platforming some of these people Alex
Jones is not I mean he may be doing the
same sort of toxicity but he is not part
of the national conversation in the way
that he used to be does anybody remember
Baked Alaska
right I mean these are our figures who
were toxic figures in our society they
have been de platformed on these
commercial platforms and it's very hard
to say now
well III tend to agree that their social
media has become ubiquitous enough that
we need to take we need to take steps to
change the dynamic I don't know if that
is we nationalize Google we nationalize
things like Facebook or if we as a as a
government say okay we're going to now
break you up like we did the telephone
company's back in the day and we're
going to offer the opportunity for
people to have real competition here I'm
not sure frankly I haven't contemplated
either solution as being the more
optimal or desired but something clearly
needs to be done because of the process
now with that said the value of D
platforming I think it's pretty clear
yep
well here's what I think I think here's
what I think I mean I I do think in the
long term a nice do support
nationalization that you these are so
ubiquitous in such a major part of how
we communicate that fundamentally we do
I want to absorb them under those First
Amendment protections for everybody but
in the short term until that happens
cool right like it's not the scenario
right now so if there's a benefit from
eliminating some toxicity in the world
we're in which points to potentially
bigger problems because I on the flip
side I think you know Facebook having
the Atlantic Council monitor their you
know some of their content is absolutely
implicating legitimate outlets that
cover Latin America as an example so
there's big problems there but if you're
gonna do platform
I like these choices yeah certainly I'm
not gonna shed any tears over Nazis
being de platform from social media
platforms and whatever is gonna happen
like people make the argument that oh if
they could deep plap if they can do it
to the right then they can do it to the
left the camp whatever is going to
happen to the left
is going to happen to the left
independently of what happens to the
right so we got to use all the tools in
our toolbox and and and I'm I'm I mean
I'm my point I just want to be clear on
what my point is is that it is there's
some question as to whether or not the
flap the platforming works so putting
aside the question of whether it's
desirable for just a moment it clearly
works right like the the idea of like
because I've heard people in the past
who say when you deep platform people
makes them a martyr it makes them a
martyr and they become a bigger but it
clearly works now that may be because of
the problem that we have with the size
of these platforms that's yes yeah ok
but I'm just saying I'm just addressing
that narrow question that we all have we
now have the time to assess whether deep
platforming works or hurts if you are
trying to fight back or if you are you
know hoping for a certain voice to be
diminished and it clearly works I also
on a tangent point imagine being so
demented that in a world of like Nelson
Mandela and Lula people like that that
you call Laurel Loomer a martyr yeah
well credible I just want to just shut
up myself back in December 2016 I said
this is before the book was cancelled I
said I think it'd be hilarious if Milo's
book was cancelled and unafraid of him
becoming a martyr as he is largely
talentless hey I'm very good at
predictions yes modicum achievements
prediction that tweet modicum for
matte-black but here's the bottom line
ski Lord lumen is Jewish there's
actually an interesting article in
Jacobin by Benjamin FY Fong right now
called logoff that sort of wrestles with
the idea of whether social media is even
a good idea at all in the first place
and whether it should be like
nationalized and put under Democratic
control as we move to a more socialist
society or whether we should all just
decide for the good
society to get rid of it that seems
unlikely to me I don't know who all but
it would need to be like statutory but I
think if we're exploring it if idea if a
law got passed like today that was like
Facebook just can't exist we're like no
no breaking up of it you just done this
just not existed anymore I think that
everybody would get over it and actually
feel pretty happy in like two weeks
if you especially if you want it I mean
if you wanted to narrow it to one
platform world better off without
Facebook would be the easiest pure net
positive yep I
yeah all right so let's get to this
speaking of people who I wish were D
platformed I know that's wrong of me and
it's completely unclassy liberal but
budding friendship between tucker
carlson and dave rubin the classical
liberals over at fox folks it's that
time again
when republicans have suffered political
loss and they turn to the old trusty
chestnut around this time of year the
war on Christmas and who better to talk
about the war on Christmas and these two
Heartland fellows whose but you know the
heir to the Swanson fortune Tucker
Carlson and the Hollywood elite Dave
Rubin living in Hollywood
maybe not elite but definitely Hollywood
Dave Rubin he probably has never lived
anywhere else besides California in New
York the Hollywood mediocre well and
he's a one of these performers but here
he is the Hollywood elite talking about
how Christmas is ruined for everybody
particularly this Jewish guy Dave Rubin
hosts the Rubin report on YouTube and
there's a very wise man and joins us so
it's a date as I'm watching that also
they had this kind of panic feeling
thinking maybe I fell for an elaborate
ironic prank from HuffPo and then I
realize no because they don't have a
sense of humor but reassure me this is
real right Tucker very quickly on the
last segment I
swear to you I thought you were the
positive you should tell you what
they're talking about they're talking
about Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer as
a marginalized character it's I don't
know if it's tongue-in-cheek it may or
may not be it harkens back to the
multitude of reassessments done by
right-wingers of popular cartoons things
like the American Family Research
Council saying that a shark's tail was
in fact a gay promotion vehicle in fact
I called them and we will dig up that
call at one point but here it is they're
upset about how Ray Rudolph the Red
Nosed Reindeer is being reinterpreted
and I am shocked and I'm gonna you know
I don't get I will get paid for these
appearances but I'm going to mail you a
check for somewhere between 15 and 20
dollars okay that aside this is you got
it my friend
listen these these puff piece of
Huffington poem look these pieces that
these that these authors whatever they
are journalists that they write these
are not pieces of journalism it's so
much fun second what was going on let's
be a cameraman messing with dave rubin
there the camera is never throughout
this entire segment never quite
comfortable arresting on dave rubin very
very funny but bouncing up and down but
go ahead these these puff piece of
huffington poem een look these pieces
that these that these authors whatever
they are journalists that they write
these are not pieces of journalism it's
so much easier to destroy and then to
create if you're watching Rudolph the
red-nosed reindeer and think it's about
racism and misogyny and the patriarchy
and the rest of it well you can find
that stuff everywhere if you look back
at anything and that's that's what
people really need to understand when
these pieces come out and then you start
looking at something that you used to
love or that used to have a wonderful
message about the holiday and giving and
being accepted and all of those things
that they're trying to take that away
from you and it's not like they stopped
with one thing right they find something
they kind of destroy that and they'll
move on to everything else that we love
so you know eventually they'll move on
to sitcoms that we love whether it's
Seinfeld for you know doing something
they've done or or friends or whatever
else it is they'll go for cartoons
they've gone for Bugs Bunny I mean they
will literally go for a sunset think of
whoever is watching this right now think
of something you love that brings you a
sense of peace and decency and they will
somehow link it to the patriarchy and
the rest of their politically correct
nonsense and we just need to we need to
realize that as I said earlier it's
easier to destroy than create positive
for one second all right so what they're
talking about is HuffPost ran a piece
people find some disturbing details and
Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer and
someone wrote every year the Elf throws
the bird out of the sleigh without an
umbrella even though the bird said it
can't fly every damn year someone
complained somebody else said one of the
great mysteries in modern times what's
wrong with the dolly on the island of
misfit toys why she a misfit I mean
there are other ones I maybe there's
more serious stuff that they're talking
well Jamie can probably speak to this
better than I can but what economic
system incentivizes these sorts of
without even commenting on the validity
of this article or whatever what
economic system incentivizes this sort
of take blog blogosphere like
environment right what pitches are
accepted like of course it's now these
are just jokes oh these are all jokes
even if they were gonna seriously
critique it though right like well I'll
tell you something first off the ones on
the HuffPost from two days ago they're
they're jokes now maybe there's a month
at you know that there's something else
but they're mostly jokes as far as I can
tell like but a little bit of self
satire perhaps well little
self-consciousness on the part of
liberals well I I don't know but I'll
tell you something if anybody has ever
watched with any serious look at the
Nutcracker you will see a Kree
be asked hey love pedophilia I'm sorry
now a lot of you people have no idea
what I'm talking about cuz you've never
watched I've watched about 12 different
versions of the Nutcracker and I think
it was the Seattle one which almost like
openly acknowledges it you have a creepy
old uncle who comes in and gives the
young girl a nutcracker and then comes
in the middle of the night and takes her
to Candyland okay it's a very creepy
story so the idea that you cannot
revisit old classics and reassess what's
going on now in some of the updated
versions of the Nutcracker they take a
lot of that element out they send them
with a kid the prince is not likely you
know they send it there's another kid
like the assistant instead of like the
uncle I mean there's a lot of stuff
that's done to make it less creepy but
there are versions out there where it
becomes very explicit we just use swords
creepy we should be forced to do it
exactly how it originally was yeah exact
time and if you read any of the
originals of the fairy tales that we
tell our kids they're creepy and if you
are creepy even slight sensitivity to
much of the stories that are told to
that are considered girls stories young
girls right like all the princess ones
that up until very recently when you
start getting things like frozen or
whatnot these stories all have the same
basic lesson unless you unless you land
the really you know the the prince and
shining armor you are in some cases
literally dead or your life is going to
suck and you get more sensitive to that
when you have a daughter and you're
starting to look at these things and
you're like oh my god I can't believe
what the message is to this so I in
HuffPost they're there they're going
through this and they're pointing out
the sort of the some of this stuff
perfectly legitimate exercise and the
idea that they're going to come back
reinterpret everything for us I mean
well it seems like what they're getting
mad about is not even a reinterpretation
like the items I think they're you two I
think I think HuffPo may have made a
video where they where they go through
the whole thing and they see the various
different things that are sort of a
little bit grotesque but like the idea
that Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer is
about how you shouldn't treat people
differently because they look different
from you that's not a stretch that's
like literally the message contained in
the story well there's a message
contained in the story of course but you
have to be really successful and lucky
and and your difference has to actually
help productivity and the group dynamic
if it doesn't of course you're still
completely ostracized particularly if
someone doesn't come down and pluck you
out and sell it sell you know save you I
mean it's a pretty crap ass message to
send to kids if you were concerned about
that but the idea that this somehow
ruins things for us like we can knows
what's next are we going - we have to
reinterpret a Seinfeld oh my god what
next what are we going to do look back
on slavery and think it was wrong
continue and we just need to we need to
realize that as I said earlier it's
easier to destroy than create well
that's doing and I think you have to do
is create that's such a smart point
posit I don't know if you've ever seen
the creation of Dave Reubens comedy but
if the that is just him trying to make
the point that it's super difficult to
create those things anyone gay the
audience first off the reinterpretation
of existing work
I won't call Rudolph the Red Nosed
Reindeer art but the reinterpretation of
existing work is in fact a massive
portion of all creativity that is
existed you don't even like pulp fiction
right come on continue are we creating
what is being created in this moment of
destruction right now do you make me
feel that's what I'm worried about
yeah yeah well that's what I'm worried
about because there is some legitimacy
that some of the things happening in the
country and in the world should be
destroyed at some level we've got major
problems in academia we've got no cherry
now does he mean the George Mason
Economics Department is that problem in
academia that he's concerned no no of
course we know what the problem in
academia is that people are trying to
destroy the Germany of the patriarchy or
of misogyny or of everything except for
a gay hatred the destruction of of
anti-gay sentiment in homophobia I think
Dave would probably be okay with I think
the destruction of the the age-old
tradition that I'm sure Tucker Carlson
was bemoaning being destroyed of
marriage between only a man and a woman
I don't think dave has a problem with
that one it's just the other ones that
don't implicate him which are
problematic to have destroyed right
that's the issue but folks it is now the
war on Christmas the narrative has been
launched they're trying to do it
sideways I don't know why they can't
they have to destroy the war on
Christmas as opposed to try and build on
it and the way that they're doing in
this way but because there is a
tradition of the war on Christmas we
will continue our tradition here at the
majority report every year during this
time I thought it would actually be a
little bit longer but it's not but we
will play the war on Christmas YouTube a
moment where I got invited on to CNN we
have that fold here it is huh this is a
ten minute thing is there a specific
moment in here you oh well we'll play a
just a we'll play just the first
beginning of it and then we'll post the
whole video because it is long but at
one point I was contemplating and this
was I don't know 15 years ago
maybe I don't know 13 years ago I was
thinking like I would love to go on Fox
News as the war on Christmas maybe what
I need to do is set up and this is back
when you could really hood wing people
online set up a fake organization and
have them bring me on to talk about the
war on Christmas and do some variant of
what I did here but that that never came
to fruition because at one point I got a
call from CNN this is when I was a host
on air America will you come debate the
head of Concerned Women of America of
course a man named Bob Knight on the
question of on the question of the war
on Christmas and this worked out very
well we're just gonna play the first two
minutes but I will tell you this
originally the host through to Bob night
and or maybe just before we went on air
they said Bob's hearing doesn't he can't
hear so we're gonna have to come to you
first Sam and this destroyed it for Bob
night because it's one thing for me to
come in with my attempt to undercut his
point but to set the premise of the
piece by the time he gets to open his
mouth for the first time anything he
says is gonna sound ridiculous but here
it is this is I take you to what I think
was maybe my favorite moment on TV
Smiths are happy holidays a Christmas
tree or a holiday tree what should it be
depends on whom you ask we've seen
controversy most notably prompted by the
White House it sent out cards this card
matter of fact wishing a holiday season
of hope and happiness no mention of
Christmas some thoughts now on the
subject now I just want to tell you this
is during the Bush years and and the
idea that the Bush's would send out
something saying happy holiday that was
very problematic but Peter host the show
majority report on air America radio Bob
Knight is the director of the culture
and family institute its affiliated with
the Christian conservative organization
Concerned Women for America gentlemen
great to have you with me thanks for
having us on all right well let's start
with the holiday card what do you think
Sam well listen you know as far as the
war on Christmas goes I feel like we
should be wait
a war on Christmas I mean I believe that
Christmas it's it's it's almost proven
that Christmas has nuclear weapons can
be a imminent threat to this country
that they have operative ties with
terrorists and I believe that we should
sacrifice thousands of American lives in
pursuit of this war on Christmas and a
hundreds of billions of dollars of
taxpayer money well Sam is it a war on
Christmas or war on Christmas
Warren put over political correctness or
just a lot of people with way too much
time on their hands well I would say
probably if I was to be serious about it
too much time on their hands but I'd
like to get back to the operational ties
between Santa Claus and al-qaeda I don't
think that exists Bob well we are out
here we have intelligence you know you
have Intel and where exactly does your
Intel come from well we have tortured an
elf and that's it's actually how we got
the same information from al Libi
it's exactly the same way the Bush
administration got this info about the
operational ties between Al Queda and
Saddam okay Bob Knight Sam is this
tie-in now he wants information
regarding weapons of mass destruction is
somehow moving that into Santa Claus
help me out here what's going on I mean
is this a war on Christians a war on
Christmas is this too much political
correctness yeah well it was very first
I want to compliment him on his dry
humor but this is actually a very very
subject because a lot of people are
waking up to realize that the war on
Christmas is really the culmination of a
war on faith and the idea that the
public square has to be cleansed of any
religious expression particularly
Christian religious expression you know
one time happy holidays was a welcome
addition to Merry Christmas so you
wouldn't say the same thing over and
over again but a lot of people now see
it as a substitute and it's very
gratuitous at times and it's out
actually insulting when you're talking
about Christmas Day or a Christmas tree
and you can't bring yourself to use the
word for fear of offending someone in
the name of diversity we're a less free
country yes and then it goes on from
there I can assure you that it it gets a
little bit more heated you know because
what happened is the
segment was supposed to be only three
minutes but she let me talk at the
beginning and then I think what they did
is they said we're gonna keep doing this
because this is silly evens about as
well no he started talking and now I
start going in on him when I start going
you know saying like just sort of the
obvious stuff that you would say like
we're in America can you not be Chris
you is there no Christmas and it gets it
gets more fun from there but it is a
Christmas tradition like Lord they give
me a sarcastic Jew up so that's our
troops and president we will play the
entire video and as as part of our
Christmas tradition let's go to the
phones come from an eight one eight area
code who's this where you calling from
hello Sam can you hear me yes yes oh
dear from Jamaica Jay from Jamaica oh
yeah it's on your mind anything no
nothing
too much about that that situation with
the D platform in which our general
injury seems to be effective at least
against the most egregious right witness
but how do you deal with that type of
crazy because I mean outside of those
ignoring it oh I mean I guess I'm
shocked that somebody like Laura luma
gotten hired she did in this media
environment look well I mean I think
like deep platforming helps but I will
say that the you also need to be
conscious of you know what's going on
you know for a long time
I mean rush limbaugh was not de
platformer I mean he obviously had large
access he was ignorant but Alex you know
either one I mean like deep platforming
helps the the less people who can hear
the crazy the better because it doesn't
seep into the sort of the mainstream
discourse and and if it was it would had
to based on its merits as opposed to it
just being
amplified so I don't know that there's
much you can do crazy people exist and
I'm not you know I'm you know people who
believe all sorts of different things
exist and that's gonna happen but one by
D platforming you take out the financial
value of it and for a lot of these
people right
like for instance Gavin McGinnis if
there was not a buck to be made in being
what he has become I can assure you he
would not be that and so the the D
platforming is is helpful in that
respect
saying you also are denying them a
community right like contra points made
a pretty good case I forget if it was in
one of her videos or on a podcast that
the insel community has really ballooned
since the internet because before maybe
there were these like angry guys sitting
in their basement thinking these
thoughts that they couldn't express and
then they got together and it became
something very toxic and it snowballed
in a way sort of analogous to like the
pro-anorexia communities for young girls
yeah people should note the sameness or
etymological link between culture and
cultivation and these things sort of
develop organically like that yeah I
think I mean we see this across for for
better and for worse right that the
Internet has allowed people to traverse
Geographic you know one of the things
about New York City that used to make it
interesting it's it's it's less so is
that the density of people means that
you can have all sorts of different
types of outlets for those people that
can co-exist now it's too expensive for
that to happen but it used to be that
like you know you could find any type of
product this is pre Amazon like the
place to look for something would be New
York because there's so many people in
such a small area that it could support
a shop that just sells whatever some you
know very obscure item the internet has
that same effect that
obscure you know issue sets or shared
beliefs or whatnot can now you know you
don't have to traverse there's no bar to
entry and so people find each other and
they build a community for better or for
worse and des platforming I think is is
helpful in in in that respect in that
you know I agree I agree with D platform
in generally but I guess why I I guess
to bring it to a final point I was
thinking more like from up my own
personal anecdotal experiences it seems
people are more willing to believe stuff
that kinda nerdy that I hate is the fact
the logic what facts and logic are not
very sexy either a doubt or I'm not sure
I think people are willing to believe
what provides them with the easiest
answer for something and the one that
that you know reinforces their
pre-existing priors and that is sort of
predigested and maybe in some ways you
know puts them in inside a drama you
know and I think that's that's always
going to be the case the the question is
is like you know when you have stuff
that's mediated theoretically what's
supposed to happen is enough skeptics
are aware of it and keep it from
blossoming but what happens in the
context of the right is there's so much
money sloshing around that stuff you
know becomes you know look not many
people watch Gavin McGinnis on CR TV
right very few people knew who know who
Mark Steyn is even in the right-wing and
that guy settled with see our TV for
four million dollars
someone is pumping in an enormous amount
of money into the right-wing media
entertainment complex that they do not
care about getting back in any fashion
and what it's doing is its elevating
people and when it and then you know
when you go into a social media platform
already having been
artificially inflated it helps I mean
Dave Rubin you take away the hunt you
know the the the hundreds of thousands
of dollars that Dave Rubin or tens of
thousands of dollars whatever whatever
money came in from ideological money
that came in big money and helped
inflate him got him over the hump and
helped his platform grow and then it was
just like oh we're gonna keep having the
same five guys on and they're subsidized
unsubsidized and soon you know we will
get past the you know sort of the
startup costs of these type of
businesses I mean it helps to have a
platform to launch your show for me and
either that platform could be built to
organically like in and you know even
this platform wasn't built totally
organically we didn't have any money
invested but I did have an email list
from when I was on air America and from
that you know we can launch shows out of
this show but if in the absence of that
someone comes in and gives me two
hundred thousand dollars on day one I
Got News for you
my youtube channel is twice the size
that it is today and and so that that's
the way that this works there's there's
a lot of money over there I don't know
that there people are any more or less
susceptible to to believing nonsense but
appreciate the call those are both such
important points and like I think a lot
of the time people want to look at it
very myopic Lee and say oh we need a
level playing field we need a platform
that everyone is equal access to but
you're not starting with a level playing
field because of everything you just
said you know the market greatly
determines who has speech and who has
access as well as just people's natural
inclination to go for the simpler easier
explanations for things like they say
that anti-semitism is socialism for
idiots and I think that's true to some
degree so the platforming fine
anti-semitism is common sense for non
cops um folks but we must FM you know
who's really excited about
the work he did on inhibiting climate
change barack obama but apparently he's
also super super excited about the work
he did that didn't inhibit climate
change here is barack obama talking
about the recent boom in US oil
production right after he praises the
Paris climate Accords he then takes
credit for I don't know the the
continuance of all the things that the
parrot climate Accords are supposed to
fighting call me both ways Barry there
we go here he is Barack Obama you know
here's the thing too I think what
happens to former presidents and you
know having watched now four or five of
them they think they still have the
political acumen that they had that got
them into the presidency they do not
realize that they have been living
cloistered lives and have no sense of
that so they have the same level of
cockiness and self-confidence that
they're gonna that things are gonna work
out for them but they forget to
calibrate what they're saying and they
end up saying things like this that are
more revealing than they probably want
them to be I was extraordinarily proud
of the parents of courts because look I
know you know uh you know I know we're
in oil country and we need American
energy and and by the way American
energy production you wouldn't always
know it but you know it went up every
year I was president and you know that
whole suddenly America is like the
biggest oil producer and the biggest get
that was me people I just want you to so
so slow like you know sometimes you go
to Wall Street and folks would be
grumbling about anti-business I said
have you checked where your stocks were
when I came in office where they're now
what what are you talking what are you
complaining about just say thank you
please because because I want to raise
your taxes a couple percent I mean you
know here's the problem is that he's
working on his legacy in the creepiest
of ways and and what's problematic about
that is well there's there's two things
one is it's a good reminder for the
failures of the Obama administration to
it's a good reminder about how someone
who ostensibly thinks they're trying to
do good is so cowed by these forces
these big money forces three it's
problematic insofar as like you know
what is the message he's sending to
Democrats to people who are Center
center left I care about climate change
and I'm proud of the fact that I made
America number one again in oil
production there's a single politic
Jerry Brown is more serious on this in
terms of any like executive in the
United States including Obama and he
drills and does natural gas because none
of them have any plan for supply-side
like they will do stuff on energy they
will cut it and those are important
things but not a single America and and
I just think as long as as long as you
have a fossil fuel company driven
political process you're never going to
have now here's the thing sex it's it's
one thing for Obama to say this happened
on my watch and we don't have a system
and we are lat this is a lack this is a
it's it's been problems to be sought to
set the record straight but I got to
make sure that I contextualise it in the
in a way that still says
the agenda is to end climate change or
to mitigate it in some fashion and so he
could have communicated that same thing
that same factual information but said
and look it's a problem and we it's a
problem and if I and and and and that
happened despite the fact that I didn't
want it to or that I know that it's
wrong or or whatever you know then at
least from a messaging standpoint you
know you're bad want a message I don't
cause global warming white people cause
global warming how about that welcome
yeah Cubs stock market up not to mention
what's the message he's sending to
people who don't own any stocks and who
think the one-percent should have their
taxes raised by more than a few
percentage points and are very angry
about that exactly exactly I mean he's
he's not even he but it's even worse
with a message of people who don't have
that understanding right because he's
giving the okay to the entire Democratic
Party to continue along that trajectory
and we know if we continue along that
trajectory where we keep pulling fossil
fuels out of the ground that we are in
serious serious shitty shape not to
mention we also know if we continue to
give carte blanche to Wall Street we're
gonna end up with another economic
crisis and we're gonna be right back
where we were in 2008 and we're still in
a diminished capacity from them so this
is all very problematic more so for the
people who don't know that it's
problematic
all right stipulate that saw your house
if it goes underwater yeah I think
you're not gonna sell your house oh do
you know what socialism's for white
people want to pretend they're not the
devil what are you talking what are you
complaining about just say thank you
please Allah Allah Akbar thank you
please lastly yesterday seem like the
day like today we have eclipses where it
just seems like our our exiting or
exited political leaders are really
really trying to make it clear exactly
who they are and have been
is Paul Ryan sporting a couple of days
worth of growth that tell us he's on his
way out he knows that he's no longer the
guy but he's going to remind us that you
know I was an idiot and then I was
considered someone who was under the gun
I had to act like an idiot because I'm
surrounded by idiots and my political
fortunes are are constrained by idiots
the idiot in the White House the idiots
in my caucus but now look at my beard
I'm free what I say now is in my heart
and I'm going to adopt the exact same
conspiratorial frame as all the idiots
who I pretended were the idiots who were
forcing me to act like an idiot before
have done in California just defies
logic to me we we had a lot of wins that
night we're only down 26 seats the night
of the election and three weeks later we
lost basically every contested
California race this this election
system they have I can't begin to
understand that what ballot harvesting
is but so I think California do you
think there's something wrong with no I
just think it's weird I mean in
Wisconsin you know we knew like the next
day you know Scott Walker my friend I
you know was sad to see him lose but but
he accepted the results on Wednesday you
know so you know I think we had
California there their system is bizarre
I still don't frankly understand it
there are a lot of races there we should
have one and we got massively outspent I
mean big-time outs
all right positive one second before we
get to him crying about how the the
Republicans got outspent by the massive
fundraising small donor fundraising that
existed on the Democratic side there's a
lot of big money too but guess what the
Republicans got big money as well
they got outspent because people wanted
them booted out it was the largest
largest midterm victory in terms of
votes in the history of midterms and
something funny going on it's all red
flag over there and in California I
don't understand
what's that ballot harvesting I'm not
gonna talk about it but anyway yeah I'm
just gonna drop a Ballack harvesting
that I mean what does that mean I give
you the search term that you can go to
fund yourself and the part of the
internet that's gonna tell you exactly
what we need you to know yeah let's see
what ballot harvesting gets you on the
Internet
let's see ballot harvesting what it was
it was Paul Ryan talking about well it's
all now Paul Ryan but let's do it
just we'll do it just let's see custom
range we'll go in let's do it the day
before he said that how's that and then
it's like let's see would you give your
ballot to Estrella nothing nothing
there's no word to that oh here it is
red state this is in this is in October
California Democratic Party's sinking to
new lows to harvest absentee ballots mmm
in November 13th there is ballot
harvesting going in Sutter County throw
them in the fields no it's basically
Montana could ban ballot harvesting and
here's a funny September headline from
Arizona Capitol times Ninth Circuit
upholds ballot harvesting quote that's a
quote ban calling the what is ballot
harvesting supposed to be calling the
lack of evidence of fraud irrelevant a
divided federal appeals court on
Wednesday upheld Arizona's ban unquote
ballot harvesting let's see I think it's
basically going around and helping
collect people's ballots so that they
will send their absentee ballots out
black ballot check white ballot who
can't make that one out throw it out
that's a little thing called listen to
him now whine about money
of all people to whine about money in
elections this guy his whole career has
been based upon coax money giving him
money standing there are a lot of races
there we should
have one and we got massively outspent I
mean big-time outspent you get a couple
billionaires dropping a hundred million
dollars on your head that leaves a mark
and so we got massively outspent
we had midterm headwinds which are
traditional things and we do we do have
to face up that there's a suburban voter
issue that we have to attend to which
was what our concern was all along yeah
in other words let's get to the legit
reason at the end people hate
Republicans now and then now that we
have all the other ones that are out
there that that will get the attraction
on Breitbart that's what we've done
we've been able to do that just not it's
of billionaires having a
disproportionate influence of the
political I know I'm such a
I'm such a ninny that way all right it's
geez it's almost 3:00 o'clock we got
time for one more phone call I'm sorry
folks I really apologize we've had
people hanging on for a long time plenty
of folks for over an hour come from a
six for seven area code
who's this where you call them from six
for seven hi Sam - this is James James
where you calling from
from straw no it's James from Toronto
what's on your mind well first of all I
just wanted to say how much I enjoyed
what you guys do a really look up to you
guys I'm actually at work right now so
about about eight minutes before I have
to go to a meeting but I wanted to tell
you what some stuff I've been doing when
calling in to a conservative radio
station and arguing with them about
immigration they're very concerned about
the caravan over there in in in Canada
they're concerned about the caravan
actually actually well the radio
stations in Michigan oh well in Michigan
that makes a lot more sense for bet
support is there on Facebook or it is
right yeah yeah so but you know no the
people that I listen to are very
concerned about the caravan obviously so
it's been very hard for me to get any
any ammunition rhetorically okay
to give them a hate to give them any
facts so it's wondering if you have any
advice on where I can look for that kind
of information what kind of information
you're looking for
I mean why I don't know I'm not clear I
don't know I mean okay well look I'm
from Canada
I don't really know that much about the
caravan I googled the caravan and I get
fox news stories I get you know you know
CNN or something but they're not really
digging it they're not really telling me
who these people are what the there was
an Al Jazeera story that I read the
other day about I think the title of it
was us causing crisis at Mexican border
I think that's a good place to start
and and I would you know I mean I think
that that that's a good at place as any
to start and this you know just got to
Google around but I don't you know I
can't I when I look for stories I google
and that's it sometimes maybe I use Bing
Google and I wanted to run an idea but I
wanted to run an idea by you guys and by
the caller's the callers into your show
for a bit of a bit of practice what if
you know what if on mass progressives
started calling into these conservative
radio stations and in arguing with these
people and and we getting messages they
don't do this all right Jamie wait that
way that's it's an interesting idea
thanks for the call a while back there
was a guy named Mike Stark who tried to
set up a website calling all wingnuts
and we've played his stuff over the
years he would call in to Hannity show
in to Limbaugh Show is very good at it
and tried to get people to do it and I
almost give them a training course on
how to do it I think there would be
value to it without a doubt but it you
know you know this is the type of thing
that if you had a billionaire a
millionaire giving operational money to
people like me that we would start we
would be just disseminating cash like
because there's no doubt in my mind that
we had callers who were calling in to
our show who were paid back when we were
on air America I don't I don't think
that that happens now but I think there
are paid trolls certainly I mean
that in the context of BOTS or whatever
I mean the concept is out there it's not
a particularly unique thing I don't know
you would do it the same way on the left
as they do it on the right but you know
money makes a difference in these
endeavors so and props for doing it on
company time that's good practice that's
very good that's the best practices
all right folks are gonna go through
some IMS and then we're gonna get going
here visa the GOP specifically raised
taxes on wealthy blue state homeowners
then lost seats in those states and Ryan
is surprised seriously I love Sarah
Palin Sam I'm anti Trump like you guys
but he has a point sometimes niching
should be illegal the government has put
away a lot of good people like based on
real criminals lying to reduce their
time like John Gotti who was a union
leader who Jamie should stand up for the
Vincent the chin Gigante who was clearly
mentally a man for the government made
to look like a Mafia godfather free
takashi by the way another thing its
global warming expert gets things wrong
all the time remember in 1990 all the
experts said mike tyson would beat
Buster Douglas so pump the brakes a
little bit Sam that's amazing Madison do
you guys no longer have the 2016 primary
and presidential debate reactions on
YouTube I think we do I don't know why
we wouldn't the DX fool hello bozo makes
reminder that the war on Christmas began
with the start of the advent of Hanukkah
both falling on Sunday two part question
mostly for Jamie as a contributor of the
Guardian what do you think about glenn
greenwald's consider a criticism of a
Paul Manafort article and how does that
fellow contributor Chelsea Manning view
a WikiLeaks these days Jamie does not
spend a lot of time at the office The
Guardian do you I do not I'm a
freelancer occasional freelancer yeah
I'm not really up to speed on those
things sorry
in general for those kind of questions
though like all of us know everybody in
media and we know everything they think
do and say and we have it's better to
ask those questions on the next day
after we've seen them at the commissary
exactly but we but we're in constant
communication with pretty much anybody
the Guardian it was the
Luke what what who's story Luke from The
Guardian on Trump that turned out to be
a bit dubious I've changed some of the
sourcing yeah what about a mana for
question the last thing at the Guardian
that I paid attention to that was
controversial was when they published
that really bad take from and I guess
I'd call her a trans exclusionary
radical feminist it was bad stuff I said
it was bad stuff people were tweeting at
me like I had any control over it which
you know spoiler alert I don't but you
knew it was happening like once before
because just how things yeah you edited
agree with it because we added and see
everything brother from Brooklyn
conservatives are right the real victims
in society aren't black men who are
brutalized by police the real victims
are people like ben shapiro and laura
Loomer get banned from Overland from
making snarky points about gender also
facts don't care about your feelings
unless you criticize Israel a classical
conservative according to the nation's
article on the Pentagon audit there's at
least twenty two trillion dollars of
transactions between 98 and 2015 that
cannot be traced yeah it's nuts I
interviewed the author of that piece on
Ring of Fire this weekend drill Michigan
citizens earlier this year gathered
signatures to get a minimum wage raise
and paid six relieving the ballot
initiative the GOP controlled State
Legislature passed the bill doing
exactly what the ballot initiative would
have done which made it so a minimum
wage rise and paid sick leave would no
longer be on the ballot now in the
lame-duck session the Senate is
overwhelmingly passed the bill to scale
back all of it yes
horrible Wisconsin may do the same thing
we'll talk about that on Monday JJ cool
Sam hasn't the Trump era taught you
anything you don't spend time searching
for context when discussing Republican
suicide you double down Sean hey Michael
I think uber in Nazi Germany was a
little different don't I have that on
here that's good I use that Cooper's ran
on time I know I had that that song on
my which lens we're all A's
I presume that's what it was the
Grateful Dead of podcast hey Sam
hope you enjoyed your birth my concern
of each day this week who's laughing now
say I'm embroid
Brooklyn and sheets and times becoming
deleted our alarm clock I sent you as a
present would really appreciate if you
could try to get a guest speak about
foreign policy from much more leftist
progressive view yeah we're looking into
that I mean I your point about Stephen
Walt as well taken and we talked about
that after you came on your bear trap is
Loomer still there could someone should
go and read those awful tweet of hers
out loud while she's there oh that would
be actually pretty good absolutely train
boy train boy Sam cedar go on come town
I have not been invited but I'm
certainly open to it
Louis seventy-seven Laura Loomer is a
botched Lauren southern clone and other
news deliverance and Last House on the
Left were double bills at the drive-in
for my parents first date
true story well like Sam Garity baked
Alaska's music video trumpets my
president I'm pretty sure producer
Lauren I thought the premiere somatic
Nazi was Pam Geller anyways I saw that
Laura Loomer defended Ben Shapiro on The
Daily wire still refers to Caitlyn
Jenner and Chelsea Manning as mister
he's a great guy
attorney and you wanted signal boost new
peace at the people's Policy Project
regarding the effects of instituting a
child allowance policy we each family
received three hundred bucks a month for
every child they have finding show that
his such policy would pull five million
plus adults out of poverty when
virtually eliminate extreme poverty it's
a great policy also with green New Deal
talk wanted to also re raise a three P
policy of carbon tax and dividend scheme
where two thirty per ton of co2 tax
implement and revenue used to create a
dividend of twenty two hundred dollars
per person to Commons model instead of a
trading model it's great a square felis
company no samuel alito cedar rio oh my
god Sandero what feliz cumpleanos
okay thank you judge gars lake he said
sam samuel alito sender so Jed's garcia
is saying from the river to the sea
always implying destruction of the State
of Israel as a Jewish state I mean I
think III don't know but certainly Hamas
uses it but in that respect but even I
mean even Hamas has revised
their policy I mean look the sentiment
and his whole history is calling for a
full binational democracy with rights
and security for all which is a totally
valid position and the idea that he
would get fired over that I'm not saying
you couldn't say hey you know mark your
sediments perfectly valid but you're
aware of the formulation and take them
up on it but losing a job over that
insane uh I it's either they wanted to
get rid of them for other reasons or
they're setting a very very very bad
press it comes to that we know it is
grown-up rock
I believe in civility and grabbing beers
with those you disagree with but I'm
gonna whop Joy Behar upside the head
bull Prague Marcy wheeler was on the
most recent episode of wait wait don't
save America that's a great title and
the final I am of the day prominent
progressives and even some libertarians
constantly talk about the humanitarian
crisis in Yemen but not one of them
mentions the real humanitarian tragedy
that's gone on since Obama was elected
his first term I'm of course talking
about the war on Christmas it has gotten
so pervasive that even my own mother
sent me a menorah this year we happen to
be Jewish but that won't stop me from
praying Santa Claus to save the children
and make sure they continue to enjoy
rampant consumerism as Jesus clearly
stated in the Bible see you Monday
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made so
the option will you tell get paid for
the rubber bands
brakes you love sweet ride
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
