[Music]
in Israel Bibi Netanyahu I you look it's
pretty complicated
if he the electoral situation in Israel
but basically parliamentary system two
of the major parties one of which is
Bibi Netanyahu is essentially tied I
don't know how else to articulate that
you know v.24 ganses party 31 for
Netanyahu was Laocoon last I saw and
that means that other smaller parties
are put into sort of a leveraged
position because they have the ability
to join those parties off ignore
Lieberman who is I don't know maybe he's
been surpassed by other figures in
Israel but votes I mean he I mean I'm
talking terms about being for cystic
he's secular fascistic yes that's what
it is I mean there's a big division
there and so he his party won how many
was it that he got nine seats
j√≥ska nine seats which is the
ultra-orthodox party and they are and
basically Netanyahu was in a bind
because he has to go either way on that
and they won't work with each other
right and then the third I think it's
Yamina which is like the fascistic
settler party they got seven which is a
big underperformance for them so
Lieberman won't work with the
ultra-orthodox and they both need to be
there if they're gonna win on the other
side of that Lieberman may not work with
the party that is represented largely by
Arab civil rights activists so there's a
bit of a stalemate right now that's the
joint list and that's probably a pot I
just want to say that's a positive light
they got 13 there
actually the third highest vote getter
it goes 32 31 to 39 then you got labour
and then the dem Union thing which is F
Jeffrey Epstein collaborator a hoot
Brock's
centrist effort I believe and then
actually there's this 8 is huge 8 utj
which I don't even know what that one is
the Israelis really every Israeli
election is like a confirmation of all
the most hacky Jewish argue like jokes
about Jewish arguments like this very
small country lots of activity okay no
they're ultra-orthodox as well but the
at the end of the day United Torah
Judaism at the end of the day it's a
party they may end up doing another
election but unlikely nobody wants to do
that and there may and and Bibi
Netanyahu of course has a real
reluctance to not be in power because
there is an ongoing investigation of him
and apparently all right let's pick up
this call he might be gone and me and
just want to say really briefly in
addition to that maybe even though the
policy sets are not there at all yet
maybe if he's finally removed the bigger
conversation about ending the Israeli
apartheid system can actually happen
will say about that but well in the
joint list it would be through the joint
list
