let's turn to the other thing that
Donald Trump is arguably doing
effectively or is just like it's being
done effectively under his presidency
and I'm talking about the the basically
the right-wing takeover of the judiciary
we now have a fully 1/6 of the circuit
judges have been appointed by Donald
Trump I think it was the ninth circuit
or that he has recently basically
flipped to an all conservative judiciary
we had a couple of circuit judges
appointed this week despite the fact
that their hometown senators held back
their blue slips Mitch McConnell doesn't
care he's blown through that genteel
tradition of the Senate and the
implications of this of course are that
we have multiple laws passed around the
states just in the last three weeks but
really I think in like 15 or 16 states
since 2019 that restrict or come close
to or or in all intents and purposes ban
a woman's right to get an abortion and
these are all going to end up in the
judiciary and it's I mean it's pretty
stunning what's happened in the past
couple weeks wouldn't you agree
absolutely and you know of course that
was the plan right I mean abortion is
just one it's it's a hugely important
issue to pin on to most Americans and
you know you know one can predict
whether or not this is going to come up
in their lives and that of course is the
plan along with many other things that's
Mitch McConnell who a writer in the New
York Review of Books named the
gravedigger of democracy which i think
is pretty clever and also very true
he is the most malevolent I think of all
the the political leaders of this era
even beyond Donald Trump I mean this he
has relentlessly worked to pack the
courts to ensure and it's not packing
them with you know like air
you died professors who happen to have a
conservative bent these are hacks they
are far-right political operatives you
know Brett Kavanaugh was was the best of
them and he was a far-right political
activist going back to the 90s you know
he was on the Starr team within the
impeachment that we talked about earlier
I mean this that this has been
McConnell's mission was to populate the
federal courts with people who have no
loyalty or even any commitment to normal
constitutional to constitutional norms
or any kind of you know real ideology
beyond being republican hacks so we're
gonna have to deal with that I mean this
is going to be a major concern going
forward and this this first shot across
the bow on abortion is a good is a good
clue on how that's going to go because I
mean obviously they've been building
this for a long time and these people
that came out of Georgia and Alabama
Louisiana you know other places around
the country sort of in in a burst of
activity we're clearly designed to come
once they got their fifth vote they
believe their fifth vote to overturn Roe
vs. Wade and you could see that they
were building you know up to this moment
when they could have all these cases
potentially coming to the Supreme Court
they could pick the bed that court could
pick the best one to use as a basis for
overruling Roe versus Wade and
potentially worse than that I mean they
could do something really extreme like
declare fetal personhood or you know
declare it unconstitutional in all in
all ways not just diverted to the states
so I mean there's there's a there's a
huge danger for women's health and basic
you know human rights at stake here and
you could see that for the first time
I've seen in a long time that the you
know the people on the on the on the
other side of that issue we suddenly
woke up and went oh my dear God you know
this is this is real this is happening
you saw people take to the streets it's
going to be a big issue in the election
as it should be
you know half the population is directly
affected and obviously but many other
families are affected
you know male and female are affected
and you know this is going to be a big
one and it is very very you know
illustrative of the assault on the
Constitution the assault on the way we
do business under under these these
Republicans Mitch McConnell being the
grave digger of democracy who has been
the instrument of doing this in the US
Senate whatever else has happened under
Trump and it's been a lot and we've all
been trying to keep track of it he has
been just focused on this one thing
getting as many people onto those courts
as we can for lifetime appointments and
that's the thing that people I should
understand that there's a lot of things
that Trump has done that we can reverse
you know there's been degradation of our
agencies and whatnot that I think it's
going to be debilitating but the four to
eight years later with the proper
administration coming in you can reverse
these things you can repair these things
but when it comes to the federal
judiciary these are lifetime
appointments like you say on the circuit
court on the Supreme Court we are
talking about a change in our society
that is going to have implications for
decades with an S at the end of that 20
30 40 years almost at a minimum it seems
to me but Heather that means that we'll
have more time to talk about this
phenomenon and sadly and we're gonna
have to do that next week but I
appreciate your time as always it's
always great to talk to you
