all right I want to talk about this
we've been talking about this in the
office for a couple of days and it has
actually gotten more attention in the
right-wing media then it has anywhere
else and it it's Tucker Carlson exactly
but oddly enough
Tucker is and I you know we've got
probably too much of this video you did
a fifteen minute monologue on Fox News
at 8:00 p.m.
does he do this show I thought he was
wait yeah he's eight yeah and it is a
critique of the market and so it's sort
of fascinating because I'm not sure that
it's important at all but it also could
be I think the fact that the guy is able
to articulate these arguments and then
latch them on to like white nationalism
is actually pretty important yeah
there's some scary precedent for that
incidentally and we'll talk a little bit
more about it but let's this is the this
is the first clip what he starts as he
starts talking about Mitt Romney's
critique op ed the other day in the
Washington Post I think it was of Donald
Trump
where Mitt Romney takes it was about 500
words to say that Donald Trump is super
rude but I'm gonna vote for everything
that comes down the pike that is even
remotely close to what he wants exactly
and Tucker takes issue not with his
critique of Trump as being rude
essentially but takes issue with what is
basically the Republican agenda
ladies first corporate tax cuts are also
popular in Washington and Romney is
strongly on board with those to his
piece throws a rare compliment to drunk
for cutting the corporate rate a year
ago that's not surprising
Romney's
the book of his business career at a
firm called Bain Capital Bain Capital
all but invented what is now a familiar
business strategy take over an existing
company for a short period of time cut
costs by firing employees run up the
debt extract the wealth and move on
sometimes leaving retirees without their
earned pensions Romney became
fantastically rich doing this meanwhile
a remarkable number of the companies are
now bankrupt or extinct this is the
private equity model a ruling class sees
nothing wrong with it it's how they run
the country
Mitt Romney refers to unwavering support
for a financed based economy and an
internationalist foreign policy as the
mainstream Republican view and he's
right about that
for generations Republicans have
considered it their duty to make the
world safe for banking while
simultaneously prosecuting ever more
Foreign Wars modern Democrats generally
support those goals enthusiastically
there are signs however that most people
do not support this agenda and not just
here in America in countries around the
world France Brazil Sweden the
Philippines Germany many others voters
suddenly are backing candidates and
ideas that would have been unimaginable
just a decade ago these are not isolated
events what you're watching is entire
populations revolting against leaders
who refuse to improve their lives
something like this has been happening
in our country for the past three years
Donald Trump wrote a surge of popular
discontent all the way to the White
House does he understand the political
revolution that he harnessed can he
reverse the economic and cultural trends
that are destroying America those are
open questions but they're less relevant
than we think at some point Donald Trump
will be gone the rest of us will be gone
too the country will remain what kind of
country will it be then how do we want
our grandchildren to live those are the
only questions that matter the answer to
them used to be obvious the overriding
goal for America is more prosperity
meaning cheaper consumer goods but is
that still true does anyone still
believe that cheaper iPhones or more
Amazon deliveries of plastic garbage
from China are gonna make us happy they
haven't so far a lot of Americans are
drowning in stuff and yet drug addiction
and suicide are deep pop
large parts of the country anyone who
thinks the health of a nation can be
summed up in GDP is an idiot
the goal for America is both simpler and
more elusive than mere prosperity its
happiness there are a lot of agree
ingredients in being happy dignity
purpose self-control independence above
all deep relationships with other people
those are the things that you want for
your children
they're what our leaders should want for
us and would want if they cared but our
leaders don't care so it with your
head a little bit does it in right
because because vacillating back and
forth between this whiny entitled guy
and then saying stuff like oh yeah
no he's right shall we purchase French
when he went to fascists in Brazil yeah
that really was the giveaway was the
towel yeah there's there's a lot of
these things that he drops in at certain
moments right where it's sort of he's
going down a path and then he sort of
died and that's what's interesting about
all of this on some level at the end of
the day we're gonna play a couple more
of these clips at the end there's
there's a there's a rich history of this
sometimes it gets pretty ugly but then
he goes on to say that our leaders don't
care it's just a weird there's at the
end I mean if you follow this he is
trying to establish I guess you could
call it the patriarchy or sort of the
the the the the primary building block
for authoritarianism on some level so
it's all about these leaders who have
betrayed us in some fashion right you
can hear some distant distant echoes of
this stuff here is he goes on to say
that that Democrats slash libertarians
apparently most of libertarians are in
the Democratic Party in totally chuckers
classical liberals
and and social conservatives have had
have had similar have had sort of two
critiques that have come from a
different place but it ended up in the
same area which is that economics and
culture are separate play number two yet
the pathologies of modern rural America
are familiar to anyone who visited
downtown Baltimore in the 1980s stunning
out of wedlock birth rates high male
unemployment a terrifying drug epidemic
two different worlds similar outcomes
how did this happen
but you think a ruling class would be
deeply interested in knowing the answer
but mostly they're not they don't have
to be interested it's easier to import
foreign labor to take the place of
native-born Americans who are slipping
behind nice Republicans now represent
rural voters they ought to be interested
and here's a big part of the answer
male wages declined manufacturing and
male dominated the industry all but
disappeared over the course of a
generation
although remained in many places were
the schools and the hospitals and both
of them are traditional employers of
women in many areas women suddenly made
more than men now before you applaud
that as a victory for feminism consider
some of the effects
study after study has shown that when
men make less than women women generally
don't want to marry them and maybe they
should want to marry them but they don't
over big populations this causes a drop
in marriage a spike in out of wedlock
births and all the familiar disasters
that inevitably follow more drug and
alcohol abuse higher incarceration rates
fewer families form to the next
generation this is not speculation it's
not propaganda from the evangelicals
it's social science we know it's true
rich people know it best of all that's
why they get married before they have
kids so give everybody a little more
decimal but increasingly marriage is a
luxury only the affluent in America can
afford and yet and here's the
bewildering and infuriating part those
very same affluent married people the
ones who make virtually all the
decisions in our society are doing
pretty much nothing to help the people
below the
get and stay married what have you done
it Sam this whole thing is a sham it's a
sham you know you're gonna find Matt and
Michael some wives huh yeah exactly
there's a lot to unpack here part of it
is that a problem doesn't get real until
it starts affecting white people
according to Tucker that's one of the
problems and his his whole marriage
calculation seems a little bit muddled
it is having kids is expensive there's
some things that we could do in terms of
broadly speaking some government
programs we're gonna wait until we get
to the end when he announces like
apparently there's no way to help those
people that's right
there's no there isn't like a whole
obvious set of policies that would it's
completely I have no idea how to get
there we have no clue well this is
what's so creepy about Tucker Carlson
because there's always a grain of truth
in what he's saying but then his
prescription to solve the problems is
like way the wrong way now but even
there you know what that actually
reminds me of you remember waiting for
Superman yes right so that's that's like
peak Obama neoliberal school propaganda
and the the major thing in that movie
they say is it's it's like it's not that
Scarsdale had expensive great public
schools because they're all loaded it's
and you know the South Bronx had schools
that weren't tougher shape because of
class and race and redistribution it was
that Scarsdale has amazing neighborhoods
because the schools were awesome and it
just happened like he's reverse
engineering the after effect of a social
problem to be the cause and they did
that in the Obama era with schools
everybody accepted that kind of
delusional second-order thinking now
here is
this clip is a little bit less relevant
but it's a lot more fun in this
monologue and it's also sort of like
what I think is going to keep its minoo
what Tucker's up to when you hear this
this clip this is a clip number three of
this yes doubt against the ugliest parts
of our financial system not all commerce
is good why is it defensible to long
people money they can't possibly repay
it charge them interest that
impoverishes them payday loan outlets in
poor neighborhoods collects four hundred
percent annual interest we okay with
that we should not be libertarians tell
us that's how markets work and scenting
adults making voluntary decisions about
how to live their lives okay but it's
also disgusting I posit if you care
about yeah he's totally nailing it well
I mean he's totally nailing this part
he's four part series on the way that
Mick Mulvaney was pulling apart the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was
devastating unfortunately they never
aired you got to be a deep deep Tucker
member to get access to that material
they you know there was a lot of both
statutorily in terms of regulation about
that I don't remember him complaining
about it but it's nice to know that he's
there now now that there's no way any of
that is going to be held to account at
least under this administration but
watch where he goes here this is an
interesting turn okay but it's also
disgusting
if you care about America you ought to
oppose the exploitation of Americans
whether it's happening in the inner city
or on Wall Street or what happens it in
India and by the way if you really loved
your fellow Americans as our leader
should it would break your heart to see
them high all the time
which they are
number of our kids especially our boys
are smoking weed constantly you may not
realize that because new technology has
made it all but odorless but it's
everywhere and that's not an accident no
wait a second we got to go back over so
we have a massive opioid epidemic in
this country that is a function of a
pharmaceutical company that and the
entire supply chain delivery mechanism
that was corrupt to the core illicit and
just beyond reprehensible they should
all be literally charged with
manslaughter if not maybe second-degree
whether it's the odorless can I just say
though following Tucker I look out on
all of you and feeling the love we have
for you I'm incredibly sad that's really
high audience I just go back just a
little bit because Matt like it's
smoking weed right now that like makes
me depressed every hour especially our
boys are smoking weed constantly you may
not realize that because new technology
has made it all but odorless but it's
everywhere and that's not an accident
once our leaders understood they could
get rich from marijuana marijuana became
ubiquitous in many places tax hungry
politicians have legalized or
decriminalized it former speaker the
House John Boehner now lobbies for the
marijuana industry his fellow
Republicans seem fine with that oh but
it's better for you than alcohol they
tell us maybe who can tell you how John
Bainer could definitely value
that's right when you see Boehner now
he's not weeping anymore he's even his
emotional state out exactly yeah okay
tell us maybe who cares
talk about missing the point driving
dinner with a 19 year old who's been
smoking weed the life is gone
positive flat trapped in their own heads
do you want that for your kids try doing
a show everyday with it
smoke weed trapped in his own Tucker
having dinner with a high 19 year old
guy the coiler minds want to know we
don't know what he does in his free time
well I mean he could have a match it's
conceivable he has a 19 year old kid I
bet he does boy just deal with it at
home dude this segment is dedicated to
you tonight son
you don't like about the gypsies
about you do people have any idea what
it's like how kids fight over beanbag
chair past two days have been about who
won they eat all your folks have won I'm
out of the house right just I don't have
to hear them yell about the beanbag
chair
hares talk about missing the point
driving dinner with a 19 year old who's
been smoking weed the life is gone
passive flat trapped in their own heads
do you want that for your kids of course
not
then why are leaders pushing it on us
you know the reason because they don't
care about us when you care about people
you do your best okay that's a little
almost like white Malcolm X II it was so
weird it was like it is that was a
bizarre turn everybody's getting high
and they're flaccid it he's gonna work
for the non sequitur he's a real good
pivoter all right and then in any sounds
which is why I won't talk about we end
and he finishes with a direct attack on
the market I mean I'm back on board yeah
let's watch it nothing divides us like
the perception that some people are
getting special treatment in our country
some people definitely are getting
special treatment Republicans should
oppose that with everything they have so
the question is what kind of country now
pause it for one second because I should
say that just before this he said that
elites he started you know it does
everything very quickly and so it's it's
vague enough that it can mean a couple
of different things to different people
but at one point you right before they
said you know elites are just letting
people into colleges based upon what
they look like and blah blah blah and
wait wait what
elites just letting people into colleges
based on what they look like and he sort
of he he pay
it's here too talking about the this
notion of special treatment and you know
a big part of the problem with special
treatment is the complete lack of
accountability for his folks I mean the
people used to work with the Fox for you
know for one the president of United
States I mean there's a lot of different
special treatment comes in a lot of
different forms when he says special
treatment we may hear that one but I
think his audience here's another one
but continue questions what kind of
country do you want to live in well a
fair country a decent country a cohesive
country a country whose leaders don't
accelerate the forces of change purely
for their own profit and amusement a
country you might recognize when you're
old a country that listens to young
people who don't live in knots as though
a country you can make a solid living
outside of the big cities a country
where Lewiston Maine seems almost as
important as the west side of Los
Angeles the country our environment I
should remind you they're exactly this
whole formulation of normal people I
went to college in Lewiston Maine this
is very lacking in normal people like to
remind Tucker that per capita Lewiston
Maine gets a lot more representation in
the Senate let's say when folks living
in California I was gonna say no one in
a city has ever struggled to make a
living Tucker does it happen exactly
right but you go back is I just kept
fascinated by this use of normal people
like I've used that as a joke to say
like we need a normal president not a
black guy and a woman president right
and this guy's using it I'm not sure
exactly what he means well I do think
you think a really similar way I'm sure
you can make a solid living outside of
the big cities a country where Lewiston
Maine seems almost as important as the
west side of Los Angeles the country
were environmentalism
getting outside and picking up the trash
a clean orderly stable country that
respects itself and above normal people
with an average education who grew up no
place special can get married and have
happy kids and repeat unto the
generations a country that actually
cares about families of everything what
would take to get a country like that
leaders who want it for now those
leaders will have to be a Republican
there's no option at this point
but first Republican leaders will have
to acknowledge that market capitalism is
not a religion market capitalism is a
tool like a staple gun or a toaster
you'd have to be a fool to worship it
our system was created by human beings
for the benefit of human beings we do
not exist to serve markets just the
opposite any economic system that
weakens and destroys families is not
worth having a system like that is the
enemy of a healthy society internalizing
all this will not be easy for Republican
leaders we'll have to unlearn decades of
bumper sticker talking points in
corporate propaganda they'll likely lose
donors in the process they'll be
criticized libertarians are certain to
call any deviation from market
fundamentalism a form of socialism
that's a lie
socialism is a disaster it does not work
it's what we should be working
desperately to avoid but socialism is
exactly what we're going to get and very
soon unless you give responsible people
on political system
in a way that protects normal people if
you want to put America first you've got
to put its families first I love the
juxtaposition some really good right Wow
there's not many places for him to go
after this is there do you remember when
it's National Socialism right not real
socialism it's like you know social
democracy plus white supremacy equals
what he wants just about the families
yeah do you remember when when they when
it came out that Jeff Sessions did have
a problem with the Klan do you guys
remember why he had the Klan because
they smoked weed too much weed that
monologue was like a high Klan session
in touch with each other enough bad
markets to serve us because he is
identifying real problems and some of
these are real problems with liberalism
and with things that Democrats and
Republicans have done like we have these
stingy little means-tested programs like
I recently talked to someone who's an
expert on the welfare rights movement of
the 60s and 70s government workers would
come to women's houses mostly single
black moms and if they found a man
slippers they would kick them off of
welfare but the answer to that is
universal programs and more benefits
it's not to take them away or we could
do a facebook optic
if you're single there could be a
sliding scale for a daycare as well as
an uber voucher which you'll reimburse
50% at the end of the month for a rebate
at the end of the year which will be
given in the form of another voucher and
that's fresh thinking you guys ready
yeah well wet that it was like okay for
a couple of minutes yeah I just you know
I want to play that Tucker Carlson thing
it's gonna be interesting to see where
he goes with me I mean he you know at
first I was a little bit worried about
it but I just think that this is maybe
just more of a career thing for him I
just it's hard for me to see a movement
that gets built around the criticism of
market capitalism but Republican daddies
are our only hope
well his promise he doesn't have Steve
been and always keeps his pretends like
I wanted all rich people have more taxes
and that's like his fake see I'm the
real deal and Tucker has none of those
they have at least one or two fake
policies that coincide with that art no
maybe that's that could be coming it's
coming
should be quartered that's very strong
and we could build the coast around
I I do worry that Republicans will adopt
more of this rhetoric even if they're
not actually creating any kind of
policies that help the working class I
think that's true I think it's gonna be
just mostly rhetorical Trump party did
that right the blueprint I don't know if
that necessarily is is a problem for the
left or a problem for the right I mean
this is in my mind a incredibly
defensive move I mean there was a time
where there was no relationship between
social conservatives and the sort of
market fundamentalist Republicans I mean
there for a long time right I mean Pryor
really until the sixties the late
sixties into the 70s the evangelicals
were not terribly associated with the
Republican Party these were not the same
programs right I mean I think Eric
Levitz wrote I had a had a graph in his
response to this where you know being
against abortion does not necessarily
mean that you want tax breaks for oil
refineries you know these things don't
necessarily coincide but they've been
able to cobble together this coalition
and if anything this breaks it apart and
that's going to further hurt the right
it will infringe perhaps a little bit on
the left but because there are people
who but yet
that being said because they won't
follow through right like if if they got
into power and they exploited people's
xenophobia and they actually pushed for
say like a public option on health like
just stipulate that Trump was in
complete scam artist than and
what if in the first couple of weeks you
had a Muslim ban you had all of these
things that paid to people's fear and
bigotry and you had a stimulus plan and
you had a public option and you had tax
increases for the rich that would be a
pretty terrifying that's the thing to
respond real question is that is
happening in some Europe yes
I don't know well and I think when when
Trump got elected we were that was we
were concerned about that that was a big
question you know what if he comes in
with like a you know an actual
infrastructure program we're gonna we're
gonna put billions into training right
like you should be a little bit more
polite to Muslims but this
infrastructure bill is way too hard on
Wall Street well we will be it
would have been interesting to see what
happened but Donald Trump of course
turns out not to be fantasy Donald Trump
that I don't know who thought but well I
do I have ideas who thought that but
we're not Volusion
