oh this is madness for you I think
thanks for the good work Michael can you
recommend any leftist socialist
youtubers for us and also everyone hit
the like button Matt you were just
talking about I mean I've got a random
there's timba dot on that toast there
Sean
there's philosophy tube philosophy cuck
contra points obviously you already
mentioned what do you mean the if you're
especially an Australian yes um let's
see what else is there I don't know
that's a bucks zero books is actually
zero books is a great channel and I want
to do this one last piece of sound oh
yeah I really like Ben Burgesses videos
on there Ben Burtt I love all of the I
love burgess obviously a little lain
there they're great um and they I would
say any but obviously I mean every I'm
sure people assume I anna has her own no
filter channel anna Kasparian i would
check that out that's really good
i would also check out some more news I
know some more news by Cody Johnson
navara media's on YouTube means TV means
search TV
oh yeah the surfs the surfs are awesome
I just did a sit down time oh and I
really like David doles rational
national oh yeah I always showed up to
that one because I always feel bad for
the foot when he called in and I assumed
he was a right-winger based on the name
of his show and there's also Peter his
name I'm totally spacing Peter Peter
coffin I like Peter coffin okay let's
see but I don't watch much politics on
YouTube I will confess I recently
started watching my stream france24 and
Al Jazeera so I recently got the YouTube
premium that allows you to save things
for offline use and closed your phone
screen that was really the main reason
everybody paid whatever 10 bucks a month
for it now that's but it basically turns
those long-form YouTube shows which
people are getting so good at producing
that so they really are it turns them
into podcasts I can just listen to on
the way to work
really you know I have to keep hitting
listen to zero books and that's relevant
here because we have a clip of dennis
prager hello
