[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday May 6 2009 teen my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority reporting we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
national political correspondent for The
Washington Post
Dave Weigel will be with us to talk
about what he's seen on the trail also
on the program today new report humans
are destroying the planet and all other
life sorry about that
also on the program today bill bara
fails to comply with the subpoena
Democrats to vote on contempt Wednesday
meanwhile on that campaign trail Bernie
introduces a trust-busting agricultural
plan Booker releases a gun control plan
and Biden has a plan to save our souls
also on the program today polls suggest
2020 turnout will be huge but Dems have
lost their enthusiasm advantage
meanwhile bolson ro gets D platformed by
New York City the Trump administration
writes new rules to allow health care
workers to freely discriminate against
non-christians LGBTQ folks and women
seeking abortions u.s. sends a carrier
strike force in a warning to Iran and
perhaps to Americans that we may be
launching a war with Iran and lastly
John Kelly wants to remind you the
so-called adults in the Republican Party
also scumbags all this and more on
today's program
yeah the John Kelly story is really
atrocious we will get to that later but
it is what you would imagine in many
respects we will talk about that we will
talk about those plans that have been
released and talk a little bit about the
the the question of to impeach are not
to impeach implicates the the Democrats
power to enforce the subpoena the bottom
line is in the
context of impeachment hearings a
congressional subpoena has far more
weight according to the Supreme Court
than just in its function of oversight
there are limited options that the
Congress can pursue in seeking to or I
guess enforce a contempt finding against
someone in contempt of Congress the last
time Congress imprisoned someone for
being in contempt of Congress was 1935
if I'm not mistaken and you could they
could theoretically hold someone and I
think there's like a jail in Congress a
couple of jail cells they could hold
them until the end of the term and then
at the new term they get released so I'd
like to see bill bar in prison there I
mean that would be fun
fun if you could be as part of the
Capitol tour too if you could walk
through and see him down there I mean I
know I am you know I do have problems
with the c√°rcel state but I there are
certain situations where I make a broad
exception for people I would like to see
put in jail well if we're gonna have a
carceral state we might as well use it
I'm so yeah point it in the right
direction that's that is one of the
things to I'm thinking about it because
I mean you do have these prisons these
jails in Congress and it's one of those
like use them or lose them type of
situations as far as I'm concerned so a
bill bar in jail that I feel like would
be enough for me to take a trip down
with the kids to to visit the Capitol
the Mesa Hall that's bill bar there you
go kids don't feed him hey speaking of
kids Mother's Day is coming up and
there's nothing we wouldn't do to make
sure the special moms in our lives are
happy even the non special mom I was
gonna I didn't want to interrupt the
flow but I've that did stick out to me I
think you know oh I thought all of them
were I mean really everybody's special
but on on Mother's Day sir moms are
particularly it's not
servin moms and undeserved moms right
however Sherry's berries has special
Mother's days berries designed just for
Mom they're topped with chocolate chips
pink shimmer sugar and swizzles I took a
picture of the ones that we had that
came in here for you that's where you
think wish they realized they felt
letting anybody else touch them tipping
that I think and you choose your
delivery date to ensure that mom gets
your gift of sherry berries exactly when
you want her to look you only have like
five days left so get on it today
better yet your satisfaction is always
guaranteed these berries are huge
they're delicious the chocolate is
awesome I don't know what more I can say
they're delicious
and it looks amazing they they work even
for fathers but they're particularly for
mothers just this day but don't wait to
the last minute on this one folks do not
sleep on this visit berries Kombi erri
es dot-com today to order freshly dip
strawberries starting at $19.99 for the
mom or moms in your life given to your
grandma to give it to your aunt
it was your sisters give it to your
daughters to make mom really happy you
can double the berries for just 10 bucks
more Mother's Day is Sunday May 12th and
you double the berries folks so that
everybody cuz they're gonna everybody's
gonna eat them visit berries calm that's
BER RI es calm then click on the
microphone in the upper right hand
corner enter my code cedar based him on
my name cedar sed er that's berries calm
click on the microphone code cedar spelt
like Seder I don't know why they we do
that but the cedars do that all right
here is Dennis Prager
and of course Dennis Prager a highly
very supportive of of Dave Rubin right
pray and Prager University
and all
people are not interested in ideas oh
hello
that was dennis prager speaking to Dave
Reubens face doing that voice and
longtime listeners will remember Indy
Mike this is Indy Mike's a favorite
program the dennis prager show and
because he listens to both sides he
listened to Prager and to Anna Coulter
and here is Prager and just a gosh boy
living the life I mean right wing talk
radio what a talk about being on the
dole like he doesn't even do any he's
just started just rambling here and but
the point is he's trying to make his
folks is that racism at least the notion
of racism that we would have some type
of white supremacy in this country or
that black people are there are that
black people are subjected to racism in
any way that's a myth I mean if this
sounds familiar to you you've probably
heard dave rubin talking to what's her
name southern lauren southern you know
nodding an agreement that jewish groups
in canada basically created the Nazi
groups up there so that they'd have
something the rail against because you
know funding opportunity right just
going to maybe this is going to
synagogue and going and celebrating the
holidays gets a little boring for Jews
and so everybody wants to fight some
Nazis passive is so sleepy yes anyways
but here is Dennis Prager and then sort
of like you know pulling out of God
knows where they got this story I'm
imagine it's true because statistically
speaking how could it not be true that
there isn't a someone giving a lecture
somewhere in which you disagree with the
premise but here is Dennis Prager
stylings and that is what the left does
hysteria crisis after crisis crisis
black as a mirror a black American is
elected president in the country is
declared more racist than ever a crisis
of racism
in America but there's so little racism
in America except anti-white racism that
it's all made up to the extent that
there's a professor going around from
Washington State closet I just want to
point out now one of the things that
I've been told by nd Mike about what's
so great about this guy's all logic and
so just to follow here despite the fact
that we elected a black president in
this country which actually all the data
shows ended up creating a lot of racial
polarization because it turns out there
was a lot of white people who
surprisingly did not realize like that
the Democratic Party was to the left on
race than the Republican Party and they
felt that this was in many respects a
metaphor for everything that they were
losing in life whether some of that was
real and as a function of of our the
structure of our economy or imagined or
real in terms of like loss of social
status
they began to more intensely blame the
existence of black people but as you
heard the only real racism that we still
have in this country according to Dennis
Prager is of course white racism which
is shocking despite the fact that we now
have a white president hello and I
proved right racism anti-white racism is
done and I proved it I was elected
president it's great backlash to the
white president that's true
but we've had so many white presidents
and now white racism is finally catching
up with all those white presidents I
mean it's sort of amazing how many white
presidents we've had but yet the
durability in Dennis preggers mind of
white racism that's pretty impressive
anyways continue it's all made up to the
extent that there's a professor going
around from your Washington state I
reported a her name and everything but
I've just another one of these hysterics
making good money lecturing on campuses
about how anyone who
as I treat everyone the same or I try to
treat everyone the same is a racist get
it because there is no racism they have
to manufacture me there is racism
there's so little racism they have to
manufacture that racism where it doesn't
exist well given this he does not sound
like a hysteric know how to say that my
brain is still in recovery mode from
taking in so many high-level important
ideas on this show right and at least at
the end of it maybe I'm saying some he's
just going it's a good series that'll be
funny and of course the only races
extensively oh my god well that's why we
started doing Ken Kenny Ken because it's
just so easy to be a right wing talker
so easy so easy and I think I can't
believe how much white racism I ran into
today everywhere I went people were you
know maligning me because I was a white
professor but he was a man of course
of course he was a white man so oh he
gets in trouble when are the white
people gonna get a break around here
God alright anyways hey folks whether
you're trying to get a sweet deal on
something or find the best happy hour in
town you know it's a good idea to read
the reviews first right well why would
you so why should finding the right
software for your business be any
different read thousands of real
software reviews and find the right
software for your business at kaptara
dot-com slash
jeordy kaptara is the leading free
online resource to help you find the
best software solution for your business
with over eight hundred and fifty
thousand reviews of products from real
software users in more than seven
hundred categories of software from
project management to email marketing
and is everything you need to make an
informed decision fast join the millions
of people who use kaptara
each month to find the right tools for
their business I've told you like I
literally I will spend time on the
kaptara website just reading about all
the different types of software that
exist out there just because I didn't
even realize there were this many jobs
that you could have but things like
Hospice software or HR analytics
software idea management software that
actually pretty good identity management
software insurance rating I'm just in
the eyes the investment management
software investigation management
software IOT software I don't even know
what that means iPad kiosk software IOT
is Internet of Things is that right yep
I don't even know what that I don't even
know what that means
your fridge has Wi-Fi oh is that right
turn on your fridge or your eyeball what
I WMS software I don't know what it is
but somebody out there knows if you run
a jail-jail management software job
evaluation software job shop software
kiosk software key management software
laboratory information man on and on and
on it's sort of amazing
you can visit kaptara dot-com slash
majority for free today to find the
tools to make an informed software
decision for your business you go check
it out because it may be software for
your business you didn't realize existed
kaptara
dot-com / majority that's kept era CA p
te RR a.com slash majority kaptara
software selection simplified and lastly
it may feel like a cyber crime is
something that happens to other people
but stealing data from unsuspecting
people on public Wi-Fi is one of the
simplest ways for hackers to make money
when you leave your internet connection
unencrypted you might as well be writing
your
passwords and credit card numbers on a
huge billboard for the whole world to
see I'm talking to you who goes and
hangs out at that coffee shop or you go
into wherever it is you go where you
know like you get a muffler change get
on the software Midas I don't know what
company it would be whatever it doesn't
matter you got to protect yourself today
with Express VPN expressvpn secures and
anonymizes your internet browsing by
encrypting your data and hiding your
public IP address expressvpn has
easy-to-use apps that runs seamlessly in
the background of your computer phone
and tablet turning on expressvpn
protection only takes one click and it
costs less than seven bucks a month
expressvpn is rated the number one VPN
service by TechRadar and comes with a
30-day money-back guarantee protect your
online activity today and find out how
you can get three months free at
expressvpn dot-com slash majority that's
expressvpn e.x PR e SS VPN dot-com /
majority for three months free with the
one-year package visit expressvpn
dot-com / majority to learn more check
it out folks all right we're gonna take
a quick break when we come back we're
going to talk to somebody who spends an
inordinate amount of time away from home
going to campaign rallies and so if you
want to know what's actually happening
on the trail this is the guy to talk to
which is why we will be talking to them
we right back with Dave waggle
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program Washington Post
political correspondent and author of
the not necessarily political the show
that never ends the rise and fall of
prog rock welcome to the program David
let's be back thank you
and we did play King Crimson to lead you
in and that was Matt wanted you to know
that he did that specifically for you
yeah I didn't hear it exactly but I
usually you know go back and listen to
the tape of the show five or six times
to hear my own voice
so I'll hear I hear in the replay yeah
exactly
as long as and as long as you and you'll
have that and you could piece it
together and create it almost a full
song that could be your Spotify playlist
alright so Dave you've been on and I and
and I am a subscriber to your email I
guess miss of the trailer which people
can subscribe to it the Washington Post
will put a link to that and it it really
gives me a sense of well the sense that
you're getting on the campaign trail so
like give it just up to this point like
give tell us like where you have been
just said that we get a notion of like
what you're what were your sample size
is or what where you're where you're
reporting from well let's see the last
few weeks was Las Vegas but there is an
essay I you sponsored event on wages and
workers I was in Houston for the seating
people event I was with a couple handed
solo was with Warren Vegas with Biden on
the trail and I took a couple of days to
kind of reset and refocus on here but at
this point everyone who's running for
president except for Michael Bennett I
have and I guess we and Messam is
depending on the week that they're the
oh and I forgot that candidate is is
different those guys aside I've seen
everybody on the trail so I forgot a
pretty good set of data to compare I did
not even know that Wayne mess um
is running and so yeah I appreciate the
mayor of a small city in Florida who's
also running for president apparently
and apparently Bill DeBlasio is gonna
jump into maybe we can talk about that
in a moment but so give me so so as you
come back from this like what well what
strikes you first about the people who
are attending all these rallies in terms
of the voters well there's not a lot of
hard ideological opinions from the
people who kind of self select and show
up to political rallies is for a very
long time in 2018 I was there weren't
really rallies for people running for
Congress till the very end it was it was
a lot it was a lot more a lot more going
out with the canvass or going to a
debate things like that and so and the
people who are interested politics were
showing up to small meetings working
with individual candidates the rally is
there bigger crowds I think if you
averaged together everybody's crowds
there's never been this many and it's
getting big big audiences for Democrats
I would say Biden Sanders Harris and
Warren and put a judge all in draw about
as many people as you know Hillary
Clinton was getting when she started
running in 2007 well a lot of people are
interested are these the same people do
you think I mean is it yeah are they
going are they shopping around are there
people going out there or there are you
you seeing people who have made up their
minds like how much shopping is
happening do you think well that was the
second part of the answer and I'm glad
you asked that one because it there is
not I said there's not hardly ideology
there really isn't you meet people all
the time who want to go for the candid
they're more familiar with it they think
other people would vote for and you meet
especially at Biden events somebody
super fans who've loved him forever but
again they were probably there Hillary
Clinton superfans who fell off the wagon
and in 20 2007 in 2015 see me some of
those folks and you meet a lot more
people who just kind of want to see
everybody and determine who can win and
I think more in New Hampshire and Iowa
you made the kind of voters who are
unwilling to consider anybody unless
they personally met them and seeing them
and gotten gotten their question
answered that's more specific that's in
general people are pretty happy I'd say
when I ask you to look there's anyone
they they don't think it'd win or would
be running you do meet people who resent
Bernie running again some hardcore
Hillary fans and you meet some blue roof
from what they've heard it's held
together they're not a fan that's
basically it huh yeah go ahead well you
can add senator you don't hear well you
don't hear a lot of quizzing about about
policy you do hear I rode with a month
ago there's a couple of us underway with
the ACLU and by other groups to get
people on the record for a number of
both kind of civil rights priorities you
don't hear that much I can't vote for
you unless you have this Medicare
present position I mean I've seen it's
something I'm interested in the moment
like after a lot of people spending time
talking to groups and hearing from town
halls and having the one question or two
really that pushes them you've kind of
seen a halt on the issue demands it's
it's a lot more how you gonna stop Trump
and that means everything from what's
your agenda - are you electable there's
not as much I can't support you unless
you check this box not to minimize a
medicare-for-all as methane check the
box but I think you don't mean yeah do
you anticipate I mean where where can
you compare I mean can you compare that
to let's say to 2016 or two other years
I mean is this yeah I imagine this is
fairly atypical although I can't help
but think that maybe it's somewhat
reminiscent of of oh four on some level
but you weren't I don't think you were
covering Democratic candidates at that
point I wasn't that's a good scene I
mean I've gone back and researched what
the crowds were like in local press and
this you know c-span and check some
things out so but it was similar in that
there's just a desire to get via Trump
out of there and there's a debate that
I've written about where there P some
people just think whoever's most
electable always get them in there
they're people who are thinking more
strategically
I'd say Warren than Sanders and
camp that even julio castro were you
need you need somebody with a compelling
message that would not just win in 2020
but set up the kind of movement the
party has not had in a very long time
right the one that people thought might
be there after barack obama he hear that
and but from voters you don't hear as
much and i loved all of us talking of
odors it's a bit of interest even i
think one of the more revealing times i
was out there this year was I was in
South Carolina the we had of the bar
summary of the Moller report and even
then when people were being told that oh
the the things over and Trump got off
even here a Democrat saying I only vote
for the can't is gonna beat him he heard
people saying oh well you know Southern
District New York they're gonna do their
thing and and that was that was
revealing because people will even if
they're kind of hanging on Trump
developments on the news they're not
really counting on anything but the
election and it doesn't lead I really do
feel like they need the dynamic issue
debate we had for a while has been
paused because people are scouting up
how much these guys look like they can
win alright so how are people making
that determination I mean I because you
know this the story right now is at
least the the conventional wisdom is
that Joe Biden can win and we do people
when they're assessing Joe Biden and and
it just occurred like the other was it
that he tweeted I don't know the other
day that Donald Trump was not was it was
a typical of the Republican Party or a
Burin he says he says the last four
years can be an aberration but if Trump
wins again and then that's like Teflon
redefine who we are as a country which
crystallizes I think a pretty elite
Democratic sentiment and I always think
when I hear that sentiment of the person
at the women's March maybe they've been
identified since then but her found out
who had a sign saying you know if
Hillary had wanted to be a brunch right
now and there's definitely a sort of
Democrat who just wants to who just
wants this to be over and has not
thought much about permanently changing
Washington and frankly I haven't figured
out the reason why it's kind of a
mystery because that that is the
argument that Democrats have really gone
down to in
previous elections even Bill Clinton
made some triangulation efforts in 2003
92 famously but there still was a
generational change argument at the
level of kind of hunching over and
hoping that people will just vote for
the popular guy that that is unique and
it's been commented on I think in the
right way well I mean also I'd say
striking because Biden's crowds are
objectively smaller than Sanders and
about the same size at Harrison Liu to
judge and Warren I mean he's he's for a
person being treated like the the
odds-on frontrunner he kind of he's old
and he slowed down his crowds are kind
of kind of kind of media mediocre you're
not seeing the same fear that you did as
like a when Obama I really got a head of
steam with any thousand people at the
event and is he I mean I I saw some
report that when he was in maybe it was
South Carolina I can't I can't remember
but that he basically over the course of
two days had to private events in one
public event that doesn't seem like
somebody's busting out of the gates and
you know barnstorming it give me your
sense of that because I guess I guess
what I'm curious about is two things is
one is Biden exemplifying in terms of as
a candidate the kind of of energy and
you know to hear that his crowds are
just basically typical but also not just
in terms of like getting that energy but
giving that energy a and B I'm curious
as to how much people who are coming to
see Biden with the assumption that he
can win because they think of Joe Biden
as as Obama's vice president end up
walking away going like Joe Biden may
not be the guy that I think he is
they're always too nice and this is
something that I think pollsters have
studied and they correct for is people
don't generally don't want to be rude
unless they're in a bad mood and they
want to talk about it they tend to be
pretty careful and lately the eyes on me
anyways yes well yeah the same with me
but often people you kind of have to
fish around and I'll ask they think
about it and then they'll say oh he was
good and then if you prod they'll say
well you did seem like he had the
trouble getting this one thing out and
no one says the eiephant I've been there
when he delivered kind of a performance
but a speech for clearly the crowd was
not really moving with every part of it
and people kind of come out saying oh it
was fine
and but you don't see the same
head-over-heels affair that you see
after people hear from Buddha Jagger
Warren and to an extent Harris I'm not
trying to talk down Harris I just
haven't seen the same she has some
people who come up at NS superfans and
leave a superfan some people who think
she's not quite ready yet I mean I think
I'm privileges because it simply
candidate for whom I've had that actual
conversation of people worrying that
she's just not at the performance level
of the campus they think it'd be Trump
interesting and and what do people say
about Warren in that regard it is
universally she's amazing I'm not sure
she can win I think you're kind of a you
almost get tired of hearing about it
because it's here again again people
saying oh she's she's great I she has
all the best ideas and then they kind of
Trevor rationalize I mean there there is
a really defining characteristic here is
how worried people are about being
casting that vote that screws over the
country in their view play by relighting
Trump and she has not quite she's not
quite fix that but it's it's may this is
what now reporters will say what a
losing campaign says was just like oh
there's months and I think it happened
but really there having been ads or I've
been debates so a lot of this is what
other campaigns are telling themselves
is yeah will they have strong things up
by the Sanders's they've known them for
years right i I do not I I have not seen
the same thing with other candidates
they're still II one thing I've noticed
too which is amazing a senator headed
but if you do encounter people who are
just annoyed that there are so many
candidates in the same way that you're
you know you have the paradox of choice
at the grocery store like oh all these
choices this is stressful
thank you yes you still I mean I can
that to me makes total sense and I'm
curious as to like from a from a policy
standpoint or from any actually
I don't want to limit it to a policy
standpoint but but how are these
candidates sort of dividing themselves
up in terms of like what Lane they're in
are they doing it on like policy like I
mean because I mean for me I look at it
and I go I see you know Bernie and
Warren in you know perhaps one lane in
terms of like you know the type of
policies and maybe I'm wrong to exclude
others but that's the way you know it
seems to me and then there's sort of
then things get a little bit murkier
although Biden clearly seems like he's
staking out you know the the furthest to
the right in some way just by disdaining
all the other policies he's feels like
he's just got some hostility and correct
me if I'm wrong but I wonder are the
campaign's doing it that way our voters
doing it that way or do they see other
lanes that are more sort of like this is
the white guy Lane this is the you know
the the woman Lane or this is the white
woman lane or this is the the black
person's like I mean how or or is it
like Geographic I don't know you know
I'm curious I haven't seen people
separating the canvas in that in that
way it may be useful it's useful way to
consider them and sort them from DC and
I'm not saying it's wrong Eponine DC
it's not how voters are interpreting it
yet
I mean you find high information sounds
kind of snobby well you're talking about
every other voters like they don't have
high information but you do find a kind
of voter who watches a lot of MSNBC and
reads a lot online and has contrasted
the can't--it's plans and has come out
with a strong opinion they're just not
most people showing up so you might
think oh well are they sorting all the
moderates and rule and I don't think
they could define of the matter the
moderates are the exception of somebody
who that's that's all they talk about
like I'm like a Michael Bennett and it
with a push I mean look at some of the
cross tabs of the national polls I tend
not to use national polls because there
is no national primary but you're
talking people who are on TV all the
time who
actually have like 25% name recognition
very easy to tell yourself that one
these candidates still a lot of room to
introduce and then to there's there's
just not there's not much of a there's
like not much sorting going on with
voters yet they need to meet these
people I really think I keep punting and
after the debates I have to have strong
opinions but until after that there's
some people who just they're not gonna
see even these town halls get a couple
made mostly 2.5 million viewers and how
many of those are in Iowa New Hampshire
not that many I think there's just a lot
of contact I need to make before they
sort them out but they're not doing it
in terms of this is the centrist this is
air one so what they do do is they've
heard did someone's more of a centrist
and Bernie Sanders has shaped kind of
the storyline in that way and
Republicans in shape to to I mean I
think the president actually been pretty
pretty ineffective at attacking
individual Democrats so far this year I
think he's been pretty effective
emphasizing how they're gonna run
against people and the idea that well
Biden is a person he's made the the
fewest arguments about so far the person
who'd be hardest to tag as a socialist
really that has gotten through to people
but they haven't sorted everybody else
out interesting and so are they they
sorting them it sounds like the one
sorting they're doing at this point is
just like their perception of what other
people's perception are in terms of
their ability to be Trump yeah it is it
sounds like game theory and that's the
best way to to think about it it is not
at this moment based on the policy
concerns and I think I wrote a little
bit about this in the newsletter
yesterday there's not much talk of
foreign policy it's not this as simple
as Bernie thinks he deserves credit and
isn't getting it but it almost is
because there has been a debate about
were that where the party would take the
world if they win back the White House
and I just a lead discussion that's not
really connected with with with average
people I mean I think it's it is the
ability Trump Trump just gotten his even
after beating him in the midterms this
part surprise me just a degree to which
the
the President and Democrats heads even
as a pretty-pretty week am reelection
candidate I mean I I don't remember this
much panic about about Bush maybe and I
don't know why I think it was because
about Bush were you know remember this
much and I remember some of the
rationale like well Dean can't beat him
and only Kerry can and we need Wesley
Clark as he's electable you saw it
manifested and we need somebody with
this bio military bio that he won't be
able to attack which ends up being folly
but you did but you didn't see the same
panic that no one else can possibly beat
the guy and then Democrats talk
themselves into that right before Iowa I
with trumpet stranger to me because he
had he already you know his peak as a
political candidate the first race is
forty six percent of the vote and you
still see people just kind of nervous
about well maybe he yeah maybe now that
we're in competition but he might have
something against against this candidate
it's hard to explain because it doesn't
connect that directly to the facts that
we have about all the candidates well I
mean part of it is I would imagine is
that Trump won when he statistically you
know had very very low odds of winning
and I can't you know that I think that
that that animates people and I think
broadly speaking relative to the Bush
era I think that phenomena is not just a
function of like the real act like you
know I personally I mean you laugh about
you weren't covering that twenty two
thousand four election sadly I was
exactly in the same position fifteen
years ago as I am now and there people
just didn't have the same level of
awareness I think there was still a lot
of fear that in the wake of 9/11 frankly
and sort of the shell-shocked from from
getting into this war or the the Iraq
war at the time certainly the intensity
of the fear that he was going to get
reelected was there it just wasn't as
broadly shared which made it very lonely
feeling at the time but let me ask you
this just get back to that sorting thing
do the
campaigns to the extent that you know
this and you talk to people on the
campaigns do they perceive themselves
sorting in in lanes that are a function
of ideology or in some other mechanism
the only example I've seen is that it is
just hard to deny that Lisbeth Warren's
support has a ceiling as long as Bernie
Sanders is in the race
it may be stealing my camp is a perfect
way I think of it but had he not run
there was there was a different theory
of the support they were going to be
able to corral the lane the the there
were a lot of Bernie voters who
considered the rest of the party
you know incompetent at challenging not
just Trump but republicanism and those
voters are with Bernie now which I think
has I think it's honestly frozen some of
the debates that were happening in the
field I mean there was a utility back in
2018 of being a Democrat showing up to
co-sponsor some Bernie's ideas and now
he's running so there's no point in
doing that and so what you have instead
is maybe people conceding now 15-20
percent of that vote and going elsewhere
now they're not they're not moving to
the to the center and reaching those
voters and I also you and I probably
agree that the center's irritating
concept right
the yeah I can show you any numbers of
polling that say making Medicare or
universal by anta's is extremely popular
making the wall is extremely unpopular
and one of those is called one of those
is called a compromise and one of those
is called far-left right that's not how
it works
right you don't see people moving away
from popular positions but you see them
just kind of looking for who is gettable
it's not quite the burning people yet I
mean that's not the way for Warren has
been framing her campaign you know
someone likes a clove of char at a
Bennett man Tim Ryan you have people
saying there's just we're making the
button argument here about how you need
a president who can bring Republicans in
in on your priorities but we're going to
do it somebody who's not like turning 80
in their first term and they don't say
that explicitly that's clearly what's
going on interesting and so if I
understand you correctly if but if
Sanders wasn't there
the fight for Sanders voters would be
inspiring more candidates I guess like
presumably like Kamala Harris or Cory
Booker or maybe Gillibrand I guess to
sort of adopt some of these policies
that are to the left of where they've
been so as to attract that pool of
Bernie voters but with Bernie there they
basically concede we're not going to out
Bernie Bernie so maybe we try and out
young Biden on some level yeah I think
that that is happening I mean there
again they're not exclusive but the
conversations you have with the
strategists of their campaigns is like
look it's we're all waiting for the
debates you can see if you watched Joe
Biden's speech right now it's want to go
to c-span and he just lost a lot of
speed off the pitch and he's they just
think they have people who were gonna be
more inspiring to the party space then
the front-runner is and when it comes to
issues I don't think they were sincere I
mean a lot of ways where were they when
they're adopting Bernice additions what
change was that whereas in April or May
no in May 2018 a common law Harris
endorsed a medicare-for-all meant oh
great Medicare froze gaining steam and
the party's gonna nominate somebody who
agrees with him and kummel Harris being
for Medicare for all now see is the same
worship the same sort of people say the
same sort of people are saying well yeah
she's only doing that she's a phony and
Bernie's the only one who could really
bring it bring it forward
I think that's closed off some of this I
mean just you don't see the same fight
for former supporters all that I should
wrap wrap that up and say you know he
got for example 60% of the vote in New
Hampshire last time he's polling at
around 15 percent now so a lot of the
migration already happened you don't see
people going 'hey positioning themselves
as the true progressive in the race
apart from kind of once one slip-up
Biden quote because if at Bernie's this
so we're headed something else and I
would say elite democratic elected
electeds and party
do think Bernie's the least electable
candidate and it's based on them saying
just in a general election it would be
beating up socialism all the time for
that reason they think that everyone it
would be in a better position every
candidate would have a pretty good
position if but him like anyone who gets
a through this primary is gonna have
defeated the Democratic Socialist and I
think it's gonna be Millions
probably a billion dollars Republican
campaign messaging down the Xu's right
because they're all going to be people
who were seen at to be antagonists of
that but I mean do you
I mean do you have a sense is it
possible if you have a sense in terms of
like where you're going to to get like
what the value of that you know presumed
Republican strategy would be I mean you
know like it does does that I mean I
understand that it would resonate with
the base of the Republican Party right
which is older white men and women
voters but they're gonna be there for
the Republican nominee anyways right and
presumably the the Christian vote for
Trump I don't know how it would be
really significantly more energized than
in 2016 because there isn't that sort of
like open Supreme Court seat that was
such a swing seat I mean what is that
what that's not really a Democrats
control I mean they actually there's two
scenario with several scenarios 2-bit
looks to mention two big ones which is
one there's still a 5-4 Supreme Court
and there there isn't the same you have
to vote for him to change this there's
actually kind of a cockiness that haha
we we I mean Trump can't stop talking
about how much they already won the
courts right so you would think
illogically just the people who have a
have a qualms don't need to feel the
same in the same impulse to defeat
Hillary but like them Republicans like
to win and I I'm struck by how much just
the memories of Kavanagh who got
confirmed
remains this huge motivator for the
party so
they would say we need to we need a
president who's gonna continue to
fulfill kind of be your bodyguard if
you're an evangelical who's gonna
confirm conservator judges and pass
these rules protecting your ability to
you know not not bake cakes for gay
people or the new was a new rule I'm
still reading that so the upshot I
assumed so basically a bunch of
priorities of conservative religious
groups the storms gonna run on them and
unlike in 2016 where there are questions
of whether he was sincere you know he
his strategy has been kind of a better a
better based delivery mechanisms and any
president I've seen you know Barack
Obama there were things he base want him
to do that he resisted he worried about
alienating people Trump doesn't believe
that he can't Allen a people he just
believes in serving the base so that'll
be the argument you know we got a
president who God wanted to win and
doing everything that we say I mean when
I think and got one to win I'm not
trying to be glib I mean Brad par scale
kind of said so oh yeah and I think your
point I mean just today or I don't know
if you did it today or I guess you made
it on Friday they were writing new rules
to allow health care providers to be
more discriminating in the type of yeah
I mean that's that's a big that's I mean
I remember when George Bush was talking
about this for for pharmacists I mean
that's been a and I don't know that he
ever came through with it but Trump is
is coming through with it but I guess
what I'm asking is do you have a sense
that you know that that the idea that
this is socialism you know where this is
you know we're going to turn into the
Soviet Union is going to resonate with
anybody other than the people who are
already gonna vote for Trump anyways I
don't think it does and the the point
Biden has been making I think it's
pretty inartful talking about how this
is for years as present separation the
other point he makes it that's not an
aberration this is that this president
it like just doesn't care about anyone
outside of his base and he he insists on
serving exactly who elected him and
thinking there's enough of a vote there
that would elect him again and
with very little concern of you know the
third-party voters were back with
Democrats now I really just keep going
back to this and I probably monotonous
but amaze is they the Republicans lost
everything in the Midwest in 2018
everything competitive everything in the
state that swung the election they got
wiped out so instead of dealing with
that the friends just kind of you know
retweeting Scott Walker to insist that
there's some chicanery that you need to
need to stop and I feel like that's the
there's this whole conversation now
about whether he would leave office etc
which seems like a a stranger thing to
focus on then the voting rules that will
be in place on Election Day 2020
certainly when I talked to Democratic
lawyers the DNC and stuff there with
Trump loses he loses what they're
worried about is a Republican run States
making it more difficult to vote as
we're seeing in Florida right now right
and so that is kind of an issue that to
deal with no matter who the nominee is
do you have any sense of how people are
receiving this sort of message from
Nancy Pelosi which is on one hand the
guy is so dangerous that he may not
leave office unless we have a huge
victory and on the other hand maybe we
can make a deal for him for on
infrastructure like that I mean to me
that seems like stepping stepping on
your own you know narrative right I mean
it's like a joke on a joke type of thing
hat on the hat as they say yeah is that
I mean I mean I understand why I get
that but do people on the can't do do
voters are they even keyed in to that I
mean who is that for if not for voters
or who like why is she doing that do you
have any sense well I missed this part
of question wise why she do in law well
Pelosi where she's saying on one hand
the guy is so dangerous that he may not
leave office right which there's no I
don't remember any politician ever
saying that about another politician
from yeah and there's when she was
trying I think the point she was trying
to make was that this is the president
who always cast doubt on the integrity
of the election the way the Democrats
dealt with that in 2018 was meeting him
so badly in the house that he couldn't
say anything and so it was kind of so
it's become an elite question to ask
again because there's there's a certain
donor mindset this never made sense to
me the same I think
the same brain spasms that make people
say in 2016 well Trump doesn't really
want a rent when Trump will drop out of
it gets hard it's the same attitude that
says well maybe Trump will never leave
office maybe the people and it
frustrates dinner if Democrats as I oh
saying before they see a lot more
proximate threats to whether the
election be fair or not then like this
the fantasy story but I think it isn't
it is an elite conversation and my sense
was it crept into it because something
Bill Maher says all the time so the
corruption of this interviews become
kind of a fun question ask Democrats
like but do you think Trump would
concede if he lost and that's the way
she chose to answer it yeah I don't
think it's it man if it's a
manifestation of a lot of things
Democrats are thinking right now okay
but it just accepting there's just
always that pool of people and they're
on Twitter to exist rather than dealing
with the reality of the campaign or like
but what about this fantasy scenario
what about Voldemort III will say that I
will cop to a not being a donor but be
part of but B I thought that Trump was
would drop I never thought he wanted to
be President and I'm not sure that the
reporting is contrary to that I don't
think he thought he was gonna win
necessarily and I think if he leaves
he's gonna do it with the most aggrieved
possible way because that sets up a
business opportunity after the fact it
seems to me but but I guess I was just
curious as to if people are registering
this sort of the this sort of mixed
message of of Pelosi which I perceive is
a missed message and maybe you're saying
it's not really that strong of a message
or that deliberate of like he's the
worst ever
but we shouldn't impeach him mm-hmm
yeah III guess that has gotten across
because it's like almost want to compare
it to
I was about to make a terrible Mar whole
reference which I actually think I think
would make sense but it's a you know
close your ears if you haven't seen the
biggest movie in the world yet The
Avengers 2 Avengers for but there is a
magic weapon that there's a magic weapon
that's used and then after it's used the
user destroys it so it can't be used
again and that's almost the way that
impeachment works in 1998
whereas probably only used it they got
exactly they needed to intent in terms
of in terms of like discrediting Clinton
and making voters exhaust it with him
and setting up the narrative that George
Bush would bring us back to decency and
then having used it people have such
traumatic memories of how stupid the
whole thing was they don't want to use
it again they here impeachment I swear
I'm convinced you will just don't know
what impeachment is like when you tell
people that to president have been
impeached they don't believe you because
they think it means that they're removed
from office Oh what I think I'm what I'm
surprised Democrats aren't doing is
taking the step that Democrats did in
1973 and relegated 2030 different
situation 2013 or just creating a select
committee to investigate something right
we're going through this Benghazi there
was a Watergate committee that's most of
the things you've heard you've heard
frankly on Watergate were from the we're
from the Watergate investigative
education in Congress not from the
impeachment committee the impeachment
was a house committee when you talk
about Sam Ervin and Fred Thomas and all
that they were in the Senate so there's
just a they babe there's a belief that
the jury enablers of the world etc can
keep focusing on this and that is going
to get the point across more than
impeach one fight because people don't
know impeachment is and it's just you
know why drag yourself into it which it
does it doesn't seem completely
defeatist I think one reason that Warren
did very well in polling in the last two
weeks was it she was you know I I mean
this is one of her strengths in general
she was never a politician until 2013
like she never ran for anything and told
her she was in her 60s she's not a
sorbed and sort of politician think and
and like well if I make this point and
13 moves down the line my I could lose
my clean and my and my rook she just
kind of read and said okay this report
says he committed
bull fences and I think people listen to
that thought that was bold and
straightforward and took another look at
her that's my sense of what happened
recently now that they all agreed yes we
shouldn't be just that okay here's
somebody who's dealing with the fact
interesting well Dave waggle it's
fascinating stuff people can read your
dispatches from the trail by signing up
for the trailer at Washington and of
course I read your articles Dave always
a pleasure I really appreciate it thank
you very much all right folks
Dave leghul Washington Post we will turn
to Dave from time to time as the
campaign moves on I mean I think the the
interesting thing is that we you know
two months ago was it even two months
ago
we're like Kamala Harris whoa what a
would gang Buster and now it's not I
mean I I think we were giving people a
little too much credit I think well I
think there is you know it takes a
little bit of time to get back into sort
of like the the modality of thought of a
campaign which is when the new person
jumps in there always most interesting
and then they rise and fall and it's
it's definitely worthwhile to go back
and look at polling you know this time
in 2004 Joe Lieberman was was in the
lead for the polls he did not turn out
to do so well much to my enjoyment he
did he actually say Joe mentum or was
that a joke that somebody did about him
I feel like I don't know I get it you
got to go back and read Atrios basically
I would imagine any type of like meme
like that I generally would come from a
tree osis site but I do think that we're
gonna have a much better sense of what
things are after a couple of debates and
so what we Chelsea pulled the wrong tab
over yeah
Matt is like really need deep into a
statistical analysis literary hangover
hangover literary hangover just got a
proof for monetization on YouTube so oh
that's awesome so that's just the way of
God they just yeah they give you
something
exactly you doing some videos yeah my
just doing some live streams now oh nice
but we will we will check in with Dave
in the meantime what we're going to do
is head into the fun half folks and
remind you that this program relies on
your support every single day you can
become a member by going to join the
majority report com what do you get
extra content you get the ability to
support the show that you listen to on a
regular basis and you get it all
commercial free so go to join the
majority of port comm become a member
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off also a reminder to
you can take a leap into the future with
kept Ericom it's the leading free online
resource to help you find the best
software solution for your business with
over 750 thousand reviews of products
from real software users kaptara can
help you make an informed decision no
matter what your business needs visit
kaptara comm slash majority for free
today noodle around on the site find the
right tools to make 2019 the year for
your business kaptara dot-com / majority
kaptara that CA p te RR a.com slash
majority today is Monday tomorrow night
will be Tuesday what will be happening
on Tuesday night Michael indeed at 6
p.m. before the main show we're gonna do
a live stream with Mike Hanna on the
South African elections which are coming
up on May 8th and then in the main show
Renick Allen is joining us to talk about
her new book
and then Ben Burgess is gonna join us in
studio to talk about logic emotions and
how to win a left-wing argument all that
and of course a lot more patreon.com
slash t MBS michael brooks show on
youtube and check out the new elicit
history of international law with
kristin pear anderson jamie this week on
the anti fada
we have unlocked our new series pro at
cult that's producer AP andy talking
about ufos conspiracy theories and the
paranormal from a marxist and
sociological perspective so that's
unlocked today if you're not a patron
you can listen to it anyway
also we recorded an episode with katie
Halper over the weekend talking about
the 90s from all the goofy pop culture
we associate with the 90s to how the
politics and economics of the 90s have
prefigured a lot of the things that are
happening right now so that'll be out on
Wednesday I also wanted to plug I'm
going to be appearing at Katie helpers
live show that she is doing with
struggle session did and that is this
Friday May 10th at Littlefield in New
York City at 8:00 p.m. it's gonna be
Katy Halpern struggle session along with
special guests Matt Taibbi Jamie Peck
that's me and Jake Flores so if you're
in the area come check it out coming up
on Saturday is the song of hiawatha by
henry wadsworth longfellow a lot of
people might think it's pronounced
hiawatha but it's pronounced he author
it's a it was one of the most famous
poems of a middle of the nineteenth
centuries the board again Sam and and
it's by Henry woods it's he uh he iwasa
Wow
[Music]
and we talk about it as a sort of
example of the sort of noble savage myth
and sort of romant over romance
romanticizing Native Americans and also
being sort of inevitable about how we're
going to take the land from them but I
also found a New York Times review of
the poem at the time and it says this as
like as if Barry Weiss was writing for
the myth of time as an Indian Saga
embalming pleasantly enough the
monstrous traditions of an interest
uninteresting and one may Elmo say a
justly exterminated race the Song of
Hiawatha is entitled to commendation so
yeah that was the reception it got at
the time Jesus bringing is still in
recovery mode also not so many important
I love like you got a listen just that's
one opinion and if we shut that out then
we can't get that sense of a perspective
yeah and we also also introduced a game
called how racist was Edgar Allan Poe so
you can check out that idea it's hard
out here for a Jewish I love doing games
now I'm literary hangover literary
hangover has entered the game phase like
gamification all my faves are so
problematic as a gothic American ho is
very problematic yeah alright folks see
you in the fun half Jamie and I may have
a disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I made you should
rethink your defense of that you're
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you alright but dude dude dude
dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur good
exactly I'm happy now
so win-win it's a win-win-win hell yeah
now listen to me two three four five
times eight four seven nine oh six five
oh one four five seven eight 56:27
1/2 5/8 3.9 billion don't you see
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
seat I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars you're scum
you're not they accuse me
 you you all right take
quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some of the libertarians out
there take whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber silastic I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey
Andy you guys ready to uh ZZ people
Shitler with such No
death to America it's a free speech
issue thank you for calling into the
majority report them we'll be with you
shortly
we are back ladies and gentlemen it is
the fun half of the program wherein we
take your calls we talk about fun things
and we take your IMS for a little bit of
time we have a lot of police activity
and siren activity these days what the
heck is going on with this someone
someone called the wambulance for that
Praeger you guy it's right here it comes
okay get the IMS up I think that that
does it be silly hey Sam I really think
that Biden's poll lead is because people
think he would be the most likely to be
Trump do you still believe that people
should vote strategically it seems to me
that it leaves us with the results that
are some perverted combination of
popular desire and amateur political
punji um well yes I do think but I do
think that the reality is is that I
think that and and again obviously this
is just my opinion but I have a feeling
there's a significant data like for
instance the I think there's a much
better chance that Joe Biden could beat
Donald Trump than say Wayne Messam who's
the way mayor of Miramar Florida but I
think it would be very difficult to say
Joe Biden has a significantly better
chance of beating Trump than say
Elizabeth Warren or Bernie Sanders or
even Kamala Harris for that matter I
mean I just don't think that I mean
people can make that assessment I just
think it's much easier to sort of really
say it with any type of assuredness that
Erik's law well is not going to you know
is not necessarily although maybe you
could I don't know but I you know I I
think you'd be a safer bet to say that
that's someone who is going to have a
tougher time of beating Trump basically
because of his profile and he's not
associated with anything yeah you should
vote strategically when it makes sense
right well you vote strategically
otherwise it's not actually strategic
exactly exactly in fuchsias let's play
this this is sub Gorka who I don't know
I mean look there's been a lot of things
that said Gore could have said that is
ridiculous and and and pathetic and sad
and stupid that's all that's true but I
think this clip and and and people can
correct me if they have a different
opinion but I think this clip shows him
to be a liar and a grifter maybe more
than any other clip that we've seen
because the the nature of the lie and
the nature of the of the grift is pretty
apparent here and it's not just and it's
not just ideological right like there's
a lot of things he says that it's just
stupid that I've always attributed to a
certain ideology this is one that just
leads me to believe like oh he is just
out now shamelessly lying and performing
in such a way that he knows he's lying
and so it has to lay it on a little bit
thicker like the you know this is the
classic you know there's a tendency for
people who are you know commentators or
pundits or you know public speakers in
any way that you don't let them see you
sweat and sometimes when you really are
sweating on the inside it makes you a
little more a little too effusive you
know like you're like yeah you know them
over selling it a bit exactly exactly
and this is red this is him watching
this is him over selling it now somehow
this guy gets on c-span it seems like
every 15 minutes and one of the problems
with c-span is that you know you got the
hosts they're always very extremely
neutral I'll get example of that is
there nothing to fair to the Jews mr.
Hitler yeah exactly
no it's totally fair all right let's go
back let's go back to the phone lines
this is the Democrat line
here's Daniel next up Germantown
Maryland Democrats line
yes hello good morning thanks for taking
my call mr. Gorka you previously said
that Trump was against these stupid wars
but that found a reason to be in support
of regime change in Venezuela and I
found that striking seeing as how your
reasoning was that Maduro is a brutal
dictator and he's oppressing his people
however I don't see the same attitude
towards Mohammed bin Salman in Saudi
Arabia a brutal dictator who's
definitely brutally oppressed his people
especially the opposition while in
Venezuela the main figure had opposition
that's courting the international
community that's certainly interested in
the Petro State his main opposition is
running through the streets not arrested
not having his head
but being run over by own person are
carries that's okay
oh my gosh okay let's let's this is the
classic leftist Howard Zinn Michael
Moore argument of moral equivalency who
who is the opposition that Mohammed bin
Salman has been active against in Saudi
Arabia they're not pro-democracy
demonstrators it's the Muslim
Brotherhood it's members of the regime
who've been supporting groups like Al
Qaeda and Isis for decades that the idea
that Maduro and MBA MBS is the first
Saudi leader in years who is trying to
purge his nation of those who have been
funding and giving soccer to the global
jihadi movement I this this idea is
moral equivalency between my daughter
and NBS is asinine I posit and it's okay
so now he gets away with this sort of
like just general you know like
generalities right like it with the idea
MBS the same as beador oh there's people
being there's there's people being run
over in the streets now the the the
first point is sort of I think telling
the you can't name the political
opposition that NBS has arrested and put
in jail basically because they never got
enough press they were not free long
enough to gain any type of like traction
in the in in our news I mean there are
there are many people in prison not not
the least of which members of his own
family that were you know arrested and
put into house arrest or whatnot other
peace activists but you know their their
names are under the radar many a lot of
you know activists I mean when he
decreed some of those reforms like woman
being allowed to drive he also was
imprisoning the woman activists who had
pushed for that to happen specifically
as a clear statement that these reforms
were a gift from the king not reform so
he I mean Lou Jayan halfa Lau and my
assalam Moody
were arrested they were the ones who
were protesting to end the driving band
and they were once JA and were jailed
for it
Human Rights Watch spoke about that and
put out stuff I mean there's there's
been more but continued
let's see between Maduro and NBS his
asinine has visible has NBS put the us
in a difficult position by his response
for some might say lack of response to
the assassination the clear
assassination of mister Khashoggi and
now pause it pause it for one moment let
me just like that question is stunning i
gather difficult out the chain saw his
body apart in the embassy just reiterate
what the question is did the murderer
the one who ordered the assassination of
Khashoggi put the in s us in a difficult
position by not responding to the
charges that he triggered the
assassination of that man oh yes
transparency is really an issue a good
response for some makes a lack of
response to the assassination the clear
assassination of mister khashoggi and
absolutely has put us in a difficult
position but at the end of the day it's
not what the washington post of a fake
news industrial complex would have you
believe this man khashoggi was an
apologist for jihadists he was an
apologist for the muslim party so we now
have him actively saying that the
mitigating factor of chopping this guy
up in the Turkish embassy when he came
for a marriage license the mitts
mitigated by he was an apologist for
politics that I disagree with you let me
just say the mitigating factor is all of
the propaganda that his murderers spread
about him allow me to repeat it exactly
but as if like that in any way
implicates the
variety of this guy who is a green card
holder in this country this man
khashoggi was an apologist for jihadists
he was an apologist for the Muslim
Brotherhood he wasn't an American
journalist he was murdered and that was
wrong but that event they called on
foreign soil we need to get to the
bottom of it we need to have
transparency but they at the end of the
day the idea that Khashoggi was some
champion of democracy
he was an apologist the kinds of people
who are in bed with groups like Isis and
al-qaeda let's hear from Kyle I mean
there's just something about that let's
hear from Kyle he knows it is smeared
but isn't that I mean isn't that the
most naked sort of like just out-and-out
lying that this guy is doing right I
mean he knows there isn't there's just
no you know there's no idea it's just a
grift for this guy well that was a
common response actually I'm on the
right to khashoggi x' murderer and the
thing was all you know that was yeah a
fair enough
I mean you know and it's so I mean first
of all yes because shogi did have some
connections with some you know
right-wing Muslim politics including
like his former connections with the
leadership of Saudi Arabia which is
where he kind of got his start deserves
to die deserves to die one also the
other thing is that you know the
historical but and I just want to put on
it is that if you wipe out you eliminate
all other political alternatives and
only support Petro dictatorships and
help fund religious extremists you're
gonna end up in a situation where
religion is the only common modality
that people can do politics in a certain
place and and let me just add the
participation or really no participation
maybe underselling a little bit of
what's going on in Yemen by MBS and
Saudis is appalling but I don't expect
Gorka to critique that at all because of
course we're so supportive of it now we
should say that at the very least the
house and the Senate did vote to end the
funding they were overridden with a veto
they couldn't override the veto so at
least that there is some mitigation to
the
or that we are or at least to the charge
that we are fully behind this we are
fully behind it but at least there is
some dissent in our body politic Thank
You Bernie have much value to the people
who are dying but it is at least it's
gonna make it just that when when God
comes down and releases Hellfire maybe
not everyone will get burned to a crisp
hey don't burn me I support Bernie
Sanders it looks like somebody called in
and said to Gorka what we might want oh
let's hear that this is the this
follow-up call right now about 20
minutes later 20 minutes later again
good morning we this is really directed
at you the moderator we are living in
very precarious times education for the
public is very important and when I
watch c-span I like to listen to my
fellow Americans the news the
journalists that you have on the experts
that you have on this morning you have
on someone who who's a no grifter
propagandist pocket or and I don't think
he's going to add anything to the body
politic I mean any kind of what you make
any kind of positive way and so I just
want to encourage you just in this very
dangerous time where misinformation and
disinformation is such a huge problem
that you choose your guests were you
know thoughtfully this guy is he's
dangerous and he likes to be dangerous
he likes to provoke he doesn't have our
best interests at heart and I don't mind
here her server diffuse I just want them
to be after it fair aboveboard thank you
thank you Amy and we do as is told
earlier Carlo bring guests along for the
left of rails Center and no this is
America they want to control information
[Laughter]
she's totally I mean obviously if she's
right but uh-huh
don't you think Gorka was trying to like
lean into his like villain propagandist
thing a little bit earlier when he was
talking about khashoggi like mm this is
maybe a message to other journalists
that we don't care about freedom of the
press oh of course
and I mean the the aggrievement the they
want to control the information by
critiquing your guest selection they
want to give feedback about the
information that we give them that's
crazy
let's go to the phones as I tried
control the information by clicking on
the 7 3 4 number I have given you the
power but it's just been leased who's
this where you come from
7 3 4 7 3 4 let's see maybe it's not
calling from a 508 phone number who's
this where you come from hello hello
who's this Patty Hearst Patty Hearst
don't wonder County from Worcester
County okay and what's on your mind
Patty Hearst I listen to your show a lot
for free so I have to say thank you okay
you're welcome okay that's all thank you
there we go ladies and gentlemen fans in
high places there you go
calling there's an overseas call I think
what is the four nine for nine it's a
country code who's this hello me yeah me
not from Berlin Germany
Emil and from Berlin Germany what's on
your mind I wanted to defend McCraw a
little bit okay mm I don't really think
you can blame him for his policies like
his social agenda is pretty much just
copying what Germany did at the turn of
the century and they don't really have a
choice because they're just feeding them
in the economy at all phases and Merkel
is stonewalling or reform I mean he you
lever that McCraw basically won election
on so yeah it's pretty much almost
America thought more or less pretty much
America's fault Oh Merkel's fault
Morocco
okay all right well I mean fair enough I
mean III think you know getting into
what the individual would want to do at
any given point then you know what
McCrone should not have run and he
should have sat this out if he has no
agency whatsoever and then what's the
point the Corps has agency but you can't
really do anything the u.s. Germany's
without jamming approval right and
America will not do any reform but
though he doesn't want the types of
reforms we would want regardless your
and when you say at the turn of the
century you talking about agenda 2010
like you talking about Schroeder yes
exactly
okay yeah sure yeah yeah a third way but
he's the same kind of politician so that
I mean we're arguing I know this is
responsibility right it's the same
policy agenda what I'm trying to say
that it's kind of like a race to the
bottom where now friends doesn't really
have a choice anymore because we're just
running away and better sex you did but
the capital tough
our country okay.you oh I don't like
don't get me wrong I'm just saying that
blame is really put if your fundamental
point is that we should hold Germany
primarily responsible certainly as a
Jewish person strong cosign also I I
mean but Germany actually I mean Germany
is the engine of the EU crisis it's
mandated austerity it's tortured Greece
I mean yes absolutely and I think I
think even though he's you know kind of
a laughingstock I think and turned out
to be a pretty bad French president I
think Oland actually did try a little
bit in 12 and 13 to slightly soften
Germany's demands on the eurozone and
meek Merkel beat him and yeah here we
are
it is primarily Germany's fault but
McCrone is terrible as well yet these
things it's always a combination of
contingency thrown in German and I mean
the way that McCrone is imposing
neoliberalism and austerity on France to
a degree that the people really will not
accept it's always a combination of
these over determining factors of
capitalist development on the one hand
and contingency on the other because you
need people to implement the policies it
doesn't just happen by magic but I think
a lot of people in France right now are
standing up and saying that that is not
tolerable they're having what could turn
out to be like an actual insurrection so
it'll be very interesting to see what
happens there appreciate the call yes
friend generally are more opposing to
order and enough German thirdly Thanks
thanks for calling
oh yeah go on so much more docile come
from well depends of context beside
calling from a three four seven area
code who's this hi how are you what's
going on Sam what's up who's this then
from Far Rockaway I don't know if you
remember the Orthodox Jew guy call the
cook oh yes Ben from far walk away how
are you
relax I'm alright can't complain
too much I actually wanted to kind of
talk to you about what I hope will be a
transition from the card not the
assistant to something like
medicare-for-all
I actually work in the healthcare
finance field this is clear relating to
nursing homes and I know how complicated
this room is currently yeah one thing I
kind of curious to talk about is the
transition from the system there are
actually a lot of jobs that are
specifically and intrinsically tied to
the current healthcare system right do
you know of or are there any I mean
studies or conversations that haven't
had at the political and you know
political talk show level about how that
transition would actually take place in
a way where people won't lose you know
jobs or have to take massive pay cuts to
get another job in the healthcare field
that will be taking over I've seen
studies that that basically put the
numbers all over the place and I haven't
to be honest with you I have not read
any piece isn't exactly how it would go
down but broadly speaking
my sense is is that on on the on the
sort of the the claims level I mean on
some level right a lot of people are
gonna find work in an expanded Medicare
system it's not inconceivable to me that
what one of the ways that you could go
to a single-payer system is to have a
single-payer and still have the sort of
the apparatus that the insurance
companies use but they would end up
being you know sort of like assumed into
you know a larger system so they may
still it's conceivable you could still
have private entities but they would be
more equivalent to
more equivalent to I guess mortgage
servicers right than mortgage originator
or I should say yeah mortgage servicers
as opposed to originators except for
they wouldn't be getting the fees they
wouldn't be for profit or you know their
to the extent that they would they be
contracted to to work in the Medicare
system but I would imagine a lot of
those people are going to end up working
in the Medicare system and I would
imagine there's going to be a non you
know a greater than zero
job loss but there are programs I think
that would be that would be contemplated
to help people make a transition out of
that yep Bernie's Medicare for all plan
does have a transition program attached
to been one sec one sec one sec Bernie's
Medicare for all plan actually does have
a transition program attached to it for
exactly that reason
along with some resources and if you
pair it with a federal jobs guarantee
which is also a part of Bernie's
platform you know it's possible that
there are people currently working in
the insurance industry for whom that is
not their passion and you know maybe it
would be a great chance to do something
else I mean yeah I mean nobody wants to
I mean well not nobody but I I would
imagine the number of people who want to
lose their job hey you know is greater
than than zero who don't want to lose
their job but there you know there is
this is the same problem we're gonna
have with any type of transition into
clean energy this is the same transit
this is the same problem we would have
if we cut defense spending right I mean
so yeah this is there's no doubt there's
a challenge there's a part of Bernie's
plan that that contemplates this it's
not something that would be a huge
surprise to people and but you know I
mean look that was the argument as to
why they shouldn't they shouldn't go
after a lot of the banks for their fraud
was literally the argument is we're
gonna have too many people lose their
job that was you know following the the
shutting down of what
at Andersen accounting I can't remember
what the the full name was in the Enron
scandal it's like we can have too many
people lose their jobs and there was no
obviously that was this criminal case
but there was no program to deal with
the thousands of people who lost their
job when they went under but yeah this
happens there's a there's a proposal for
it but I'll look for for a I think as we
you know go along in the campaign if the
campaign becomes more this becomes more
relevant we will talk more about it and
maybe have somebody on I would imagine
there would be some pieces out there
written that would sort of walk through
this process I mean I think it's a real
it's definitely a real challenge but you
know again that's there's a certain
inevitability and it shouldn't be
something that precludes us because
nobody likes it nobody likes the system
people to the extent that people are
comfortable with the system as it is now
they tend to conflate the insurance with
their ability to see their doctors they
also underestimate how often they lose
that ability and they don't realize
necessarily how bad their insurance is
because of the nature of how often
people need to use it oh absolutely I
mean I understand that completely I just
afield I actually work in it
specifically nursing home finance which
is deals with Medicaid and insurances
and what it covers what it doesn't and I
started as a person practical talk
people know well here's your copay bill
or here's the private rate of hundreds
and hundreds of dollars a day and watch
them you know have to try and work that
out and I know exactly saw that I agree
understand I know like three years ago
my job if it would have definitely did
cut like I wouldn't have a job
so I do agree that it's something that
is necessary for this transition I just
was I like you said as we get closer I
hope it's something that will be talked
about more because I do think it's
something that they're gonna try and use
as an act of attacking I agree though
and I agree and I think that you know I
would be surprised if we don't see more
written about that as this becomes an
issue
the campaign I mean I you know the but I
I appreciate the call thanks Ben alright
thank you so much for having me you know
I mean this is something I think we
mentioned the other day that we were
contemplating in the the summer of 2016
which is that one of the problems with
having Donald Trump win is you know
where you know the the the desire and
Weigel said it like you know if Hillary
had won be at brunch right now type of
thing there has been at least in my
lifetime over and over again this sort
of same thing plays out I remember when
Bill Clinton got elected I think it was
there to a certain extent with Obama but
less so because of the 2008 financial
crisis but there is this compulsion with
Democrats broadly the left to elect
people have them be competent and so
that I can walk away and do other things
it is almost endemic to the personality
type of broadly speaking I'm paying with
a broad brush here left and right
because I mean to be on the left to be
liberal and I think the vast majority of
people on the left are liberal still in
this country I would identify that way
and I'm talking more big liberal be big
out that rather than just sort of a a
specific political ideology ideas but
they are interested in things like music
and art and stuff that they don't know
and with that what is foreign they're
more open to it that is just the the
nature the conservative movement in this
country is completely built on this idea
of anything that's outside of you you
have ignorant of is necessarily a danger
in some fashion and they've been very
successful at stoking that but on the
Left broadly speaking you have
a hunger to be introduced to new things
and do other things a wide variety of of
things and how your government works
tends to be a minor piece of that and so
I just want it to work and I don't want
to deal with this hassle as opposed to
on the right where it's like the gay
Muslim socialists are going to you know
take us over if I'm not constantly
vigilant and you know I call this like a
Masada complex and I think that dynamic
is here you know and it seems to be
somewhat inevitable and that's why I
like this
I think it's early and I think it's very
sort of knee-jerk II and I have a
feeling it's gonna go away a little bit
of this like Biden also represents just
a return to I think people like it's
just gonna be like Obama like let's just
go back to like Obama and that's fine we
were so you know we didn't fully
appreciate her we did appreciate it I
just want to go back and and I think I
don't know I guess I raised that only
because I hope that we end up talking
about you know I hope we haven't having
extended conversations about how
medicare-for-all will be implemented
because that's important to the campaign
but it's conceivable that won't be well
this is why we need to reach more people
with even though it's like not always
easy to wrap your mind around the
connections and the reasons why the kind
of Obama liberalism led to the problems
that we're seeing now and led to the
rise of Trump and just doubling down on
that is only gonna make things worse
and like I realize it's a difficult
connection to make and it sounds kind of
esoteric even when I'm saying it right
now but there are concrete ways of
showing it
even just like if you look at the
statistics of how poor people by and
large do not vote non-voters skew poor
and they skew non-white because class is
very racialized in this country and when
they do vote they vote for Democrats so
one way to get more people voting for
Democrats is to lift more people out of
poverty and Obama's policies did not do
that right no I mean I agree I just
think that the the mentality of a lot of
voters are that like I mean I think it
looks people in general regardless of
what we're talking about have trouble
planning you know and doing something
today that has implication mean this
came up with with Weigel to like there
are some people who are like we need to
make a vote we need to vote for a
president in 2020 who's not just gonna
win but who's going to have you know
create a durable type of feedback loop
where they provide material benefit and
create political strength so that we're
in good shape in 2024 in 2028 in 2022
and 2026 but most people you know can't
make you know on an appointment and keep
it three months out you know so I mean
the problem is is that that that
long-term strategic thinking is not
there and on some level like even the
pitch that things are this important and
this problematic that if you don't make
this choice it's going to be problematic
down the road is on some level I think
and maybe this has changed and I think
it's changed to a certain extent
certainly with younger people because
they see the implications like they can
see the implications of this stuff in a
way that I think older people can't but
that in and of itself just the idea that
like oh you're talking to me about being
engaged in politics that's four years
from now even if Trump wins that's
annoying and I don't want to even think
about that I want to be able to walk
away I mean it's it's sort of like
there's a quality of it like you know
don't think of an elephant when you
start to talk about politics as
something that is not something that you
just involve yourself in for a brief
period of time in moments of crisis that
in itself sometimes becomes a turn-off
to people it's like I got enough in my
life either from a hassle standpoint or
in terms of like
that makes enriching that I don't want
to deal with that and she's not asking
people to like join the DSA or whatever
although they definitely should do that
I'm asking them to vote it doesn't take
that long and vote strategically well
the strategically part now involves like
now I got to do work I have to say that
my brain is still in recovery mode from
taking in so many high-level important
ideas here is Roca Hana actually talking
about the transition for health
insurance workers and makes a case from
Medicare for all that I mean there was
evidence that we saw this even in the
context of the Affordable Care Act which
only affected 10 million Americans in
terms of private insurance was 10
million on Medicaid 10 million in
private insurance there was in the data
some job loss that was a function of
people being freed up from
employer-based insurance and here is
rohana mentioning that he is the
national campaign co-chair for Bernie
you know it's a huge transition the
insurance industry is 1.7 trillion it
employs 500,000 people
Bernie Sanders is plan allows still for
supplemental private insurance if you
read the details of the plan and we have
to figure out how we make this
transition but I think that you raise a
good point though and I respect you for
bringing it up yourself which is it has
become one of the top two or three if
not V depending on which metric you want
to look at main employers in the country
so when you say hey this is going to
mean that government will absorb more of
this there'll be less private sector you
could wind up costing people jobs well
the transition is very important and
people can work in numerous other ways
they can help administer Medicare they
can help work in other health care jobs
that are going to be created with
telemedicine
I think the transition is very important
and anyone honest has to look at that
but the basic point is and you know who
agreed with the single-payer system
Donald Trump in the America we deserve
in 2000 he wrote that the Canadian
system is better because it gives more
benefits and in has less cost and the
average American here's what it's going
to mean instead of paying $5,000 to a
private insurance company on average now
you're gonna pay a much smaller fee and
who's gonna lose out the insurance
companies are the pharmaceutical
companies and you're gonna get to keep
your doctor and have better care I
believe many entrepreneurs warren
buffett has talked about medicare for
all it's the single biggest cause for
wage stagnation Vice President Biden is
absolutely right
middle-class wages have stagnated if you
talk to economists the reason for wage
stagnation is the rising healthcare
premiums employers have been giving that
money to health care costs as opposed to
raising wages and this is why we have to
make the economic argument for Medicare
for all
well it will be interesting obviously
you're gonna have to find ways to make
this all digestible for the American
people deal with the Opposition in party
and see if you get the ticket to take it
to the president and we'll watch it all
along the way and Congressman you were
invited here to make the case when you
can well Chris I really appreciate the
opportunity and I'll tell senator
Sanders you should come on - it was
really good to see those guys get along
yeah but no that is the I mean that is
the argument and you know I think
clearly the the transition for those
half a million workers needs to be
worked out I would imagine I mean it
doesn't it wouldn't surprise me if half
of them or you know a little bit less
40% of them found work on day one in in
Medicare you're still dealing with a
tremendous amount of workers but there
are contingencies in the plan to deal
with retraining and and and maybe I'm
under estimating you know the the issue
the you know when we compare the
efficiency of Medicare to that of
private insurance and
every dollar spent in Medicare something
like 96 to 97 cents of that dollar goes
towards health care 3% 4% goes towards
administration costs on on the private
health insurance we had to mandate that
80% of the money taken in for premium
pay goes to health care so you have 20%
there and it's not obviously
administrative costs it's also a profit
shareholders you're not going to have
that and so you have that greater
efficiency in Medicare but that doesn't
mean that you don't need bodies in there
to actually administer this and you're
still going to need people who are gonna
evaluate claims in some fashion it's not
gonna work in the same way it's gonna be
a much easier from a user perspective
it's gonna be easier from the
perspective of the doctors because
they're gonna be dealing with one entity
they're not gonna be dealing with like
12 sets of rules you know oh I mean I I
just remember the amount of time that
went into with a doctor's office and
it's conceivable you know doctors
offices you will see job loss because
there's at least a person at least a
person in a doctor's office who is
full-time doing all these billing things
and the billing is going to become
sufficiently easier you're gonna have
doctors with more time they're gonna be
able to see more patients because
they're not gonna be filling out the
same type of information I mean so
there's gonna be a lot of change in the
system some of it is going to be a
challenge and other of it's going to be
just I think people would be shocked at
how much simpler and easier things are
and I think doctors are gonna appreciate
their work a lot more and I think if we
take the people that are in charge of
going up to a family saying hey we'll
save your kid if you can pay the $700
bill
I think they might appreciate moving on
to a different line of work I mean yeah
like has anyone actually asked the
healthcare workers themselves all these
people who are like concerned rolling
about the job loss
I'm gonna guess no
and you know what neither have I but I'm
gonna guess at least some of them will
be happy that they now have affordable
healthcare they don't have to worry
about constantly and I'm also gonna
guess unless you are a sociopath you
probably don't like denying care to
people and delivering bad news so like
this is something that's tougher to
quantify but going back to like David
gray vers jobs I think most
people want their jobs to be
contributing something to society and to
the world
and I know that I would much rather have
a job just like helping people get the
care that they need and that they can
now afford then you know adjusting
claims and denying people care for
whatever reason turning to foreign
policy this week we have according to
John Bolton dispatched a carrier fight
group
I imagine down to the streets our moves
is that wherewhere is it I'm not exactly
sure where it's going I think it's the
block that's the Strait of Hormuz which
is where this prime oil flow point and
this of course is an incredibly
aggressive move this is the way that
Iran Ian's get their oil out of their
country and the u.s. is going I don't
know if it's to block or if it's just to
hang around and see what happens
but that level belligerence
is you know could be the predicate to
some type of war or bombing with Iran or
perhaps it is a predicate to some proxy
bombing Iran and our positioning there
is to basically do one of those things
where it's like oh this is even worse I
mean they're actually saying that it's a
deterrence from what is seen as a
potential preparation by Iranian forces
and its proxies that may indicate a
possible attacks on US forces in the
region which is incredibly dishonest and
dangerous I mean this is like when they
may the Republican National Guard a
terrorist group they did that like they
determined a couple of months ago that
was incredibly provocative in Iran in
response said that all US forces in the
region are terror or a terrorist force
essentially as a kind of like tit for
tat well and one truth is they've been
playing near each other at times
targeting each other at times informally
cooperating for years so nothing is
different anybody that would kind of put
reporting forward on some type of knew
like Lebanon 1980s scenario is lying
well first off the idea that Iran would
pick a fight with the United States is
absurd it's just simply absurd but more
importantly recall that like you said
when we designated the Iranian Guard a
terrorist organization one of the things
that people were concerned about is does
that mean under the AUMF which is the
authorization for use of military force
which was signed in the wake of 9/11
which allows for a far too much power in
the executive to wage war amongst far
too many people but specifically terror
groups this could be a predicate to
opening up a legal justification for
kinetic energy or whatever they call it
in in a war on Iran so this is
disturbing and Matt dust from from
Bernie Sanders team this Barbara Starr
from CNN credulous Lea reporting just in
yeah I mean robber star is not credulous
Li reporting anything she is repeating
yeah oh yeah no Barbara Starr said this
was part of
the Bush administration in in pushing
this stuff in in many respects and
Barbara Starr repeats Justin US
officials wonder who tell me the threats
from Iran included quote specific
incredible intelligence that Iranian
forces and proxies were targeting US
forces in Syria Iraq and at sea there
were multiple threads of intelligence
about multiple locations the official
said
hashtag Iran and Matt does said Bolton
has a well-documented history of
misrepresenting Intel to justify
escalation and the administration is
desperate to change subject after taking
a pie in the face in Venezuela but okay
and I think Matt does is right about
that one of the other things that
they're doing to avoid a pie in the face
is also getting into a trade fight with
China and this again you know Donald
Trump has a I think a sort of a a built
in almost knee-jerk response to losing
something and to feeling like he's being
humiliated by starting up you know
another squabble somewhere else
it's almost childlike in many respects
like I'm gonna get attention even if
it's for doing bad things and here's
Mike Pompeo going on Face the Nation to
talk about we're getting tough with
China and which you know I think we're
probably getting tough and all the
things that I at least care about and
getting not so tough in the things that
I do care about and this Margaret
Brennan on Face the Nation brings up
some of the things that I would care
about that we were getting a tough on
China and that is really almost
offensive to Mike Pompeo and he won't
say certain words can you come up with
what words he won't say in this
conversation let's and I'll give maybe a
little hint but go
we heard from a Pentagon official on
Friday a pretty stark description of
what is underway right now in China he
said that there are three million
Muslims being rounded up into
concentration camps in China why hasn't
the administration closet any three
million Muslims roundup into
concentration camps contemplate that
that is a horror listen to how much Mike
Pompeo does not want to repeat what the
Defense Department has said why hasn't
the administration taken any kind of
action or sanction against Beijing for
this oh goodness
the President Trump has pushed back
against China in a way that no previous
president had that they'd given they had
given the Chinese a free pass in every
dimension president Trump is not pushing
back on the enormous trade abuses you've
seen me personally speak out about the
same situation you're describing this
this number certainly up to a million
people held in re-education camps the
Trump administration is going to hold it
every name did did you see what he just
did there sorry three million people
from a concentration camp
just turned into 1 million people in a
reeducation camp and the amazing thing
is he thinks that's a mitigating oh it's
just a reaction camp oh oh okay just a
reaction camp is in mitigation use
switch to their state terminology would
mean it's not just that that's a term
that they would tend to use getting
tough on China certainly up to a million
people held in re-education camps the
Trump administration is going to hold
every nation accountable with that term
reeducation camps not concentration
camps which the pentagon used we can we
can use lots of different terms to
describe what's taking place is enormous
human rights violations I've spoken
about it repeatedly the entire
administration has spoken out it you
just said a million minorities the
Pentagon says three million is there a
discrepancy within the administration on
what to do about this and what's
actually there
there's not don't don't play ticky tack
there's no this is a loaded term sir and
three million Muslims being rounded up
is something that many would expect the
United States to raise at the highest
levels and we've done so it sounds like
you're satisfied with that we've done so
right back that because the accusation
is you know sir is that the trade talks
are causing the u.s. to choose its own
financial interests over its values are
you saying that's not the case and there
will be actions taken thanks for the
clarification of your question I
appreciate that this administration can
do more than one thing at a time we're
working to stop the intellectual
property theft that has destroyed
millions of jobs in the United States
we're working to stop the foreign
technology transfers technology
transfers that have taken place we've
got the largest defense budget in
history in place part of which will go
to ensuring we counter Chinese military
power we're working on these human
rights violations as well this
administration takes a back seat to no
one in our that feeling when you get
asked about a concentration camp of 3
million concentrate with 3 million
people and you talk about we're
protecting the rights of Hollywood
filmmakers to not have their DVDs copied
well I'll tell you what we won't let
those Chinese bastards do do
another friggin bootleg key priority
Ableton Live
yeah kung fu red dead-letter not this
time yeah come out of this
administration foo hustle to is not
gonna be on a street corner in Bushwick
again doesn't want to be a hypocrite
considering that the US government also
has concentration camps you know we're
working on these human rights violations
as well this administration takes a back
seat to no one in our efforts and our
outcomes in achieving a more rational
relationship with China the previous
administration put us in a bad place and
we're working to fix it were you just
saying human rights are gonna be
included in the trade deal
no human human rights are going to be
addressed and we've done so I've raised
it in multiple conversations with my
counterpart their foreign minister and
with others I've said the words and how
we backing that up you better not be
those knockoff DVDs Mike raised it and I
pushed back what more do you want us to
do he was raised and pushed back both
which that's a lot of things we did the
raise and the push back it was it was
raised and a push but no it's not gonna
come up with a straight accident Mike do
you have hypertension very touchy with
the interview
speaking of concentration camps and to
be fair these are not concentration
camps that are housing migrant children
they are just large open-air prisons
that because concentration would would
imply that you have gathered people from
around the country and put them in as
opposed to sort of like just arresting
them at the border and shoving him in
the it's a it's a ice does arrest people
all over the country that's true but
they don't put them in these detention
these child detention centers that now
you'll recall there was a large
expansion of child detention centers
under the Trump administration largely
under the auspices of of John Kelly
now John Kelly was the adult who was
brought in to curb Donald Trump's most
heinous impulses and of course he was
one of those Republicans who was an
adult and adult Republicans that's what
they're good for they're they're good
for corralling the crazies in their own
party and as much as John Kelly had to
sort of pretend that he was all on board
with this huge program of of kidnapping
children and taking them from their
parents or expanding the unaccompanied
minor children eight definition and a
number of people that we were housing in
parentheses and the way that we expanded
the definition was to
take children from their parents and
then define them as unaccompanied as
opposed to children who show up at the
border without their parents and we
expanded the population of these people
within the our prison systems by
basically scaring any of their relatives
who in this country might pick them up
and take care of them during any type of
judicial process that would determine
these kids fate now one might ask like
wow this is a real burden on the
government well of course it's not
because we just pay other people to do
it now of course it's a burden on the
taxpayer and but we privatized these
institutions in fact there's one company
Caliburn International Caliburn is the
parent company of comprehensive health
services which operates the homestead
facility in Homestead Florida this is a
and three other shelters for
unaccompanied migrant children in Texas
in fact they're the biggest company that
does so they almost have a monopoly on
this could they have a more Orwellian
name comprehensive health services is
the only private company operating
shelters and it became one of the most
dominant players in the industry last
August had secured three licenses for
facilities in Texas totaling five
hundred beds and in December the
homestead facility began expanding from
a capacity of 1250 beds to 3,200 they
received federal contract records show
the comprehensive received at least two
hundred and twenty two million dollars
to operate homestead itself between July
7th 2018 and April 20th 2019 so that's
one of four of facilities it's the
biggest one that gets two hundred and
twenty-two million dollars to operate
over the course of one year not even one
year ten months and could receive much
more up to three
41 million in payments between now and
November now being out of bed May and
November for continued operation of the
expanded site boy how do these guys do
it where do they get the technical
expertise or the ability to secure this
money from the government one can only
want oh what's this huh
on Friday Caliburn international
confirmed to CBS News that John Kelly
former White House chief of staff and
adult Republican adult had joined its
board of directors nice gig if you can
get it create a program to increase
client client base that's what they call
them they're all clients a market share
and then go walk on that board and now
I'm sure there's a lot of work he does
he was just spotted riding around on a
golf cart on the facility that's that
probably takes a day I mean a Board of
Directors typically my understanding is
you will have three to four meetings
that you must attend in a probably
fairly nice Retreat area where you get
to hobnob with your friends or other
business folk for a day or two they fly
you in they put you up they pay you
hundreds of thousands of dollars per
meeting that you attend and you sign off
on stuff I'm sure I'm sure he's making
sure I'm sure he's doing a lot of due
deal you guys making sure that these
kids are taken care of ethics that's the
number one word I'm concerned about
exactly during a tour in February a
program coordinator at Homestead told
CBS News that the older children prefer
cavernous digs
because this is a halls shared by as
many as two hundred seventeen year old
boys in rows of beds about
shoulder-width apart the program
coordinator told CBS that they like it
they say it's like a slumber party
are you kidding me so there you got
folks it's like Oh grotesque a slumber
party that's the sound of the swamp
being drained you could admit there's
very little on the public record to
suggest that this is an obscene human
being I believe this was from the not
unbelievably Coast Guard graduation and
I was in safe there's certainly things
not like this on the public record
indicating where this guy was coming
this is Kelly at the Coast Guard
graduation ceremony in 2017 Trump has a
sword Trump has a sword he's been given
a sword
he sits down next Kelly Kelly leans over
you said on the presser guys good stuff
really good stuff you're gonna get a job
now meanwhile we spoke with David Weigel
about Joe Biden on the campaign trail
and Bernie Sanders was on with Jon Karl
on ABC this week Joe Biden Bernie
Sanders the two frontrunners although
it's Elizabeth Warren is starting to
pick up some attention on in the polls -
and again it is very very early but here
is Bernie comparing his approach to Joe
Biden's approach I'm sure you saw Joe
Biden say that he is the most
progressive candidate in this race yeah
look good Joe is a good friend of mine
and not here to attack Joe Joe voted for
the war in Iraq I led the effort against
it voted for NAFTA and permanent normal
trade relations trade agreements with
China I have led the effort against that
Joe voted for the deregulation of Wall
Street I voted against that you know I
think if you look at Joe's record and
you look at my record I don't think
there's much question about who's more
progressive and I like Bernie's really
man he's so committed this time he that
face or just oh okay this is where I'm
not at a delicatessen or the phone call
disingenuous question that was a bit
disingenuous but look Joe is a good
friend of mine that's what everybody
says in these situations that now PNTR a
rock credit cards or I could just say
are you kidding me
here is Bernie comparing his approach to
Biden's in that same interview with John
Carlin ABC this week on Sunday well one
of those issues obviously is your
proposal for Medicare for all Biden says
that he would like to see a more
incremental approach fix Obamacare
provide a Medicare option for anybody
but allow
people to still have some have private
health insurance if they want why not do
an approach like that I'll tell you why
because the system today is is truly
dysfunctional we are spending twice as
much per capita on health care as
through the people of any other country
Medicare right now is the most popular
health insurance program in the country
but it only applies to people 65 years
of age or older all that I want to do is
expand Medicare over a four-year period
to cover every man woman and child in
this country but to do that you would
eliminate private health insurance and
for basic needs yes so what do you say
to the firefighter in Iowa who has a
health plan that they like what I would
say is that if you want a better program
a more comprehensive program with no
deductibles with no co-payments with
know premiums which will cost you a
family less support Medicare for all
but there are some trade-offs are
positive one second there's a couple of
things that's interesting about this so
far one only firefighters care about
their health insurance and first
responders sort of a fascinating thing
the people provide that health insurance
would probably be a government in some
fashion but nevertheless it's also
interesting to see that Bernie is not
pushing which I think is smart and it's
a I don't know if it's how much of a
change it's a slight one he is not
making a big argument that this is the
elimination of private insurance he is
now sort of saying for the basic stuff
which of course is the point there's
always this notion of a supplemental and
I think there there is no reason to make
this about eliminating private insurance
as much as there is a reason to make
private insurance obsolete and that is
that is a distinction with a difference
because the agenda should not be to get
rid of private insurance who cares it
should make it irrelevant and if there
are people who want to go out like you
know I don't think you should have a fur
sink it seems impractical but if you
really want
and that's the way you want to spend
your money god be with you now I don't
think we should have allow for so much
wealth that people can buy a lot of fur
sinks but if you want to get one be my
guest
continue premiums which will cost your
family less support Medicare for all but
there are some trade-offs are they I
mean are people going to be able to see
the doctor you guarantee can you make
that guarantee absolutely Obama to be a
positive change is question to me we're
talking about getting rid of insurance
if you're providing health insurance for
I don't know let's just say 92% of the
of the people in this country the other
8% they'll take the Medicare but then
they'll get their supplemental insurance
so they can go see their doctor there's
not enough of those people to support
this huge new medical industry first of
all they're already getting concierge
doctors they're already I mean they that
has already almost been sorted out but
let's say you have more defectors from
the Medicare system and and and as
consumers as patients of medicine
there's so many so many suppliers that
that's going to support so this idea
that the vast majority of doctors or
even a significant minority of doctors
would opt out of this system is bizarre
the doctors aren't going away they're
all going to be there and because you
have a uniform system as opposed to this
is the problem with the Affordable Care
Act it's because you're having it
compete against other private insurers
and you're having these private insurers
try and determine what is gonna be the
least expensive for them and so they're
the ones who are narrowing this stuff
this is why it happens but the doctors
aren't going to disappear they're just
it's actually gonna make it less likely
you will lose your doctor because the
doctor doesn't have that many options
anymore they can't opt out and just take
one you know insurance or another like I
could not go see when I got my
colonoscopy last year
I couldn't see the doctor that I saw the
last time because my insurance would no
longer pay for the anesthesiologist that
apparently the doctor wanted to bring in
so that he could do more business and I
had to go to a different doctor and
isn't basically everyone in America
familiar with that dynamic - I I don't I
think people are but they don't know
what to attribute it to more often than
not and they know they don't like it so
they don't want to be if you know if
this like even the question implies that
that's going to happen it's like if I
was to ask Bernie like with this
Medicare for all I mean how concerned
would you be that people are going to
have an anvil fall on their head when
they go into the doctors and and as
absurd as that premise is if I say that
enough people are gonna be like what's
this whole thing with the anvil dropping
on your head when you go into the
doctor's office I don't want that and I
know he keeps saying it's not gonna
happen but why do they keep asking the
question there must be something to it
also why doesn't anyone ever ask Joe
Biden why he favors an incremental
approach to insurance like it I feel
like the only people who ever get asked
this question are the Medicare for all
people right well and it's especially
galling considering the incremental
approach has already been tried for you
recently and it hasn't gotten that well
I mean people like it better than it was
before
but all right let's continue therefore
but there are some trade-offs aren't I
mean are people gonna be able to see the
doctor if you guarantee can you make
that guarantee absolutely go vomiting
you'll be able to keep your doctor
absolutely look the truth is right now
you may have an insurance plan that the
doctor you really like is not on that
network well what everybody wants to see
dr. Sanders here in the morning and
there's one want more people that's the
same problem you have today yeah but
very but that's look if you have a
popular doctor right now on the
occurrence this is literally just
mentioned one thing that would not like
no single-payer and having this
healthcare system will not eliminate the
problem of relative popularity
an overbooked practice that's true John
John Carl that question like there's got
to be trade-offs is you know what that
question communicates to me like I don't
know this stuff enough but I know you're
wrong no no no I just think I used to
sound challenging yeah can you can you
give me like I'm asking you for the
critique because I don't I don't quite
have it that's another thing that's just
really unfair and doctrinaire about
Bernie Sanders which is that he won't
present dishonest criticisms of his own
policies and national television
get out in front of the critiques he
always says like taxes will go up he
totally presents that right I mean and
that's that I mean that's what Carl
should have started with that I guess
and that's probably why he doesn't good
work well what if everybody wants to see
dr. Sanders here in the morning and
there's one want more people that's the
same problem you have today you have a
very much but that's look if you have a
popular doctor right now under your
current policy it may take you a while
to get in there look Carl I was waiting
plan at the free school and but
understand what what could also be
underneath that question which is really
on some level the deeply ideological
problem with this right because and that
is you're gonna give everybody access to
dr. Sanders and now the way we sort that
out is a lot of people can't afford to
see dr. Sanders I guess I'm a TV yes but
but if you make the popular doctors
accessible to everyone then how do we
sort this stuff out is who deserves to
see dr. Sanders yeah people are we
really gonna just let this go to chance
I mean when some of us have earned more
money and have proven to our moral
wealth and our moral deserve it nice to
see dr. Sanders and you're just gonna
willy-nilly let anybody come in that
that is and I don't know if that's way
John Carl meant that because the answer
is obvious like wait a second popular
doctors are hard to see that happens now
but underneath that and I don't know if
that was John Karl's intention or
certainly but that is part of the
criticism like this is what
we've heard from like hardcore
libertarians and the only ones who would
will basically articulate it but it is
it does Drive this is that you're gonna
give like the for them this is the bug
what is the feature for people who want
Medicare for all is sort of the bug for
the right and they can't quite
articulate that because that makes them
look like heartless human beings we have
a great system that prices the poor out
without us needing to do it hands on
exactly we can keep the riffraff out of
here we don't need to put a sign that
says no riffraff but we have moral
denial but we have a plausible
deniability right exactly people act
like care is not already being rationed
by the market and it is of course that's
a hundred right exactly and also that
and as other people point out that but
it's being rationed it's being rationed
with the rationale because when you care
when when care is rationed but when a
system that everybody has access to it
that gets a little bit like what's the
logic behind that there's no there's no
it's funny because these interest types
or whatever you want to call them it's
so it's like that's another reason why
Obama care works for them so well
because you know it's one thing to go
complete complete sociopathic and just
like you don't get to have health care
but it's another to be like health care
should be like air travel you know right
I'm not saying that I want these people
to just die but I should have a much
better experience be more highly because
it's another can use only soggy seats up
in first-class
that's exactly how would you that's the
idea logic it's people that are
threatened by the concept of your money
is no good here and I went to when I was
in France a year ago I had an issue with
my the person I was with had to go to
the hospital got IV treatments got a
bunch of tests done we were there for
like 12 hours in hospital bed and when
we left were like is there a bill we
have to sign or anything like that
nothing they're just like see and that
was an amazing experience and there's
certain people that want to be able to
walk into a hospital room and make sure
they can get like a nicer room or get in
cut lines because they've used
with a certain type of insurance that's
exactly that's a threaten to them that's
right and it's so funny how some of
those people metabolize like going and
seeing a system like that in France and
they're just sort of like well I like
well or it's not interesting and I get
to take vacations and see that because
I've worked so hard let's go to the
phones call from a two one five area
code who's this where you come from I
have something so important to add to
this conversation okay
how are you I have a really bad deviated
septum and my news is collapsing it's
not there I mean it's like it's
noticeable to me anyway I've been
shopping around for doctors and my dogs
are barking because someone's here but I
I've been I'm shopping around for
doctors so I live in Philadelphia
you know Pennsylvania area so I started
to go to I I had an interview with the
like a really good guy at Jefferson and
then I had another appointment with a
guy at Penn and my co-pays was top three
tier so each appointment was $80 so I I
had three actually three appointments so
every time I go into $80 which I'm
already into it for 240 which is sad I
mean because you know you have to think
about it I mean 240 dollars to go to see
a doctor is bad but also neither of the
offices like the two big ones are kind
of Jefferson completely vacant there
were maybe like 30 seats there were two
people in there my husband and I and
like maybe another person and they're on
the doctors like usually they used to
like go through the appointments like
you know five minutes they would see
with their hands on the door I mean both
times the guy attends that an hour with
me an entire hour and he said he had to
go like almost toward like the end of it
and he said oh my next appointment just
cancelled so I can spend more time with
you I have a really complicated issue I
mean anyway the plan
right go ahead you you the point I'm
trying to say did you hear me the point
you try say the point I'm trying to say
is that these doctors are hurting with
the medical insurance now there's nobody
in their waiting rooms the only people
that were in the hospitals both times
that I saw were either like cancer
patients going for you know cancer
dialysis patients or pregnant girls I
mean there are nobody saying doctors
people are not going to die I don't know
I just know my friends aren't going to
doctors because it's expensive but I
mean it's really have now is awful yeah
well I exactly single-payer Thank You
Mindy appreciate it check out Mindy's uh
blog she's got memes up there
fix the nose right up real fast Jesus
Christ Carly you're a
let's go to some IMS here read the
political piece of Bernie's public
access show from the eighties
interviewing Goths at the mall has got
to be my favorite thing I've seen this
week how did we not pulling it are you
being so on Paul that's a Jamie pic
right there all right wait no no let's
play the the Kudlow first larry cudlow
very I I don't I don't know what this
was if this was a hey this feels to me
like a he's just doing well like got
like a like a set piece this does not
feel like it was an interview with the
reporters it seems like it was a set
piece that they were looking to try to
go viral trying to go viral with this I
can't because the news doesn't do the
soft focus in the back do you notice
that the background soft focus he's come
out it's almost like an ad for the
economy if you will and look I've been
in show business myself I've had to do
some performing sometimes you get a
little bit uptight before you go on
sometimes and look you know a lot of
professionals will look down on this but
sometimes you like to lubricate yourself
a little bit I'm not talking physically
or manually I'm talking in terms of like
psychologically and spiritually yeah you
might have a drink
drink or something like that together
CBD oil or something like that to loosen
up I don't think that this is CBD oil
I'm not talking I'm just talking about
my own personal experience right maybe
going to read Gatorade something like
that electrolytes electrolytes or
alcohol gotta get the elect
I knew people who would occasionally
have a little sip in fact the guy who
played the Avengers the not the the
Avenger original the guy who played
Michael Steele bridge guy I can't
remember his name now and I did a sitcom
with him actually he was a and he well
you're British I'm Jewish
he was I thinks you know we didn't have
that type of dynamic you wouldn't
understand anyway anyways I don't know
what makes me think of that
but here's Larry Kudlow Wow low
unemployment high jobs high wages big
consumer confidence major productivity
and no inflation it's totally awesome
we're killing it on the economy it's a
little bit of his MSNBC days with Kramer
you know what it reminds me of though is
let's take a look at some used car
salesman ads because that's I think
where you get that technique at that
it's really its pinnacle hi this is low
profit Glen from Glen Grant Chevrolet
and I'm here to shoot down high prices
the 84s are almost here so every
remaining new car and truck will go for
399 over invoice and we show you the
invoice there you go that's pretty cool
replaying I think fun of it because I
don't really get it no the idea was that
there was a gym it's totally awesome
we're killing it on the economy 399 over
invoice we can deliver it tomorrow
he looks really awesome
I did the economy so good I'm sorry
so alright one more phone call
and my dad money last phone call of the
day Katie's been I loved for over an
hour call him from a 701 area code who's
this we come from this is melody I'm
calling from North Dakota and what's on
your mind
North Dakota Co oh I just I just want to
remind everyone that there is a worker
walkout happening at Riot Games today
they are fighting sexual harassment and
the company is trying to make all
assault cases sexual assault cases go to
arbitration rather than court Riot Games
is a I wasn't familiar with it but it's
a it's a game developer video game
developer yes a big one they make a game
called League of Legends I see and are
you are you trying to add bias into this
reporting of video games no I actually
don't play the game I just thought it
was interesting you know worker
solidarity and yeah no that sounds good
I mean I have you brought you remember
gamergate that was what gamergate was
about was the oh it actually was not it
was basically proto nazis yes it was it
was it was about ethics how do you video
game reporting I love gaming and I women
and trans people I know why well I know
I know I'm being facetious no but I do I
do appreciate the yes the I I hadn't
spent that much time talking about the
ethics in game reviews we do need to
make a video game developers all
Marxists so that's a good place to
radicalize video games are popular so
you really can't be seeding that
territory to them absolutely without a
doubt appreciate the phone call have a
break posers unionize so thank you
alright
solidarity riot oh wait speaking of
which let's play that video the Dave
Rubin one somebody put together a video
Matt will tell me then it's it's super
funny but it's also like I'm getting
more and more intrigued with the the the
twitch stream world one because like I
am like I feel like I'm on the cusp of
of returning to returning home to
videogames I was actually at a kid's
birthday party where they had a space
invaders which of course was the first
after pong the first game that they had
and the thing and here is it seems to be
this is by n F right I don't know who
this who published it or put it together
or what but it it's on the site NF and
the it starts off with the video of of
the the guy at the college asking Dave
Rubin who's sitting next Charley Kirk
and now a Candace owns apparently has
left turning points if he would have a
debate with me now it makes something
absolutely clear I I'm not looking for
to have a debate necessarily with Dave
Rubin I just want to sit down with him
and he and have a conversation about
ideas and you know other people assume
it will be a debate for all I know Dave
will agree with my ideas or he won't
I mean he'll question him but that's not
a debate I'm not debating him we just
want to have a conversation exchange
ideas because Dave is you know for those
of you cynics out there and and the Dave
is interested in ideas and of course you
know Dave and I I think from what I
sense from Dave's response that he
disagrees with me and he loves to talk
to people who disagree with him so I
know this is gonna happen but people are
pretty shocked about it apparently on
Twitter streams here we go
Reuben when are you going to debate Sam
cedar on the majority reports I'm not
gonna debate yesterday which I responded
to was that Dave Rubin is right not to
have Sam cedar on because if he did Sam
cedar would do so poorly that the left
would say you had a weak leftist on and
I was like
that's a really really dad like that
just doesn't make any unevenness tupid
imagine how lost you are to think dear
Ruben would win a debate against Sam
cedar I can't even imagine Sam cedar
Dave Rubin won't debate Sam seating Dave
Rubin won't debate Sam cedar Dave Rubin
won't debate Sam cedar Dave Rubin won't
debate Sam cedar
I'm cedar is a debating Gould who makes
Dave Rubin make poopoo in his pants why
are you so afraid to come back on it I
confess but that was uh I I'm like so
intrigued by that world yeah I don't
know much about it either I think those
are all twitch streamers yeah I know
destiny and Pakman were at the first to
talk input oh is that destiny yeah I
don't know now you know what I feel like
about with like 90% of what you talk
about like like the it's just that
there's just a much wider range of stuff
that I have no idea what people are
talking about and so this is in some
respects less intimidating to me because
this is the way I walk around in life in
general all right callers we are done
with calls I get to the IMS and then
we'll get out of here I got time for
food not too much biess be silly hey Sam
I really think the Biden's poll lead is
because people think he would be most
likely to be Trump do you still believe
that people should vote strategically
seems to me it leaves us with the
results oh I already talked about that
Gregory from Oklahoma y'all need to do
another Jimmy Show pad or show parity as
soon as possible
also I can't believe Michael dismissed
the genre of nu-metal is just being
super white thing when new metal brought
working-class people of all colors and
creeds together as a socialist I can't
believe you didn't know this okay boom
boom John must be wearing orthotics
because I stand corrected
Jonathan Armstead Sam kudos to your
Boston Red Sox manager Alex Cora yes
he's skipping the customer
post World Series trip to the White
House when pressed as to why Korra
talked about the fact Puerto Rica is
still waiting on relief from the Trump
administration to players David Price
and Mookie Betts are also skipping I
love this especially since Trump as I
noted before hasn't thrown out a first
pitch at a baseball game longer than any
US president those tiny hands can't grip
the ball secret identity politics the
found Barack Obama's college basketball
brackets much more annoying than Trump's
blaming the Kentucky Derby result on
political correctness as a person who
works in medical billing I would love
this business to be absorbed by the
government I'm happy now 1 hi Sam do you
agree with day of regarding Bernie
actually do you agree with his reporting
on establishment Dems regarding a
regarding Bernie the idea that
establishment Democrats don't think that
Bernie can win I wouldn't be surprised
about it I mean I've seen reporting
particularly you know like out of
Pennsylvania right now but you know I'm
not convinced that that's that's not
motivated reasoning you know I mean
these folks don't necessarily know and
if you're supportive of somebody and you
know this is the currency that we're
operating and that's what you're going
to say in the primary that's what people
are you know do I find it hard to
believe that Biden can win in a way that
Bernie can't in in Pennsylvania I just I
find that very hard to believe
think think argument well I mean it's
it's it's an argument and I think it's
it's not I mean it's it's an argument
it's a it's a real argument but I just
think would need to see more data to
support that well there's not a thought
experiment level though like there's a
strong argument that both Biden and
Bernie could be Trump and if you just
want to talk about the swing voters
Biden Scott the people care more about
being socially conservative Bernie's got
the people who care more about economic
populism but Bernie has something that
Biden doesn't have which is all the
people who don't normally vote who skew
poor who would hypothetically come out
for Bernie I think both Bernie and Biden
would probably beat Trump
fairly easily so let's take this
opportunity to do it we need to do for
most human beings my job decided to give
us a merit-based quarterly bonuses in
lieu of raises for the past three years
and it divides us out to be less than
the cost of living for one year let
alone three I decided to use this bonus
to subscribe to mr and then donate the
rest of Shaheed Butare Ilan Omar and
Bernie Sanders so my pandering hush
money can do some actually good to
change the system good for you smooth
Kourt
last week when you replayed Trump's
Muslim band clip you didn't know what he
meant when he said remember the polls he
meant the scary Muslim majority country
opinion polls that Sam Harris had always
talked about yeah we had speculated on
that also was on the bench bureau clip
that was related to that I've seen him
do a solid 20 angry minutes of how bad
Ilan O'Mara's
and Muslims in general also citing those
polls and then go straight into a
reading for an ad for a combat weapons
manufacturer around Jesus his show the
Monday after the Christchurch shooting
the line to mass murder couldn't be
straighter left-handed leftist Sam you
teased that you have opinions about why
there are so few Gen Xers in politics
I'm Gen X I have my ideas about why but
I really like to hear yours
the long and short of it is just that
the the baby boomer generation was so
big and that it overshadowed it just was
not the the the overshadowed the culture
business politics all of it in our
society and the baby boomer was just so
much larger that it dictated everything
largely because they they just had more
literally just more people and so that
translated into more things were
marketed to them and more people were
simpatico and you know they had more
shared experiences and they would you
know so I think that's why that
generation is hanging on and I think to
a certain extent to it was it had to do
with like the experience of the 60s to I
think sort of like emancipated people
and a lot of people wanted their their
time in the Sun that is a very
long-winded way of getting out of
admitting that your generation is a
bunch of slackers who don't care that's
the best thing I can say about our
generation there is also you know they
they were they were more right wing than
the ones who are in politics are mostly
not great congressional baseball fan
I was telling my mom about love for
long-form jokes and I told her about
some of the IMS I've sent to mr and I
had to explain to her the origin of my
name she did not think it was funny but
she was impressed by Sam Michaels
professional delivery of my work so I
just wanted to give a heartfelt thanks
for helping me to convince my mom that
I'm a successful comedy writer and it
hasn't been a waste for me to spend so
much time and money on all this baseball
memorabilia and equipment Jesus Phil I
just think the argument that Trump will
attack Bernie is being socialist is
really short-sighted if you look at
Trump's attacks he's repeatedly called
the whole Democratic Party as being far
left yes I I think like all of them I
just don't think that is going to work
they say that about literally every
Democrat to the point where it ceases to
mean anything it's like the boy who
cried wolf Obama was socialist
right according to them at EMBs fan
imagine how depressing a Trump be Biden
campaign it's gonna be that is all I
don't want to imagine that Anthony
Andrew attorney Andrew I should say miss
the first thing minutes of the show you
may have covered this but can we dunk on
the baseball wanted silver for some of
his Galaxy brain takes this weekend yeah
he's a little bit strange on the
question about loss of medical insurance
job Bernie's bill covers it discussion
is distraction from the real issue which
is our unemployment benefit systems
needs to be much better
remember the welfare state is about how
to aid people who can't or shouldn't
work all right three more Iams dr. chaos
MD my girlfriend is far more vocal than
I with her principles and political
beliefs something for which I respect
her deeply she point out some serious
misogyny in general ass hattery in a
Facebook group and was rewarded by
someone creating a sock puppet account
and sending her an obscene message oh
that's nice check in with her and she
seems unfazed by the message since she's
resolute and her not having done
anything wrong but it was a good
reminder that if you were like me and
her not as outspoken as others be sure
to provide support for those who are
that so that those viewpoints you
respect and agree with are not drowned
out by douchebags good point brother
from Brooklyn the right encourages free
thinkers on the issue of racism but is
oddly against the marketplace of ideas
when it comes to criticism of Israel
indeed dole Inc bench PR on reliable
sources brain brian Staedtler yes
unbelievable by had an attention again a
cult of personality instead of good
policies Harris or Biden in debate with
Donald J Trump only Harris could handle
and the final I am of the day
Joe Snuffy for those who keep saying
that Biden would have the advantage over
Sanders in the general against Trump
because Trump can't run against him his
socialist I feel that we need to remind
them in 2015 Trump already proved that
he does a great job when he runs against
the Republicans see you tomorrow
[Music]
no sir
I'm gonna get
I was
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
[Music]
