with Sam
Sita the destiny of America is
safer in the hands of the people than in
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday February 12 2009
teen my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
here broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Jonathan Tepper co-author of the myth of
capitalism monopolies and the death of
competition also on the program a deal
supposedly struck feel like I said this
yesterday to keep the government open as
labor drops the hammer meanwhile
hundreds died in a Brazil dam disaster
under a libertarians dream regulatory
scheme state of Utah flips off its
voters and shrinks its Medicaid
expansion the law Nomar apologizes for
what Tom Friedman gets paid to say
Kamala Harris new revelations of her
prosecutorial past means she has some
explaining to do meanwhile speaking of
explaining to do Amy Klobuchar are
facing an avalanche of criticism from ex
staffers
who knew apparently a lot of people
and lastly Rick Scott who took the fifth
dozens of times in a Medicaid fraud case
says trust me I don't need a blind trust
all this I plead the fifth and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen
happy birthday to my dad just occurred
to me as I was reading off the date that
today is my dad's birthday now he's out
of town I already got him a present so
I'm covered but I'm just gonna make
myself a note
Judah's you in Vegas email already had I
don't know he's on the road somewhere
another you mind none of your business
none of my business
I understand uh welcome to the program
ladies and gentlemen everyone's here
today we have Matt Jaime Brendon Michael
all in studio so that you don't get
shocked if you hear someone's voice
folks want to remind you Candace Owens
the number two she number two a turning
point see turning points USA has had a
very difficult ago as a blade I think
they were they they were exposed as to
having very little savvy when it came to
setting up a Twitter account in the UK
they didn't wait for verification and
then some rapscallions created other TP
UK accounts and no one could tell which
one's the real ones were they were so
close to parody the legit TP a UK that
people had trouble telling them apart
and then somebody goes and digs around
on the success of their Facebook
advertising campaigns and it turns out a
an organisation dedicated
- trying to propagandize - college
students their biggest all of their
campaigns seem to resonate most with the
men over the ages of 65 now I I don't
want to go too far I don't wanna lean
too far out ahead of my skis because
it's possible a lot of those people will
return to college
folks I don't know and then I can to sew
ins over in Great Britain again
promoting the expansion of TP TP UK
basically said you know Hitler his
nationalism at home was okay it was that
he tried to it was his sort of I don't
think she used the word imperialism but
it was just that he tried to global
globalism the only bad stuff that Hitler
did was the stuff that she's mad at Jews
for doing right lobe emoji album oh gee
oh the globalism was the bad stuff the
stuff at home she was just trying to
make Germany better you know make
Germany great right I mean make Germany
great again make it just more more
German if you will more national right
and so then she got into hot water and
apparently she had to go on a tour where
she pretended she was misunderstood and
unfortunately they let her describe what
she said and it didn't really work out
any better he or she is on Lou Dobbs and
you know who better to speak to to walk
through this minefield than Lou Dobbs
good to have you here let's start thank
you for having me it's great to see you
I want to start by addressing some of
the remarks of yours from late last year
that were dredged up by a leftist
advocates advocacy group positive just
you know late last year as if like okay
that's a month and a half ago and they
weren't dredged up they did a
public like they were on stage this is
not like they dredged it up from from a
conversation you were having the Titanic
at a pub yeah exactly they had to go
they had to really go way down to the
depths like almost like to the website
that you run and actually pull it off
the website to attack you claiming you
seem to defend Hitler while explaining
the term nationalism your your thoughts
I know you tried to straighten this
thing out last Friday like you know yeah
oh look you and I both know what this is
obviously the left has me as a major
target because I have been effective at
delivering conservative principles to
the black American community plain and
simple yeah number one target because I
am leading a revolution called black six
which is going to encourage black
Americans to finally look at the real
history the very race history not for
nothing but if you're leading a
revolution and you have to explain what
the name of it is it may not be quite as
the revolution you think it is it is
called the struggle for Indian
independence everyone's talking about it
everyone the thought much see it's a
maker it's been yeah I mean look at the
real history the very racist history of
a Democrat Party which has not served us
so first they ignored me okay then they
laughed at me and now they are fighting
yet everyday limit ridiculous thing
pause it again I'm sorry to be honest
and I hope I'm not telling any secrets
of the of the left and the Democrat
folks but we're still on the laughing
stage yes don't rush our process right
exactly give us a little bit of time
here let's get to the point here did we
go go backwards please is he saying I
thought she was gonna go like the idea
me a person of color saying that Hitler
was was great no it's she's talking
about I flew 30 hours after at me and
now they are fighting me at every day
ridiculous thing the most let's get to
the point here this business with Hitler
and nationalism there's you are a number
one target or among the number one
targets for media matters for all the
left-wing advocacy groups they're going
to try to kill you
figuratively speaking no doubt
straighten out this thing with Hitler
and nationalism real quick if you would
the discussion was about nationalism and
whether it's okay for conservatives to
say that they are nationalists and what
I said is that the word nationalism is
wrongly attributed to Hitler because he
was not a nationalist he was not focused
on on trying to bring the the Germans to
a better state because he was actively
killing German Jews he was also trying
to expect you know the LAT with the last
time we talked about this it was like
she really needs a remedial history
course but she really needs a remedial
history course the the idea for Hitler
was he was trying to make Germany great
again
to borrow a phrase he did say that I
borrow a phrase from him I guess I blew
30 hours and boy do I have positive
feelings towards Hitler hi
and it's just that one of the ways that
he went about it one of the not the only
one I mean he wanted to increase the
industrialization and there was a lot of
other terrorism yeah one of the ways we
need to get rid of one who were diluting
the German culture according to him they
were almost if you would call it like
aliens for as far as he was concerned it
elicits aliens almost document we're
gonna kill the Jews it was like oh we're
just gonna put them back where they
belong elsewhere they were deporting
them they just couldn't find places to
go but you see they had multiple
solutions and then the one where they
started to kill the Jews was the last or
the final solution if you will let's
hear it maybe she salvages
nationalism is wrongly attributed to
Hitler because he was not a nationalist
he was not focused on on trying to bring
the the Germans to a better state
because he was actively killing German
Jews he was also trying to expand and he
was an imperial resident he was a
homicidal maniac and we need to stop
association with two of the most two of
the evils figures and evil in history
evil so let me just go yes in this
business it's a very simple thing the
news business
anybody who ring brings up Hitler loses
every single yeah I've learned that okay
so ready look at metaphor take it from
the old guy another assembly I another
symbol I will totally totally take that
advice I've learned my lesson
well it's it's you know and you are
because you are such a target you have
to be keenly aware at all and you are
and
and it an upset what let's turn to
Virginia and Luda so I want to hear that
part and then Lou Dobbs is all right
trust me I would try to explain the
Hitler wasn't that bad for a long time
young lady it's a tough road oh you know
the Please Miss Media Matters that come
after you every day what's what's
shocking about that was was Lou Dobbs
basically teased up the what are your
thoughts about that in other words I
know your people have told me that you
want to explain this you probably have
something prepared so I'm not going to
ask you a question other than time for
you to speak and and justify your words
and she still she still steps in it
again I would like to clarify exactly
what I was saying which was that Hitler
great domestic policy overly aggressive
foreign policy thank you Wow yeah I was
a little rough Stalin was Stalin was
also bad but I let me just be clear here
don't it's tough you talk about how good
Hitler was off the record I'd like to
see inside the chat at TP USA right now
they're probably like oh so we're saying
the Holocaust did happen okay
right exactly well didn't know the chat
is guys can you please stop saying
Lacoste didn't happen so much we've
already seen that chat don't be so
friggin oh oh that's right yeah there
was literally seems much exchanges from
TP USA in like their their Florida
chapter like hey if we're gonna use this
latch in oh stop saying like you know
the Jews are bad for no reason only when
they deserve it
yeah you know guys we've tried to be a
serious organization and you're gonna
need to say that the Jews are global
bloodsuckers but its policy argument
just avoid saying the N word and don't
reference Richard Spencer too much and
don't you hate just cause all the time
where's al I just tried to make Germany
great again thanks for having me on
really innovative and domestic policy
but actually kind of jewy in foreign
policy thank you I'll see you next week
on the a block folks a lot of times we
get emails well III don't say every
email but I would say 70% of emails that
we get regardless of what their content
are and with somebody saying hey guys
thanks for keeping me sane for X number
of years or months or whatever it is and
there's other there's another way in
which you can sort of maintain some
sanity and this in this era basically by
slowing down and being mindful imagine
how many goals and how much calmer you
would be if you could do that well
that's why we're excited to partner with
calm the number one app to help you
meditate sleep and relax practices like
meditation and prioritizing sleep can
leave you feeling more rested so you
have the energy to go out and achieve
your goals if you head to calm calm
majority / majority I should say get
$0.25 25% off a comprar me include x'
hundreds of hours of programs like
guided meditations on issues like
anxiety stress and focus including a
brand new meditation each day called the
daily calm
there's sleep stories which are like
bedtime stories for adults they're
designed to help you relax before you
doze off these are actually pretty great
and because I grew up listening to talk
radio and that's the way I would go to
sleep but when you were a kid you know
listening in Wooster talk radio was was
a little bit more benign than it is now
but I'm Bob Grant whatever get hold to
sleep please no but this is nice I like
the idea of I'm very excited for you to
try it all now trust me the downside is
they also have there's that lavender
fields of France with the Stephen Fry
dough I can't go there because I wake up
steamed rice so good that he makes them
have an allergic reaction just to the
narration exactly but exploring New
Zealand with your own
in from Game of Thrones is pretty cool
for a limited time majority report
listeners get 25% off a comm premium
subscription at calm dot-com slash
majority that's calm CA LM dot-com slash
majority get unlimited access to all of
calms content today at calm calm slash
majority give yourself the gift of calm
and start 2019 off right this is pretty
amazing and I have I have a I guess I
have a I guess a confession to make
about this and I don't think that's the
way that it was meant to be used but do
you remember 1989 the year the World
Wide Web was invented we've come a long
way since then so why does it feel like
the software you use every day at work
is stuck in the past take a leap into
the future by finding the right software
for your business on kaptara dot-com the
leading free online resource to help you
find the best software solution for your
business with over seven hundred
thousand reviews of products from real
software users kaptara has everything
you need to make an informed decision
search more than seven hundred specific
categories of software from project
management to email marketing no matter
what your business needs kaptara makes
it easy to discover the right solution
fast all right so when when they they
came to me and asked if I would take
kaptara as a you know to do a library
cuz I won't do it for for just you know
for companies that I don't you know I
have a problem with or I check out and I
just think they aren't a good fit so if
you head over to cap tariff go to the
categories there's literally I guess
well seven hundred specific categories
of software and I have been going
through these different categories and
it's basically its review site on the
specific software but I'm just amazed at
the different businesses that you can
look at like there's a gamification
software and so I go in and I just start
looking
and I think I'm starting to have like
some type of I don't think there's a
midlife crisis but I'm contemplating
like Oh a coaching software maybe I
could become an online coach or
something like I started looking for new
new jobs I could have uh festival
management software I could I could I
could I could do a festival and there's
literally professional bands with
software I'm just looking at right now
fest there's literally like 25 different
software's that are developed I guess if
you have a festival management company
there's a data loss prevention software
delivery management software government
software GPS tracking software gradebook
software on and on I'm just going HVAC
software I don't I have no idea what you
would do is software but all these if no
matter what kind of company you have
they apparently have software for it and
this aggregates all the different types
of software for you so you can visit
kaptara dot-com slash majority if you
don't have a business you can also spend
like hours on it like I have just sort
of fantasizing like all of the
possibilities I mean I could go right
now I could just become a nutritional
analysis because yeah okay I mean maybe
that's not so much for me but oil and
gas software if I want to get into that
business I could see that excellent
visit kaptara
dot-com slash majority for free today to
find the right tools to make 2019 the
year for your business that's kept era
dot-com slash majority kaptara
Capt erra comm slash majority all right
we got to take a quick break when we
come back
Jonathan Tepper on the myth of
capitalism monopolies and the death of
competition
you
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program the founder of
variant perception the author with
Denise Hearn of the myth of capitalism
monopolies in the death of competition
Jonathan Tapper welcome to the program
thank you so much for having me
all right so let's let's I this the
story of how you decided to to write
this book is is is it is a funny one and
I think you know to a certain extent
what's interesting to me not just about
what you've assembled here in the
context of your book and and we've
talked about antitrust issues quite a
bit on this program but is that I think
probably from a political standpoint
you're not necessarily coming from the
same places a lot of your I mean you
you're not necessarily coming from the
same places I think a lot of the guests
that we have on this program I you know
just generally speaking but tell us how
you came to this to this to writing this
book certainly so I didn't really I'm
not an expert in antitrust or monopolies
and by way of background I didn't really
think I was gonna end up writing a book
about this you know I hope I've become
somewhat of an expert in the process of
reading thousands of academic papers and
hundreds of books but the funny thing is
I actually provide research to hedge
funds and to very wealthy families what
are known as sort of family offices that
invest their money and you know what I
try to do with my day job is you know
try to tell them you know is the stock
market going to go up or not will
government bond yields go up or down
that's sort of what I do for a living
the way I came to this book was because
we build leading economic indicators so
for example you know is the u.s. going
to go into recession is the kind of
question that our indicator should
answer is inflation going to go up or
down and one of the key questions or key
indicators that we have is our leading
indicator for
u.s. wages and so this indicator has
worked in over many years and what it
does is it tells you whether workers
will be getting a raise or not and the
the reason that this matters is because
when workers are getting big raises
typically company return on equity and
company operating margins go down and
that's just what happens late in the
economic cycle generally and it affects
corporate profits and return on equity
and so I thought you know our leading
indicator was important because it it
you know it matters a lot for investors
but it just stopped working and our
indicator was turning up it was going up
a lot and wages weren't going up and so
I hate being wrong and you know I was
telling clients just wait you know the
wages are gonna go up and as all your
listeners know wages in the US have been
fairly pathetic for over a decade and so
you know it just troubled me I don't
like I wanted to get to the bottom of it
and figure out why it was wrong and at
the same time as I was sort of playing
around with this question I'm trying to
find the answers pick ADIZ book came out
and Thomas Piketty basically wrote a
book describing the rise in inequality
and he said that he had found a fatal
flaw in capitalism and he argued that
when growth was low that returns on
capital would be very high and you know
workers returns to labor would be very
low and this would drive inequality even
higher and to you know I'm an investment
analyst I look at companies I've built
hundreds of financial models and his
ideas just made no sense at all to me
you know one growth is not very good for
returns on capital and set but secondly
more importantly if you have a business
that has very high returns on capital
you know I'm gonna be attracted to those
returns I'm gonna want some of your
money and I'm gonna go in and compete
with you and so I thought you know
competition is what brings down returns
on capital and so I thought the place I
need to go look is probably on the
competition side you know like if
returns on capital are not going down
then there's probably not enough
competition and so I ended up doing a
lot of research and the best paper I
read was by Gustavo Dion and
some of his colleagues and it's called
art industries our US industry is
becoming more concentrated and what he
found was that in most industries what
we've seen is less and less competition
fewer and fewer players and so what you
end up with is not necessarily outright
monopolies and there are some but
actually sort of oligopolies or duopoly
x' and these are essentially like you
know industries that are dominated by
two or three or four companies and
there's very very little competition and
so that I think is at the root of a lot
of the problems that we see in terms of
low wages low economic dynamism and I
you know I would put myself sort of
right-of-center
you know I love free markets I love
capitalism I think it's the most
wonderful thing ever and I think that
the real problem here is that we don't
actually have enough competition and so
Joseph Stiglitz described this as ersatz
capitalism so it sort of looks like
capitalism but it's not and right now
what you have in the United States is in
theory this is like the greatest free
market in the world and actually there's
very little free markets and very little
competition okay and so let's let's dig
into this and it's and so we are looking
at this lack of competition that is I
guess a I don't know if it's an
explicitly antitrust monopoly but like
you say oligopoly and you you right that
there's there's certainly major players
out there who understand this dynamic
and have been profiting off it and you
talk about Warren Buffett and in Silicon
Valley let's talk about in particular
Silicon Valley because that is one of
the that seems to be one of the more I
think pronounced or at least maybe we're
a little bit myopic here because
obviously we're online to a large extent
but but the tech world seems to be one
where we have which is highly
problematic in that regard yes I think
that the the tech giant's this
tecnópolis are really attracting an
amount of attention right now because
everyone interacts with Facebook
everyone interacts with Google and so
these are drawing a lot of attention and
in a way they're the the lightning rod
but you know in the book we go industry
by industry and in fact there's an
enormous number of industries
particularly the US healthcare sector
which is one of the most messed up and
broken sectors of the economy that you
know is eating up essentially about
one-fifth of GDP you know unlike almost
any other developed country in the world
it has almost no competition and so but
I'm you know thrilled though that people
are focusing on the tech giants and thus
bringing about this antitrust let's get
will get to a well get to hospitals I
want to get to hospitals I want to get
your table and Airlines but let's start
with sure with with with some of those
big tech giants because I think people
don't understand I mean there's there's
been a lot of debate a you know around
things like Google and Facebook should
we nationalize them I mean how do we
deal we hear it in the context of
certain people being deep platformed or
whatnot but but there is a lot of sort
of economic there's a lot there's
there's different silos it seems to me
that are problematic with these things
but from a purely economic standpoint
Google and Facebook are highly
problematic in terms of entrepreneurship
and and explain that yes what one of the
principal problems that we've seen now
essentially with Google and Facebook is
that the internet itself was meant to be
open and free slightly anarchic you know
in the early days you had DARPA it was
meant to withstand a nuclear bomb the
idea was that you would have a blog I
would have a web page and a blog we
might link to each other and we might
link to someone else and you know you'd
have this very rich sort of set of
connections and you know it was very
decentralized unfortunately what's
happened is that Google and Facebook
essentially now mediate over half of all
the Internet traffic and so in that
really past 50 percent in 2014 and Tim
berners-lee created essentially you know
the world wide web through his standards
and you know he's a legend you know in
terms of his involvement with the
internet and he thinks that the Internet
itself is dying you know you said that
in in various articles and unfortunately
we've gone from a very free and open
competitive internet essentially to one
that's highly centralized for the
benefit of a few players and people
often say well Google is just so much
better at what it does or Facebook's
just incredible at what it does you know
how can you complain and the products
for free and the the problem is that if
you look at the tech giant's you know
the the fangs you know so the Facebook
Amazon Netflix in Google they've done
including Microsoft they've done you
know over four hundred and thirty
acquisitions over the last ten years
none of these have been challenged by
regulators and so what's ended up
happening is that Google has been able
to by double click double click did
display ads Google did search ads
Facebook was able to buy whatsapp was
able to buy Instagram so essentially the
the advertising duopoly were basically
Google and Facebook are the only ones
capturing any additional ad dollars this
duopoly that exists was one that the
regulator's themselves gave the green
light to and so you know their dominance
of the online world was in no way and
out of inevitable and was essentially
allowed to happen through very very bad
antitrust you know regulation or lack of
regulation rather and I think that the
big problem with these two two platforms
is that broken markets create broken
politics and so to the extent that
they're very powerful they're able to
then further control politics further
control regulators and you know it's
particularly troubling that under the
Obama administration
no company had as many visits to the
White House as Google did so you know
Google was visiting many times a week to
the White House they were able to place
their own former lawyers at the FTC you
know in library Congress and so you know
the Patent Office and so in the end the
internet ends up reflecting the
interests and the needs of face
and Google rather than to the consumer
and beyond that if you look at the sort
of collapse in royalties to artists and
to creators and the claps and newspapers
what we've seen essentially is one of
the greatest arbitrage is of all time
which is that you know it takes you time
and energy to make this show it takes
writers time and energy to write and
what ends up happening is that basically
Google and Facebook can monetize the
content with you know without any need
essentially to recompense the people who
could create these and so I think that
it's very unhealthy you know if we think
that what we need is a lively ecosystem
in in the wild you know whether it's in
jungles or in forests or in the natural
world you know basically we're ending up
with a less diverse in a less rich
ecosystem online by having essentially
two dominant players complete control
the economics let's talk about the
solutions and but for a moment I want to
take just a slight tangent here because
you know and and just go a little
further into life for instance what
Facebook has done for instance to
journalism right where you have we just
had massive layoffs
over the past month from Huffington Post
from BuzzFeed one or two others off the
top of my head I can't remember but I
know that what happened was you know
that a place like BuzzFeed they
basically gave up their website I mean
it still exists but in terms of a source
of traffic and they just went all-in on
Facebook and then Facebook just decided
we're gonna do it a little bit
differently we're just not going to pay
you in that same way and it ends up
destroying a you know or severely
debilitating a major media outlet what's
interesting too I mean from your
perspective and this is I think it's
very helpful to see it in the context of
economics only but it's not just from a
perspective of the consumer right I mean
because what we're talking about is its
problematic for citizens because we have
these policies that are
that you know the lack of journalism
doesn't necessarily hurt me as a
consumer per se right I mean it hurts me
as a as a citizen and we're talking
about the oversize to sort of political
strength that a Google or a Facebook has
because they've been able to amass such
an amazing amount of money and market
share in this space absolutely so you
know in this past month we've seen the
new book is coming out called sucked by
Roger McNamee it's a great book highly
recommend your readers read it and you
know the the book that I've written with
my co-writer the myth of capitalism is
very much on the sort of economic side
and antitrust what's very interesting is
that so McNamee looks very much at the
danger to democracy in the danger to the
body politic that comes from Facebook
and Google where you know you have
essentially these are through attention
magnets they know almost everything
about the people who see them and view
them and they serve up essentially ads
and information that's not necessarily
true not necessarily verified or good
and the algorithms that promote content
tend to promote the wildest and you know
most sort of engaging content whether
it's true or not and you know I think
that that that's not a a price problem
that's not an economic problem but it
certainly isn't a tremendous Democratic
problem
and I think that the the other big
problem here is that like you know I
point out in the book that they they do
offer their own content yet they're like
platforms so you know they have no
responsibility what's on their site
they're just a platform and yet at the
same time you know Facebook and Google
both pay for an enormous amount of
actual real content you have YouTube
studios and so on so they have the best
of all worlds which is that they're not
responsible for any of the stuff that
goes up on the platform yet at the same
time they're very happy to pay to create
content to engage people you know and
you and I for example you know if we
started to put out content we
be content creators we'd be responsible
for our content you know we couldn't
just claim to be platforms so they they
have it both ways
when it comes to that and and I know
that there's an analogy and what we can
do to sort of address the problems in
the tech world is maybe also you know
when it comes to hospitals and and and
other industries cable airlines etc but
specifically like how because I think
there's a lack of imagination of like
how you would deal with specifically
like a Facebook and a Google if you were
to apply a different concept than we've
had in this country really since since
since Bork I guess in the 80s to
antitrust when when looking at these
companies like from a from from a
practical standpoint what would you do
with a Facebook or a Google broadly
speaking to diminish their their
monopoly their monopolistic I guess hold
on the internet so I think that it's in
the last chapter of the the book and the
capitalism we offer some specific
solutions and those do apply to Facebook
and Google and they apply to all
industries but for example I mentioned
that they there were a few acquisitions
that should never gone through I think
the first step what we have to do is to
one is prevent further acquisitions that
are bad and anti-competitive and then
secondly undo any previous acquisitions
that have been anti-competitive and I
think that if you look at whether it's
double click or AdMob whether it's
Instagram or whatsapp these are
acquisitions that are blatantly
anti-competitive and the these companies
should be broken up and it would not be
the end of the world
you know companies spin-off units all
the time Standard Oil was broken up AT&T
was broken up it's no surprise by the
way that the internet revolution itself
happened basically about 10 years after
AT&T was broken up you know you ended up
with competition you ended up with
innovation and I think that if we did
that to the Internet giants the world
would be a much better place but
you say okay I mean to the extent that
these companies have now been absorbed
by the Borg that would you would you say
like okay we're going to the advertising
and the search functions need to be
distinct or the messaging and the the
posting functions need to be distinct or
the I mean how would there be any broad
principles or would it literally be like
okay you bought these hundred companies
they all need to be spun off at this
point well I think when you look at for
example what's happened with Google
buying double-click right
basically Google completely dominated a
search they were able to then get a very
significant hold in the display market
where you look at Facebook essentially
which had facebook itself and then was
able to buy Instagram essentially a
direct competitor to itself you know
these are essentially and then whatsapp
obviously was able to they were then
able to tie everyone's phone numbers and
personal information together what's
happened is you know there's a sort of
network effect where the more
information they amass about people the
more they're then able to serve to
advertisers and advertisers only want to
advertise to whoever has the most data
on the actual searchers or users and so
these were you know blatantly sort of
anti-competitive acquisitions that were
done to further entrench themselves and
I would be thrilled if we could break up
Google and Facebook Tim Wu has talked
about this he wrote a great book called
the curse of bigness and he goes through
savants an antitrust monopoly history
you know if you look at Europe and even
the u.s. there have been agreements
between Google and Facebook and the
regulators you know and the competition
authorities regarding the sharing of
data it's it's no surprise that Facebook
has hired former antitrust people now
and Zuckerberg is talking about merging
whatsapp Facebook Messenger and Facebook
together because he obviously wants to
preempt any breaking up you know would
be easier to do wants to make it much
harder what's very interesting is there
actually
Google and Facebook have consistently
violated the privacy of their users
there are consent decrees with the
regulator's regarding how personal data
should be treated these consent decrees
are generally not being observed yet
regulators have done nothing and so I do
think that there's grounds for going
after them on that but you know these
are platforms that don't like
competition are able to buy their
competitors and then don't really have
any enforcement of consent decrees by
the regulators all right let's talk
about hospitals because there's a lot of
folks out there who think that you know
obviously we're talking a lot about
single-payer these days in the news and
and but there's a lot of people who
think ultimately you're not going to be
able to get the the prices down unless
you deal with the monopolistic practices
of local hospitals we break that down
for us so if you look at the rest of the
world you have some countries that have
a socialized health care system
I currently live in London and I grew up
in Spain the UK has the National Health
Service and Spain has the National
Health Service that those are
essentially government-run healthcare
systems both work pretty well and they
do so generally with about you know 10
percent of GDP the u.s. is basically
almost 19% of GDP about eighteen and a
half so we're spending you know an order
of magnitude higher essentially on
health care than a nationalized system
you can also look at countries around
the world have private systems but where
the government makes sure that everyone
has coverage so those are like Belgium
France and Switzerland so it's possible
to have a private system and it's
possible to have a government-run system
but in both cases they spend a
significant amount less than the u.s.
does the u.s. essentially has the worst
of all worlds the u.s. has essentially
one where the government has extensive
regulations and does pay a lot but you
also have essentially you don't have
universal coverage and you have private
monopolies and oligopolies that operate
at every level and every sector of the
usf health care market so for example
90%
urban hospital markets in the US are
what's what are known as highly
concentrated according to the Department
of Justice guidelines in terms of you
know few players and it means that when
you don't have any choice about where
you need to go get your you know
operation done or any medical treatment
the the hospital has complete pricing
power over you you know what when it
comes to for example the price of a bar
of chocolate if someone told you it was
like ten times more expensive you'd say
do you know what I'm just not gonna eat
chocolate I'll have something else and
economists call that essentially
elasticity of demand when it comes to
hospital services when you need medical
care like you know you will pay through
the nose because you need it and so
demand is completely inelastic and they
know that and so hospital prices have
just kept on rising and rising and we've
seen more and more mergers and
unfortunately Obamacare encouraged more
mergers and so even if you went to
essentially a medicare-for-all
but you didn't deal with the underlying
problem of monopolies and oligopolies
whether it's in pharma whether it's in
group purchasing organizations for
hospitals hospitals themselves in the
insurance markets in the US are
extremely concentrated all of these
corporate entities you know would be
still be able to gouge the government if
the government was unable to negotiate
them down and you know if the
competition was not increased now do you
think that in that context so okay so
what's the solution there because can
you break up a hospital I mean wooden
isn't or I should say isn't the only
solution there to have a player who's
big enough to say like we have all the
buyers and you're you know you may be
concentrated in terms of sellers but we
have all the buyers so you know you're
gonna have to deal with us we have the
same ability to walk away from you as
you do to us or is there another way so
what you're talking about is the term is
monotony so a monopoly is where there's
one seller right so for example like it
you know back in the day Standard Oil
was the the one company that would sell
you all
and they were the monopolist a monopsony
is where there's one buyer so for
example in a coal town the the coal
company is the only buyer for labor
right and so that's that's referred to
as the monopsony the only buyer Amazon
as it turns out right now is the only
buyer for books and so they're a
monopsony on the book front and the
government could be a monopsony for
medical care
meaning the government's like you know
what we're the only ones are going to be
buying medical care here and we'll tell
you what the prices are going to be that
is essentially what happens in the UK
under a nationalized health care system
that's what happens in Spain and that is
one one option you know I don't know if
politically Americans are there yet but
you know you could have a perfectly
workable private market that works very
well the problem is that there's very
little competition believe it or not you
can't sell insurance across state lines
right you can sell pencils across state
lines you can sell coca-cola across
state lines but you cannot sell
insurance across state lines so let me
just let me just stop you there I know
that there has been multiple pilot
programs where we have been able to sell
insurance across state lines but the
insurance companies found that they
couldn't determine the the risk pools in
these other markets and they decided
it's just not worth their while well the
insurance market in the u.s. is governed
by the mccarran's mccarran-ferguson act
which essentially exempts insurance from
antitrust supervision and allows the
states to regulate insurance companies
rather than the federal government so
the federal government regulates for
example financial markets via the SEC
the Federal Reserve you know and you
have the FDIC for banks but the states
regulate the insurance companies and so
in many states for example like Alabama
and Hawaii you have one company which
basically has about 65 percent market
share there's over 20 states where you
have the top two players essentially
have over 60 percent market share
there's very very little competition
when it comes to insurance there's very
little competition when it comes to
hospitals there's very little
competition when it comes to Pharma you
know due to the way the
systems work and the FDA approvals and
so I think that if what you want to do
is go the private route so let's say the
Americans don't want a British National
Health Service you know which is a
perfectly fine thing to want you know if
you they want a private market the way
that they can improve the way Americans
could improve the system is to say okay
let's get a lot more competition in here
let's make sure that people are duking
it out fighting trying to provide better
cheaper services and eliminate you know
almost all barriers and the problem is
right now they're just so many barriers
in terms of regulation in terms of
inability to sell insurance across state
lines in terms of you know allowing
hospitals to merge and many Hospital
markets by the way our government
essentially by what's known as
certificates of need meaning you and I
couldn't go start a hospital in a town
that only had one hospital because often
the certificate of need would have the
hospital board sort of dictate whether
there's a need for another hospital or
not you know and so they could say no
there isn't and then the local hospital
keeps its monopoly and so there's just
so many barriers in the u.s. to
competition the American healthcare
system is not remotely competitive and
that's why prices are high and you so I
mean what is what do you think based
upon that knowledge right that we have
these we have essentially 50 different
sort of regimes that control the the
insurance and also the number you know
issuing basically licenses for hospitals
like what is there a way to override
that from a federal standpoint or is it
is how do we break up those monopolies
because you know like I do know that
there have been you know half a dozen
maybe states that have have allowed for
the selling of across the state lines
but like you say it's it's very
difficult for the insurance companies to
enter into a new market because of how
Byzantine the different states are in
terms of their their laws you can't I
mean you can't mandate could you could
you force a spin-off from every
Hospital I mean how would you go about
doing that that in that sector in
particular deal with that the the
different monopolies so I would well one
I would prevent almost any new hospital
mergers you know in highly concentrated
towns and cities that's a starting point
I would prevent any future mergers and
insurance markets or whatever the market
is that makes it more highly
concentrated in the book I talked about
there's extensive research showing that
once you get below six players in an
industry or in a geography you end up
with higher prices so that's as a
starting point you know we shouldn't be
allowing mergers down to five four three
two or even one players you know and
particularly one hospital system for
town so that's as a starting point on
the insurance side I think that if you
got rid of mccarran-ferguson took it to
the national level and made sure that
anyone who was decently capitalized you
know could start an insurance company
you know I'm a guarantee you that you
would have a lot of people competing to
offer better insurance by signing people
up so you make a federal standards you
basically in some respects you know what
you you expand on the patient protection
side of the ACA PPI you you you make a
federal standard for insurance and you
make a single standard in terms of
regulators regardless of the state
exactly so what you don't want to do is
necessarily just say you know what sell
across state lines but go you know go to
Utah or go to Alaska who whichever state
provides you with the most lenient
insurance and regulation have decent
regulation at the federal level and then
allow people to sell wherever they want
you know it should be like pencils or
coca-cola or gasoline you just sell it
across state lines but the issue is when
you can create these local fiefdom
you know you end up with places like
Alabama or Hawaii which have no choice
you know and so that's an insurance side
I think if you look at you know the book
we have a chapter on patents and if you
look at how that's been applied in the
pharmaceutical industry you mean it's
just a complete disaster where companies
have been able to buy generic
competitors they've been able to offer
exclusionary payments to make sure the
generic companies don't even bring their
drugs to
get you know so the kinds of price
gouging that you see in the u.s.
pharmaceutical market is absurd
and it could be dealt with via sensible
regulation you know to outlaw
exclusionary payments to approve
generics to approve the importation of
drugs that the FDA has already said are
good I mean the European regulators are
good the Japanese regulators are good
you know you could basically create a
whitelist or so yeah like a whitelist
effectively of countries you know so if
a European generic company wants to sell
into the US let them do it I mean
there's no new there's nothing new these
chemicals are understood they're tested
you know if they satisfy European
regulations why should we not allow them
here but essentially preventing the
report ation of drugs keeps them high
and then there's you know loads of other
things like reformulations which allow
the current drug people to further and
further extend their patents and gouge
people alright lastly and i don't mean
to press too hard on this but in terms
of on the hospital side i hear the the
the prescription of basically stop
digging right like you know no more
mergers going forward how do you refill
some of that hole do you basically just
change the regime in which which in
which hospitals are allowed to sort of I
guess get developed I mean I would
imagine the capital requirements for
starting a new hospital in any context
they're gonna be rather large yes so
what's fascinating is you know when we
started this conversation we were
talking about sort of left and right and
you know I would be a writer center most
people who care about monopolies tend to
be left to Center I think that this is a
bipartisan issue that is not a left or
right issue and what's fascinating is
that if you look at for example hospital
mergers
there's a Republican representative from
Indiana
Jim banks who has put it forward a bill
to ban hospital mergers and highly
concentrated markets and one of the
solutions in terms of incentivizing
hospitals to break up is the said you
know what the government is one of the
biggest payers in healthcare the
government will pay less it
it's a hospital in a highly concentrated
market and you know so the rather than
simply force the breakups the government
could essentially say do you know what
we're just not going to pay you a lot if
you want to be that big and you know
that that powerful and you know I think
that might work you know it's it's not
my law I haven't put that forward but
that is a law that's been put forward by
Republican member of the House and so I
think that you know both sides of the
aisle are recognizing that things are
completely broken and messed up and they
need to change and so I certainly hope
that we end up with fewer mergers
breakups spin-offs and you know
ultimately sort of deconsolidation some
of these markets because you know
there's no competition III would
encourage people to read the book I mean
because you cover cable you cover
Airlines concrete and beer and but I I
need to jump to the to the chapter about
buybacks because that is sort of my my
bailiwick just talk about how stock
buybacks play into this certainly so
everyone thinks that buybacks are evil I
don't necessarily disagree with that but
I think they're wrong in the way that
they think about buybacks buybacks
essentially are returning money from the
company to its owners to the
shareholders now companies could do that
via dividends so send them a check or a
payment or they could buy back some of
their own shares and reduce the number
of shares you know dividends to get
taxed sort of income tax rates and then
buybacks tend to get taxed it's sort of
capital gains tax rates but if companies
are sitting on a lot of cash they're
going to return cash to to the investors
and if there's not a lot of competition
and industries or oligopolies they're
not really going to want to invest
they're not going to want to create more
plants or you know invest in capital
equipment they're not gonna want to pay
the workers more they don't have to
there's no competition and so I think
buybacks
are a symptom they're not a cause of the
problem
so they merely Express the actual cause
which is the lack of competition the
monopolies and oligopolies
and when companies have an
competition they can earn a lot of money
they can get very fat and that's what
leads to the companies then to make so
much money that they have it sitting
around the balance sheet that they can
go and then go out and do a buy back but
banning buybacks essentially is dealing
with the cause rather than the actual
effect interesting and so and that gets
back to your where you started with that
notion of return on capital not going
down properly
exactly and unless you deal with that
the companies are just gonna keep on
piling cash up on their balance sheet
and you know what they'll dividend it
out right or they'll take themselves
private eventually you know some
borrowing debt and just take buying the
entire shares back and so what we have
to do is to reintroduce competition make
sure these companies are not you know
sitting on loads and loads of cash you
know due to lack of competition and I
guarantee that's gonna solve the buyback
problem it's interesting because you
know one of the people we've interviewed
in and we're gonna play an interview
with him next week is Billa sonic who is
a professor but UMass who I think whose
theory about buybacks is that it just
simply provides the wrong incentive for
a very small group of people that being
it's not so much that it's returning to
the shareholders it's that it's
returning to a specific narrow set of
shareholders in the C Suites and on the
board of directors who who then are you
know have a misson line descent
incentive with their the corporations
that they're overseeing which is short
term bumps in the stocks actually make
them the most amount of money they can
make in this instance what what's your
perception what's your sense of that so
I really like his research I like his
writing I think that his contributions
to the debate have been terrific so I I
can only say wonderful things about what
he's done I think he does hit the nail
on the head when he talks about
essentially this idea of sort of the
shareholder supremacy you know and this
really comes from Milton Friedman and he
was saying that the only goal of the
firm is to produce a high
returned for shareholders and as if you
know the the companies were not part of
their communities if they were not
employers you know as as if they had no
broader considerations to the government
or to the environment and you know the
only thing that mattered was making
money and I do think the company should
make money and I do think that's you
know one of the most important things
but it's not the only thing and it's not
certainly to the exclusion of all other
things and so you know if companies
think that sort of short term gains you
know and to goose the stock price is the
only thing going then what off what this
often leads to actually is perversely
sort of worse long-term returns for the
shareholder because they're not
investing for the long term they're not
looking after some of their communities
and their customers in the long term and
and I think that's very much what we've
seen you know with many companies you
know and you see this where companies
have borrowed money to buy back shares
often or they've levered themselves up
to pay money out to shareholders you
know look at GE for example right GE
generates loads and loads of money but
they basically we're doing so many
buybacks that you know they levered up
their balance sheet you know made it
incredibly unhealthy and now they're
having to break themselves up and you
know that this is an example of sort of
the short-term buyback obsession versus
a sort of long-term orientation I bet
you'd the CEO of GE who authorized those
buybacks in the board that that signed
off on it I bet they all made a lot of
money off of that oh yeah so Welch and a
melt for example were the two CEOs who
did that and they're very well off very
comfortable and they're not around to
deal with the cleanup
exactly exactly well it's a it's a
fascinating book great research and I
appreciate that in your conclusion you
actually offer very specific solutions
and remedies which which we tend not to
find at the end of a lot of the books
that we talk about here so much
appreciated the book
is the myth of capitalism Jonathon
Tepper we will put a link on a majority
dot F M thanks so much for your time
today I really appreciate it well thank
you it's been an absolute pleasure
all right folks it's int it's it's
interesting to see the potential in my
mind of some type of trans partisan some
type of trans partisan agreement on on
on the on these problematic aspects now
I think probably for some of us on the
left it doesn't go quite far enough but
and the certainly even the principles
embedded in that his name now escapes me
again but the the Republican proposal to
to use government purchasing power as a
way of incentivizing the breaking up of
hospitals you could also do that even
more effectively if you made government
purchasing power of these services even
that much more powerful and
monopsonistic so but these are issues
that you know I think increasingly and
certainly you know across the board I
mean I I personally think that breaking
up Facebook and Google is a much better
solution than to nationalize them
whether to deal with the economic
concentration the political
concentration or these questions of D
platforming because one I don't want the
government to be you know selling
advertising against videos frankly I
don't want the government to be in that
business
do they have to turn a profit though
well a petition would start kicking in
so much that they have to turn a profit
but but we do I mean we as a YouTube
content provider want you know want that
funding from advertising theoretically
right
and so but I don't want the government
administering it I don't want the
government selling ads on my I just
don't want them to do that and the
amount of issues that would be involved
in terms of First Amendment rights and
whatnot very very complicated however to
break up these entities in in a bunch of
different ways would solve a lot of
those issues in terms of like the power
of these platforms and you know within
society I tend to use the word you know
citizen more I think than Jonathan
Tapper would and in in this analysis but
there are obviously both there's a silo
of economic problems and a silo of just
sheer democracy problems associated with
this and just citizenship problems I
think I mean okay people always tell me
that socialism is utopian and you know
to some degree it is but the idea of
having this bipartisan agreement to
regulate the tech industry also seems
quite utopian to me well I mean we've
had it in the past and it doesn't have
to be bipartisan frankly we had a we had
a more or less bipartisan perspective on
antitrust that governed for seventy
years from you know the beginning of the
19th century excuse me at the beginning
of the 20th century till the about 1985
or so when a new perspective on on what
antitrust was and we've talked to other
people about this in the past and we're
gonna have more guests on the future but
I would recommend people go back and
listen to Barry Lynn and I think we
talked to we had a couple of interviews
about this change that Robert Bork
promoted before his days of being borked
at the Supreme Court hearings where the
notion of antitrust went from
keeping and the the notion of antitrust
mutated from big is bad because it
concentrates economic political power
and strips power from the citizenry to
the only principal in determining
antitrust should be whether it
positively impacts the consumer in terms
of price yeah I think guys like this
like libertarians is that the phrase
that's been trickling up I think they
are genuine allies when it comes to
antitrust stuff and I think like the
history this country's shown like that
becomes very popular especially in
moments of concentration like this I
think just when it comes to
redistribution is when you lose them
what was the name of the book and the
author he Brooklyn Law School and big it
was gosh it was a great book and it
escapes me at the moment we need to we
need to tag our our podcast better but
we have a couple we did a couple of
these particularly about a year and a
half ago I think we had three or four
people on so it's not utopian insofar as
it's happened before
well I'm thinking about the current
makeup though of the Republican Party
especially highly aligned with the
Democratic Party which is the only party
that would even try to regulate these
entities in any way I think there's a
strong I think there's a fairly
significant I mean certainly Elizabeth
Warren represents the the a major major
focal point of power for a renewed in
vigorous antitrust movement had had
Hillary Clinton won the presidency I
quite sure and my understanding is that
the the first or second quarter of 2017
would have been dominated by an argument
about this within the
the Democratic Party at the very least
and so yes I think it's unlikely however
you know once you have won the law of
Meet the Press is if you have one
Democrat who signs on to something it's
bipartisan so you know if we have one
Republican you really need you know a
lot more than that to make that argument
but there's certainly but anti-monopoly
is a strong issue anti-monopoly is a
strong issue and I do think there is
rhetoric that can appeal to elements of
the center-right in terms of
anti-monopoly rhetoric I mean I
definitely think small business folk you
know theoretically the bedrock of the
Republican Party
I think the center-right is going away
though don't you like the Republican
Party is Trump now and everybody is
bowing down to him and he hates
regulations the vast majority of of the
Republican Party but again I think there
is an argument where you know antitrust
is you can certainly frame as as
anti-establishment and what also some of
the will definitely that and also some
of this you know as you say and it's
true a element of the center-right a
large amount of the center-right is in
the Democratic Party and I say what I
always say in these things which is I
mean this isn't my particular political
project but I think it's great in the
sense that if somebody coming from the
position that someone like Jonathan
Tapper comes from is writing persuasive
cases against monopolies because he
feels a concern about the moment we're
in because of how we're doing capitalism
that means the whole terrain is shifting
in the right direction I just like to be
the pragmatic and pessimistic one for
once it was fun there you go feels good
all right we got to take a quick break
ahead into the fun half a reminder this
program relies on its supporters
for its production you are members those
of you who are our members provide this
program with ninety six point three
percent of our revenue we want to bring
that up to ninety six point nine maybe
we can bust through ninety seven point
three percent so we are looking at you
if you listen to this program on a
regular basis if you like it if you have
some extra change in your pocket and
maybe you've given up well if you've
given up cigarettes my gosh you're
giving up cigarettes you've got your
large you could buy whatever you want
but buy a house but maybe you found a
place that sells your coffee for two and
a quarter instead of three and a quarter
well then you've just bought yourself a
majority report membership by far even
even you bought two if that's the case
assuming we've done the calculations on
this assuming five coffees a week you've
bought yourself two majority report
memberships so head over to join the
majority report comm also speaking of
coffee just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority make a coffee at home he
buy yourself three majority report
memberships practically get your coffee
justice I like the I'm going to Madison
that's coffee so awesome because I can
do jokes during their ads I'm gonna
Madison this weekend really know what
accordingly just coffee co-op factor
okay excuse me it all comes from
Fairtrade I'm good I'm going to cut just
coffees secretly in the news if they're
open on Saturday I'm gonna go buy there
you should oh yeah I should do that go
by and do a little tour maybe do like a
little Instagram livestream from the
just coffee thing Matt you don't even
listen to anything I'm saying I love
that falls just like yeah do a live
Instagram stream from the just coffee
store the problem
when you're listening when you're not
listening yes powerful stuff
usually when you're not listening to Sam
you could just go with like like yes
exactly that's ridiculous and and what
they did was the Supreme Court said that
but people don't take the court
seriously but you gotta get in when he's
actually excited about something which
is like 5% of the time you got a tab
we're excited about that and that's when
you have to be like oh yes we should
take on and normally a miracie
highly time-consuming project folks
should check out our Instagram account
it is exploding we have we basically
just launched it and we in the past week
we've already increased our followers by
50% boom there you go Michael today is
Tuesday this week is flying by the week
is flying by vacation tonight actually
and I guess one more scheduled change
that's ron vacation next week we're
doing shoot two two two Michael Brooks
shows this week one tonight at our usual
time and one on Friday I would suggest
that people check out the unlocked
illicit history on Sunday Zack Carter
and I on why you shouldn't blame Howard
Schultz he should blame the 1990s
cultural history of oligarchy Third Way
in the Schultz candidacy tonight the
great mark Blythe joins us we're talking
about the green New Deal brexit and why
Trump can't do his economic populism
scam anymore so he has to double down on
xenophobia and breaking down the Elan
omar thing the debut of Rasta Kamala
Harris the the most demented takes in
defense of Amy Klobuchar and a whole
bunch more patreon.com slash T MBS
patreon.com slash T MBS or on our
youtube channel which is where we will
live stream Jamie yeah so Monday for
patrons only
we just dropped let me put myself on
camera there we go
Andy ap Andy our producer is currently
in Mexico because we all go to Mexico a
lot as part of our you know
International anti-fur jobs
he came upon one of the world's foremost
Bookchin scholars blair-taylor at porta
viar-toe bear weekend which is still
like very weird to me how the two really
coincide but apparently a lot of lot of
Murray Bookchin stamps in the bear
community who knows
so agent ego preserve their forebears
yes exactly so so our baby bear cub Andy
talks to Blair about radical municipal
ISM book Qin's concepts of democracy and
citizenship Blair's Institute for social
ecology and the formation of the
symbiosis Network which is like a
anarchist municipal is mutual aid
network throughout the continent he
talks about the PKK and rojava book
shins criticism of fellow Vermonter
Bernie Sanders and what sort of kinky
things the old man was getting up to in
Vermont and Matt yeah coming up this
weekend on literary hangover is the
unparalleled Adventures by one Hans fall
which may be the first science fiction
story to have a spaceship go tomorrow or
the moon case' bill ramen wait what was
a democracy against domination that was
a really good interview very smart man
people should go back and maybe we'll
replay that one that I mean that that
that lays out and we've had others Barry
Lynn from the open democracy mats
Koehler he not gosh all right folks
we're gonna head into the fun half six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is the number and we will see you
there
you
you
we are back Sam cedar and the majority
report the only difference I will say
this and why it's actually easier to do
antitrust stuff than it is to do other
major government programs is you do not
need any legislation to break up
Facebook you do not need any legislation
to break up Google on day to President
Kamala Harris if she was so inclined
could tell her attorney general's office
we need to reorient antitrust to pre
Reagan era perspective go to town yeah
that's it Elizabeth Warren said that she
admires Teddy Roosevelt the trust buster
for that reason well Elizabeth Warren
would axe what I'm she was president she
yes Elizabeth Warren would definitely do
it but I'm saying to do a single-payer
you need legislation you need to
convince 65 senators at this point and
Supreme Court and now maybe the supreme
court might have a different perspective
on antitrust as well although it's hard
to argue you know and they may take
apart like the Chevron doctrine and not
allow these agencies to make this
assessment but it is much easier in
terms of I'm not sure it's as effective
or that it will necessarily get us
exactly where we want to go but to
implement antitrust the the vision
talked about in this book and other
books about antitrust you do not need
any legislation you do not need any
legislation to break up Facebook you
just need to control the executive
branch forever well not just forever
just for those four years they can't put
it back together ask AT&T once it's
broken apart it's broken apart look good
look it's Sam I can try oops I asked
AT&T they could certainly drift back
together over the years no I just don't
think it works now
okay and all of a sudden you have
separate entities that have their own
well doesn't work that way for specific
companies but I mean you just obviously
the broader regulatory environment zoom
out again from this very granular
discussion which is that if it is
politically difficult to impossible
under our current system to provide a
humane life for every human being maybe
the system needs to change I mean I
think there's no reason to believe that
changing will be any easier than that
specific agenda certainly but they're
both hard but one of them points in a
more permanent solution kind of
direction nothing's permanent whereas
well well the Dow Jones the Dow say I do
it by new app you got to turn him down
it keeps popping his nothing's gonna
reach the end of battery honestly
[Music]
Michael having gift for my ears well
it's not just mine no it's well every no
one else is whining you don't that's
true I generally don't actually that's a
good never a good fYI well no but I they
say turn Michael down yes I hear turn up
turn up they're not actual voices you
read them that's what that's what I'm
hearing from many people no I understand
I understand ow
keep them down thank you the dow say
that nothing is permanent I'm doing my
comm app okay here is oh as you know
[Music]
much we play this one first Alon Omar
has issued an apology as my
understanding for being although it was
a very good I thought her apology was
pretty good actually because it didn't
deny it apologize for the use of
language
didn't deny the dynamic that I think we
all that everyone knows which is that
there is a an Israeli Pro really
right-wing Israeli Lobby that is largely
a not just you know it's not exclusively
a function of money but but is highly
fueled by money and that is essentially
what Ilan Omar said I mean if there was
something that she said that was
different from that I'd be open to it
but let me let me not make this argument
let me for the first time in my 15-year
career of professionally talking about
politics defer and outsource if you will
this argument to Thomas Friedman United
case in the Supreme Court that basically
said unlimited campaign donations now
what that meant
is it gave enormous power I've written
all this you know in my column to the
Israel lobby why because maybe if you
and I are running for Congress from the
same district and I have a peck stamp of
approval and you don't I will maybe have
to make three phone calls and I can
raise my whole I'm exaggerating but I
don't have to make many phone calls to
get all the money I need to get on
against you you will have to make fifty
thousand phone calls so that pulled the
whole spectrum to the right then the
Israeli government we had a much more
conservative government come in so what
I've seen in America is the whole
spectrum on the Israel question has
moved to the right to the point and this
is very disappointing to me where if
you're a young political officer you're
in NEA our nearest Division the State
Department you dream one day of being
ambassador to Oman I want to be
ambassador to am on the color you know
the whole thing I do
you will not state publicly what is
actually official US policy that Israeli
settlements are an obstacle to peace
alright so there you have it folks
now Thomas Friedman laid it out in a
slightly a different way in this
interview with Mehdi Hasan but that's
because he wasn't on Twitter and Ilan
Omar said basically the same thing that
our policy towards Israel in this
country is a function of money that
comes from AIPAC
how is that different from what Thomas
Friedman just said well here's the she's
a Muslim well that's true
also I haven't heard her explicitly
defend killing unarmed protesters in
Gaza so if you want to talk about AIPAC
funding you're gonna need to buy a
little currency by defending his real
killing civilians even go as far as as
Friedman did and say that this also
intimidates bureaucrats in the US
government right she just was talking
about the first part of what he said
that if I'm running against you I could
make three phone calls maybe five that's
right and get funded and so but the idea
of there's the the outrage but good for
her this is her this is her apology
anti-semitism is real and I'm grateful
for Jewish allies and colleagues who are
educating me on the painful history of
anti-semitic tropes my intention is to
is never to offend my constituents or
Jewish Americans as a whole we all we
have to always be willing to step back
and think through criticism just as I
expect people to hear me when others
attack me for my identity this is why I
unequivocally apologize that is a very
mature apology she goes on to say at the
same time I reaffirmed the problematic
role of lobbyists in our politics
whether it be a PAC the NRA or the
fossil fuel industry it's gone on too
long and we must be willing to address
it and also just to and to be clear I
mean that's yeah I like that it's such a
perfect response but I also think like
one of the reasons that I have you know
a long run I don't know what we're
calling it because we have like daily
conversations and we almost need like a
style guide about what we call identity
politics but yeah so but let me just say
it for purposes simplicity but one of
the reasons that I've always had a real
problem in a critique of certain
weaponization of identity over policy is
going back a very long time even just
even back to like dinner table
conversations on Israel and the idea
that you know identity or even serious
historical wrongs in contemporary
bigotry can overcome the reality of what
that state is is fundamentally wrong and
you know and I and I'm glad I think
she's responding to you know the correct
impulse that a handful of people had
that called out some of what was a
questionable framing that's wheat but
obviously a vast majority of what's
going on here is profoundly cynical
Trump's just called on her to resign
from Congress and it's time for people
to really close ranks and stop the BS
and get to the substance and I mean
there's I don't know if I gonna play it
but it's like I'm on the other end of
the spectrum I'm you know some people
saying like oh you know Amy Klobuchar
essentially can do this because she's
like a woman she can abuse her staff and
I I it's just bizarre it's really
unhealthy it's it's ridiculous and
people need to and she's handled it with
a lot of class and a lot of grace and
there's nothing wrong with like I think
actually there's really great
conversations that people gonna have and
just sort of like upping their game and
we should all do that but the substance
shouldn't be lost and the fact that this
is being unbelievably I mean if you have
Steve Scalise saying good things she
apologized yeah is grotesque about this
this notion of Donald Trump saying that
her apology isn't good enough calling
for a resignation Steve Steve Scalise
the guy who literally sold himself as
David Duke without the baggage in his
early campaigns to be in any way it's
criticizing this here's Kevin McCarthy
here's a tweet that Kevin McCarthy put
out
just days after what was it the
Pittsburgh right Tree of Life three of
like murder
we cannot allow Soros steyr in Bloomberg
to buy this election get out and vote
Republican November 6 there you go of
course that shake monger and of course
what's amazing to me is like that
actually is it Ilan Omar it is
ill-considered to tweet it's to do it
that's all about the Benjamin but this
is lying about what was influencing
policy towards Israel here's a this I
think maybe someone should educate
anyone from Nancy Pelosi to Donald Trump
about this but Israel and being Jewish
is not synonymous and we can make that
argument both on the left end of the
spectrum with people like myself who do
not have pay us but I can also bring in
some people who do have pay us and make
the same argument but put this aside for
a moment because here's here's max Rose
who is you know I think about as far to
the right that you not that you can get
in the Democratic caucus but he's he is
in that you know that quartile to right
wing Democrat yeah and even he was able
to sort of like call out the Republican
hypocrisy on this she's a friend
she a great country I do want to point
out to all of you okay
when Kevin McCarthy said that it was
Bloomberg I went to a Soros and it was
steyr pulling the strings behind behind
the scenes
what do you kept out right and their
caucus stayed United and had his back
and none of you called them out on that
so I wanna just want you all to
acknowledge that there's some hypocrisy
going on there too okay my caucus can't
be in the face of
anti-semitism either in the face
anti-semitism we don't acknowledge party
in the face of any hate any vitriol we
don't acknowledge party okay so
seriously you got you you're not agents
in a Republican have you spoken with
nice Staten Island knows that Island and
also any what he said in the beginning
to and I got we traded we traded him for
the the guy who said I'm gonna throw you
off the balcony to a New York wine
report is a nice upgrade there I hope
the rumors I heard about that story are
true which is that Michael Grimm
threatened that reporter who was like a
nice young man throw him off the balcony
and the police all rumors but the
conjecture I've heard is that that nice
young man had some relatives that were
not as nice as he was that got word to
Michael Grimm to not ever do anything
like that again and I really hope that
that's true but there's max Rosa I mean
you know making a good point yeah along
those lines
one more thing that people don't realize
about the sort of Zionist coalition that
exists is that it includes plenty of
anti-semites right like you can be a
Zionist and an anti-semite those two
things don't necessarily clash like
think about all the religious right-wing
Republicans in this Zionist Israel
supporting coalition so like yes
just because you are anti Zionist
doesn't mean you're an anti-semite and
it doesn't mean you're not an
anti-semite
dog whistles that Benjamin Netanyahu
sends out on that I mean he's recently
said that he said in his speech I think
a year ago that it wasn't necessarily
Hitler's idea to do the Holocaust that
it came from the Grand Mufti
this is like deep internet anti-arab
conspiracy nonsense and of course the
Grand Mufti wasn't a good guy but that's
an incredible move to try to actually in
some ways minimize Hitler's role in the
frigging Holocaust and their buddy I'm
sorry it was my idea I mean seriously
and they're all budding up and aligning
with historically profoundly
anti-semitic European party so I mean
not only you right in a u.s. context
Jamie literally in Israel there's
bizarre borderline anti-semitic dog
whistling coming from the leadership
because it's a far-right country it's a
far-right white identity here's the
change this goes without saying but I'm
sure they will not be defending Bernie
Sanders against any kind of anti-semitic
attacks he may face I am guessing that
that's probably not gonna happen but I
will say this you know it is for for
someone who I have a still I have a
tremendous amount of ambivalence in
terms of Israel that is increased with
my age and with not just a question of
my age but in terms of the direction
that that Israel has taken but at the
end of the day I fundamentally want
there to be an Israel that exists and to
the extent that there is a an
existential threat to Israel it is a
function of folks like that AIPAC the
folks who who insist on collaborating
with them and the right in Israel
present the greatest existential threat
to Israel there is because there is
there attempting to stop people from
essentially expressing their conscience
and that is not going to work forever
and when it when that dam breaks when
they are no longer able to police in the
way that they're attempting to police
now and to silence their perfectly valid
and long overdue criticism there's gonna
be a debt to pay this is the way all
this stuff happens and it's gonna swing
hard and quickly in and Israel is gonna
find itself extremely isolated at one
point and I'm very concerned about what
happens then so to the extent that
there's an existential threat to Israel
it is a function of these people in my
estimation and this is one more area
where Bernie Sanders really is the only
option in terms of viable candidates for
president right now he's the only one
who turned down the invite to speak
AIPAC and you know maybe being Jewish is
part of why he's able to do that and
play it off well because like
are you gonna call Bernie Sanders an
anti-semite I don't think so yeah oh
they will
he absolutely will they well 15 years of
being called the self-hating Jew I mean
they can try but I'm really not gonna
stick that much yeah
no I don't think so but I generally just
can't play that game I mean I you know
like I'm all for like her modifying
whatever you know whatever mistakes you
might have made but the bottom line is
like anti-semitism is really clear when
you see it mostly and we're talking
about a nation-state and the idea that
people in politics can't talk about a
nation-state is ludicrous and ridiculous
in and of itself and it is absolutely an
area another area where Bernie stands
head and shoulders above every other
candidate by ironically back to the
Freedman clip just publicly stating
support for what is actually official US
policy right and still until Trump that
might be slightly formatted changing and
you know what else is a problem
Islamophobia and a lot of the attacks on
her really reek of that to me of course
so-called progressives are actually
regretted calling from a 4:07 area code
who's this where he calling from hey Sam
this is Christian Colin from West
Michigan Christian from West Michigan
what's on your mind hey I just wanted to
talk a little bit
well first off let me just say that uh I
started listening to your clips in high
school on YouTube and that was a pretty
big part of moving me more to the left
you know I grew up in a more libertarian
conservative minded family so those
clips were a big breath of fresh air Wow
alright I appreciate it thank you for
telling me that yeah but yeah the
Democratic Party you had a caller a
couple months ago was an older gentleman
from Philadelphia and he was trying to
make the case that the Democratic Party
needed to strategically stay in the
center to try to capture those suburban
middle class upper middle class centrist
voters and you know like around
Philadelphia and I just think that if
we're really going to see
seed moving the Democratic Party not
only just moving them to the left but
actually gaining power in the state
legislatures in the governorships in
Congress and the presidency I really
think it's important that we have to
have a I mean a a more progressive
platform and candidates that are
actually you know committed to
progressive ideas and not just you know
paying lip-service like you know Kamala
Harris will do and I mean I think look
we we have shown consistently that you
can win with you could you can you can
win not all the time with centrist
policies as long as there is a a decent
amount of charisma behind it I think a
Kamala Harris frankly can win the
problem is is that you end up losing
across the board because you're not
delivering any type of material benefits
for people so you know Barack Obama can
win two elections but over the course of
those eight years we lost the thousand
Democratic lawmakers around the country
we lost the Senate we lost the house we
lost the Supreme Court same thing
happened in a wake of Bill Clinton - I
mean so you can win the presidency with
a charismatic person who has centrist
views but you can't hold on to power and
the backlash is gonna be awful bad
so I mean that dunny not only that but
but I mean it's just like I think that
in certain strategic instances like a
centrist candidate might be ideal you
know in a certain races but well I mean
look at moments - John Asaf race and in
Georgia I forget that that special
election that happened the other that
guy lost yeah you know and then I think
a more progressive candidate actually
won that race or at least came yes
needed one yeah and then you have
candidates like what was his name JD
Scholten in Iowa
like the
can't be that guy ran against Steve King
who had held that seat for who's held
that forever and he came within three
points of beating them I'm pretty sure
yeah so you know I I think because I
think there's this whole you know common
sense idea that oh well we gotta you
know run more to the center since
Trump's more extreme and people are
trying to have a sense of normalcy and I
think there's some truth to that
but I really think that people have
heard the same third way you know
centrist policy ideas for the past 20 or
30 years and it hasn't done anything for
them especially rural voters and and
working-class people and that's why I
think we need to drag older Democrats
who are you know just more comfortable
quite frankly in this mindset kicking
and screaming into the end of the future
because I think that's what it's come to
yeah I guess we don't up top the more
progressive positions you know we're not
going to win in 2020 and the Republicans
are going to keep capitalizing on our
sit in our but you know no I think
you're right about that I think it's I
think it's it's born out of a certain
amount of fear that comes out of you
know still in some ways there is a
generation of Democrats who are
responding to McGovern's loss and it is
it's just that lesson does not apply and
has really been mutated and it's it's
just not appropriate now it's not a
proper assessment of the situation
I appreciate the Cal Christian and if
you look at what the Republicans did in
response to quote-unquote
their McGovern losing it's totally
different and more effective right like
they ran Barry Goldwater against LBJ in
1964 he lost really badly did they tack
to the center after that no they dug
their heels in they bite at their time
they had a long march through the
institution's and then they got Ronald
Reagan who was not a centrist in any
understanding of the word Ronald
Ragan come from a to10 area code who's
this where he come from hi this is Cody
from San Antonio how are you
Cody from San Antonio how are you
hey I'm great today it's beautiful day
here in sunny was like 65 and sunny
how's Brooklyn I'm going to hang up on
you nevermind sorry hey I am kind of
curious what you guys take would be
regarding sports leagues I've been
curious about how taxes might come into
play because like for as much as I've
got a lot place that go this but like
for as much as say the NBA talks about
social issues and all this stuff they
never really do the right thing there
you never seen LeBron James going out
there saying you know I deserve a higher
tax rate or you know this is how
policies like that money they could take
for him effect you know the government
they have like I'll give you another
point of conversation they have the sons
you know they have they're about to run
out of their their Leafs I believe and
they had a little lady they were trying
to get funding from the the government
there at the City Council made a little
old lady 90 years old saying you know
Roberts Arbor the owner doesn't do
anything for this city he's he's so
tight and cheap he he squeaks when he
walks that sort of thing and you know
they even put together terrible team
Seattle lost their team over that I'm
just wondering what you guys kind of
think how would the taxes we are
interested in to save you know the
general welfare how would that also
apply to like sports billionaires I'm
not sure what you're asking to be honest
with you Kody inflating a lot there I
mean you're conflating like should
taxpayers be paying for billionaires
teams you know own stadiums there's a
lot of power if we could pass in court
yes if we could pass a federal
legislation that said it was it elicits
to provide tax money for sports stadiums
I would be totally in favor of it I
think he's also getting to the point
where a the most sympathetic people that
gonna be hit by raise taxes our
professional athletes and other kinds of
celebrities because there's it looks
like more of a meritocracy or something
like that and the point I'd make is they
just need to be quiet about that stuff
and not argue against it and I think
most of them are like yeah like I would
say a little brawn and me I guess I mean
I look runs pretty good yeah she's
relative to Priya
I like LeBron so I'm gonna go easy I
guess I'll go easy on him but I would
say I mean he hasn't said don't raise my
taxes and the extent to which he's been
in public conversation it's the call
Trump a bum yeah and speak out on things
like racism and I guess there's also the
things that I'm sort of aware of that
maybe aren't as sort of publicly facing
where he's he's pretty good on stuff as
just how I'll put it and he certainly
hasn't said if you raised my taxes I
won't play for the Lakers anymore
because I just won't have the incentive
let's play this guy from this is a he's
from West Virginia right it's got Porter
field where is the description oh yeah
here it is
okay this guy Eric Porter field he is a
delegate from West Virginia he
apparently either on the floor of the
house or within a caucus reportedly was
talking about and was yeah not this
is the West Virginia House not federal
law okay what service but we definitely
was in a committee hearing apparently we
definitely we've definitely see this
stuff migrated in the Republican Party
my sense is he's a Republican it may be
a wayward Democrat who likes to wear a
make America great hat but just to give
you a sense of and it's interesting I'm
very curious to see if if Dave Rubin is
supportive of a guy like this clearly is
cleaning up the sjw's I need to read
Bowie about him doesn't like my sis like
Marxist in day's trying to make West
Virginia have more of a prime to rule in
the country yeah this is an interesting
clip because it's it gives you a sense
of
the face of abject bigotry looks like in
this country but also what feckless
local reporters look like to when like
what like she's so mystified by what
this guy is saying and is not pressing
on this point doesn't realize that well
I mean I guess we're watching the video
so but she doesn't realize that it would
have been in her both journalistic and a
commercial interest to may be press your
subject just a little bit more on
something they're saying that you don't
seem to be able to compute ask you this
yes ma'am you have a adorable daughter
and a precious son what would happen if
a few years from now when they're teens
young adults they came to you and said
that they think that they might be gay
or lesbian well I will address my
daughter first as I would take her for a
pedicure I take her to get her nails
done and see if she could swim if it was
my son I would probably take him hunting
I would take him fishing and I'd see if
he could swim what do you mean you would
see Vegas well I just wanna make sure
they could swim that's just that that's
it I mean I'd take him out to do
activities all right okay uh first off
what the guy is saying is I would see if
they could swim is a is a euphemism for
I would drown them so he's basically
saying he would kill his kids also seems
to be under the misapprehension that
lesbians don't get pedicures or
manicures which I'm quite sure some do I
also am quite sure that gay men hunt and
fish so he's under a couple
misapprehensions but really it seems
like the reporter missed the boat when
he said I would kill them yeah that that
was I mean I don't know why some sort of
like lame jokes about cutting room floor
true detective come to mind
but that's just kind of so sick I'll
just let it's today
no it's simple Senora literally I
mean he the yeah I mean and the the
smile that he delivers it with it's like
truly bone-chilling I would like to ask
Trump like hey if you had a blind kid
what we do when I'd take him out see if
he could read without Braille and then
he could swim did you get that because
Trump would have been like did you
understand I said I would see if he
would swim they're talking about
drowning them okay it doesn't look
exactly like Michael Phelps is what I'm
saying unbelievable can we play the true
detective theme what's up wait with that
clip let's play this care of I like this
clip I know this is sort of petty but I
will get to that in a second and I want
to play the the other petty quick clip
we have Joy Behar this is not petty this
is amazing so Joy Behar apparently is is
they're talking about Amy Klobuchar I'm
not even sure what the point that they
were making I mean khlo Bashar is out
there and what we'll talk about this a
little bit but before we get there is
pretty fun to watch this because I mean
look joy Behar's obviously she's only on
a television because her dad was a
senator and ran for president and she's
on there because of the sheer nepotism
involved in that and the celebrity she
simply traded on the celebrity that she
got from being now she's a great person
in person but you know it's a way to I'm
sorry I'm not thinking of jibei her I'm
thinking of her co-host on the view that
is that is Meghan McCain and here joy
has basically expresses that I've got
news for you I'm tired of you
I mean I don't know I mean me maybe he's
met his match I mean she has a
reputation for being a pretty tough
woman for having not the best
temperament and he has reputation for
not having the best temperament and
maybe he's met his match that's what the
country needs we just need a way to
slide to the bottom and speak now on Amy
Klobuchar we're all good okay two quick
things number one I have friends who
were at her now all right no no by all
means keep going you know if you're
gonna have a hissy fit we can't continue
let's go to senator Elizabeth Warren joy
behar is a national hero that was that
was so fun because McCain was looking
out at the audience for some type of
approval or she was saying looking at
the producers or whatnot apparently off
camera we can't see what Joy Behar is
doing but she's just obviously doing
something like this and then McCain was
which is so used to the idea that there
has to be total deference right that
like it's not enough that I have the
microphone it's that you have to be
looking with bated breath as to what I'm
about to say the look on your face I
don't appreciate that and then joy said
okay good next up that's totally fine
let's talk about another person who's
more worthwhile than you Elizabeth
Warren I also I mean she's just running
a clinic on how we should be treating
all useless trust fund babies in this
country look we don't know if she has a
trust fund we do know that she probably
we don't know that it's in trust okay
right it's true that is a good nuanced
but it's not even that as much as she's
there for one reason only she traded off
the celebrity now she's the token
conservative right well I don't know
isn't that Abby Huntsman's there too for
the exact same reason what is she doing
there Constantine's daughter yes we're
gonna we're gonna balance this out by
having
folks who are benefiting from nepotism
but anyway but we're getting to the
substance of that clip the idea that
like somehow globish are balances out
Donald Trump because she has a
temperament problem I I don't I don't
know if doing mean things to your
employees should necessarily disqualify
you from the presidency but it certainly
is a valid complaint do we have that
well do we have that that's that's
definitely put input I don't think they
would think but look can I just say I
mean I just want to say quick couple
quick things about Clovis show first of
all her behavior if it is true is
totally a pourraient and unacceptable no
matter who did it and anybody's saying
otherwise is just beyond full of it
the second thing is I totally agree the
thing that I've been putting forward
recently nobody is perfect people make
mistakes there should absolutely be a
room to grow and change in public life
but she not only has not apologized and
committed to changing her behaviors she
suggested that somehow abusing her staff
is part of the same mentality that means
I believe in America which is one of the
most demented defenses of ever seen yeah
and then the third part and then just
really quickly the third part is this is
all in the service of and again I'll be
really blunt like if Amy Klobuchar was
some great crusading you know senator
who brought a lot to the table but it's
like first you abused your staff then
you don't take accountability and change
and then third it's all in the service
of like we need tax credits like no
vision no purpose pure career it's
disgusting very selling point that she's
pushing as I understand it is
electability but like most people who
vote are not bosses they're workers and
they see you behaving that way towards
their workers and I don't like you yeah
I'm like like I shake I I don't I
I'm not at this point I'm not weighing
in on whether her behavior because I
haven't quite you know everything that
I've heard is either read or I've heard
other rumors frankly the question isn't
necessarily you know her politics at
this moment or her or whether this is
disqualifying to be President but to
characterize the criticism based on this
is is fascinating and to use the
argument that this is in some way
gendered to not take it seriously is the
most gendered perspective you could take
on this because if if these accusations
were that a man was throwing things at
their staff or if the accusations were
that when a man was confronted with
anything that he fell apart and started
yelling at everybody which is the other
part is that like look this is a
high-pressure job this would be
immediately disqualifying and it is it's
fascinating how and look if you are in
the news business and you were not aware
that these things were gonna come out
when she declared you are you you must
work very hard at not talking to other
news people because I heard about this
and if I'm hearing about it it seems to
me that everyone should have but here is
here is that this line of arguing and it
frankly like it makes me even more
skeptical about clovers hard to hear her
surrogates saying this stuff listen to
this who is this guy
I don't even know who the some
Republican strategist all right let's
listen to and then in the and Christine
Quinn who might as well be a Republican
strategist as far as I'm good sir
on with Stephanie ruhle Mises and
deflects from the misconduct of others
and I think it's wrong can I say is it
really say me I am so sick and tired of
almost every time a woman steps forward
to move up in position whether it's
political or in business or anywhere she
is all of a sudden the meanest cruelest
manager in the world
I'm sure Donald Trump is a peach to work
for cuz every time you turn around he's
told Twitter in the world you're about
to get fired insert is really different
I've had it I've worked in the Senate
I've talked to many other people who've
worked in the Senate for men and women
and they say that they're good bosses
when you have to be taken over and taken
aside by the majority leader for
throwing a binder a staffer and that's a
problem did Harry Reid confirm that he
that he that he pulled her aside no this
conversation I don't believe he did it's
been confirmed by sources and Harry Reid
has not been the whole reason these
stories are coming out or because of ex
staffers of Amy Club really example
absolutely
you would not I would absolutely if a
man or threw a binder at a staffer I
absolutely would every time almost every
time a woman steps forward all of a
sudden there are these unnamed sources
of Harry Reid is not confortable first
of all there are I think I don't know if
anybody has been named but it's not I
Got News for you maybe Christine Quinn
is just completely out of the loop but
me sitting here in this office in
Brooklyn heard about the that there were
ex staffers a lot of them and also the
one the Union letter that came out
that's also a name document of the guy
going back years ago saying we can't
endorse her as a Lieber Union purely
based on her staff conduct that was
actually one of the meet of the first
piece and isn't a document that she has
the highest staff turnover and also the
new one coming out is maybe it was a
binder full of women and she was just
getting really excited about diversity
but here's the problem
here's the problem like the I think
there is in a
not in this context but broadly speaking
what Christine Quinn is talking about is
a legitimate phenomena that is highly
highly problematic and certainly
implicated in I think there's no doubt
in my mind that it was implicated in the
Clinton race and that it's an issue for
all of the women who are running for
president but to use this example to to
talk about that issue in the context of
this example does everybody a huge
disservice
well it's breathtakingly cynical and
also I have to say like I never heard I
know people who who were in the the
Clinton orbit on I certainly on public
record and private gossip I never heard
anything about Hillary Clinton being in
anything other than good to work for
ever
that was never in in orbit and just the
the way that Christine Quinn is
characterizing the attacks it's not like
it's it's she's like a beaut
the reports are that Klobuchar is
abusive well and the new report I don't
know if you caught this before we went
on but that she called other people to
have them rescind offers from departing
staff obviously if a man did that I
would say it was strategic and go get
her right but because she's a woman and
I'm a brochure list I'm in an object to
that
hey she's just trying to get by in a
man's world all right just like what
Cersei Lannister blew up all those
people and Game of Thrones that was
actually legit I mean is that just what
let it that's so that's an unfair
comparison I watched that part of the
show it seems like she had a valid point
the men who just like being like that
like just horrible bosses and abused
their staff like Christine Quinn just
wishes she could get away with it maybe
yeah so I mean I would now I'm my only
takeaway from this clip is other than
how horrific this argument is I'm very
curious to hear about Christine Quinn
staffing and all of the people defending
her along those lines
all right meanwhile oh we should
probably turn on the I am
have too much time Erica and again if
she came out saying I just want to
underline this if she came out and said
you know I've learned and I've improved
and I've done training and now look at
my experience with my staff now and
that's something I want to take
accountability for I wouldn't make an
issue of this you know but my sense I
wouldn't is that we wouldn't know about
it if she in any of those you know what
that's the even deeper point because her
I think you're totally right that the
staff was basically sending these
signals like we don't we want you to be
in the Senate and do your job we don't
want to cross in a whole bunch of
unnecessary drama but if you run for
president we're gonna need to let you
know that you're an unrepentant abuser
but if she had either either that if or
again what if she said several years ago
I think I want to run for president and
I realized this is super up and
I'm gonna become a better person like
I'm just I'm I think it's great
in general the idea that people can grow
and improve I hate the like you know I'm
I'm opposed to at this sort of like
discard perfectionistic approach to
everything completely so I just want to
keep emphasizing that my main beef right
now I mean the stories are horrible but
it's the fact that she's come out and
actually said I expect a lot from my
staff just like I expect from the
country is what tips me too I'm gonna
treat all of you I'm president yeah I am
very skeptical of of claims of certain
people are hard to work for because
generally what that does you know at
least in the context of of like show
business and whatnot is that they're
highly demanding but when you start to
get physically abusive when you start to
prevent people from having careers
because they want to get away from you
that's that's highly problematic come
from eight five six area code who's this
where he come from
hey I can who's this great this is a
Space Ghost from the T NBS left his best
digitus fear oh hello Space Ghost yeah
so
since calling in I thought maybe I would
deliver the official discord rebuttal to
your interview so I hope there won't be
any upstaging later okay Wow are you now
are you are you authorized to deliver
the official one I believe so yes okay
but since the discord was calling for
the terror to be waged against John
Tucker
I actually think I'm gonna be a little
bit nicer okay are you gonna make
excuses for the terror important
question no there will be no excuses
there so and you know I haven't read his
book so I'm just going off of what he's
said in interview this is really more
about this whole like I guess the corner
of antitrust advocates that it like
evangelizing for competition I say
evangelizing because it always seems
like they are they're like solution to
every problem with the market is to just
let the competition kick in and I don't
think this is based on any kind of like
objective you know economic analysis of
what would actually make work and is
simply an ideological hang-up about
preserving market structures no matter
what and it also you know probably going
off of neoclassical economic models
around an ideal or perfect competition
that is kind of and relies on
you know constructing a completely an
actual you know fantastical utopia that
can't possibly exist well wait no wait a
second I don't know about your first
point about your second point I I don't
think that's the case at all
I think they're calling for robust
government intervention to - in these
markets in
that it's not a utopian like I say we
have seen this in the past
it's we haven't seen it in 25 30 years
but the US government broke up the
telephone company there was a telephone
company a telephone company and how many
how many companies were this was a 18 to
be broken up into I think it was like
five different regional ones and then
all the long-distance broke up okay
so I'm just you know comparing trying to
compare that to the the carriers that in
this now which are still fairly I mean
it is no but but what has happened over
the past 20 years right we have seen
complete we've seen reconsolidation and
so the right and that I mean is a
natural tendency of most industries well
yes particularly and I do not have a
regulatory structure about it I mean if
you if the regulator's step down and
they are told that you no longer assess
the antitrust based on these principles
but rather those principles then that's
what happens yes yeah I mean I'm not
saying that it can never work in any
kind of well when I say it's utopian you
are well no I I'm so fully my physical
you know really trying to get like they
seems like there are a lot of there
plenty of cases where you know there are
natural monopolies right where there are
just like efficiencies of scale that
make it economical to concentrate or
operate as monopolies like you yeah you
know the infrastructure items like urban
mass transit systems broadband
they tend to you know like it tends to
just make the most sense for those to be
operate monopolistically and that is
where the best policy response would be
to make the public utilities and I think
that a lot of the things that he the
industries that he was talking about
like I was specifically thinking about
tech platforms because I'm really
skeptical of the efficacy of breaking
breaking those companies up or breaking
the platforms up as opposed to just
making them public utilities I think
there is a way to do this how would you
make youtube a public utility you could
I mean the platform itself I mean you
you like you could set it up as a as a
kind of independent public trust so you
don't have this heavy hand of like you
know government weighing in on on
context well wait a second but it but if
it's a if if the government has set it
up that there is no way that you're not
going to have First Amendment issues
right and then I mean yeah and then and
then what do you now then what are you
going to do in terms of of of
advertising advertising yeah the
government is gonna sell ads is gonna
have a sales force the BBC does that the
BBC does take private advertising now
also when you say First Amendment issues
what do you what's the trouble with
First Amendment I don't know
everything's allowed yes definitely
that's the strongest argument for I mean
not that I care per se but I mean the
ultimate ironic answer to all of these
alt-right is you better support
a massive social intervention in the
economy if you want your first well I
know that's pretty ironic but we're not
just talking about politics I mean you
know I mean obviously when you enter
Canada no one be wow
yeah well what what wait what do you
mean criminal
well you can't things that don't fault
like you can't post a video of killing
somebody under the First Amendment I
mean you know that that's we already
know that we do wait you think it would
be Lisa films to post stuff films are
not legal they're not covered under the
First Amendment they're not I mean are
you joking well I think some things we
consider literally an actual snuff film
is of course like you can't kill
somebody right you can't that's an
illegal activity I I think you're you're
opening up a huge can of worms with it
with a YouTube situation where you're
gonna be selling ads and the federal the
British do not have a First Amendment so
you know to the extent that they take
ads and this and that it's not it's not
problematic but the the complications
involved in that I think would be
enormous ly problematic it's super it's
I think it's fairly easy to to break up
Google into multiple different parts and
again you don't need legislation to do
it and it's definition Autopia because
we've done it in the pocket
I got a defend utopianism a little bit
here oh wait a second like it's
necessarily a bad thing and necessarily
impossible
whereas the caller did oh no no like the
point the only point I was trying to
make before is that like yes communism
is utopian it's a thing that I believe
in maybe it's not possible maybe it is
but like this kind of the the ability to
like harmoniously regulate capitalism so
that everybody gets what they need is
also utopian that's all I was trying to
say I think you just mean utopia is
really hard to pull off in today's
politics which I think all of the things
we talked about everything is utopian
that definitely but I think that's not
the way you're using utopian is is
completely idealized I understand the
caller you're using it in the way it
just mean really hard
right well you can't say placing the
hold on you can't say you simply cannot
say that yeah Jesus Christ you cannot
say that antitrust is utopian but total
revolution of our capitalist system is
not now they both are no they're both
not because we've actually had a
rigorous antitrust regime and we don't
need legislation to return to it now you
can argue that it's not sufficient or
you can argue that it is you know it's
not it's not prime I don't know how you
would argue it's not practical but you
can argue it's not sufficient but you
can't say it's utopian it do not use the
word utopian sir you will and also say
I'm already sweating bullets apparently
route Reagan just said to me Sam looking
visibly uneasy that snuff films might be
illegal it's a problem let me just can I
just say I didn't mean to say that
antitrust policy is utopian like I was
talking specifically about the
neoclassical school of economics and the
models that they produce that a lot of
people around antitrust you know rely on
I think to a detriment I also didn't
call them to make you angry Sam I'm
sorry he gets very picky about words so
beat your words words matter I don't
support
I think words guys finish go oh I'm not
being mean to space good I want to be
you know I I do want to be pragmatic and
I think that yeah like you know when you
when you factor in just politics and you
know it's Policy Analysis there are you
know different optimal policies like I
think you would all probably agree that
having a single-payer health care system
is far superior to trying to make an
optimal market structure
for health insurance right yeah well I
mean I think I think the idea is that
that the single-payer is an optimal
market structure I mean I think like
we're not going to be able to you know
it's gonna be basically we're gonna be
paying for insurance into into markets
right into localized markets for medical
care we're going to be paying into we're
gonna be a single payer paying into
markets for for drugs and so you know
the we're not eliminating the market
we're simply putting a substantial buyer
in there who matches there we're
creating a monopsony so that we can
essentially force the sellers into more
favorable terms for us as individuals
right and of course you could go farther
and adjust style system yeah you know
the government's producing
pharmaceuticals the way Elizabeth Warren
has proposed right as an option right
and so like the point but the point is
that like I think people like pepper are
in our mind to try to like make a market
works when the the easier better option
is often just to have the kind of public
service I was also thinking about you
know like maybe you know YouTube is a
complicated issue but like Facebook and
Twitter you know like you can break up
those companies you can restructure them
you could you know democratize the
company so there's more worker control
but still like the problem remains that
you have to have a viable business model
and I don't see a a profitable business
model for these platforms to keep them
you know free at pointa views that
doesn't involve extracting data and
contents and you know selling the law
I'm
no that's me with I mean it's that
that's when he points to having them
operate as a non-profit find up utility
Wikipedia model the optimal policy
solution
Jeremy cries talking about international
social network right yeah
and then has the exclusive wait oh no
like a public option the public option
doll so does not it is doing the exact
same thing that I've been talking about
you're introducing a a simply a
lower-cost version into the market right
as opposed as opposed to trying to make
a completely private part at work right
well I look I'm not for a completely
private market but the idea that we that
and there is nothing mutually exclusive
about antitrust in fact I would argue
that the quickest way to get to any type
of government control over any industry
is to start with int with a vigorous
analyzer total so that you don't have
the consolidation of political and
economic power that is so problematic
right now I don't know if after the
implementation of a robust antitrust
structure that we are going to get to
some type of you know nirvana but I do
know that if we want to continue down a
road of democratizing our economy and
democratizing our society that all the
roads lead through inhibiting the power
of these entities and this is the way
that on day one and anybody who gets
into office can do that right I mean so
I think we should do it I'm not saying
not to do it yeah no I think really
agree I advocate for like Robo as robust
antitrust policy as possible along with
you no further pushes to try and you
know democratize into commodified and
I'm not you know I'm not attacking like
your position I think I agree with your
position I'm talking about like pepper
and you know others who are
you know of the mind of trying to make a
perfectly perfectly competitive private
market every time when they really audit
just you know risk the imagination of a
new type of possibility that would be -
this is what is so short-sighted in my
estimation about that type of thinking
it's like I'm going to get you I'm going
to take you you know you're sitting on
by the side of a highway and you're
trying to travel a hundred miles and
somebody comes by and says I'm gonna
take you 40 miles down the road in fact
I'm gonna take you 40 miles down the
road and that's the hardest 40 miles of
the terrain and or it's at very least as
close to the hardest part of it as
possible and before you get in the car
and go like you know 40 miles is not
good enough I'm gonna stay right here
like I think like it's one thing to say
it's insufficient but you gotta say it's
necessary because it is I always say
that it's necessary and then I say that
it's insufficient I'm talking to Space
Ghost when he called in in terms of his
criticism of that it's in a very
upsetting joke
well not use the word utopian and now
apparently snuff films are illegal and
I'm very concerned about but but the
point is is that like you know the the
the response there's no doubt and that's
why I started the interview specifically
with pepper saying like you know from a
political standpoint I don't think from
an ideological standpoint there's a lot
of people listen to this show where I
think you know your politics are going
to be more limited in terms of their
scope but there is no way to get to a
place where you can rest anything away
from private but the you know private
ownership without diminishing the
enormous amount of consolidation that
has taken place there's no way I mean I
really think that we're talking at each
other a little bit so you know I'll
that's not a lot of snuff films and you
you said that it was utopian
you could afford to do that because
you're a space ghost
that's right away is that illegal - oh
no no again I get a jump I want it
appreciate the car circle a little bit
if I can because I feel like we are
often talking past each other in these
discussions so if you want to look at a
neoliberal policy one issue that I have
with it I mean the main issue right is
that the government is doing more and
more work to try to prop up this market
and make it work and like when I
compared it to a Hugh Hefner viagra
boner the other day I meant like it's
it's fake it exists because of the
actions of the state and as time has
progressed and capitalism has developed
into this new phase it's taken more and
more viagra to get the same amount of
boner growth which the boater needs sail
I don't know what this means what do you
mean the government has done more and
more to prop up the government the
market I mean that's what neoliberalism
is in part right the government supports
the market and makes laws in order to
make the market function the way it's
supposed to and I see a lot of people
bending over backwards to try to make
the production work that's that my
understanding is that that the pure
neoliberalism is a notion that the
market can solve all problems and that
to the extent that government
intervention is called for by the most
you know sort of a cynical you know the
sort of the classical neoliberal is to
establish is to establish the dominance
of specific players within the mark well
I think props up neoliberalism but
that's not like they're I think part of
what you're saying if I understand you
correctly I think is right which is that
what we're doing in neoliberalism
unfortunate I we got to find a new word
private is finding new commons to
privatise in a shrinking market space
but that's very different move than
dealing with monopolies so monopolies is
a reform you can say a public option is
national government is no I'm not
intervention I wouldn't so i actually
again take it as a positive signal that
people who want to save quote-unquote
capitalism are thinking in those terms
versus thinking about new bioprospecting
you know projects in Latin America or
Africa or ways of like privatizing
school security as an example which is
still obviously happening - but I think
that's the attack on the ISM not
anti-monopoly efforts not the efforts a
good reform I mean I was just trying to
make a somewhat specific exam example of
what I am talking about because I am
often accused of not being specific
enough but just like the very idea that
people would be bending over backwards
to try to figure out a way to preserve a
system that has gone wildly off the
rails and probably cannot be fixed like
the burden of proof is always on the
ones who don't want to do that like
nobody ever has to justify why they want
to keep capitalism despite all of the
problems that it causes I mean the the
name of the book is the myth of
capitalism it's a it's a critique of of
capitalism I mean I you know like I it
it they're like there's a certain amount
of shadowboxing that's going on here
that is like yeah I mean on that note
like I agree I don't trust like the
niskin in centered style like
libertarian truth and they talk a lot of
good game on antitrust stuff but I don't
trust them at all I would use them and
use their political like whatever they
have right we're talking about an idea
at this point but once you yeah exactly
like I said I'm going to vote for
Jonathan tapper to be President or to be
in charge of its might Epis side you're
not going to get like redistribution
Airy or decommodification policies from
these people but in terms of
what we really need to deal with and
like the actual companies that are
running the world right now I think they
might be helpful yeah anything and it's
a move against the order it isn't
they're not coming out and saying like
hey you know what inequality is a real
problem or here's an app for it they're
going back to very honorable important
legal and policy history and saying you
just got to break these companies up
which is affirmative role of government
it has a important legacy and again it's
just you know yeah and there's also a
sure do that there's also a shared
principle in the sense that they
actually genuinely believe in
redistribution there it is not as active
and but the you know when you start with
the notion that the problem is that
returns on capital is too high and that
is what that essentially means is that
labor is not getting enough money that's
what that means and so that's the first
premise then the question becomes that
which is dramatically different I think
in terms of particularly in the context
of our society today of what the agenda
is for the vast majority of so-called
capitalists and and certainly you know
from a libertarian perspective this is
not a free-market ideology that is that
that is it's promoting this it is an
idea that that says that if the market
does it it must be right it is saying
that these markets are not working in
the way in the they are not mutually
exclusive it seems to me remedies up to
a point at one point there is a conflict
because at one point there is a concern
against I think you know anti monopolist
that the state might become too
prominent in in certain areas we're just
different sets of questions like again I
don't want to bring I don't well I won't
I think it's relevant now but it's like
their ideas are really good and in some
ways it's like an inappropriate critique
to say they're not talking about
democratizing the workplace
things like Modric own because that's
not what he's talking about but that
said in the grander scheme of things
there's probably an ideological
difference there I'm not interested in
just breaking up companies I would like
to see how companies operate be
different and that's fine that's just a
different philosophical political
orientation but his work is not
implicated because he doesn't address
that that just means you're coming from
different places yes I have no issue
with people who want to institute
reforms right like I'm Pro reform I
think most people on the Left are
leftist of all kinds the only issue I
have is when people pretend that those
reforms are going to be good enough to
solve the enormous problems that we face
including you know a planet that's going
to be uninhabitable in 20 years if we
keep the same mode of production and
accumulation yeah I think to do any of
those things we're gonna have to go
through
we're antitrust is gonna be the first
thing that we're gonna have to do if
we're gonna be effective at anything
because you're just not gonna be able to
fight that type of consolidated power so
that's true um so thank you Jonathan
pepper let's just play Donald Trump and
get this over with so folks Donald Trump
went down to El Paso to give a speech
and he was greeted by some American
patriots who were willing to plant
themselves into the ground and be the
wall when Donald Trump says be the wall
he was he had no idea but he was being
literal and some proud Americans have
decided that they are going to be the
wall and I don't know have we let's put
some some soaring inspirational music
over this clip of Americans literally
almost so were the 200 of them lining up
with their Maya hats on the border to be
the wall and I think what we really
needed is some cement footing so that
they could actually stay there I mean
that's the President on it you don't
want the wall to be that fluid but go
ahead
[Applause]
[Music]
like how they're shuffling along so that
they're all holding hands
[Music]
the guy with a rifle in the ski mask
that's so that's the America I'm hoping
for is that a match that looks like an
actual cop this is so inspiring
people come together oh look at that
that's it that's a Texas flag with a
some type of semi-automatic rifle on it
that's super cute black the Mexicans
they would be as one there you go folks
there's your your moment of inspiration
Wow
and so Donald Trump went down to El Paso
and I don't know you know we haven't
heard from him in a in a rally in quite
some time but I think he's getting a
little bit more nuts and it's not I
don't know if he's actually any more
crazy than he's been in the past but he
certainly it seems to me that his
rhetoric is going a little bit further
and I have a feeling it's gonna keep
going in this direction there's no
reason to believe it won't it is it's
annoying to hear him but I think it's
important too that we have at least the
sense of you know just some sense of
where it's going because there's I think
there was like 7,000 8,000 people in
that venue and it's important to sort of
hear what 8,000 of your fellow Americans
are talking about oh now wait is this is
this oh this isn't the clip of what he
was saying before that we were listening
to earlier is he saying Red Rover Red
Rover since in Mexico he was saying some
pretty nuts yes no murder murder murder
murder
wait is that part of this montage I
thought
anyways it was real crazy folks said
things are getting real bad I wish I
could give Sam good news like snuff
films were actually legally he's not the
music including those charged or
convicted assaults forty thousand forty
forty thousand Larson YZ thirty thousand
sex crimes twenty five thousand
burglaries twelve thousand vehicle
thefts eleven thousand robberies four
thousand kidnappings and four thousand
murders murders murders killings murders
[Applause]
if we cut detention space we are cutting
loose dangerous criminals into our
country
slashing ice-t tension is the first step
of many for the far left I call them the
radical left we will never abolish ice
they want to abolish ice when never go
to the power
so there is my dear anything about the
cutting of the detention centers it's
not actually a reduction on the tenth
detention centers it's just not letting
them grow exponentially we have a net
zero basically of immigrants entering
the country at the border which these
detention centers hold so there's
there's no reason for it we heard from
Ronald Reagan the other day yesterday I
guess it was that they fill the seats
that's what their agenda is they don't
care if there's 10,000 beds or 40,000
beds the policy is to fill the seats so
there is no rational assessment as to
whether someone is a threat there is no
rational assessment as to whether this
person should be allowed to wait in
within the population for their their
trial there's no there's no rational
barometer at all it is simply if we got
the beds we fill them that's the policy
well on the bright side like having
Trump get up and say we're never going
to abolish ice like hopefully I think is
helping to get more liberals on board
with the idea of what used to be like a
fringe leftist issue right yeah the more
that becomes a a Trump talking point I
think the the better it is for those who
want to get rid of ice here is a moment
where apparently one of the MOG heads
had an issue with a reporter from the
BBC another obviously a non-american
maybe or at least a non-american outfit
reach the lowest level in the history of
our country
[Applause]
gotta play like that numbers been he
flashed the white vote three other white
powers and
he was the one who assaulted the BBC God
were they cheering let him go
probably I can't understand what they're
saying oh yeah let's see what they're
cheering the kind of diss on the Creta
translators
Wow hey that's sort of gross sorry I
just sort of gross I thought that sign
meant okay I'm okay they've grabbed me
but I'm okay I'm fine he's not it's not
American all right uh we don't have any
time here because I gotta go oh I'm
sorry folks we have run out of time
apologies have 27 callers on the phone
we're gonna have to just do a call and
show maybe we should just do that Friday
before we go on vacation in a certain
sense all right let me take ten IMS then
we're out of here Ben Katz hey guys big
fan of the show I want to share the
story about the danger of Google apropos
your conversation today I work at
security a warehouse facility where I
work for 10-hour shifts a week staring
at closed-circuit TV monitors it's
exceedingly boring all this long way of
saying I spent a lot of my day surfing
the internet anyway because I
exclusively use Google to search the web
and because just 10% of users click past
the first page of search results I was
completely unaware a very successful cam
curl site was being okay I had a good
feeling about that one that was the DX
flow was happy
hi happy oriental New Year I can't wait
to hear the desi kamala Indira Harris
character yes the other day I had the
distinct misfortune to tune in to the
Michael Medved replacement on sale and
radio network the home of Dennis Prager
and Hugh Hewitt America first with
Sebastian Gorka and I found the website
you can download promos and there are
audio clips on YouTube such as with
Charlie Kirk meanwhile Breitbart news
has found an opinion piece by future
representative Rasheed to leave from
2006 in the Nation of Islam newspaper
that's weird
yeah I know I don't want to click on any
of that a square Mike you're so on point
with clover chart but sorry but bye-bye
sorry girl but bye-bye mr where is John
from San Antonio need to know if he's
concerned about Burnie not jumping in
the race
Shirley's amped pepper not far enough
but since we can only go for
incrementalism now implementing some of
this TD rks type capital a suggestion
solutions would be a big win
we need a hearing in Congress with
Tepper sonic and Peake Paquette e to
start the reintegration jammie sadly
sent to Wright has been Jamie
sadly the centre-right has been
squatting in the Democratic Party for a
while now contagious chameleon couldn't
we just include a blank check in the
Medicare for all bill that would allow
cities and counties too many supplies
municipal eyes.the hospitals within
their limits I mean I guess
theoretically I love Sarah Palin I want
to defend Ralph Northam using two points
first we all made mistakes when we're
young we need to grow when Malcolm X was
young he fried his hair drank the
devil's kool-aid and chased white women
but he corrected his shortcomings and
helped others do the same next I want to
defend Ralph Northam buddy be completely
ignorant of the history of blackface
Northam said he did blackface because he
wanted to emulate his hero Michael
Jackson which they said made Amory
suspend I won rye a reporter called
Michael Jackson races for doing white
face law Mack from Maryland didn't
reports come out of Bolton throwing
staplers at staffers yes in fact that's
what kept him from being um George
Voinovich was that who it was there was
a Republican senator from Ohio I
remember watching the hearings and he
blocked him on committee and he actually
at that he just basically was like I
can't get over your staff treatment that
was basically why I blocked him senator
pug Elizabeth Warren come in LA for some
sort of rally organizing event that I'm
going to if there's a chance to ask
questions what would be the best ask her
about and make sure there's no wiggle
room ie medicare-for-all not siding with
capitalism taxing the rich at higher
rates well I mean she's announced
she's a capitalist so I don't think
she's gonna say she's not going to side
with capitalism for whatever that means
but as much as I love her when she goes
after bankers I would really hope to pin
her down on some things you can ask her
how big of a role would you anticipate
for private insurers and Medicare if
you're Medicare for all Winnipeg Craig
Sam on Klobuchar look I don't think
someone should be driven out of public
life because they beat Brendan for
drinking the last liquid IV help us
Mindy an FYI for Mindy I know you're not
a fan of Bernie but would you vote for
him in the general if she if he won
sure I'm sure she would come on give him
in deeper proper do Mindy knows we need
to get rid of this guy and she I don't I
don't think he doesn't strike me as a
Bernie hater actually JJ cool hey Sam do
you know if Michael washes his hands I
have no I don't know this is a reference
to the Fox News guy doof's all right
wash his hands to ten years he was a guy
that Trump was gonna put in charge of
the VA I probably wash my hands too much
final I am of the day the Chris lapacho
[Music]
a lot of people have been talking about
how you abused your staff you better
address that before you run against
Chuck Schumer see you tomorrow
[Music]
