[Music]
so as you know Mitch McConnell and I
think this is probably one of the most
undersold reasons why Donald Trump is in
office Mitch McConnell refused to
provide a hearing for Barack Obama's
Supreme Court justice pick Merrick
garland
I think McConnell's
was aided and abetted by Barack Obama's
failure on a political level to deal
with what McConnell was doing Barack
Obama was quite skilled at getting
elected from a legislative perspective
not so much the ACA was a huge
accomplishment it is true but there was
a massive call for insurance reform in
this country they got about as tepid
aversion as you could get in terms of
the parties that were brought together
they saved the private medical insurance
industry which was facing a an explosion
I think of a demographic nightmare in
terms of the baby boomers and it was
enhanced by providing them with about 10
million new customers subsidized by the
government I mean that's basically what
happened the expansion of Medicaid a
good thing but in terms of like the
politics of this Barack Obama failed
Mitch McConnell succeeded and he got
super lucky as well but not only did
Mitch McConnell get to seat a right-wing
justice in that seat he got didn't get
lucky in doing that he create
some of that luck here he is back in
2016 insisting that you cannot seat a
Supreme Court justice or even have a
hearing for one in an election year when
Barack Obama was even running vision the
Senate announced weeks ago remains about
a principle and not a person the Senate
will appropriately revisit the matter
when it considers the qualifications of
the nominee the next president nominates
whoever that might be
there you go so that was him back in
2016 where March 2016 reiterating the
principle that he had stated in February
that we were not going to to seat a new
Supreme Court justice here he is
yesterday in Paducah Kentucky asked if a
Supreme Court justice was to die next
year what would you do
[Music]
Oh we'd feel like there you go he's
laughing he knows I would do my job what
are you talking about he just knows like
ya mofos of course I'm sorry oh when I
said principal did you guys believe me
that is hilarious
right right there it is there's the
example of once Donald Trump is gone
but does he Biden still a notion that
the Republicans fever will break will
only happen after Trump is gone
see and so Trump will still be there so
he's still under the spell yeah yeah
yeah darkest before the dawn you gotta
hand it to him no he's pretty good at it
he Mitch McConnell if he wasn't if he
wasn't so turtle she looking would be a
great evil villain character he just
comes off as a little bit you'd have to
put them up the storyline would have to
be like the guy who got picked on in
school quite a bit too cute yeah really
this guy this guy is the one who's do
mean democracy maybe you could get like
a really scary looking suit or something
