[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone I want to say it's a
pleasure to have her on and it is for me
but I do want to start off by issuing an
apology to her to her for having her on
I think that's what I'm supposed to do
Marcy wheeler I'm sorry I'm sorry that
you have to do this and I'm sorry Sam
that you're gonna catch no no end of
crap for this from certain quarters well
that crap is not going to end either way
I mean folks there's there's a
white-knuckled quality to what some
people want to argue and folks can tune
in to Tucker Carlson I think if you want
to see more of that but with that said
yesterday well alright so Marcy we have
not having you on
since the Muller report dropped and
yesterday robert muller
ended the whole thing for the most part
as far as I can tell so let's just let's
just start with with with this there was
a in in Politico a piece that said
something to the effect of like you know
maybe what Robert Muller was just
basically reiterating what's in the
report and he wasn't saying anything new
and people are making too much of a big
deal of it he just reiterated what was
in the report just you know before we
get into a lot more of the specifics of
that what what's your take on that take
the idea that robert muller just got up
there he didn't say anything new he just
was reiterating it here let me let me
read it okay to you it's misjudging
Muller at the end of the day all Robert
Mullard really did was reiterate what
was in volume 2 of his report he wasn't
allowed to indict the president for
anything so the special counsels office
didn't consider it to the extent that he
leaned into the idea of impeachment
all he did was note the fact that it was
up to others Congress to figure that out
maybe robert muller is exactly who we
thought he was someone who follows the
rules to the letter and views his
mission in the narrowest terms possible
and maybe folks on the less left are
investing too much of their hopes in a
guy who doesn't want the entire weight
of american democracy on his shoulders
and never has well what's your take on
that take i think well let me just start
by think about start by you know making
your brain hurt but he did not end the
whole thing yesterday he ended his
investigation yesterday and i'll get
back to why that's important okay
and i think it is true that he
substantially said this is what's in the
report but i think it's important
because very few people have reported
correctly on what is in the report in
other words there's been a lot of
disinformation for example i mean one of
the things he said yesterday which was
very subtly different from the report
but people are understanding entirely
differently as he said there wasn't
enough evidence to charge a wider
conspiracy very simple sentence right a
very similar one appears on page two of
the Moller report that says just because
we say that that we did not establish a
certain set of facts doesn't mean there
was evidence there was no evidence of a
certain set of facts i can't tell you
Sam how many times i've said please go
read page two for that and one other
reference on it because people you know
whether they're right wing denialist
left-wing denialists good reporters
people with JD's they I've heard them
over and over again say there was no
evidence of a conspiracy and it's like
no there there was evidence of a
conspiracy just for a variety of reasons
there was not enough evidence of a
conspiracy to charge I am and that's
important I had guests on this program
who said I mean who have said that there
is no evidence multiple times they said
it before they came on this program they
didn't say it when they came on this
program but they did say it after they
were on this program and Muller made it
very clear
yesterday there was insufficient
evidence which is of course uh you know
is a it's a it's actually a term of art
isn't it in prosecution well I mean yes
and I mean so is did not establish but
the problem was that many of the people
reading the report treated some the
legalistic language in the report as if
it were plain English and therefore they
didn't they didn't treat the legalistic
nuances of the report with any any
honesty even people who have day DS but
yeah so there you know so there was
insufficient evidence to charge
conspiracies whether frankly it's
between just Russians or whether it's
between say Russians and Paul Manafort
or Russians in Carter page and and again
Muller did not go into the details of
why that's true but the report does and
in some cases there are prosecutorial
reasons for that and in some cases their
evidentiary reasons that go back to the
issues of obstruction on that so anyway
that's that's one thing that people took
his new yesterday which really wasn't
new I think it was important from Muller
to say his but the three key details of
his logic on not prosecuting obstruction
one was he's not allowed the second one
was it's not fair to accuse the
president of a crime and not give him a
way to immediately say to prove his
innocence the second to challenge that
accusation in court and then the third
was he was preserving evidence so it's
such time and well the fourth was
Congress it's your job get off your get
off your Duff and start doing your
constitutional job I mean that's sort of
what the volume to stuff was about and
it was clearly an attempt to counteract
the spin that Bob that bill bar sorry
bill Barr gave us on March 24th you know
so now like six weeks ago right a month
ago and yesterday we compared and
contrasted
bill Barr saying that in the March 5th
conversation Robert Muller you know did
not say that the OLC findings were a but
for in terms of his bringing a a charge
but that was very very narrowly tailored
response because it's clear that one of
the reasons why he didn't bring a charge
of conspiracy is because there was not
enough evidence but the other reason was
he was not authorized to bring a charge
of anything
it appears at all and I feel like that
you know I'm reading this political
thing like the idea that he wasn't
allowed to indict the president for
anything I don't think that's been
terribly communicated to people Politico
you know you know threw it off like
everybody knows that that that Muller
was not allowed to indict the president
for anything I don't think people knew
that frankly right but right and and so
and and and I also think there's been a
great deal of spin about how
historically prosecutors have said to
Congress hey get off your Duff and even
10-star even though he said Clinton was
guilty of a crime over and over and over
again which violated the rules that
Muller himself held himself to in other
words he could have said yeah this was
clear obstruction but he didn't because
he's not can star but even can star in
handing this to Congress did not say hey
Congress this is an impeachment referral
so no one should expect Muller to have
said hey Congress this is an impeachment
referral it was clear to people who had
read it closely because he kept saying
there are constitutional means to do
this and prosecuting is not one of them
Jiri emphasized that yesterday but it
was clear in the report had people read
it it was you know he kept saying over
and over again Congress Congress
Congress Congress you know we don't want
to charge him because that would
interrupt the actual constitutional
means of holding him accountable
Congress didn't get the message so
Muller
made his statement yesterday okay so I
want to go backwards here for a moment
when we've spoken in the past you were
speculating that that what Muller was
going to charge various officials
involved in the trumpet I should say the
Trump campaign and potentially Donald
Trump himself or was going to was
investigating was a the crime of a
conspiracy to defraud the United States
give me a sense of like what do you like
how you have reassessed or how you
assess whether that was the charge or
the you know the the if he was in a
position to charge I guess if that was
what he was pursuing and where they did
not have the evidentiary what they
needed in terms of evidence okay so I
also think and some prior guests on your
show have said that I claimed he
definitely would charge a quid pro quo
conspiracy what I have said is there's a
great deal of evidence of a quid pro quo
conspiracy that that and on all of these
issues there's a very big question of
whether you can hit the bar of charging
the president's fund and on campaign
finance issues so on both the June 9th
meeting and on getting these email these
stolen emails released the second one
many people don't realize was also
considered for a campaign finance crime
and on both of those
Moeller basically said yeah I think a
crime was committed but according to the
DOJ manual I can't charge something
unless I'm pretty damn sure that I'm
going to be able to get a conviction and
keep the conviction on appeal and given
whom I'm dealing with and given what
kind of evidence I've gotten I'm not
going to get there and also given the
First Amendment considerations involved
with WikiLeaks and
email releases and so on and so forth so
and that would also go to the conspiracy
to defraud thing if you get a campaign
donation and don't reveal it then that's
another way to charge that so what he
basically said is and and importantly
just as an example Don jr. we know from
the report did never testified he's
willing to testify again to Congress but
he never testified to Miller's people at
all there's some hints although this is
redacted that he was subpoenaed and his
lawyer told Muller that he would invoke
the Fifth Amendment to you if he were
actually forced to come before the grand
jury and so did not appear or maybe he
didn't did invoke the fifth but you you
know just as an example you can't charge
the June 9th meeting without either
getting done jr. to testify or amanada
Lara to find out what he said to Don jr.
on the phone and what Don jr. actually
expected from the meeting hemin
aguillera cancelled an entire concert
tour in the United States to avoid
testifying to Muller know just nine
people who you're talking about the June
9th meeting is the meeting that took
place at Trump Tower in that meeting
supposedly was Jared Kushner mana Fort
Trump and and and and and who was there
Trump jr. right and that and there was
some question as to whether they spoke
on the phone afterwards or beforehand or
something to that effect
what who are the Russians in the in that
meeting so the Russian who organized the
meeting is Aris aguillera who is an
oligarch who's close to Putin he's the
one who brought Trump to Moscow in 2013
for the Miss Universe pageant so they
had worked together they had discussed
at Trump Tower deals until basically
until 2015 when a new one kind of
replaced it and so he was probably the
powerful Russian with closest ties to
Trump and his son has ties to Don jr.
and so his son had his concert promoter
Rob Goldstone emailed Don jr. to get a
meeting and
and the Sun was like get a meeting
here's what I want you to tell him and
he got the meeting and at the end of the
meeting
this Russian lawyer Natalia vest messiah
said hey we want you to turn over
Magnitsky sanctions and and Don jr. said
you know we'll revisit it after the
election and that's where I was getting
to the point of you know he took a
meeting for dirt and at the end of it he
said we will give you something in
exchange for this meeting for dirt come
so that's one example of where you might
have gotten there Muller did not get
there another place where there was
clear evidence of it now which is to be
clear that's the idea of a quid pro quo
and Muller it seems to me in the report
said the only thing that they were
investigating whether there was actually
like sort of like material help or
coordination in the acts that each and
other did so even it seems to me like
like he said and after he stated that
right after the sentence after that says
something the effect of like we're not
talking about people working in concert
you know or people making moves in
concert with the other people in other
words like I see you do this so I'm
gonna do that and then you see I do that
so you're gonna do this and back and
forth it's there has to be like some
full articulation that my doing this is
contingent upon you doing that yeah and
there's a lot of lawyers who will say
that if you or I were being assessed for
conspiracy the evidence that Muller had
would have been far easily sufficient to
charge us but you throw in the fact that
you and I can't afford the lawyers that
Don jr. can afford and that you and I
you know we're not right the stakes are
big afraid I mean I would be I'm not
afraid I mean I think it's I do not want
to lose a case against the president's
son right simply you're not going to do
that and so you're gonna make crystal
clear and you know on the June 9th
meeting he kind of said well Don jr. is
too stupid to conspire meaning that he
doesn't know enough about
law about what's legal and what's not
legal to be able to say that when he
accepted that meeting he knew that he
was committing a campaign finance
violation so and campaign finance
violation in so far as like you're
getting services in kind essentially as
opposed to like money right okay right
and and the analysis on why the emails
warrant isn't is redacted because it
pertains to Roger stone we know I mean
the Roger stone stuff in the report if
people haven't read it it it's still
really heavily redacted but it's really
damning because Trump was very very
closely involved in all of it you know
he was telling manna fort selling gates
go figure out what's coming next go you
know go get stone to tell us what's
coming next both getting both Cohen has
testified to this publicly gates appears
to have testified that they witnessed
stone calling Trump and saying here's
what's coming down the pike so in other
words Trump was really closely involved
in telling Roger stone to go optimize
the WikiLeaks releases there's new
evidence in there which your prior
guests have ignored which makes it clear
that they did in fact know that
Podesta's emails were coming out well in
advance of them coming out but but even
if that's the case even if that's the
case would that still fall under what
what Muller was tasked because it seems
to me that like if WikiLeaks is an
independent player here Gordon yeah
right it's a big if but but presuming
they are if the Trump campaign is like
getting a heads-up from a publishing
entity that these are coming out that's
not that's not in any way like
contributing to like you know
coordinating the actual hack of the
stuff it's just getting a heads up on
the leaking of this stuff right and and
and it is clear there was a significant
First Amendment consideration in that
analysis what there are many things
about the way
stuff that that are interesting one is
that using the I mean Julian Assange
just got a crazy superseding indictment
was it last week if that how much time
is passing that that charged him 17
counts of espionage and that really
poses a grave risk for rapport national
security reporting in this country
because it accuses him of basically
saying here's what I want you to go find
so that's the basis of like nine charges
of espionage it accuses him of and and
wanted to do that via basically a
broadcast on his website to people as
opposed to like calling up specific
people and saying to go get this for me
right right and then and it accuses him
of helping so that's a CFAA violation
and that was the original charge but
there was an espionage charge tacked on
to the CFAA charge that poses maybe less
risk to journalism but still does pose a
risk and then the last one is straight
up publication he was charged with three
counts of espionage for basically
releasing the identities of American and
coalition force sources so like an IP a
violation exposing covert identities and
knowing that they could pose some risk
so that's a really dangerous prosecution
but what's interesting about it is as
you said a bunch of those charges nine
of those charges are based on a wish
list that WikiLeaks had on its site in
2010 that allegedly Chelsea Manning was
responding to when she was digging
through DoD servers and finding stuff to
leak to Assange and what's interesting
about that in this case is there's
really no there's only one difference
between a the day before the Russians
started hacking John Podesta WikiLeaks
issued a tweet saying hey do you think
that we should pose a put up a reward
for
getting the goldman sachs transcripts
which the russians did get from john
podesta server so in this case in the
case of John Podesta D Mills they also
issued basically a wish list and the
Russian hackers the next day started
hacking and obtaining that stuff so and
then in addition there's Trump standing
there on July 27 2016 saying Russia if
you're listening
can you go find these emails and again
five hours later the Russian started
hacking Hillary's personal server and so
it's a real question the one difference
between those two wish lists and the
ones that are in the EDB a espionage
indictment is that in the 2010 wish list
WikiLeaks was asking for classified
information whereas here wicky-wicky we
WikiLeaks was basically suborn in fact
and as was as was Donald Trump suborning
fast go hack Hillary Clinton and find
these emails and so that's a question
that should be asked because it's
curious that bill bar would greenlight
charges against Julian Assange in 2010
but not greenlight the same charges
against WikiLeaks or Donald Trump in
2016 so um that's one thing that's sort
of weedy but I think it's an important
question the other thing is that you
know no go ahead I was gonna say that
that makes iiii clearly understand that
analogy in fact the only difference in
there is in one instance you have the in
in the in the former instance where it
was an open call by wikileaks the
difference is is that they're looking
for whistleblowers they're not asking
outside right i mean they're you know
they're they're specifically asking
whistleblowers people who are working
within these agencies now maybe there
isn't a legal difference but it it seems
to me to be so at least a difference and
in the case of Trump
saying he's addressing the Russians
directly in that instance right like
like he like he has someone in mind to
do the job as he says it publicly now
maybe he was just joking but maybe we
can leeks was joking when they said
maybe should we offer a reward for this
stuff I mean so alright but I get well
in and the any evidence in the Miller
report makes it very clear he wasn't
joking because both cohen and flynn and
gates and manna for they're all on the
record saying Donald Trump was really
obsessed with getting these emails right
so including that same day so it's you
know it's like the evidence makes it
clear he wasn't joking that's just one
of the many questions in his horn
answers where Trump very clearly lied to
Muller but whatever you know that's just
one of many
