this is both exciting and remains
infuriating to me so a month ago
California passed a law that made it
illegal for NCAA schools to prohibit
college athletes from making money on
personal endorsements in social media
advertising anything they could do
outside of school to promote to monetize
their celebrity video game likenesses it
whatever it is
and California passed that law and there
was a lot of like strumming Drang what
do you call that
Abu hubbub about how the n-c-double-a
would would would react and what they
did is the NCAA because California is
obviously you know again this I mean I
think I don't know if any state had done
it but certainly the implications of
doing this in the largest one of the
largest of states in the country
obviously implicates the rest of the
country and so the n-c-double-a voted to
permit all athletes college athletes to
use their likeness or benefit from the
use of their name and their image or
would and so here it is Bill Hemmer has
had a lot of a big problem with this for
a long time not quite clear why but and
to a certain extent this guy who's who's
on with him Jim Gray Jim Gray longtime
sports sports guy he's really trying to
be gentle with Bill here and I think he
senses like he's probably worked with
guys in the business who sometimes have
a little bit of a problem you know with
with you know what happens when they
come back from lunch if you know what
I'm saying you know sometimes back in
the old days you drink you know not in a
drink yeah you liquid lunches so I don't
know he's sensitive to other people
probably he also is addressing to a
certain extent there's a real problem
with this of course because
all the student-athletes are required to
do all the work they're doing work and
the fact of the matter is it may be your
quarterback which makes your team so
great but but the fact is if you don't
have any linemen they're showing up and
taking a beating you're still not gonna
be able to make millions upon millions
of dollars for your school it's just the
bottom line
even even the lowest ranking of these
you know and NC double-a teams at least
in Division one are raking in big bucks
for their for their schools but here's
gray trying to be very gentle and
explain it to Bill Hemmer who just still
has it in his mind like hey you getting
you're getting a free education which of
course amounts to basically you're
getting a free opportunity to work out
and then make money for this school for
with LeBron James or Aaron Rodgers or
the stars of a team we're making a heck
of a lot more than perhaps the lineman
or somebody who's way down on the bench
so I think we're gonna have a hierarchy
and a pecking order and it will change
things and it may alter that but it's
just so long overdue I mean you cannot
have amateurism in a multi-billion
dollar industry it's just not the way
that you all ride board books tuition a
little bit of stipend on the side so you
pay your star quarterback two million
dollars Jim what do you pay the center
who stands over him well right now
they're not now I think Jim and we
should go back a little bit Jim has to
take a pause for a moment because he's
trying to understand in the football
that we play in the United States it is
the quarterback that stands over the
center Center is the one who is bent
over and passing the ball through his
legs to the quarterback and so Jim Gray
had to take a moment to sort of process
what what Bill Hemmer was trying to say
if a senator's standing over the
quarterback it means the quarterback is
probably sacked so maybe that's right
exactly
somebody missed their their assignment
board books tuition a little bit of
stipend on the side so you pay your
start quarter
two million dollars Jim what do you pay
the Center who stands over him well
right now they're not being paid they're
allowed to cash in on Facebook or
Instagram or go out and get a commercial
or do something with one of these
companies who wants to it use their name
and likeness so it's not as though the
college now is going to turn around and
start paying these athletes your
question really isn't isn't in the realm
of what's being considered right now
even though it should be considered okay
so at some point perhaps that is
considered depending on how this unfolds
because we really don't understand what
the parameters are you can use your
image or likeness and how it all all
works well we know exactly what the
parameters are you can use your image or
your likeness that's a very easy thing
to contemplate the the bottom line
though is that frankly what they should
do is allow that to happen of course and
then they should have a base salary
scale for everybody period no hierarchy
and who gets paid everybody gets an
equal share of a percentage of what the
revenue is that the school generates
from it or maybe you do it the revenue
that the the the division that you're in
or the the conference that you're in
gets the easy ways of doing this but the
idea that I mean frankly I think like
it's just not fair it's just not fair
they are students and they are
generating cash they should all get paid
every other workers that they're also
entitled to the fruits of their labor
I mean they're you know we have the same
issue with like interns can't have like
you know free interns going around you
know working to the extent that these
football players do it's not it's not
appropriate even this now it's like
players can profit by being used by a
corporation right so we make there
ran liquor they don't actually give it
any sort of cut of the revenue they're
actually creating I mean the only thing
they could do right exactly exactly and
then you know and it's I don't even
think it's good for the sport to make it
about endorsements and stuff like that
if anything maybe you could say like no
endorsements just everybody gets a base
salary now let's go to the phones come
from a 509 area code whose
