[Music]
it is now the war on Christmas the
narrative has been launched they're
trying to do it sideways I don't know
why they can't they have to destroy the
war on Christmas as opposed to try and
build on it and the way that they're
doing in this way but because there is a
tradition of the war on Christmas we
will continue our tradition here at the
majority report every year during this
time I thought it would actually be a
little bit longer but it's not but we
will play the war on Christmas YouTube
moment where I got invited onto CNN we
have that fold here it is huh this is a
ten minute thing is there a specific
moment and here you are oh well we'll
play a just a we'll play just the first
beginning of it and then we'll post the
whole video because it is long but at
one point I was contemplating and this
was I don't know 15 years ago maybe I
don't know 13 years ago I was thinking
like I would love to go on Fox News as
the war on Christmas maybe when I need
to do is set up and this is back when
you could really hood wing people online
set up a fake organization and have them
bring me on to talk about the war on
Christmas and do some variant of what I
did here but that that never came to
fruition because at one point I got a
call from CNN this is when I was a host
on air America will you come debate the
head of Concerned Women of America of
course a man named Bob Knight on the
question of on the question of the war
on Christmas and this worked out very
well we're just going to play the first
two minutes but I will tell you this
originally the host through to Bob night
and or maybe just before we went on air
they said Bob's hearing doesn't he can't
hear so we're gonna have to come to you
first Sam
and this destroyed it for Bob Knight
because it's one thing for me to come in
with my attempt to undercut his point
but to set the premise of the piece by
the time he gets to open his mouth of
her first time anything he says is gonna
sound ridiculous but here it is
this is I take you to what I think was
maybe my favorite moment on TV mr. Happy
Holidays a Christmas tree or a holiday
tree which should it be depends on whom
you ask we've seen controversy most
notably prompted by the White House it
sent out cards this card matter of fact
wishing a holiday season of hope and
happiness no mention of Christmas some
thoughts now on the subject now I just
want to tell you this is during the Bush
years and and the idea that the bushes
would send out something saying happy
holiday that was very problematic but
Peter host the show majority report on
air America radio Bob Knight is the
director of The Culture and Family
Institute its affiliated with the
Christian conservative organization
Concerned Women for America gentlemen
great to have you with me thanks for
having us on all right well let's start
with the holiday card what do you think
Sam well listen you know as far as the
war on Christmas goes I feel like we
should be waging a war on Christmas I
mean I believe that Christmas it's it's
it's almost proven that Christmas has
nuclear weapons can be a imminent threat
to this country that they have operative
ties with terrorists and I believe that
we should sacrifice thousands of
American lives in pursuit of this war on
Christmas and a hundreds of billions of
dollars of taxpayer money well Sam is it
a war on Christmas or war on Christmas
worn over political correctness or just
a lot of people with way too much time
on their hands well I would say probably
if I was to be serious about it too much
time on their hands but I'd like to get
back to the operational ties between
Santa Claus and Al Qaeda
I don't think that exists Bob well we
are out here we have intelligence you
didn't know you have Intel and where
exactly does your Intel come from well
we have tortured an elf and that's it's
actually how we got the same information
from al Libi it's exactly the same way
the Bush administration got this info
about the operational ties between Al
Qaeda and Saddam okay Bob Knight
is this tiny analogy information
regarding weapons of mass destruction is
somehow moving that into Santa Claus
help me out here what's going on I mean
is this a war on Christians a war on
Christmas is this too much political
correctness yeah well it was very first
I want to compliment him on his dry
humor but this is actually a very
subject because a lot of people are
waking up to realize that the war on
Christmas is really the culmination of a
war on faith and the idea that the
public square has to be cleansed of any
religious expression particularly
Christian religious expression you know
one time happy holidays was a welcome
addition to Merry Christmas so you
wouldn't say the same thing over and
over again but a lot of people now see
it as a substitute
it's very gratuitous at times and it's
actually insulting when you're talking
about Christmas Day or a Christmas tree
and you can't bring yourself to use the
word for fear of offending someone in
the name of diversity we're a less free
country yes and then it goes on from
there I can assure you that it it gets a
little bit more heated you know because
what happened is the segment was
supposed to be only three minutes but
she let me talk at the beginning and
then I think what they did is they said
we're gonna keep doing this because this
is until it's about well no he started
talking and now I start going in on him
when I start going you know saying like
just sort of the obvious stuff that you
would say like we're in America can you
not be Chris you is there no Christmas
and it gets it gets more fun from there
but it is a Christmas tradition like
Lord they give me a sarcastic Jew of
Speck's our troops and president we will
play the entire video and as as part of
our Christmas tradition
