[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to this program
Grenn Glen Greenwald he is of course a
Pulitzer Prize winning journalist
founder co-founder of the intercept Glen
welcome to the program hey it's great to
be back on your program Sam thanks for
having me so alright so obviously the
the big story in the news last I guess a
week or two weeks ago was the the
bringing of the malla report I guess to
the DOJ the submission the Mulla report
to the DOJ essentially the end of the
Muller investigation at least under
Muller himself some of the prosecutors
my understanding is have have gone off
to other jurisdiction and and could very
well be working on some related
investigations but the the Muller
investigation as it was constructed is
over at this point and we have seen as
of today Friday when we are recording
this only the four page summary from
from bar on the the Muller report so all
right and I got not a lot of criticism
but some pointed criticism for having
any coverage whatsoever of the
investigation as it was going on we you
know I think we we do a Daily Show we
had maybe three or four interviews that
even were tangentially related to the
Muller investigation or maybe more that
we're tangentially but in terms of like
the the main thrust of of the Muller
investigation maybe three or four over
the course of two years and to me that
seemed like it was a
a legitimate amount of coverage to
provide for this I think you obviously
have a critique of of the excesses I
think we share in that that critique but
so let me give you an opportunity to
explain like why is this such a big deal
I mean the the amount of coverage
because I think we agree that there was
there were there were certainly elements
of the media that got obsessive about
this there were certainly some
politicians who were ringing alarm bells
I don't know that we know all that they
know or not I'd there's no way to know
but certainly politicians will will
leverage what they can but why is it why
is it so important as it seems to be in
terms of the what you've expressed well
so just let me just address first of all
the issue of the coverage of your show
and the media brought more broadly I
don't actually have a problem with the
media covering the Moller investigation
or any credible allegations of
criminality or corruption on the part of
the president I think that's what the
media ought to be doing in fact um my
criticism has typically been of media
outlets that aired only one side of the
story and refused to bring on not just
people who believe the more that
investigation would lead to the
uncovering of serious criminality or who
believed the Trump Rush a conspiracy but
then kept people who questioned or were
skeptical of that theory off their
airwaves so that there was really almost
never any debate which i think is just
generally unhealthy and I don't think
that was true of your show as I
understand that you talked to Matt
Taibbi a few other people who have
raised questions over the years about
this so my my problem to the extent that
I have a problem with the media coverage
isn't that they cover this story I think
they had to cover the story the problem
was the way in which they covered it
which was often unhinged and irrational
excluding of dissent which like I said I
think just generally produces an
unhealthy media environment as far as
why the story itself was always so
important in my view is because if you
look at what the core allegations
were going back to the 2016 campaign and
then especially once the steel dossier
shape the public understanding of what
the allegations were they were
inherently grave and and and and serious
not just in terms of our domestic
policies but also geopolitically because
of the possibility that they had to
seriously influence for the worse
relations between two nuclear-armed
powers that was always my - those are my
two principal concerns is what is doing
it - our domestic politics and then what
is it doing to us Russian relations so
if we looked at the if you look at the
two dominant allegations the first of
which was that the Russians interfered
in the 2016 election with the help or
participation or collaboration of the
Trump campaign and then secondly the
more serious allegation which is that
once Trump won he was in some way
beholding to the Kremlin and Vladimir
Putin such that Trump was essentially
like a blackmail victim that a foreign
country could force him to make
decisions that were beneficial to that
foreign country and adverse to our own
those are really serious allegations
right like if either of those were true
those deserve major major political
coverage I just from the beginning
believe that neither of them had any
basis and evidence and I think the key
event was not the issuance of the
four-page bar letter that people have
since fixated on for me the key moment
was the day before when Muller closed
his investigation without indicted a
single American for conspiracy between
Trump and Russia over the election
without indicted Trump jr.
and Jared Kushner even though they
testified for hours and hours and hours
and hours about the Trump Tower meeting
about everything else on the issue of
whether there are other prosecutions
there obviously are other cases but the
whole reason there was a special counsel
appointed in the first place was because
a decision was made
by rod Rosenstein after jeff sessions
recused himself that the Justice
Department because it reports to trump
can't investigate or prosecute Trump
officials or Trump family members or
people related to the Trump campaign for
Trump Russia conspiracy with regards to
the election so there's you know a
Southern District investigation into the
stormy Daniels payments into various
forms of Trump's financial dealings but
in terms of the core allegations have
dominated the media for the last three
years which is the question of collusion
in the question of blackmail those
investigations are done no the judge
Department can't investigate those one
smaller closed as investigation without
any indictments on those core questions
those investigations terminated but
that's why I think it deserved media
coverage right and in in was it your
understanding before the investigation
happened that there was and look I have
said nauseam on this program that it
would be very difficult to to to
quantify to what extent the the Russian
leak and or I should say hack and then
leak of the of the emails influenced the
election and that there are I think
maybe a dozen other reasons why Hillary
Clinton lost to Donald Trump
but was it your understanding before the
investigation started that it was
established that Russia had had
interfered in the election I mean
regardless of I know I don't think it
was established I think that there were
enough allegations being raised that an
investigation was warranted my concern
from so from from mid 2016 when these
first out when these allegations first
arose that there was something going on
between Trump and Russia which were
first raised publicly by the Clinton
campaign when it produced a video saying
what is Russia have on Trump what's
going on between Trump and Russia until
mid 2017 when Moeller indicted
GRU officials or it might have been
later in 2017 was that we were getting a
lot of assertions from the US government
from the depart
from the from the Director of National
Intelligence from the CIA that the
Russian government was behind the
hacking that Putin himself ordered the
hacks and my position always was that
it's certainly very plausible that
Russia could have done it right because
Russia and the US this is exactly the
sort of thing they do to other countries
and to one another for decades I could
be insane to come out and say oh my god
this is Russia didn't do this and this
is above Vladimir Putin it's of course
it's not above Vladimir Putin or any
great power to spy on and interfere and
so my issue simply was I want to see
evidence for it before I believe it
right I think that's just our
journalistic obligation but I certainly
never denied it or even suggested it was
implausible and in fact one of the
frustrations I had going back to January
and February of 2017 was that the only
things we were learning about all of
this were very selected the leaks coming
from agencies that have a long history
of misleading the public who were
protected by anonymity and therefore
shielded from accountability and I what
was so frustrating was we were getting
these piecemeal leaks and all these
claims but no evidence to back it up and
that's why my position had always been
even before a burglars appointed was we
need some kind of comprehensive
independent investigation that will dig
into all of this once and for all and
then at the end of the investigation
informed the American public about what
really didn't didn't happen and so I've
always been an advocate of that
investigation and still AM to this day I
want to see the Moller report released
as fully as possible so well I mean and
and we should say that the I think the
only leak that ended up getting punished
from the had any accountability was was
was a reality winner right I mean in
terms of what we knew about Russian
interference in to the election yeah you
know this is something that's actually
kind of amazing because obviously I've
worked with sources and whistleblowers
who have been accused violating the law
including the Espionage Act particularly
Chelsea Manning and Edward Snowden and
under the law
most serious kind of leak where it
specifically says that not only the
government official who does the leak
but also the newspapers that publish it
can actually be found guilty under the
Espionage Act well there's only a very
small number of categories where you can
actually be punished as a journalist for
publishing leaks of information one of
those categories is if you leak
intercepted communications between a
foreign government and someone with whom
they're communicating like the NSA
eavesdrops on a call if you as a
newspaper publish those intercepts under
the law you as a journalist can be
punished for that and yet somebody
leaked somebody leaked the
communications that Michael Flynn had
with the Russian ambassador to the
Washington Post which is a leak I was in
favor of because it proved Michael Flynn
was lying but that was that's like the
most serious leak that you could
possibly do and yet there's been no one
punished for that leak where his reality
winner the leak that she did was
something really benign I mean she
leaked the document that although it was
marked top secret was clearly something
that belongs in the public domain and
really didn't jeopardize anyone or
anything because she gave it to a news
organization the intercept and we
redacted information in conjunction with
the NSA that they told us with
jeopardize people safety or sources and
methods or whatever so she was
incredibly responsible in contrast to
say David Petraeus who leaked much more
sensitive information not to inform the
public like reality what her did but to
get a more positive book from his
mistress and didn't go to jail at all so
there's clearly an imbalance there but
you're right she's the only leaker to
have been punished okay and so so I mean
if there was so much extant that we did
not know during this time how I mean
what is when we hear stuff like people
saying I don't know if you've said it
specifically but that this was a hoax
that this was a scam is it is it's
basically what you're talking about a
media critique because I want to get on
to the domestic and foreign implications
but
I just I'm trying to get like at like
what was so problematic because it seems
like the I mean is that a fair
assessment is that when you talk when we
hear things like hoax or scam it's
really just a function of like a small
relatively small group of people in the
media I'm not not I mean certainly
obviously not Fox was was was not
scamming on this particular time well
but Fox Fox scammed I mean Fox promoted
a disgusting conspiracy theory about
Southridge but no no so obviously I do
have a critique of the media CNN and
MSNBC in particular but it extends
beyond that so I think the Democratic
Party politicians like Adam shaft and
Eric's wawel and Chuck Schumer as well
as particularly ex members of the
intelligence community John Brennan and
James clapper and Michael Hayden who
despise Donald Trump very much were at
the forefront of creating this
conspiracy theory which I don't mean in
derogatory sense and just describing
neutrally what this is it's an
allegation of a conspiracy that took
place that never had any evidence and
that that conspiracy theory I mean if
we're gonna define it that way that that
was that was rod Rosen Stein right I
mean he tasked Muller with with that
test this conspiracy theory that there
was absolutely right he did the right
thing he he said investigate this right
which is much different than going on TV
and asserting that it's true
so I'm my point is that these people did
not develop the theory I mean look they
may have I guess but I mean as far as I
can tell the the the the edification of
the theory of conspiracy was literally a
message from Rosenstein to the Muller
investigation this is that same that
happened in
in the spring of 2017 and there was at
least eight or nine months preceding
that in which the allegations were
constantly being voiced about this
conspiracy the reason that there was a
there was an investigation was because
people were alleging that this happened
well that's why I became a criminal
investigation the reason why the
investigation launched in the first part
was because there was there was evidence
from a foreign envoy who had had talked
to Papadopoulos I guess and that began a
an intelligence investigation and
coupled with the fact that Trump had
brought on a an advisor who was already
under I guess suspicion of being some
type of Russian asset Carter paid her
page that that this there that's the you
had a an Intel investigation at that
point right so well I mean it's but it's
unclear to this very day what actually
started the investigation some there's
been news reports that it was the Carter
page suspicions that initiated the
investigation there are reports that in
fact it was George papadopolis and then
there are separate reports that at least
within some sectors of the FBI what
really convinced them was the reporting
of the Steele dossier but let me just on
the question of whether this is a hoax
or a scam or anything like that explain
to you what I mean by that I do not mean
by that that the existence of an
investigation itself was a hoax or a
scam because as I said I heard an
investigation from the beginning because
they really wanted to get to the point
that we're now at where every an
investigator who pretty much everybody
believes or agrees is at least credible
not perfect but credible Robert Moeller
had unlimited resources subpoena power a
massive team of FBI investigators and
prosecutors that everyone said was where
the top-notch top-level top-flight
investigators and they spent 22 months
digging into every nook and
any of what happened and so presumably
the mobile report is gonna tell us more
or less definitively what happened which
I'm really glad about that we no longer
have to rely on little bits and pieces
of anonymous leaks what I would the
reason why I say things are our scam is
let me just give you an anecdote that
Michael Isikoff talked about on MSNBC
the last time he was on I don't think
he's been on since Michael Isikoff to
his great credit because he was one of
the earliest reporters who along with
david korn injected the steel dossier
into the public discourse when i'm an
MSNBC and said not only is it the case
that the core allegations of the steel
dossier he doesn't mean like the PP tape
or the prog meeting he means like the
overall narrative of the steel dossier
that there was this elaborate extended
multi-level conspiracy between the Trump
campaign and the Russian government not
only has that been proven to be false
because of the lack of evidence for it
but we all had ways to know that it was
false and had we simply been using our
rational capacities as opposed to our
dug in kind of invested mentality we
would have on many occasions realize it
was false in the example he gave which
to me is one of the most convincing
although there a lot of these is when
Robert Muller indicted Roger stone for
lying to investigators if you read that
indictment it's really amazing because
what it says is that what Roger stone
lied about to investigators was the
nature of the communications he was
having with the Trump campaign and the
communications he was having with
WikiLeaks and rot Robert Muller got the
texts and the emails between the Trump
campaign on the one hand Roger stone on
the other and all the way into September
or October of 2016 so like not just
weeks but days before WikiLeaks released
the Podesta emails
the Trump campaign was saying to Roger
stone hey it seems like Julian Assange
is saying he has some serious dirt on
Hillary Clinton can you do anything to
find out whether that's true and what he
has and as my soul is cough said the
minute Robert Muller says that that is
the proof that like the Trump campaign
was not a participant
this effort because they had no idea
what WikiLeaks had if they were in bed
with the Russians the whole time they
wouldn't have needed Roger stone to try
and desperately get to London and find
out from Julian Assange whether or not
he had any dirt and the fact that none
of us or some of very few of us stopped
and said wait a minute this indictment
shows that this narrative that we've
been fed for the last two years is false
it negates and refutes the narrative I
think that's what I mean by hoax and
scam that there was no real effort to
find the truth there was this interest
in hoping that the Moller investigation
would lead to Trump jr. and Kushner and
trumping frog-marched out of the White
House and handcuffs and that episode
kind of encapsulates for me how I think
we failed in our discourse now we should
be clear that that stone was not part of
the campaign so he sort of falls outside
of the scope of what at least Barr has
said you know was being looked at in the
context of this
you know conspiracy and Stone maximizing
with WikiLeaks when the the best time to
release these things would also not be a
would not be criminal unless there was
some greater I guess the the the way
that WikiLeaks got the the emails I mean
we don't know but I guess to the extent
that there would be any type of chain
it's broken between stone and the
campaign is he's not a member of the
campaign and theoretically Weeki leaks
and and Russia so I just want to make
that that clear to people so now you but
just quick would just cook in that same
vigor just insert one appointment
faculty is if like WikiLeaks has always
said both publicly and then even
privately in private chats that got
released Roger stone is an and a
liar Roger stone keeps claiming because
this is what Roger stone has done in his
whole career right is he like makes
himself more important than he really is
so he's going around claiming the
special knowledge of what WikiLeaks had
the molar indictment shows pretty much
that Roger stone was almost entirely in
the dark that he was trying to find out
what WikiLeaks had but knew nothing and
in fact when he tried to speculate he
got it wrong he kept saying he thought
that this was gonna implicate Tony
Podesta and that it was about the
Clinton Foundation and that's obviously
not what it was about so even Roger
stone was in the dark he was trying to
find out like well that we don't know
everything that is that has happened in
terms of with stone right I mean it's
still conceivable that there's stuff to
happen so I don't know if that chapter
is really is is is written yet but but
but up to this point yes that that's
correct
now when you know I noticed like when
you talk about the the Muller
investigation you're not saying there's
no evidence that he found no evidence
anymore all he because all we know from
the bar assessment is that to the extent
that he found any evidence and maybe he
didn't find any but he could have also
found some right but just not enough for
an indictment you agree with that so so
we're not gonna know until them all our
reporters release what exactly Rob Lowe
said right but so but I do think it's
important to note the following in
general
prosecutors have a very narrow mandate
right they're supposed to answer one
very technical narrow cramped question
which is not is somebody guilty of
wrongdoing or not but is there enough
evidence to justify an indictment with
some degree of certainty that you can
prove beyond a reasonable doubt in a
courtroom that they're guilty of that
crime and oftentimes prosecutors
declined to indict somebody even though
they believe they're guilty because it
doesn't rise to that really high level
that we've said as a society for
criminally convicting somebody right
beyond reasonable doubt and in general
that's all prosecutors are supposed to
do they're supposed to just say I'm
indicted or I'm not and when they don't
indict there's not supposed to accuse
anybody of wrongdoing because it's
really unfair right like imagine if a
prosecutor says I investigated Sam cedar
for pedophilia I decided not to indict
him
means you have no chance to defend
yourself but there was a lot of evidence
that Sam cedar is actually a pedophile
it just didn't rise to the it's that
would be the most unfair thing to you
possible because then you're accused but
you have no chance to defend yourself
that's why people were so upset with
what Jim Comey did to Hillary Clinton
right he held a press conference and he
said I'm not going to indict her but she
did all kinds of terrible things and
there's like the problem with what Comey
did was that you're not supposed to do
that within a certain distance of an
election I mean that is one of the sort
of the key principles of public
corruption cases but but yes there were
other issues with that but yes yeah I
mean he I mean he was unfair to Hillary
Clinton because he accused Hillary
Clinton of wrongdoing even though he
didn't indict her which something
prosecutors never do and commis defense
is like look I in this case it was such
an exceptional case that had I simply
said I'm not indicted Hillary Clinton
with no explanation 50% of the country
would have concluded that there was the
Justice Department was corrupted for
partisan reasons so that's usually what
prosecutors do Moeller as I understand
it is the rod rod Rosenstein letter says
and as the special counsel statute
describes it has a much broader mandate
than that he's not simply acting as a
prosecutor deciding whether or not the
evidence rises to the level where
indictments are warranted we already
know he indicted nobody for conspiring
with the Russians over the election we
already know that he didn't indict Trump
jr. yet with the Russian government
right we already know that he didn't
indict well he didn't indict any
Americans for conspiring with Russians
over the election well but that wasn't
his mandate right I mean the the what we
know from the bar letter is that very
specific like you say there was a very
very narrow mandate as at least as that
no members of the Trump campaign right
conspired a coordinated with the Russian
government in its election interference
activities so theoretically they could
have conspired a coordinated with the
Russian government in other activities
and non-members of the Trump campaign
could have done that
and Russian Russian I don't know
friends of Russia and government
theoretically could do that in terms of
like what that line says we don't know
anymore without seeing the motor report
is my ok but ok that's that's that's
fair enough although I think in order to
know them the mandate are the molar
investigation the key documents look at
is not the bar letter but the rod
Rosenstein letter appointing robert
muller and describing what his
investigation was supposed to examine
and there it was pretty broad it was not
just did the Trump campaign conspire it
was also links between the Trump
campaign on the one hand in the Russian
government on the other individuals
associated with the Trump campaign and
the Russian government and whether there
was any coordination between the
campaign and Russia's efforts I mean and
we don't know yet though right I mean
that's the thing we don't know how we
just know what bar has presented to us
but but we do know what we December we
do know some things so like I said we
know that Rogers that the Trump campaign
is late as September October of 2016
didn't know what WikiLeaks had which is
why they were trying to get Roger stone
to find out we know that Moeller closed
his investigation without indicted any
Trump campaign officials or members of
the Trump family for doing any of what
you just read having links to the
Russian government or conspiring or
collaborating with them over the
election right there are no indictments
and the point that I was making just now
is that Moeller's mandate is not this
narrowed standard prosecutorial mandate
of tell us whether there's enough
evidence to justify an indictment the
Moller mandate as a Special Counsel is
write a report telling us what actually
happened so this segment of the bar
report that he quoted which you know I
don't think anybody thinks that barges
fabricated a quote even these anonymous
objectors who are saying that bars
letter left incriminating stuff out have
made clear that they're talking about
the obstruction section of the bar
letter and not the collusion or
conspiracy section but we need to know
what that sentence is but
when when when Muller says the evidence
doesn't establish that there was
collaboration or conspiracy between the
Trump campaign and Russia I don't think
he's simply saying I don't I didn't find
enough evidence to rise to that really
high level of reason proof beyond a
reasonable doubt I think he's saying I'm
speaking as somebody here to tell you
what my investigation found happened we
already know he didn't indict he's he's
saying I'm this report is designed to
tell you what happened and the evidence
doesn't establish that this happened now
we should wait for the molar report to
say for sure but that to me is my
understanding of what Robert Millar was
doing in that report okay so you're
saying that there's the standard of
where I'm gonna bring an indictment then
there's the standard of what I believe
and then below that maybe some evidence
but this is the level of establish
here's indictment here's establish
here's anything down to completely you
know exonerated I guess precise I mean
nobody would say no evidence right like
the Trump Tower meeting is evidence
right so the question is is it like
compelling evidence is it convincing so
yeah yeah I agree with you I agree I
feel like there were people who are
getting out in front of their skis on
this stuff and you may be right about
what establish means in that instance
we're not going to know until we see the
the report and i hope we we do end up
seeing that
