first let's just start with the the
impeachment yesterday bill Taylor and if
you go back and listen I can't what was
it about two weeks ago that we got the
text messages and we read through those
text messages and they were incredibly
damning and Bill Taylor it was quite
clear from those text messages the
relevance that he plays in all of this
bill Taylor was a career diplomat who
was appointed acting ambassador to
Ukraine after the Trump administration
got rid of the first existing ambassador
to Ukraine because she was I guess
unfair and not involving herself enough
in the pursuit of trumps looking for an
investigation into Biden and Bill Taylor
is the guy who's sort of like he's just
not part of the crew he's they're they
seem to think he's going to go along
with it
but at one point in the phone Congress
in the text messages he had with
sundaland who is the hotelier who was
who gave a million dollars to Trump's
inaugural ball or fund not quite sure
where that money went
but and he was the ambassador to the EU
he basically took over the Ukraine
portfolio along with Kurt Volker and
Rudy Giuliani essentially and Taylor at
one point in the exchanges says as I
said on the phone last night
I think withholding withholding security
assistance to help with a political
campaign is crazy
and then Sunderland was
like I have no idea what you're talking
about no one said the words quid pro quo
in fact I just watched The Sopranos on
the plane ride out here the episode
where Tony thought that his buddy was
wired and it turned out to be another
guy who was wired but it was a similar
type of situation and where Tony was
like yeah sure okay I never said that
and Bill Taylor went and testified
yesterday all we have are is his opening
statement which was released but it's
quite clear from that that he when he
first got there
could not believe what was going on and
it took him a while to understand what
was happening but by the end he realized
that Giuliani Volker Sandlin and Rick
Perry were yeah how do you best people
the best people this is what he says he
goes tailor lays out a timeline of
Trump's interactions with his Alinsky
this is the president of Ukraine and the
quote highly irregular channel of us
policymaking in Ukraine that included
Kurt Volker
sunlen Rick Perry and Rudy Giuliani who
I should remind you does not work for
the US government he works for the
President of the United States as his
personal attorney and his capacity is a
simple country lawyer and the
interesting thing about this is that at
least according to what we know from
Taylor's thing you know they are
deposing people and apparently this is a
way that the first Benghazi hearings
went they depose people behind closed
doors then they open it up to public
hearings and which makes sense it's the
same way that you would do any type of
prosecution and and according to what
has been reported
Taylor's testimony it seems like they
were not even necessarily asking for our
actual investigation they were asking
for an announcement that there would be
two basically obviously two as a way of
hurting Joe Biden in the general camp
election campaign and so the the quid
pro quo is indisputably there and you
know this because and we have mo Brooks
apparently yelling did you hear about
this no the the Republicans are now
yelling about the process literally I
think mo Brooks from Alabama was like in
the hallway like almost like it did his
own version of like a code pink protest
and and they are going to or emoluments
clause we fake it fake of Malik
emoluments and the we have it okay yeah
here is here is mo Brooks this is this
is how you know the Republicans know
they have a massive problem on this
question of quid pro quo this is how
they are so stressed that somebody went
to Donald Trump and was like you can't
do the g7 in your freaking hotel dude
right right that's a he had new chief
and but they know how bad this is Bill
Taylor is and this point and so they're
going to talk about process because
they're very concerned with norms and
here's here's mo Brooks mr. Brooks the
opening statement says very clearly this
is not this is my question he says
would you rely just on the opening
statement of an attorney when I first
witnessed you or would you have
cross-examination which allow rebuttal
witnesses to determine to explore
whether the first witness man by my side
can erect a massive as a substance of
what he said he difference we all know
whether what he said is true or not
because of the Sham processes being used
there's the process oh my God he's
good he's good he's aging the entire
Republican caucus yeah and this is this
is this is a big problem for them this
is gonna be a big problem for them and
then you know the next question is just
simply going to be how are the Democrats
going to handle this we see numbers on
impeachment are are up all except for
Trump's base which is highly problematic
for the Republicans and this is you know
it's just a question of timing now and
what other articles of impeachment they
bring in we'll get to those other clips
in a moment
