[Music]
so lastly one more thing I want to ask
you about the in every post that you
have written since oh I guess maybe a
year or so now you have write a
disclaimer at the end about having
turned in a source we I can't remember
the date in which we discussed that on
this program but it was a source who if
I recall correctly had contacted you the
day after the election of Donald Trump
had informed you of a meeting that was
going to take place you didn't think
much of it you thought the source was
sort of talking out of their ass
subsequent to that Jared Kushner
testified that that meeting actually did
take place in retrospect and I think it
was Ignatius in the the Washington Post
maybe had reported on that meeting as
well and you you put two and two
together and said there's no reason why
this person should have known that but
the fact that they did know that leads
me to believe that they were involved
with these people in a way that doesn't
make sense
unless X Y or Z I mean I don't know all
the factors that that went through your
mind so you went to the FBI well let me
let me let me interrupt for a sec that's
not why I went yes okay all right yes
sir then do tell but but up to that
point had I gotten the story straight
well it is true that I showed that text
and that I had no idea why this person
would know what Mike Flynn was up to 48
I mean he looked like he literally told
me about it 14 hours after the polls
closed so that you know so but that's
that has that that that has nothing to
do with the main reasons I went to the
FBI there was something that people
don't know and still don't did not know
and still don't know was part of the
election year attack or at least I have
reason to understand that it was and
that was the urgent reason I went to the
FBI something
was happening something was ongoing and
there was actual harm happening and I
felt that I couldn't just write about it
I couldn't fix it by by reporting and I
couldn't at the same time in good
conscience watch that continued harm to
happen so that's the urgent reason I
went and then there an aspect of what I
went to the FBI about and I don't know
how much and I don't know the terms of
it but an aspect of what I went to the
FBI about did get moved under Muller
such that when I spoke with Miller's
office a year ago they were grateful
that I had reached out to that and
beyond that though what I've just told
you that that the main urgent reason why
I went to the FBI and that the person
this involves has absolutely nothing
that I understand to do with Trump
people also explains why the the advent
of the molar report doesn't actually
change things doesn't it you know what
we see in the molar report doesn't
affect doesn't say it doesn't say to me
one way or another how much of what I
went to the FBI about they were able to
corroborate or not or how much or
whether they've you know since decided
they've chased down all the leads and
decided that it was nothing I'm not
going to you know I I have I'm not going
to say more than that I do know or think
I know more than that but I you know
I'll just say that the Muller report
does not change where I was at a year
ago when I talked to you so about my
understanding of where that's at so let
me ask you this that question do you
anticipate that there will be we will
know a story that will involve this
individual in the future and things will
become clearer or is this basically the
end of that story as far as you you know
you could you you will reveal publicly
there is a crime that it's DOJ can
charge it they will charge us and so if
they charge it and it doesn't and I you
know and it's not the person I thought
it was
then I will know at that point that I
was wrong about that aspect of it
there's also part of it that but it's
not clear they're ever going to be able
to get the evidence to actually charge
that and you know these things happen
and then there is there are other
aspects of this that might not be
charged for other reasons so so I don't
I don't know I mean I can promise you
that the FBI does not call me up with
updates to tell me exactly what's going
on that's the last thing I mean you know
yes so and had a conversation together
but it's not like we're pen pals at all
so it's it's it's possible that this is
the end of that story that we're going
to hear from you if there is no further
action by the FBI is that I mean is that
the case yeah I mean I suppose there's
at some point where I will you know come
around to saying to explain a bit about
it but now definitely not that time it
would be I'm certain that now is not
that time it'll be sometime in the
future but you can't you can't give a
timeline for it mm-hm yeah but you and I
you you and I have a standing date that
I'm that I said two years from the time
when we talked I would tell you about
how weird it is to talk to the FBI so
maybe that's when we should revisit
which i think is is probably about 15 15
months in the future but more could I
make you know we can get back to me all
right well Marcy thank you for you know
we kept you on for a long time let me
reiterate I apologize for that I should
not be on the show I'm sorry for for
spoiling Sam so I'm not sure it was
listeners that had a problem with you
being but but as long as the apologies
are out there all apologies we will I'm
sure we've covered everyone we need to
cover with that all right well so let me
ask you this just lastly about that
source thing just finally do you have
regrets about that or do you still are
you still okay zerah zerah none I mean I
am none
and I mean they have to take your word
that you actually did any of that for
all we know at this point right like I
mean who knows yeah that's true although
I think that I've made enough claims
about having about molars investigation
that they might have corrected me if
that was all made up so right okay fair
enough
Marcy wheeler thanks so much folks can
read more at empty wheel dotnet I really
appreciate your time today
