oh yeah speaking of which here is uh you
mentioned a wrestler it's interesting
this is all look this is all cosplay
right and I like real sports it's old
mat though it is interesting though
watch this stuff it's it's interesting
just because it gives you a sense of
what is in the zeitgeist right and what
is and this guy this is a WWE Champion
Daniel Bryan now Donald Trump retains
Donald Trump was heavily involved in
this a good friends with what's-his-face
McMahon that's how he met do you
remember the Sam Nunn merg thing that's
the might the best part is that where he
saw him where she saw him as a weird
little boy dressed as a wrestler and
Trump came out and he was just like he
was there but he shook my hand and 15
years later I did know I'd be planting
racist memes for a mother thing called
Facebook but that's how it all started
here is what is the name of this
wrestler doing now Daniel Bryan Daniel
Bryan and he is the antihero in the
context I think of wrestling he'll be
interesting to see his narrative arc but
he delivers this critique to Ed McMahon
and it's it's pretty legit Vince Vince
of course you don't want to listen to
this because you and the entire baby
boomer generation are the great
parasites of this world
[Laughter]
you see these people bow down to you
when you came out but they don't realize
that you and your entire generation you
take you take you take and you give
nothing back putting profits over both
the people and the planet
every single time and saying this isn't
real this incredible magic trip this
illusion it's like well you know
concealed from them all the economic and
environmental debt that you've created
and they've become saddled with trading
Instagram likes and Facebook messages
and social media stop all while you're
in the back boarding all the wealth
hoarding all the power and they ignore
it because they're distracted you've
created an environment for somebody like
AJ Styles to become a hero it goes off
the rails at the end there where he's
really talking about promoting another
respite but it's pretty that's pretty
good style I think yeah getting the
concept of environmental debt in ya
bloodstream I think he comes you should
start wearing a DSA monogrammed we
should have him on the show that would
be pretty cool definitely don't know if
you could do that with this contract but
that would be worth checking out it'll
be worth well I don't see why not
I mean we should we should see if we can
get him on the show that he did it in
the cardigan to yes the yolk coffee shop
guy that's awesome it's so dope looks
like so the guy who's like winery
listening to Ani DiFranco all of a
sudden took steroids threat
