[Music]
meanwhile Donald Trump launching a trade
war with China China supposedly will hit
back June 1st and here is Larry Kudlow
on with Chris Wallace on Fox News
admitting that Donald Trump does not
seem to understand how tariffs and trade
wars work now I think there are problems
with the way that we have set up some of
our business is and I think that we
should have in certain instances protect
certain businesses but Donald Trump
doesn't seemed quite to understand the
dynamic that's going on here and here is
Larry Kudlow having to concede the one
of the fundamental points about Donald
Trump's tariffs it's not China that pays
tariffs
it's the American importers the American
companies that pay what in effect is a
tax increase and oftentimes passes it on
to US consumers fair enough in fact both
sides will pay both sides will pay in
these things and of course it depends
it's a tariff on goods coming into the
country the Chinese aren't paying no but
the Chinese will suffer GDP losses and
so forth with respect to a diminishing
export market and goods that they may
need for their own but the president
says China doesn't have China it pays
the tariffs they may suffer consequences
but it's US businesses and US consumers
who pay correct yes to some extent yeah
I don't disagree with that again both
sides both sides will suffer on this wow
this is like they're banking on this
notion that that support for this policy
will come from people who are just
excited to see China suffer and really
like you know whose interests are
ultimately being protect
it anyways right like Hollywood's
ability to get DVDs that are not that
are not being ripped off I mean this is
sort of stunning but the once a trump
pista now I will say this to you about
Larry Kudlow for the better part of 30
years maybe more actually 35 years Larry
Kudlow has been on TV in one form or
another talking about free trade no
tariffs it is fascinating to see someone
reject their entire life's narrative for
a gig in their twilight years I mean he
must have been super bored it really is
stunning to see Larry Kudlow sell
himself out that way the other thing
that's stunning one hand you have folks
like Larry Kudlow who have ejected all
of their even there into I never you
know Larry Kudlow answer for everything
was to cut taxes they have no tariffs
and whatnot he sold all that away in
about ten minutes
he's the past though what's also equally
as disturbing is to look at the future
and Tom cotton harvard-educated
Rhodes Scholar Tom cotton who very well
could be someone who runs as for the
presidency as a Republican in the future
absorbing all the lessons of trumpism
but without the lack of brain power this
is the way that the media and this is
what I think is really sort of
unbelievable about this to allow Tom
cotton to get away with saying
without sort of pointing out to the
American public how ridiculous this is
the reason why we have a media in tune
into a media is for some measure of
skepticism we don't necessarily have
interviewers on the corporate media who
are going to question from a perspective
and we've the BBC has provided us as
some examples of what questioners do
when they're getting aggressive with
politicians but they need to be they
need to have some measure of like of
signalling to the audience like look I'm
an expert at this or at least
theoretically I'm an expert and this
answer is absurd listen to Tom cotton
justify regardless of what you think
about the policy but one thing if he had
some type of coherent response but
listen to how he justifies the fact that
farmers in the Midwest are gonna
probably need a third bailout he plays
the hits like we're in this era I want
to ask you about the trade negotiations
that are going on right now there was
that just recently a University of
Arkansas study from your home state that
said retaliatory tariffs by China could
end up hurting many farmers in your
state is President Trump
hurting the Americans that he promised
to help so these tariffs are gonna end
up hurting both the Chinese and some
Americans I'll grant you that
I think the ultimately hurt the Chinese
more than they will Americans in part
cause Chinese companies and their
government have been cheating the United
States for so long there will be some
sacrifice on the part of Americans I
grant you that but I also would say that
sacrifice is pretty minimal compared to
the sacrifices that our soldiers make
overseas that our fallen heroes or laid
to rest in Arlington make that are right
about there are those two sacrifices
that's right and the way when I'm home
in Arkansas hear from farmers who are
worried about opening up new markets and
getting their products to market but
they also understand that China is a
serious competitor of the United States
and wants to displace us around the
world and they look at the sacrifices
that soldiers sailors airmen and Marines
make around the world and they're
willing to bear some of those sacrifices
in the short term
hopefully in the long term ensure our
long-term prosperity and security
deposit what nobody nobody on that panel
is gonna go what are you talking about
we're not at a war with China we don't
have military personnel fighting against
China what is like what it's easy
arguing that the this trade war is going
to help our national security when it
comes to things like like grains and
whatnot yeah I keep waiting for him to
make some argument about like soft power
versus hard power and how the trade war
will save us from a real war with China
but that would be like way too coherent
for this guy well I don't I mean I don't
even know if that's I mean I think he's
just simply saying like this is the way
that we project power and so we do it on
the back of our farmers you know when we
do it on the back of our military
personnel they make more of a sacri I
mean it seems yeah they're bizarre I was
talking to my mother actually who
descends from farmers in North Dakota
and I can say that I don't think it's
gonna be much of mean much to them that
there are troops now apparently for Tom
Cotton's
trade war or it's Trump's trade war and
and I think they'd much rather sell like
the sorghum in their silo and and I
would I would also remind Tom cotton
that we have an all-volunteer military
and I don't think these farmers signed
up drafted but I mean he if Tom cotton
wants to go out there and tell everybody
these farmers are happy but I want to
see the version of what we saw in the
that gave rise to the tea party where we
have somebody on the floor of the
commodities Stock Exchange talk about
I'm tired of bailing out these farmers
why are we bailing out these farmers
they made the choice of going in and
growing this stuff they made the mistake
of doing that and relying on on our
government not to do tariffs and trade
and of course we won't we won't hear
that but let's see
this is the the tough questioning that
we're gonna get out of CBS though or our
long-term prosperity and security why
not tell them that on the front end why
not tell them this sacrifice and the
higher prices you'll receive you know
you're gonna have to pay or a part of
this conflict as opposed to saying
what's not true which is the China's
gonna pay these tariffs to the Treasury
well China will ultimately be paying a
price for these because Americans may be
shifting their consumption or their
investment decisions away from Chinese
products that have oftentimes been
dumped in the United States you know we
have our Kansans who are benefiting from
these tariffs as well you know with
eastern Arkansas we have one of the
largest steel production areas now in
the country they obviously are doing
very well again I'm not gonna say that
no one is going to make a sacrifice but
in the long term the effort is to make
sure that the United States remains
preeminent as a global superpower both
in the economic and the security yeah
like I'm honestly not sure like how is
that gonna work like can you win a trade
war um my guess is they're gonna go back
and they're just gonna be some cosmetic
things and then and then Trump is going
to claim that he won yeah I mean Trump
is on the record saying trade words are
good and easy to win
super easy to win I'm not even sure what
that looks like I mean it's one thing to
support industries in this country that
you feel we need to have to maintain a
secure supply chain right like I don't
know sensitive chip-making
let's say for computers you might want
to support a there may be national
security interests and economic security
interests in supporting actively
supporting industries in this country so
that you can secure a supply chain but
this is a real bank shot that I think
very few people actually think is going
to amount to anything so there you go
