[Music]
so I've got some bad news folks I know a
lot of our fans were fans of the NRA TV
and it appears that Dan bond Jeannie no
Dan but what is it dan bongos Dan bongos
what do you think what is his real name
Dan bond Gino Dan bond Gino dan bond
Gino was either fired or I think in his
words offered a very generous deal but
walked away from it I don't it has he
issued a statement actually saying
specifically why he would have done that
I haven't seen much beyond what he said
to Vic burger hmm he seems to they would
have been inhibit his career trajectory
it's very odd but maybe maybe he wants
to be maybe he's gonna be on maybe he's
gonna be on Fox
I mean NRA has got to hire some lawyers
right stead of talent but so Vic burger
I guess reported that based upon
reporting from The Daily Beast and Dan
bond Geno got very upset he said
something that effective like we're
gonna come to your house well Vic burger
originally tweeted this out I can't
believe NRA TV fired Dan bungee know his
content wasn't credible this is not rage
please hire him back and I don't know if
we want to watch the content first or
see what Bonjean are replied first well
let's look at some of that content first
this is a Vick Barger reinterpretation
of a Dan bond Geno thing now Dan bond
Geno's big thing is like he likes to own
liberals that's his big thing and he's
got a t-shirt that says socialist tears
and presumably that's what he drinks he
drinks socialist tears I bet you a
majority report capitalist tears sure it
would sell better than that one ever did
hmm maybe we should huh and he's got a
bowl of lemonade's of lemons I wonder
what he's gonna do with that he's got a
blender and he's got a lemon squeezer
and let's watch he's got a lemon and you
put it into the blender another lemon in
the blender
that's very good actor another lemon in
the blender when they give you lemons
make lemonade isn't it and enjoy the
fizzy lemonade oh gosh refreshing H NRA
TV should hire Vicksburg they should
hire him
first off even if Vic burger had not
reinterpreted that it was still weird
aren't you supposed to peel the lemons
before you make lemonade out of them no
I'd love to see you see if you're a
but but why would you have the lemon
squeezer next to it if you were just
gonna put him in the blender it would
make out so good follow up for bungie
and here's another question I had about
that if that really was the case that
they blended those lemons and maybe in
the actual video he took them back out
of the blender peeled them then put him
back in why did it look like there was
no pulp in there what kind of blender is
bad news that's yeah fake news by the
NRA T so then damn Bungie no wrote back
what's your address we'll need it don't
make us work extra hard to find it so
Dan I guess was implying that we maybe
he's referring to himself we're gonna
come by Vic burgers house him in the 8th
fans of his NRA TV show
now or maybe just a damn bond Gino has a
team I mean it could be team bond Jean I
was gonna head over there I don't know
it seems like Dan is is really upset
despite the fact getting offered a
incredibly generous deal by NRA TV and
him being in such a great position that
he could actually just walk away from it
I mean look I I can I can I can vouch
for working for yourself there's some
there's some very positive things about
it some downside you know I got a gonna
clean the toilet I'm not looking forward
to that but I like the back now I don't
have a boss but if the NRA you know
offered me a very generous package I'd
think about it and I don't even agree
with their politics
he's been on Hannity a lot this week too
and they haven't really brought up any
of the NRA controversies with my boo
Tina whatever her first name interesting
that's surprising
