so Steven let's just start for a moment
before we talk about the campaign yes on
1639 well how did you get involved in
this sure
so I actually moved to Washington State
about two and a half years ago I was you
know growing up went to college in high
school in Orlando Florida and I'd moved
out to Seattle Washington to work as a
programmer and that was about two weeks
before the pulse nightclub shooting
killed forty three of my neighbors and
injured 53 more and so in that moment I
took a break from programming a very
close friend of mine who I was living
with at the time was really well
connected with the Alliance the gun
responsibility and suggest I get
involved with with them I really felt
like I had to do something I come from a
very conservative background and I had
sort of at the time bought into the idea
there was nothing that we could do to
prevent gun violence in this country but
it didn't sit right with me and the
pulse nightclub shooting really
convinced me that I had to at least try
and so I got involved with a campaign
called the extreme risk protection order
that was in 2016 and that year obviously
that election was was crazy for so many
different reasons but we won and we won
with 70 percent statewide and in that
moment I knew that there is indeed
something we can do to prevent gun
violence tell us about that initially
not a cotton bug tell us about that yes
so so it was actually the second
initiative that the Alliance for gun
responsibility had run but the real
thrust of it was and this is actually at
the heart in my mind of the pulse
nightclub shooting so if you'll remember
there were actually several red flags
that were waved with regard to the
shooter behind the pulse nightclub
shooting family members law enforcement
had confronted this individual and
actually had no tool and their in their
toolbox to prevent access to firearms
despite the fact that he was making
credible threats to himself to others
and had easy access to firearms and so
wouldn't it would initiative 4091 with
the extremist protection order would do
is with allow
Horseman's and families to petition a
court and ask with credible evidence
that an individual or loved one be
temporarily removed from being able to
access firearms and so in my mind it was
a very clear connection of the pulse
microwave shooting and I felt that could
have prevented it before we move on to
this initiative let me just ask you I
mean we if you could be because I'm
always curious about how people move and
how far they move before they they
become as involved in activism as you
clearly have become and and I'm curious
as to in you know from your family from
your up raising you said bring me you
said it was you came from a conservative
family just how how deeply were you or
your family committed to people's right
to carry a weapon I mean you said that
you just assumed there was nothing that
could be done about it but I'm curious
as to sort of just how we're on that
spectrum you were before the pulse Club
and you were so convinced that you had
to engage in this yeah so my family was
was you know pretty conservative my
father's actually a former NRA safety
instructor and he's a Vietnam War vet
you know and I come from a very long
line of pastors a very religious
background my father's a pastor my
grandfather's a pastor my uncle's a
pastor there you know traditional
fundamentalist Christian family I grew
up in a very small town you know in a
very small suburb with literally 300
people in it and you know hunters in the
I owned firearms I still owned firearms
today and so it wasn't just that I
thought ok there's nothing we can do
about it it's that I bought in to what
the National Rifle Association has been
spending millions of dollars every year
nationally to indoctrinate people with
and that mentality that you know
firearms are a inevitable part of our
lives they're you know the level of gun
violence that we see in this country is
sort of the price of freedom
and that there's nothing we can do about
it and nothing that we should do about
it and so I really I bought into that as
a gun owner as you know somebody who
grew up in a rural area as somebody who
grew up you know the son of a enter a
safety instructor and in a very
traditional conservative family and and
I guess when you following the Paul's
nightclub and you you you came to this
realization that you had to do something
about this was it what was it I mean it
sounds like your agenda was fairly
targeted which I think it's sort of I
mean it's it's an interesting dynamic
because often we can we think of gun
regulation activists and maybe this is a
caricature but of wanting to get rid of
all guns or you know having some type of
very strong feelings against guns but it
sounds like that's not your that's not
where you're situated no that's not my
take and actually what has attracted me
to the Alliance for gun responsibility
is their mission which is to balance
rights with responsibilities the second
moment is a part of our life it is a
part of our culture it's a part of the
fabric of this country and as a gunner
myself and have absolutely no intention
to remove all firearms and uncomfortable
with them you know I'm not afraid of
them I train with them you know so it's
not my activism is not coming from a
place of fear of the objects my activism
is coming from a place of saying you
know we're the only country in the world
with this easy access to firearms we're
one of the only countries that sort of
prioritizes in fact really easy and
unfettered access to firearms and we
actually have higher density you know to
firearms in this country and so those
things that are a problem it's not the
guns themselves but it is the access to
them and we talk a lot about how to
prevent dangerous access to firearms and
that's a crucial piece it's when you
know we saw just a few days ago right
what happens when somebody that's filled
with hate and racism and anti-semitism
able to gain access to the deadliest
kinds of firearms available in this
country extremely easily and that
resulted in one of the worst attacks
against the Jewish community in this
history of this country and I think very
similarly that's what happened with the
pulse nightclub shooting we have
somebody that hates viscerally the LGBTQ
community and because of the unfettered
access to deadly assault rifle style
firearms which every gun owner knows are
a different kind of firearm than a
hunting rifle or then a handgun that
unfettered access is what it's what the
problem is yes the requiring basic stuff
like training or waiting periods giving
families a tool to - you know petition
the court and say hey you know my son my
brother my my wife my cousin is in a
time of crisis right now is making
credible threats against themselves and
others it can help to prevent suicides
it can help to prevent homicide you can
and it can help to prevent mass
shootings like in my opinion in the
polis nightclub shooting all right well
we're gonna take a break in a minute
here we'll come back we'll talk about
1639 which is on the ballot in in in
coming days this is a midterm this is a
referendum that's gonna take place in
the midterm or no yep yes so it'll be on
the November ballot and November 6th we
have six days left okay so just a couple
of days where people have the
opportunity to vote YES on 1639 when we
come back we'll hear the details of of
1639 which is meant to promote
responsible gun ownership and is focused
this is similarly focused on access to
guns we got to take quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be right back
