[Music]
let's talk about Dan Crenshaw on the
minimum wage because Dan Crenshaw wanted
to do I guess he's deciding that he is
going to be the this is this is Dan
Crenshaw basically adopting the stephen
crowley look and dan Crenshaw I think
thinks he's talking to a bunch of
college students or maybe maybe Dan
Crenshaw thinks he's talking to a bunch
of high school students but here's Dan
Crenshaw coming out and distorting the
results of the CBO findings lying about
the polls I mean excuse me the the
studies on the implications of the
minimum wage on the west coast but let's
listen to this and we'll we'll stop at
when necessary imagine a scenario a
business any business and all of a
sudden there's a mandatory minimum wage
increase now some people in this
business make the minimum wage they'll
get a wage increase maybe some people
make a little bit above the minimum wage
some people are managers but the reality
is is that the budget for salaries does
not change so now there's some shifting
that needs to happen maybe some hours
will change maybe some guess what the
budget for the salaries can change the
budget for salaries does not have to be
fixed in fact I run a business and the
budget for salaries is not fixed it
changes changes on how many people I
have on board it changes how long
they've been with with the company it
changes and I'm not even in an industry
where there is some well I guess maybe
there is you know maybe this industry
has does have some slack when we talk
about the minimum wage across the board
we're talking about industries who have
been benefiting from a rise in
productivity over the past 30 or 40
years that has not been shared with
workers so these same companies 30 years
ago relative to the productivity the
business they were doing a bigger share
of that revenue went to wages so there
is some slack too in the system so if
you imagine that business as Crenshaw
wants you to also imagine that budgets
are not written in stone they change
based upon needs continue people will
actually get a wage increase but others
will fully lose their jobs so here's the
thing on the one hand you have some
percentage of a wage increase on the
other you have a 100 percent decrease in
wages because that's what happens when
you lose your job this is the essence of
the minimum wage debate okay and we're
about the vote on this this week in the
US House of Representatives there's two
big problems with the minimum wage
increase to $15 one is the economics of
it I just gave you a little bit of a
preview there the second part is the
fact that it is a one-size-fits-all
policy from the federal level that's
problematic - well let's talk about the
economics for a second some cities have
already tried this Seattle la San
Francisco and what we've seen is
employment has actually decreased in
those cities many studies back this up
pausing yeah that's not true well I'm
sure there's some studies but the most
recent studies say that there has not
been significant job loss in any of
these cities that he's talking about
people can go and and google it we could
talk about this paper the impact of a
city level minimum wage policy on
supermarket food prices by food quality
metrics a two-year follow-up study the
we have a study in the quarterly Journal
of economics by economists at the
University of Massachusetts University
of College London and the Economic
Policy Institute data from 138 cities
then states that raise the minimum wage
between 79 and 2016 does not show
significant job loss a new
white paper from Ana goody and Michael
Richards Berkeley provides more evidence
well that's actually about the CBO which
is coming up there's plenty of studies
that show to the contrary Seattle San
Francisco minimal job loss significant
raise in the wages of low end wage
workers but continued
you know just did a study on what would
happen if we had a $15 minimum wage and
here's what they found
3.7 million jobs potentially lost that's
right
3.7 million Riel income would actually
decrease by thirty nine billion dollars
what does that mean and why well it's
because of purchasing power purchasing
power would go down cause it so the
CBO's report said we don't really know
what the job loss could be it could be
zero or it could be three point seven
million and so they ended up deciding on
1.3 million because they don't know we
just simply do not know the answer to
this all we have is the data that
suggests what has happened and like I
said a new white paper from Ana good ie
and Michael writes at Berkley show that
the impact on jobs is insignificant the
CBO which just aggregated like 11
reports on this ranging from it will
create zero job loss to 3.7 million jobs
lost did not include this report here
which would have probably aggregated
brought that average number down so
nobody really knows for sure all we know
is that wages to productivity if we had
kept pace with productivity the minimum
wage would be closer to twenty one
dollars and it would be fifteen at this
point and so we sustained this before
and we haven't since the only thing that
Crenshaw is saying in this video that is
has any legitimate value I think is this
notion of a one-size-fits-all policy
could be problematic if you take the
minimum wage up to a point where most
cities and states could not sustain it
where there wasn't enough slack in the
system it's conceivable there are a
couple of low wage states I'm thinking
states in the south where you don't have
much Union density at all or
right-to-work states where wages are so
low that people have built businesses so
reliant on exploiting workers that you
could conceivably see some job loss even
at $15 an hour but we won't know until
we figure it out and if that's the case
we could amend it and couldn't we also
subsidized like to me it seems like you
could clearly create some type of
subsidy system for like oh I own a
bodega let's have a subsidy for that and
then you know in these other places even
the companies you're talking about that
have built these models out of low union
states or companies like Walmart that
certainly could absorb that absolutely
like and should be compelled to we just
simply don't know we just simply don't
know until we do it and so the idea that
you're gonna deny people which we would
have were where this minimum wage pegged
to productivity increases we'd be like I
say well above $15 an hour at this point
and because we just don't know to what
extent where people will spend their
money frankly you're paying your worker
$15 an hour and if your worker turns
around and spends that extra money as
does his neighbor at your bodega you're
gonna be happy that you paid that worker
that dead because now
just your worker that's getting their
$15 an hour it's your workers neighbor
who's gonna get extra money in their
pocket and they're gonna come down to
your store and and and spend it and
certainly subsidies be far better than
than giving tax cuts because you're
subsidizing people who are going to
spend the money
