[Music]
what should we do should we do the the
Dave Rubin question I feel like you need
to weigh in on that yeah I think you're
gonna need to weigh in on this this is I
think a very very disturbing day in the
history of ideas what what uh-oh you
fill me in on this what it what's going
on you don't know about this it's just a
video that we got from a from a listener
about the the question the final
confirmation that as far as the exchange
of ideas between you and Dave room it
goes that Dave not only supports
regulation he's literally shutting down
the market so we got George Soros to fly
one of our foot soldiers out to one of
his events I think in Connecticut
University of Connecticut yeah and the
Huskies yep and do we know who the do we
know who the individual is or maybe we
shouldn't even say their name yeah I
don't think I don't know college student
I don't yeah I mean just okay he's a
useful asset a useful asset a patsy part
of the paralax corporation we call them
regressive to 100 we created it's this
regressive part in in the laboratory
right down exactly you will ask this
dumb man a question if you are ever in
maggiore Report headquarters as you pass
the commissary you will see that on the
Left there's a series of doors that say
top secret no entry this is where we
program our assets with a series of
slideshows that then we send them out
into the world and activate them by you
know sometimes it's basically along the
lines of telephone yeah where we either
send them a text message or actually
call them and activate them by reading
them a Robert Frost poem yeah they're
the first robots programmed to react
only emotionally they are so completely
incapable of reason
or rational analysis yeah it's just all
we have to do is just read them a very
sentimental Robert Frost poem and then
they go into effect and so let's sure
let's see and apparently last last night
was it or two nights ago that stores is
it stores Connecticut I think we
unleashed one of our one of our sleeper
cells and this is what happened my first
one is to Dave Rubin when are you going
to debate Sam cedar on the majority
reports
oh I'm not gonna debate that theater the
majority report yeah I appreciate your
honesty questions you do you notice how
the robots are trained not only be
extremely emotional but they also have
like juice snark right
they're super they're super polite so I
appreciate your honesty
I like how Reubens voice sort of dips
when he when he has to say well I'm not
gonna debate spills who didn't know that
but you already report I think he was
trying to do it sort of yawn is what
that was yeah I don't even care about
those guys does it really just honestly
doesn't matter there you go I'm gonna
have an Abba Dabba da it's yeah so it's
an improvement at least he is able now
we've established he can say the name
the majority report and my name without
melting and and soon maybe we'll be in a
position to have an exchange of ideas
but I will tell those sleeper cells who
of course under our power and any
sleeper cells that are not under our
power we encourage that type of behavior
and appreciated it was done in such a
polite manner and I think the the next
obvious question is why do you keep
claiming that leftists will not come on
your show to discuss ideas when
you have been offered one and refused to
have him on specifically Sam cedar at
the majority report say the words I
don't know I wonder what Charlie Kirk
was thinking like what if Charlie Kirk
said like well I was able to debate it
we talked about this yesterday and it
was funny because Candice Owens did like
a good disdainful laugh and Charlie Kirk
kind of leaned back and just kind of
smirked and you know the bottom line is
like I think pretty objectively you know
he took an L from debating you but like
dave rubin could not do what charlie
Kirk did it's impossible it's not gonna
be able to like sorry Kirk is I mean I
think he's completely wrong on things
worse but he's right he has read stuff
and he has synthesized all the talking
points he manages to not find self
negate like if he was to say hey you
know it really sucks building regulation
he wouldn't immediately go to like it's
like when they tell you like we're to
put the wires next to each other it is
when I just contemplate like you know
III think Charlie Kirk is a smart guy
and I think he's I think they're they're
both grifters but Dave Rubin is I feel
like is really running away from himself
all the time Charlie Kirk I think is
sort of drifting towards something and
finding himself Rubin has found himself
and he's worried about what he sees
where that self is is avoid worry though
I've kind of a little bit confused but
well I think to be more generous I just
think that Dave exists like you're Leon
the ID on the ideational plane
so let's let's let's move on we've
dedicated enough Dave Rubin time today
have we probably not but we can always
come back to
