[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program Anthony Fantana
he is the internet's busiest music nerd
obviously uh known for his youtube
channel at the needle the needle drop
anthony welcome to the program hey how
you doing thanks for having me on thank
you for for joining us all right well
this was very fortuitous because in
addition to needing some help to expand
my musical horizons there is a musical
controversy this week which I could use
some help on who is this mr. rocky that
I keep hearing so much about hey Sarah
why is he spell his his first name with
a line through the S what's that about
how many questions well well a sec does
stand for it's a philosophy of his of
his of his crew the ASAP mob it's always
strive and prosper and so that so that's
sort of like there's a little motto
there acronym so you know there are
other members of the ASAP mob like ASAP
12e ASAP ant I'm sure I'm sure you're
also familiar with ASAP ferg is a very
good record called trap Lord I'm sure
you've heard a couple of times you know
Anthony Anthony it's a little
embarrassing because Matt and I played
all of these records when Sam did his
divorce celebration party but he doesn't
remember any of them yes no I was I pre
loaded and I was almost unconscious by
the time I arrived at the party in my
the Juno Oh you're exactly the
politically so wait a second wait a
second so there was a there the Aspire
what I'm sorry what a ASAP all we always
always strive and prosper
always strive and prosper now is this
and I assume they're the strive is to
get some cash but is this some type of
like is
is there some greater ideology behind
this is this like what is that the
prosper gospel they're just they're just
a rap collective oh not too much unlike
the wu-tang clan
in some respects okay fair enough and
obviously very different style very
different sound and everything but you
know they're not their rap collective
alright and so rocky from the always
strive and prosper a crew it's sort of
like TYT right The Young Turks sorry if
everybody's like that's exact exactly -
I teach a kid to YT okay so so uh rocky
heads over now did rocky head over now
he's in Sweden what what D head over
Sweden the whole crew to maybe make a
bit of a cultural comparison here it's
it's just consistent branding like with
the Ramones you have Johnny Ramone -
Joey Ramone you know each each one of
them is a Ramone just like each member
of the East AdMob is an ASA you know
okay alright fair enough
and so so rocky goes over to they travel
together or do they they just over there
is he just on vacation they're not
always together all the time because
there are quite a few members of the
ASAT mob but he most likely had some
associates with him when he went over to
to do some performances yes oh ok so
there was the he was it wasn't just
vacation he was over there and they got
into a fight now I've watched the video
actually a couple of times I know people
are gonna find this surprising but I did
watch the video and it looked like there
was some guys coming over just trying to
be I don't know they were being in they
were they were definitely there as
nuisances Sam was watching them that he
was going world stuff that's right I was
yelling lunchtime so but tell us what
happened
I mean figure your characterization of
the video as far as you know by my view
of it is pretty accurate you know it's
just sort of an unfortunate thing that
I'll put it this way there there are a
lot of rappers out there and he that
rocky is is definitely one of them who
you know brag or talk tough in their
music which is not there's nothing wrong
with that I mean there's a long storied
history of doing such things in hip-hop
that's just kind of an established trope
or norm at this point but unfortunately
there are some people in the hip-hop
audience I guess on the dumber side of
the audience who think that that is like
an invitation to test that person's
toughness in in real life they happen to
see them face to face and that tends to
you know lead to some scuffles lead to
some fights lead to harassment lead to
Megan and harassing and you know calling
people out or whatever and unfortunately
it sort of seems like that's what was
happening in this moment in a sac rocky
instead of turning the other cheek and
it's kind of going on about his day
probably just fed into it more than he
needed to I mean I think that happens
with Michael to actually when he's out
and about he's projecting all that image
had you the TYT choke reputation I was
there when the Vice party turned violent
with the ASAP mob oh is that right back
yeah it's South by Southwest it was kind
of nuts I mean there's an old story
right I mean it happened even with like
Houdini Houdini would perform and always
saying like how he could have people
punch him in the stomach and then
somebody went up and did it when he
wasn't looking and then he ends up
passing away because it's very different
but that's pretty depressing
yeah it's not that different I mean you
you project image you project an image
and you know casual you know the the
civility the the civvie popular I'm
actually really appreciating some like
odd looking guys in Brooklyn going can
you do so but this is where it starts
getting weird so he there the Swedish
officials charged ASAP Rocky and I
imagine some of his crew that were with
him with assault because he did beat up
these these guys you know
and then what happens well it seems like
he's facing some pretty serious time now
and a serious charge and I think what I
I would like maybe for rappers to
understand I'm not I'm not obviously an
ambassador for the hip-hop community or
anything like that but as the profile of
hip-hop has grown to such an
international level
when these offers do occur where you can
go overseas and you can perform you have
to understand that the judicial system
over there the racial biases that are
over here also exist over there and on
top of that I would say they exist
doubly because not only how they're
going to be treating you as a person of
color but they're going to be treating
you as a foreigner as well and I mean
there are already sorts of all kinds of
biases against Americans and European
countries and not to say that some of
them are unfounded that where we read
that we don't know how to handle
ourselves that you know I mean just
generally anti-american sentiments of
just Europeans being annoyed with us and
obviously those attitudes are going to
be taken out in a place like the
courtroom and you know so what I would
try to try to argue is that look when
you're over there something like this
does occur does happen it's not worth
this I mean recently there was a video
that came up of just this random
European dude beating up I guess one of
the bodyguards the rapper future and you
know unfortunately this is just kind of
like a nasty reality that I think some
of these rappers are having to deal with
you know the idea of a rapper being
jumped in public is nothing new you know
it's happened to some of the best of
them even voices like 2 Chainz but uh
you know I would say the the dangers of
responding to such an attack or even
greater when you're in a country that's
not your own interesting sidebar 2
Chainz on Nancy Grace was the best thing
ever and I think we should all watch it
today all right well okay so the the so
these he's looking at some real time in
solitary confinement oh it's already
like over the past couple of weeks it's
already been
an incredible you know a pretty
extravagant violation of his rights and
as an exact like in the UK a couple
years ago like there was something with
Snoop Dogg and his Pete like and they
let them out of the country I mean this
is I agree this is a broader problem but
the Swedes have handled this in a pretty
shockingly draconian way well it's
almost feels like Donald Trump decided
to jump in on this and say let's see how
bad we can make this so what happens
so Rockies you know facing severe jail
time and how does Donald Trump weigh in
on this I mean I I know what the theory
is that Donald Trump wants to show that
he's actually a friend of black people
yeah if we remember the first tweet that
initiated this from all of him we have
to recall that that the message of this
according to Trump came from Kanye Kanye
somehow got him on the phone and and
Trump described the whole situation the
situation of Kanye says his friend ASAP
Rocky's over there and this needs to be
handled this needs to be taken care of
and in the connection between Trump and
and Kanye is is already something that
the hip-hop community is and has
consistently been groaning over for a
very long time and even though there are
people in the industry that would very
much love to see rocky free because he's
still a very popular artist who you know
he continues to drop records is set to
continue making millions and millions of
dollars and generate tons of money for
the record label and other people in the
industry most people in hip-hop
community are looking at this
quote/unquote attempt by Donald Trump to
get him out there looking at it very
skeptically they're seeing it as a
transparent attempt to try to win them
over and they're not buying it as much
as they would like for it to happen and
I feel like on some level this is going
to like this is not it's not going to
help lucky to have Donald Trump publicly
out there making it up do you think it
is going to well I mean arguably there's
been certain things like with the
Pakistanis where or even to some extent
I think something like this when it's an
incredibly low cost thing for them to do
to have him not be a relentless pain in
the ass about other potentially larger
things yeah it could help yes
interesting
I also I'll say that even a little bit
of Trump pressure to try to get him out
I think is better than absolutely no
pressure whatsoever which is essentially
what's being applied before this but
given his track record of making deals I
don't think anybody is sort of really
holding their breath on Trump like
basically going full negotiator or even
like sending some I don't know some some
seals over there's zero dark thirty
style and like just breaking him out did
you see the latest tweet he sent out he
wrote for I won't
the first thought is is ridiculous but
I'll read the one that's just pretty
funny wrote do you have a SUP which he
spells correctly by the way Sam gave a
second with the dollar sign yes okay I'm
saying give Aesop his freedom all
capitalized we do so much for Sweden but
it doesn't seem to work the other way
around but Sweden should focus on it's a
real crime problem hashtag free Rakhi
does he mean Muslims better he's doing
multiple yeah he's probably he's doing
multiple free Rakhi hashtags um there's
Nancy Pelosi on this right I mean
actually honestly frankly I don't know
who ASAP Rocky's Congress person is but
where is a sob Rockies Congress person
why this hurts like State Department
actually going and saying hey like they
would for any you know private
individual I wonder if it hurts because
the more I think sort of like a
publicity it gets the more pressure it
puts on the Swedes to actually not
capitulate to Donald Trump I would
imagine right I mean that's I into a
media yeah so it just kind of goes to
show how I'm serious is about the whole
thing
