you
you
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any Elise
they are unanimous in that hate call me
- we must guard against the acquisition
of unwarranted influence whether sought
or unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
it is Wednesday November 21st 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today New
York Times reveals Donald Trump wanted
to prosecute Comey and Clinton as
recently as the spring of 2018 of a meal
oh what's that
I've grown a lot since then yeah it's
all changed a much more mature meanwhile
Trump wants to pardon Mohammed bin
Salman and his acting DOJ Matt Whittaker
up until last year was living off of the
conservative dole who was paying we may
never know Trump administration allows
Kentucky to add work requirements to
Medicaid again and don't eat romaine
lettuce unless you're a libertarian and
don't believe in the FDA meanwhile Nancy
Pelosi runs circles around Seth Moulton
and will retain leadership migrant
family separation cost 80 million add
that to the tens upon tens of millions
for our military going down to the
border in America is being made great
again a buckle up folks
it's starting to look like the Trump
recession is forming
meanwhile progressives are seeking
committee power in Congress as so they
should and lastly we're anticipating the
potential for a special guest today we
will also get to your calls early it
could very well be a freebie Wednesday
today folks all this and more on today's
program I'm not gonna lie
ladies and gentlemen I am not feeling
well today was one of those mornings
where in retrospect you wake up and
you're like what were we thinking why
didn't we do a pre-tape today there's no
one I mean I have a feeling it didn't
matter both look at it be like we had
that thought we had that thought well in
advance well no one articulated it to me
I'll just tell you that right now but
people are but I am sensitive to the
fact that people are driving to places
today and tomorrow for Thanksgiving
maybe you're getting on a plane I hope
for your sake you're not painting the
painting the arse on a day like today
but so we thought that you would enjoy a
little bit of a politics and
entertainment today on your ride home
that's the theory we will we will be
there will be no live show tomorrow and
on Friday we will have a pre-recorded
interview but we will be up on YouTube
live we have a or in real-time I guess a
YouTube premiere so the live chats gonna
be there for everybody there you go so
Indy is about and meanwhile hopefully I
will feel better by then I'm gonna get
into some of the stuff of the show but
before we do 2018 as you know has been a
difficult year for human rights but have
you ever wondered how rights abuses are
documented around the world you probably
have with the
your volume a global crisis we're seeing
from civilian casualties in Syria to
ethnic cleansing in Miramar to the
caging of children on u.s. borders it's
critical we expose the truth in order to
defend the rights of all bring those
responsible to justice well if you've
been listening to this program for any
period of time but really going back to
when I was on am talk radio you will
know that Human Rights Watch does just
that
they are an independent nonprofit
organization known for their accurate
fact-finding impartial reporting and
targeted advocacy they often do so in
partnership with local activists and
human rights groups they accept no money
from any government but rely on the
support of informed dedicated people
just like you Matt do you you had
mentioned to me yet was he yesterday but
a Human Rights Watch report yeah Human
Rights Watch did some work on air BnB
pulling out of I think parts of Israel
because of their anti Palestinian or no
Palestinian options I mean they're all
over the place and covering all this
stuff that's hugely important and nobody
else would do it frankly so if human
rights are important to you visit HRW
org slash majority to make a donation
and support it's vital work around the
world when you do not only is your gift
a tax deduction it will be matched
dollar for dollar until 2019 that means
your donation will go twice as far to
advance justice and defend the basic
dignity of people who need it most
again that's HRW org slash majority I I
almost want to you know every now and
then I get that idea of like what if I
had the ability to actually like I
wielded any power other than
occasionally getting people to work on
the show to show up here in the office
and I do say I do mean occasionally
certainly a Matt I mean Michael and
Jamie I have no idea
but I think one of the things that I
would do if I if I ever achieved a a
dictatorial power in this country it
would be to suggest that if you have any
type of television program you you
really aren't allowed to have political
guests on and allow them to say things
about politics unless you're going to be
critically you're gonna critically think
about them right it's one thing to say
like oh we're gonna have you know we're
gonna have Newt Gingrich on to find out
what makes this guy tick I don't know
that I would watch that I already know
the answer it is he's running a grift
but that's much better than allowing him
to actually run the grift Stephen
Colbert had on last night Nebraska
senator Ben Sasse who is you know a bit
of a poser I think is the way to put it
right I mean either yeah and look if you
want to have Ben Sasse on and ask them
you know I don't particularly like it
when when people are you know
politicians are humanized that much but
I understand okay fine
you know some people I say should not be
humanized like Dick Cheney you should
not humanize him in any way I don't even
care if it's like a depiction of him as
a bad human I think you just you should
should not humanize him
but when Ben Sasse gets on and starts
espousing political ideology and you
leave it unquestioned and it I mean it's
it's annoying and it's it's it's
detrimental long-term here's Ben Sasse
on Stephen Colbert show find out how
would we find out if she did that we
should know all that we can knows it for
one second this is Ben Sasse giving a
very specific answer on
Ivanka Trump's emails now do I think
Ivanka Trump's emails are a big deal
no we obviously have a problem with like
the way that we organize this stuff and
you know clearly it was big enough for
essentially the entire establishment
media to make a narrative of it and for
the Republicans to do like literally
like six investigations about Hillary
Clinton but leaving that aside here's
Ben Sasse who refuses to take a position
on it but seemingly reasonable find out
how would we find out if she did that we
should know all that we can know okay
seriously really well I don't know the
particulars of this story and write out
the particulars of the story perhaps
with a so it turns out the rebranding
government they're supposed to check and
balance one another so I think you can
go in the last 2 years to check in the
balance thing over there cuz it sounds
like a lot of check I think we lost the
balance somewhere along the line the
Congress doesn't work well here's the
thing that's something cuz that's
something that we could agree on the
Congress doesn't seem to be working well
how long have you actually been in the
Senate now almost four years four years
what would be the problem is why why
doesn't the Congress function the way
that I think the founders intended yeah
pause it for one second this is a very
easy question for people to answer why
has Congress not functioned the way that
it's supposed to in terms and they're
talking check and balance we're talking
about oversight of the executive branch
now the answer is quite easy it is
because the Republican Party has
controlled both of those branches in the
Republican Party has over the past 20 25
years in addition to being ideologically
problematic from my perspective but
functionally in terms of Congress have
been totally derelict and they are a
death cult and death cults don't really
care about good government and
accountability but let's see what Ben
Sasse thinks Congress function the way
that I think the founders intended yeah
so I mean I think in 230 years of US
history the Congress is probably at its
second weakest moment
the founders didn't have a vision of the
world where people wanted to be in
politics move to DC and stay there
forever you're supposed to think the
place where you're from is the most
interesting place in the world and we
used the term historically public
service because you go to Washington to
serve for a time and you're supposed to
go back home right now most people in
Washington their biggest long-term
thought is about their own incumbency
they don't want ever leave that place
and so they don't want to do hard stuff
so there's not a lot of checking and
balancing there's a lot of more kind of
parliamentary instinct to defer to
people in your own party and the
founders will be confused by that pause
it you know what the founders would be
confused by a lot of things I mean this
is such a ridiculous argument the per
there isn't something fundamentally
wrong with politicians who want to
continue to work in government the
bigger problem is that people leave and
then cash in frankly on their service
but the idea that the founders would be
confused by this you know what else
they'd be confused by how people
actually get to Washington they fly are
you telling me they fly in big steel
cans what are you serious what are all
these black people doing to who what is
the point he's trying to make about
public servants like if you look at that
actually we call them public servants
because you weren't supposed to do it
for that long it doesn't follow at all
no you supposed to go do public service
it's supposed to be something different
from being from having a job the
founding fathers would be absolutely
sure they'd be absolutely shocked to
frankly that what are their slaves doing
as in the Senate what is this whole
thing where you now popularly-elected er
what that's insane we were supposed to
hate some type of power for the
landowners there wouldn't be that
confused by gerrymandering no they
wouldn't be that confused by Jerry Manny
and what again explain to me this thing
where they're flying we had anticipated
the internet we knew that would happen
but we thought everyone would Skype in
we didn't think they would
bility to fly that's absurd
I'm so confused this is just a dumb this
is just ridiculous and and Ben Sasse I'm
sorry is consumer point to me that
something that Ben Sasse has done that
has been provided a check I mean this
guy's so in touch with the essence of
what the founders expected
he's like Jeff Flake might kind of he's
not gonna go all the way but it'll give
you a little taste and I suppose men's
asses is gonna wrap up his career in two
years and head back to Nebraska is that
word to believe Ben Sasse is on his uh
his retirement lap right now but it's
annoying to me because right after this
all that Colbert does is move on to the
next thing Ben Sasse is score here we
have the 538 this is actually fairly
useful the Trump score oh okay well I
would imagine it is quite low right
because he has been such a Czech doesn't
looks like he's pretty pretty on board
without the checks are good how'd the
balancing has been going oh really
what's he doing there he's uh oh he's uh
he's almost a 90%
he's a b-plus Trumper 90% in fact he is
like a not less than a point away from
his predicted score based upon how well
Trump did like his whole thing of like
it's more parliamentary that people just
subscribe to their own party he has been
there on just about everything and the
only thing he's Aris yeah
tariffs and health care which of course
he was unbelievable
Ben's ass yes so much for Ben Sasse
all right well let's get to the story
about Khashoggi because the CIA now has
said that they have fairly significant
evidence that NBS was aware of this now
it also is the most obvious answer that
Khashoggi was I mean that Mohammed Ben
Solomon was involved in this first let's
start with with Donald Trump being asked
if he's letting MBS get away with murder
and here is Donald Trump's essentially
his statement I mean they released
another statement that was all about
justifying this position but this is the
position are you letting the Saudis get
away with murder murdering a journalist
this is about America first they paying
us four hundred billion dollars plus to
purchase and invest in our country
that's probably the biggest amount ever
paid to the United States
don't you believe the CIA didn't make a
determination and it's just like I said
I think it was very maybe he did maybe
he did they did not make that assessment
the CIA has looked at it they've studied
it a lot
they have nothing definitive well I mean
a lot of people are asking like why
would it be why would Donald Trump be so
hesitant to to hold the Saudis
responsible for this in particularly MBS
and the argument that it's about jobs
and money is obviously bunk I mean
people have debunked this all over the
place the the deal is closer to twenty
eight billion dollars and it goes
- Lockheed Martin in there creating less
than a thousand jobs close so close but
it's so big so big what do you have 28
million yeah I mean and the number keeps
inflating like even this debunking was
like every time he mentions a hundred
and ten billion dollar arms like today
it was like four hundred yeah it just
keeps going up he just pulls a number
out the excurrent the more accurate
answer as to what is motivating Donald
Trump I think possibly could be found in
a May 19th 2018 piece in The New York
Times by Mark Mazzetti ronen bergman and
David Kirkpatrick headlined Trump jr.
and other aides meet with Gulf emissary
offering help to win election Donald
Trump jr. the president's eldest son
three months before the 2016 election
was part of a small group gathered or
Trump Tower one of the people there was
an Israeli of specialists in social
media manipulation another was an
emissary for two wealthy Arab Prince's
one of whom of those Arab Prince's with
Mohammed Ben Solomon the third was Eric
Prince from Blackwater the emissary
Jorge Nader said that the princes who
led Saudi Arabia and the UAE were eager
to help his father win the election they
made some type of deal the the Israeli
social media guy ended up getting paid a
couple of million dollars after the
election
Nader was brought in multiple times into
the campaign not the type of profile
that you would have if your offer of
help was rejected but the question
becomes like is Donald Trump really the
type of person
to get help being elected and then just
be incredibly loyal for instance let's
say you were the first senator who came
out and supported Donald Trump would he
be loyal to you even even if you killed
and your name was Jeff Sessions I think
the answer would probably be no it's I
mean I don't even think of this is like
a tit-for-tat type of situation the way
the Trump is acting he may have some
deal Donald Trump jr. may have some deal
Kushner may have some deal or the Saudis
may have information that would be
dangerous for them to share with other
people
about Donald Trump or Donald Trump jr.
like I mean they they made a deal it is
unclear what that deal was and Donald
Trump's loyalty is been proven time and
time again to not necessarily be super
deep the most loyal it's very strange
it's very strange what's going on here
now I will say that a lot of the players
who are talked about in this piece
they've already talked to Muller or they
have been talking to Mahler so we will
probably find find out I have a feeling
when Muller ends up bringing out to his
report if he does that it's gonna be
much wider in its range than we
anticipate there may be some elements
about Russia and there may be more I
mean the collusion stuff seems to be
pretty much of a slam-dunk at this point
when you're trying to prosecute Comey I
mean I would like to prosecute Mikami
but it would be more like under the
cedar bylaws
what do you do if you are a completely
Craven Republican media person and the
CIA has said that MBS was involved the
Turks have said that MBS was involved
every expert on Saudi Arabia says it's
almost inconceivable that a 15-member
hit squad would travel to an embassy
chop up a journalist who's an American
resident and NBS wouldn't know about it
what do you do if you are that Craven
Republican talker
well you continue to Craven and talk and
here is Hugh Hubert Hewitt trying to
come up with an explanation for how it
is that the president the United States
who's going on and saying like I needed
to do it for the money we get American
needs this incidentally not only does
America not need Saudi oil we buy I
don't know what ten percent of our oil
from Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia could
raise the prices of oil internationally
by by choking off a supply from OPEC but
there's a report out today that let's
see an insider
Business Insider Texas is about to
create OPEX worst nightmare there's been
so much drilling that's been going on in
this country over the past even under
the Obama administration as well there
are new pipelines that are getting built
all over Texas and in Houston the US oil
capital Shale executives are trying a
different superlative to describe what's
coming
tsunami they call it a flooding of
biblical portions an onslaught of
supplier phrases that get tossed around
so in other words Saudi Arabia couldn't
be in a weaker position right now if we
are so worried about American oil I mean
Americans access to oil then we should
be nationalizing those pipelines and
those oil refineries but here's Hugh
Hewitt to explain why Donald Trump is
doing this
hey the CIA has concluded that MBS was
behind this murder this has been
reporting this has been reported by our
news outlet NBC News among a number of
others including the New York Times in
the Washington Post why is Donald Trump
brushing off an assessment by his own
intelligence community well I have to I
have to be cautious here because the CIA
sometimes is wrong as it was with its
National Intelligence Estimate about
Iran's weapons of mass destruction in
2007 sometimes reporters even great ones
that my colleagues at the Washington
Post and NBC get fed information by the
CIA which is incomplete to advance a
narrative by a particular constituency
with there is often oh my gosh the
agency often David Ignatius of the
Washington Post they often push out in
their tube they want I would defer to
Shane from the Turks and from others but
go on gone again Katie yeah it's very
possible that khashoggi was ordered
murdered by NBS it's a positive for one
second so here's the first argument you
can't believe the CIA okay but what
about the Turks well you can't believe
the Turks and the CIA what about every
other assessment that's come from any
other expert on this well okay it's
possible I've done enough I've laid that
that little patch of doubt but wait a
second let me move on to a different
argument I'm going to retreat to another
argument Katie if I could ordered
murdered by Mb
very possible what the president said
today when he was going to the
helicopter was to put into context that
the Saudi Arabian relationship is very
important in the statement today the
very important second paragraph is about
the real enemy in the Middle East which
is Iran which is the greatest state
exporter of terrorism the world has
murdered hundreds of Americans in
conflict in Iraq Saudi Arabia matters to
us because they're in alliance with the
UAE with Jordan Egypt Israel in the
United States MBS is not Saudi Arabia
you've heard people like Lindsey Graham
and other is tell the president he too
invested in the Crown Prince but he is
being very strategic so he's being very
strategic in protecting MBS by also
protecting Saudi Arabia because it's so
it's so key to our relationship here is
Sean Hannity doing the b-team version of
the same argument this is they're doing
both the fake intellectual and just the
blowhard version of this exact same
talking point here's how Sean Hannity
delivers that talking point that's it I
believe MBS did know I'm probably
ordered the killing of this
Jamarcus Auggie here's the problem we
have World War two we had to align with
a mass murderer by the name of Joseph
Stalin to defeat Hitler right we didn't
like that alliance either right now we
have a historic moment where US Israel
Egypt Jordan the Emirates the Saudis are
now perfectly aligned against Iranian
hegemony and the threats of them getting
a nuclear weapon with their radical
ideology of wanting to destroy the world
in America and Israel alright I think
there should be as you I agree with you
about sanctions I agree there needs to
be a punishment mm-hmm but I also agree
with the president we should not end
this relationship
so apparently alienating Saudi Arabia is
the functional equivalent of allowing
the Nazis to continue to create a huge
Empire that threatens all of Europe and
frankly the entire world
the other thing what's fascinating about
this is if this was the reverse the
Republicans were talking about how weak
the US government is now that we cannot
at the very least just force MBS out
that we are so weak that the Saudis are
now pulling us around by our tail this
frame I think is silly but it's
certainly the one that the Republicans
would use and I there's I mean I think
the the the problem of this is
self-evident I mean if you basically say
this this coalition to fight the the
Iranian threat is too big to fail then
what what can you prevent them from
doing what what I mean what where does
this end it's just absurd and it will
have no implications on anything nobody
nobody no Republican voter cares about
this they don't care they don't all
think that Iran equals Nazi Germany
oh no they all do that's why they won't
care about the killing of this oh I see
the Washington Post columnist but I feel
like even they don't really care the
actual voters don't care that much about
Iran no I don't think they do not as
much as the this is not this is like the
flip side right this is the Iran
demonization helps Trump's position in
this not vice-versa
usually they're doing stuff to demonize
Iran this they have to expend some of
the demonization cachet to protect
whatever it is Donald Trump is so
hell-bent on protecting
it's a look forward to Hugh Hewitt
dedicating the rest of his career to CIA
watching yeah exactly
he's super skeptical of them all right
let's move to the other story about the
leadership of the Democrats in the House
the coalition of 16 letter signers has
already fallen apart god bless you has
already fallen apart apparently at least
one guy Higgins from New York has
decided that he is going to rescind his
signature on that letter that is
important because the the magic number
was 1515 votes against Pelosi could be
afforded as of now it may be the
Democrats picked up a House seat in Utah
and in I think it was California was the
second one there was two of them
the meal loveseat and then there was a a
second seat that the AP it called or
maybe the AP it called that one
nevertheless there's at least about 15
votes that Nancy Pelosi can afford to
let people take based upon their on
their promise to their voters and all
this has blown up in Seth Moulton face
showing at the very least at Nancy
Pelosi is pretty good at what she does
when it comes to at the very least
twisting arms and getting votes for what
she wants and knowing when she where and
when she can get them Seth Moulton now
has a Seth Moulton problem he was
holding a town hall in Amesbury on the
north shore up near the New Hampshire
line well last way you would go if it
was a Sunday and you needed to do a
run because of the blue laws in
Massachusetts and he was shoot across
the border pick up some booze comeback
party for a football game let's say Seth
Moulton announcing his opposition to
Nancy Pelosi apparently he didn't check
this out with his constituents
five Americans what this change in the
joining of Democrats want this
and apparently that constituent was on
to something
because he certainly didn't have the
skill set he was backing off the letter
very quickly saying how he didn't write
it there were people there were other
members in the dark hiding out who were
afraid that it was written and then he
goes on to compare Nancy Pelosi to
Margaret Thatcher which I think from an
ideological standpoint is wrong and also
from a historical standpoint than what
he discussed was also wrong and it
didn't seem to do very well politically
with his own constituents she serves
several terms and she said no no and
then I said well Prime Minister you
don't have those and she said no it
doesn't matter I'm gonna go to the
evening I'm gonna go to the floor and
drag this out
twist honors and I gotta get the vote
anyway and so she did that so she went
to the floor and she twisted arms that
is the strangest first off what happened
Margo Thatcher is her own party she
didn't have the votes amongst her own
party Nancy Pelosi clearly has the
majority of Democrats in favor of her
even you know prior to the opposition
falling apart to the point where she's
like almost orchestrating the opposition
well you need 218 votes
she had the vast majority of Democratic
votes even if she didn't get to 218
right Thatcher lost confidence her own
party lost confidence in her in this
instance you're talking about maybe 10
percent of the Democrats wanting to vote
against her
so that analogy was wrong and just the
analogy of like and they got a new prime
minister and everything was fine yeah
there's a pretty dramatic change Margret
Thatcher was ruggle fifth grade
civics lesson it really is
I'm gonna tell I'm gonna do something
that hopefully you won't pick up on how
condescending it is as I tell you this
story my understanding is that sure was
booted because she wasn't pro-europe
enough is that right I like the John
major types that's very possible she
wasn't moving into the 21st century all
right let's play this and then we'll
start taking some phone calls here let's
take this let's take a phone call right
now Oh
you're calling from a hello hello hey
hey yeah I'd like to order 12 pairs of
the cracker factory drawstring pants in
the pullover top with the Jesus Christ
applique in all the colors I'd like you
been till bone midnight blue okra all
all all I'm treating myself I'm treating
myself we're doing so well in the in the
debate last night listen do you need my
loyalty card number I think you'll earn
a beauty thing who is this just give me
faint this is Cindy hyde-smith my number
is 2 2 4 9 my code word is white makes
right
this is QVC wait a second Cindy
hyde-smith the Smith from Mississippi mi
SS is si PBR I'm treating myself I'd
like to order the cracker factory
drawstring pants with the with the over
top with the applique well no wait a sec
no this is not TV see but I'm glad you
called in this hey this is my
name is Sam cedar who am I talking to is
this a joke is this some kind of a joke
QVC no I am this is not QVC my I keep
telling you my name is Sam cedar and we
actually I mean coincidentally we're
talking about politics and so I'm I'm
glad to have well you listen to me Liev
or whatever your name is I don't know
what's going on here I'm trying to order
do you know do you know who this is
listen to me I'm listening I am trying
to order 12 pairs of the drawstring
pants and over top from quacker factory
I don't have any
quacker factory pants but you know you
sound like you sound like what are you
on the East Coast you a liberal what's
going on here well I am in the East
Coast yes and yes I'm of the left as it
were but it's interesting we were just
talking about your debate or just about
to talk about your debate oh my god the
debate yeah I'll tell you what I even
put a ziplock bag over my
head so I could neither see nor hear
myself in the silent debate but I'm
pretty sure I won that's why I'm
ordering all the drawstring pants as an
early to treat myself real holidays mike
espy's and didn't know whether he was
coming or going after that would well it
turns out we actually have some some
some clips from last night from the
debate now my understanding over my head
nobody's supposed to hear it well we we
have a couple of Clips here let's do you
mind if we play them and ask you about
okay but I'm not gonna listen I'm not
gonna listen I'm gonna I don't want to I
also wanted to order the luxury rope
because we have some Christmas hangings
it's a luxury right I don't even know
what that problem our house my husband
cattleman Mike and I like to have some
hangings we're having Thanksgiving with
our piyo is coming in ray mores coming
he loves to carve the turkey and we're
also going to slaughter some cattle but
we're not going to eat them okay good
why aren't you gonna you gonna make a
list if you play your clips or whatever
listen to me Judah I don't know what
y'all are doing over there but I'm gonna
keep making a list of some things I need
from the QVC so you play whatever you
need to play okay well let's play this
first clip which one should we play
first Matt yeah this is from the debate
here is a clip now of myself and my mr.
SP yes exactly and this is um this is
how did you get clips how did you get
how did you get any anything from that
debate that was a silent like a silent
auction well I understand I'm not even
sure how do we get clips of this debate
that Matt c-span Oh c-span yeah
and here is and this is where she looks
down at her now they know which one is
this okay I'm talking to Matt I'm sorry
okay well this is where she addresses
the public yeah this is where you
address the the comment that you made
about the public hanging yeah here it is
posit I'm sorry it would lost their
parents tragically by the hands of black
people well excuse me
what no I'm here well let's just play
your your apology and then you can
respond to it house
explain and/or apologize tonight you
know at a campaign event I had the
opportunity to visit with a supporter
who has a big piece of my heart see his
mother and dad both died when he had of
cancer when he was in high school so
it's so to express my deep regard and my
sincere commitment that this young man I
used to phrase I told him that I would
fight a circle saw for him well
obviously I would not stick my arm in a
circle song nor did any of my comments
ever mean that I would enjoy any type of
capital punishment sitting there
witnessing this you know for anyone that
was offended for my by my comments I
certainly apologized there was no
ill-will no intent whatsoever in my
statements in nearly 20 years of service
of being your state senator your
Commissioner of Agriculture and your US
senator I have worked with all
Mississippians it didn't matter their
skin color type their age or their
income that's my record there has never
been anything not one thing in my
background to ever indicate I had
ill-will toward anyone I've never been
hurtful to anyone I've always tried to
help everyone know twist I know and it
was champion to face weapons to be used
when I ordered the the cracker factory
Confederate flags lands where everybody
was all upset Confederates like listen
I'll tell you what those same the
South's gonna do it again well but my
dear friend he's got a big piece of my
heart a big piece of my heart and I was
just so tickled when we got the chance
to talk you heard phrases Sam freeze
that's one spicy meatball I can't
believe I ate the whole thing
where's the beef it's not in the same
it's in the same western canon of
popular phrases and things that guy
fieri has said Jerry but what no wait a
second you didn't refer to capital
punishment you referred to a public
hanging and yeah Hanson still loves you
yep public it's just it's a phrase Sam
hashtag worth it you know whatever
people say listen there's no ill will
and that is so you know when I wear my
confederate clothes and when I do the
reenactments it's all in good fun
my record shows that listen Sam we got
enough problems down here in Mississippi
we you know they everybody talked about
the wildfires in California in crazy
California lala land but you know we
have here Mississippi we got droughts we
got we got storms we have black people
we have potholes in the roads we have
all kinds of problems here and listen
the last time the storms blew through
here the diner nine cents store we have
a lot of 99-cent stores or the one near
my house the nine cent store got
listened to me the 99-cent store got hit
so hard there was literally twenty two
dollars worth of damage that's how much
damage was done at the 99-cent store
about twenty-two dollars we have three
things I think would yeah yeah that's
about twenty-two dollars worth of damage
that's how hard that was hit the one
near my house nonsense don't even get me
started on the Family Dollar Store by
the Piggly Wiggly because I'll tell you
how hard that was hit but I'm not going
to do that right now listen I'm tired of
being accused of things excuse me I'm
getting so upset my I got frog in my
throat oh now you're gonna go crazy cuz
I said I got a frog in my throat I don't
really have a frog in my throat it's
just an expression all right okay all
right so you saw what is your name again
you saw Sam
Enoch Rachel not Rachel Sam Bathsheba no
not Betsy but nothing from the well I
guess I hear I hear there's other other
people in their way man Brendan no no
one's laughing at you Matt and Brendan
are here what you think voter
suppression is not a good idea I'm full
of good ideas voter suppression is a
fantastic idea now wait a second now I
came up with that or was that got fear I
don't know gap here I don't know he I
don't know who said it but it's a
fantastic idea I'm having I'm having I'm
having I'm having a bumper stickers
suppress it hashtag suppress all right
well now Cindy hyde-smith hold on for
one second I want to play this clip of
some of the Jackson free press
it is a
it is a tweet they say watch I counted
20 times Cindy hyde-smith looked down at
two large stacks of notes in front of
her in just the first two questions
candidates weren't supposed to bring
notes with them but her campaign request
for the for the QVC I was getting ready
for my order
no I had lists and lists also I'm giving
out gifts and things like that that's
what I had I had in front of me all
right well let's let us watch let us
watch the video and people can decide
for themselves how's that I was okay
hold on for one second we'll pause it
and we're just going to play it
[Music]
everything that we will support I assure
you will include creative pre-existence
conditions resistance kendama care which
has been a disaster for healthcare
really rural America my opponent
supports that you know at a campaign
advantage mint sitting there witnessing
this you know for anyone that was
offended for my by my comments I
certainly apologized there was no ill
will no intent whatsoever in my
statement that's I mean I have to say
yeah Cindy hyde-smith excuse me you know
meals on wheels meals on wheels Sam I
started a program meals on wheels in my
and my with my parish in Mississippi and
what we do is we bring through the
homeless and we ask them to pay for it
itself
no wait a second all right that is that
seems to me to be ridiculous but but I
want to get back to that video you
clearly you were clearly looking down at
you know it's not my name is nada
looking down at my nose you are looking
you were reading them it's you know what
Samuel do you do you ever write down
lists of things to do today things I got
to do tomorrow remind myself I would
have had post-its right didn't get a
chance to go to the office supply store
why would you be reading those right in
the middle of answering your question in
a debate if they weren't notes spin it a
lot of place in the air I'm spitting
plate Sam I got lots to do it's called
multitasking recast King so you were
reading the realisable path let me know
I understand what multiple tasking is
but I just want to be clear on this you
were reading notes about what you needed
to do to prepare for the holidays and
simultaneously excuse me and answering
the question in this debate that's what
you were doing that's your stuff yeah
it's called multitasking okay I can do
more than one thing
why will you're making me I'm getting so
I'm getting so and this is such classic
classic liberal nonsense I don't even
know how you got the same number as QVC
I didn't know what's happening I think
you you do not have a big piece of my
heart I'll tell you what you get you
know what I'll give you a piece of my
colon
it's that I wouldn't even spare I
wouldn't even give you a piece of my
colon and how you can get any malicious
intent know what I'm saying one now you
can misinterpret anything about what I'm
saying and get it is just talk about
ridiculous why did it take you so long
to apologize because really I have
nothing to apologize for listen my dear
my dear friends parents died and when he
was in high school from black people
giving him cancer is so that is what
black people giving him cancer how did
how did black people give his parents
cancer do your homework you'll figure it
out
Sal's gonna do it again get down get
down children gather round gather round
children get loud sounds gonna do it
again so
and can I make my order now right yes
sure okay so you got the order for the
12 the 12 the 12
quacker factory 12 Fant quacker factory
lounge pants yes yeah quacker factory
they make the best of have you seen
clacker factory oh they might and they
have wonderful wonderful things but
anyway so what is this thing you're
doing over it where are you all right
we're we're in Brooklyn this is not QVC
oh boy it's all happening in Brooklyn
whoo urban outfitters of Williamsburg
gets the best no we're not we're not
near Williamsburg and I have not been to
an urban outfitters and in probably 20
years but we are in closer to Gowanus
and we're doing a political talk show
from the last Gowanus oh wow we have to
use the indigenous First Nation tribes
named we have to call it Gowanus after
that after the Indians who so cruelly
tried to Massacre the white people as
they tried to build their homes and
bring Jesus to the land but the Indians
the Red Indians the Red Indians now how
you're gonna miss the turbidite Oh what
does she say now well you said Massacre
and white folks never try to bring Jesus
to the land right all those things you
said was offensive do you know how big a
piece of my heart the red engine has no
I don't want peace of my heart
they have a big piece of your heart but
why would you big piece of my heart no
ill-will how you could misinterpret and
and and and imply any negative intention
what I just said about the Red Indians
Massacre and the white people who were
just trying to build a home and bring
Jesus to the land next you're gonna say
it was wrong to give him some all pox
infested blankets well I mean I think
there was no bad that was a bad thing
yeah it was a bad never had smallpox
before Sam they had never had it before
Noah blankets so you're welcome well I
don't think people want smallpox even
for the first time well they never had
it before have they now they know you
give him a chance to no no thank you I
did not want smallpox now I know thank
you thank you my people and thank you
for the blank I think that's a problem
right I mean she I mean they did
it was deadly I'll tell you what the
problem is that I cannot sell my
artisanal moonshine I'm trying to sell
my orchids no moonshine you know what
sounds like Brooklyn might be a place I
could get my art is my moonshine and I
want to talk to you nagisa is that your
Esau no my name is Sam what Sam so Cindy
hyde-smith no Shana excuse me Shoshanna
no Sam my name is Sam Sam got it Sam Sam
Sam I want to talk to you a little bit
later on about distribution of my
artisanal small-batch farm-to-table
ethically butchered bespoke moonshine
I think Brooklyn I don't understand any
of those things all the proceeds go to
the kids you consider it the Confederacy
now Cindy hides I listen Cindy hides you
look me up on hiccup edia you'll learn
everything you need to know about me
just let me up on hiccup idiots I will
do that what what do you think your
chances are your election I believe is
in about on the 27th my chances are
better than good my fans are better than
good I'm gonna I'm gonna win you know I
say I say gerrymander Jerry Jerry
have you met gerrymandering no well
never mind gerrymander was a real person
I mean I believe if I'm not mistaken
though he's helpful I'd help he's helped
a man
listen to me governor phil Bryant knew
when he put me in office that I was
gonna do a good job and I'm a winner
when I was involved with agriculture and
commerce
everybody knew I was winner yes I have a
gap in my bottom teeth but that is just
that I set my corncob pipe in there some
people have made fun of that gap in my
bottom teeth some people have said it
looks like I'm on meth well yeah maybe I
have a face like that maybe I look like
I was born in butchers holler and I was
a Coal Miner's Daughter in fact I was a
Coal Miner's Daughter wait weren't we
really mean in fact I mean were you a
Coal Miner's Daughter or no yeah and I
got married I was 15 started having
babies around 15 then I was
country singer for a while I was called
the first lady of country and true then
I had a brief sabbatical and then I got
involved in politics but I was born a
Coal Miner's Daughter and then I my
first husband's name was Doolittle and
we had lived in butchers holler and then
we moved and then I had my babies and
then I started saying country I learned
how to play guitar and I was called the
first lady of country and then I stopped
and that I got into politics my
understanding is that you were a back in
2000 you were a member of the
Mississippi Senate and you in 2010
switched from being a Democrat to a
Republican I was more of a Dixiecrats
Sam but yeah in the 2000 I was I was out
of the country sent as a first lady of
country in the 70s and the 80s I had a
great tour bus and I was known for my
wonderful week yeah III I don't see how
that's possible
well in the 70s I was born a Coal
Miner's Daughter I don't think that's
you
I think that's isn't it Loretta Lynn or
I don't know what you're talking about I
don't know who you talk about you talk
about Spacek I don't know who you
mean but anyway
Fanny's an actress I don't know what
you're talking about
you can look me up on hiccup edia you
want to learn about me okay don't do it
again do it again
how many children did you say you had
well I have started having my babies
around 15 first baby my and I had four
babies one after another I had a whole
bunch of babies
my understanding is I wanted a car I was
given it who are you talking about my
that's from my second marriage mine's my
daughter my daughter who is who is is my
pride and joy she has a big piece of my
heart all my kids have a big piece of my
heart all of them they have all my heart
I don't even have a heart Sam I don't
have a heart I keep giving pieces of it
away I'm heartless I mean I I think I
much I can I mean I find that hard to
refute well listen for thanks give you
celebrate Thanksgiving you said that you
heathens you said what are you
celebrating what are you doing you going
home for Hanks Thanksgiving you you
where you have it in Brooklyn no I'm
going actually up to Massachusetts
to Massachusetts oh you that fella and
Worcester hey yeah yes that is me I have
heard it you've been on the MSN MSNBC
yes that's that's that's correct
huh where you wear a suit sometimes well
a sport jacket yeah sometimes you're
thinner than others sometimes your face
is fuller sometimes it's thinner that
kind of thing
that's true yeah occasionally I put on a
couple of pounds and sometimes I take it
off and then sometimes you take it off
you a yo-yo dieter so am i that's why I
love you got to get clothes from quacker
factory they have elastic waistband and
they go all the way up to size 3x X
Factor I probably do did that all their
lounge pants that's so much fun the
applications like oh there's Jesus
there's Santa Claus there's uh there's
Sheriff Arpaio all kinds of things it's
wonderful you know maybe this would be
good for you since you are a politician
and you're a sitting senator and I used
to be a country saying I used to be the
first lady country yeah used to be the
first lady of country a listener of mine
has put together a campaign ad
ostensibly for me to run for the Senate
in a primary in New York State
and I thought maybe you could listen to
it and give us a sense like somebody on
Bob's Burgers my daughter loves Bob's
Burgers did you ever is there somebody
sometimes sounds like you on that Bob's
Burgers thank you nothing I'm with no no
no yes I mean I that's not important
here is a ad that was done by Craig
Adelphia the YouTuber Delphia yeah and
Greek I don't I don't that Greek fella
it's possible okay I can't I can't read
the name but there it is I mean people
can see it and here's an ad they put
together that splices together some of
the audio from this show with some
images and perhaps maybe you could give
me your feedback on this sure
let's have to get with the program and
understand the way the Democrats have to
get with the program and understand the
way this stuff works is you take the
power and you use the power even if it
means you're gonna lose the power
Congress right will control things like
commerce interstate commerce and has
responsibility for the general welfare
you're not gonna raise taxes on the
bottom 20% and it's absurd it's silly
it's dumb you know
Medicare for all would go a long way to
make people's lives that much better
well I went out actually with those two
guys for a drink the other night I
didn't think so that's the only thing I
can frankly I didn't have to pay so
how's that people are ready for me and
I'm ready for them you know this is the
problem with politics that it's all
about it's all focus group driven it's
like what happened in the candidate
the campaign manager comes in and starts
to corrupt the guy now here's the thing
and then I've been saying this for two
years once you get there the left is
going to start a civil war in this
country but the majority will impose its
will on the the rest of the country this
is the threat
this is a threat it's a Cession threat
it's it's no it is a civil war threat
right we have two choices one is to
embrace government or there's gonna be
violence that's the choices that we have
America that's it there's my viewpoint
either you start letting the states
discriminate and create a race to the
bottom there's going to be violence the
only thing that should give you any type
of hope although it's still incredibly
disturbing we're going to reduce well
you're going to land
idea of government and the most
appropriate size of government that
maintains the order of power that I the
Chuck stops here
I'm Sam cedar I approve this message
[Music]
now I have to say Cindy hyde-smith that
the the those some of my words were
edited out of context can I can I say
listen to me I fell asleep mostly but I
did perk up a bit when I heard civil war
and violence I heard those words now
here's the problem with that ad the
music oh my god you need to get like
maybe the Atlanta rhythm section or
maybe the Charlie Daniels Band or maybe
even both Cephas
Hank Hank Williams jr. both Cephas get
that music or Ted Nugent's something my
goodness it was Oh other than that I
thought I sort of liked some of the
words I was hearing but I mostly fell
asleep I'm I did I'm sorry I'm sorry
that was my that's what I would have to
say so you would say okay because uh
because a an audience member made the
video and I just wanted to get you as a
as a sitting u.s. senator and obviously
a candidate for re-election I well like
I said some of the words I perked up but
I mostly was asleep but I perked up when
I heard civil war and violence and
threat I like the sound of that
and I and now don't everybody shot
apologize she likes those three words
yeah I like those three words everybody
likes those three work that's why
they're in the dictionary if people
didn't like those words they wouldn't be
in the dictionary would they be no thank
you I don't think I'm a like a hoop
skirt yeah that's not how the dictionary
works right that's not how the
dictionary works whoa oh yeah watch you
tell me how the dictionary works in well
has it worked well there's a committee
that assesses whether a word is entered
the lexicon enough to warrant it being
included in the dictionary what how do
you say what I just say I said people of
the words they're very popular that's
why they exist in
vol if people didn't like the words
threat violence Civil War they they go
away
yeah they wouldn't be the book they'd be
in a maybe on a wax cylinder somewhere
at the Smithsonian between Archie
Bunker's chair and Bobby's jacket
something like that
no that's not how it works I don't know
people don't like it I'm so mad I don't
have my clacker factory clothes coming
to me this has been such a disappointing
phone call I don't even know how this
happened how in the world your number
and QVC are the same number I don't even
know how I'm saying I'm sitting here
talking to some fella named named Liev
or whatever the hell your name is I
don't even understand what's happening
you're in Brooklyn
well my phone almost dropped on the
floor
all right well listen Cindy hyde-smith
we've got to move into the fun half of
the program I bet it's a real thrill the
fun half lucky lucky listeners so fun so
much fun well we think it is well thank
you for having me on the go half it what
well what are you gonna do I mean I
guess nothing I guess nothing
well I guess thanks for nothing I think
you should apologize to me and this
point I'm waiting I want to wish you
I'll sit here all day I'll sit here all
day all right well listen I would like
to wish you good luck but I can't do
that I don't want you to win why well I
just I I frankly I affected your sex
it's like those sexist ages people
against Nancy Pelosi sexist ages well
your nexus ages that's your problem with
me is that I'm a woman who's 59 years
young that's how I call it 50 that's new
58 by the way p.m. I Got News for ya
that's you okay what nothing nothing
don't you just continue yo-yo dieting
and getting on on the TV you do that why
don't you Cindy hyde-smith it's been a
real pleasure
talking to you okay well you got a piece
of my colon I guess I'll leave you with
that I guess that's all the that's all I
can say all right well we're going to
take a quick break and we'll be right
back in the we will thank you I
appreciate that folks just a reminder
you can support this boat we will take
your calls and more in the front we just
have to take a break I've been drinking
a lot of fluids we're gonna take a quick
break heading to the fun half where and
we will take your calls maybe we'll hear
from another special guest you can
support this program by becoming a
member at join the majority report comm
join the majority part just a couple
bucks a week keeps the free show
trucking along and as a way of saying
thank you we give you extra content
every day join the majority report com
don't forget check out T MBS you can do
so on iTunes or on our youtube channel
also or patreon same with the anti fada
check it out
patreon.com slash the anti fada don't
forget folks we are doing michael's
dunes live show in February we are doing
the majority report live January 13th
it's a Sunday 2:30 p.m. you can find a
link to the tickets on our website at
majority dot F M or just Google Brooklyn
pod fest
majority report where we doing again at
the Bell House so check that out also
Matt what's happening with uh yeah so
you could say more and more people are
talking about Katherine
Maria Sedgwick because about a thousand
over a thousand people have downloaded
my narrations for that which is probably
more people than have read that book in
a
long time just that and of itself so
check that out
Catherine Maria Sedgwick and then we're
gonna move on to some more interesting
things or some not some different
interesting things in the next couple
weeks okay folks quick break fun half be
right back six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty
[Music]
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man alpha males
back I kick all of my alpha males back
almost has one
like I am a total can we bring back
the eg banner Kisa yeah or a couple you
put them in rotation DS you dance well
the problem with those is they're like
45 seconds long so I don't know if
they're enough of a break that's
[Music]
I do not have Markinson and the alpha
males Oh psych
Oh
[Music]
a lot of bang
a lot of back
back
[Music]
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
because
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100 birthday to
me Jew boy I have a comics benefit for
you
and the alpha males
to pay the price of being around here we
are back it's a fun half ladies and
gentlemen let's go right to the phones
come from a 509 area code who's this hey
fam Ronald Reagan Oh Ronald Reagan all
right I'm a little gun-shy obviously
answering the phone as you can
understand after that last call we had
yeah but you were committed to it I mean
I give you credit for that you know
you hung up on me on Monday it was weird
because I just feel like I was about to
hit the I honestly don't remember you
know pinnacle I can't even tell you okay
well I was it feels like a million I
just think that can you okay can you let
me finish my point I just feel like
after after seven years you would
understand I know when to end a call I
need you to trust me here okay I was
about to hit it right in that sweet spot
but um yeah I got me anyway
I don't remember I'd I have now we head
back to another whatsoever I'm sorry
okay well you know we had our focus
group on Monday night played a few clips
to the group I've got kind of good news
bad news did you see the ad yeah I was
amazing yeah I was amazing I cried I
cried I actually cried every time I
watched it and I've watched it at least
it doesn't I a dozen times I actually
believe that but okay good so okay focus
group overall great you know people
really liked you they liked what we what
we show them but you do have a little
bit of a Puerto Rico problem I have a
Puerto Rico uh not not playing well with
the Puerto Ricans and the group and so
just going to throw a couple things out
there I'm just spitballing here just I
want you to keep an open mind though but
have you heard of tappity
you know tap it to you hot sauce yeah
that's yeah okay so you just put a
little bottle down I'm looking at the
screen right now I'm watching you on
YouTube you just a down in the corner
well off to your last year left just set
it right there so people can see it and
then occasionally during the show you
just sprinkle some on your tongue and
this is just you know I don't know if
you remember the Hillary Hillary Clinton
hot sauce thing but that was me
I knew she needed to I don't know make
some inroads okay well so during the
campaign she went on in African American
radio show and they asked her what
something about you that people don't
know and she said oh I love hot sauce I
carry it around in my purse everywhere
that was me
because I knew oh the way that you
garner support from minority groups as
you know publicly eating their foods
there were you also bind Hillary calling
herself me abuela yeah Abuelita oh yeah
yeah yeah
and speaking of is Tapatio even you have
names or nickname yeah okay yeah go
ahead I mean I just
is that what okay if you think that
would work
there's Hillary Hillary right there ya
have it to you but we need to you know I
I need you to think about going more
aggressive and so we got a look at your
name okay so I think maybe we go with
the Spanish pronunciation of some will
Sam well okay gang or I I gotta say I
gotta say you'll be happy about this but
I do call my son occasionally Sowell so
perfect yes you've that or we go with
the diminutive of Sam which would be
Samhita little Sam that actually right
okay yeah we look at your last name look
it's perfect theater we tack an a on the
end it becomes said oh it's a dead rat
now if you want to get real aggressive
we change it to send arrow with an N
which means path or the way so you are
the the way write the path say now send
arrow right okay
so I want you to think these things over
but I have a lot of time right Boyer's
out and so I'll call back next week and
and we'll go over which of these things
I say go all-in but you know well Ronald
Reagan role let me be hopefully not the
first nor the last to wish you a Happy
Thanksgiving to you and your family and
your your growing family as it were and
yeah on behalf of everyone here at the
majority report you are one of those
colors we are very thankful for
personally I am as well this is and so
we just want you to know that we
appreciate you and I almost appreciate
all the work you're doing in terms of my
would-be Senate bid so thank you right
well let me say two two serious things
one thank you and and I'm grateful for
this show and the community and I said
this before but the people in your
community are some of the best people
I've met IRL as they say in real life
and one last thing on the sorry random
thought but the the Saudi Arabia thing
what makes it really weird is one of the
things that made Trump a real candidate
in the during the campaign is he was
going out saying hey by the way
Saudi Arabia did 9/11 and nobody's
talking about it I'm the only one
willing to target which is you know kind
of true and and now you know it is what
it is so anyways thanks for the show and
I love you guys and I'll talk to you
later
Ronald Reagan ladies and gentlemen
arguably my campaign manager for the
Canada but I mean arguably I'm not sure
come from 508 area code 508 who's this
hey Sam this is with the Mike Wooster
Mike Omaha Nebraska
well I wave with Massachusetts I will be
visiting a worm town within within the
next 24 hours
so very good we'll say hello you're on
the the west side is that correct yes
already boy right that's right I went to
Doherty all right well mom going next
week I'm actually going next week I'm a
Greendale boy greenzo burn coat well
right oh that's out Denis Leary
territory if I'm not mistaken that is
actually yes yeah I just saw that he
wrote a new book about how we all need
to stop being so partisan and I decided
I was not going to buy it because why
would I buy a Denis Leary book exactly
well we can't all be gems from Worcester
that's true but uh happy Thanksgiving
and enjoy the enjoy worm town I know
that you don't get back there as much as
you'd like to so no no one does no one
does now this is true this is true I did
have a quick question and I'll take
dance offline but I was just wondering
so today the oil prices supposedly
dropped as Trump was thanking official
was sipper ously thanking the Saudis for
dropping oil prices from I think it was
like he said 82 to 52 it's probably from
like seven data right the eighth but
bucks a barrel but I was just wondering
if we if there's a connection if you
think there's a connection there to all
the obvious news surrounding khashoggi
it's it's it's it's conceivable I do
know this the Saudis have announced
today or yesterday that they would not
curtail their production and they are
overproducing part of it could be that
they think it's gonna diminish some
pressure on Trump like look they made a
big
miscalculation in terms of the khashoggi
killing they thought they could get away
with that it would be no problem they
were wrong they could be you know it's
not inconceivable to me that they would
up their production for the sake of
providing a win for Trump the other
story is though is that there is this
huge amount of shale that is that is
going to come online apparently what
happened and I haven't read too much
into this but there's been the
development of a new chemical that is
allowing sort of like more viscous oil
essentially to go through pipelines
easier and so there is a a a glut of
means in which to transport that oil the
Saudis it's in their interest to lower
the price of oil it's sort of like what
you know like what Walmart does where
really what Amazon does right go in
under price other providers so that the
they can't make any money on their goods
put them out of business and then you
raise the prices that's what the Saudis
you know are attempting to do I think
maybe we'll have Dan dicker on you know
to explain this but that's that to me
seems to be like what the situation is
so it's conceivable they did that in
part to help Trump I think also in part
what they're doing is trying to get some
of the smaller players out of the market
in their mind but I don't know I really
don't know but that's those are the two
possible answers yeah I did actually
read a little about the Mishael and just
recently I was a couple articles but the
other reason it comes up is it was
something that recently someone argued
with me about how the oil prices being
low is really good for the economy and I
was pointing out that they had almost
doubled since 2016 when Trump took over
and they were not buying that
essentially and so when I saw the thing
though had my saw Trump's tweet this
morning I thought well now they're
actually back in line to where they were
and 2016 as far as
price per barrel but on top of that the
price doesn't seem to be rising as much
at the pump yet so I know there's always
like this trend where it rises at the
barrel but not necessarily at the pump
for a couple more like it usually a year
or so depending on how much they're
putting through the right distribute or
distributing throughout the economy then
so the other question I had was is this
going to be a benefit for us after like
the consumer level
I mean prices come down and oil that
usually runs the economy but there's
been some recent talk I think similar to
that article you were talking about with
the shale that this is actually going to
be bad for the US economy now because
the u.s. is such a big producer but
anyway I think if you want to I don't
know like I mean I appreciate the call
and Happy Thanksgiving Mike I don't to
be honest with you I I don't I don't
know I mean I think there are other III
mean I don't know how much in what parts
of the country are that reliant on the
production of oil that it would have the
ability to impact the entire country's
economy I think there are other problems
apparently that are on the horizon
consumer confidence is lower in part
because Matt spent all his money on a
new video game as my understanding but
apparently the consumer confidence came
in lower than people anticipated the
number of people seeking employment went
up so unemployed claims went up there
are I don't know I mean III I've seen
both things I've seen some some South
Korean production factory production is
down and people think that's usually a
leading indicator of problems so I don't
know I don't know maybe we will get Dan
dicker on calling from an 8 for 7 area
code who's this where he come from
hi Sam my name is Josh and I'm calling
from Chicago
well hello Josh from Chicago happy
soon-to-be Thanksgiving happy seem to be
Thanksgiving to you my son
and I guess I'm calling for Chicago Wow
alright exciting
finally it's worth in advertising final
I know I know I know Sam first of all
that Cindy hyde-smith calls was like the
best assets for it I'd never taken it
was a lacking and insane
IIIi don't know why we would get calls
for as if we were QVC but that one
worked out pretty well yeah your high
profile man you know I said I want to
talk about an accident I am yesterday I
don't know this was covered or not cuz I
actually didn't listen to yesterday's
show sorry about that Jim but um the for
me I I said I a man about Steny Hoyer
and the basically the fact that they
they're a hundred something hundred
fifty something Democrats have signed on
to him being House Majority Leader right
and there doesn't seem to be any
challenge to him or anything right um
and I guess for me
people with Pelosi in certain regards
Pelosi they seem to be missing the big
picture here I'd rather have a house
Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader
Barbara leaf and someone like spending
or he's basically just kind of a hack
he's a corporate I he's a corporate to
stack I mean in part of the reason why
so many sign that signature is because
of that that is because of the money
he's delivered to people but go ahead
yeah no I just think for me I'm I I
actually don't you're right about I
would love someone from the left of
challenge closely but no one from the
left really has but for me especially it
doesn't even have to be barbara Lee many
people are to the left of Hoyer and I
think the problem that we'd have with
someone like Hoyer
Pelosi is that Pelosi would basically
just play to some of Hoyer's worst
instincts and would sort of you know go
through you know try to push through
something like a Pago for example or
some other horrible stuff and I think
when Pelosi talks about bipartisanship
there is a little bit of an irony there
just because I think she is trying to
join the lame impeach Trump but I think
Hoyer really thinks this stuff actually
works and there was an interesting
article I read about barbara Lee where
she basically said that she didn't
endorse in 2016 because she wanted to be
on the drafting committee for the
platform and essentially when she got
there the Clinton people because she had
appeared to be neutral she sided with
Bernie voted for Bernie stuff and the
Clinton people didn't challenge her and
I think what the thing about Lee that
she understands is actually how to build
power and how to sort of especially
someone who's been kind of a progressive
icon for the past 120 25 years a lot of
the people who are coming up you know
the Ayanna Presley's of the world the
AFC's of the world the Rashida Swedes
they sort of look up to someone like
bubbly and she could mentor those people
in a way that coiler clearly can't and
so for me everyone should be putting
their eggs in the lawyers enquires
basket yeah and getting rid of player
yeah I mean I think the I think the hope
is that that that she is going to go
with Pelosi after two years but you know
and I appreciate the call Josh and I
think I mean you're right to point out
the sending Hoyer is far more malignant
force then and I think Pelosi is all
that said you know the best we can hope
for and at this point it is a I think
it's a fait accompli that Nancy Pelosi
is going to win as leader there's a
really interesting piece that David day
in wrote and I'm probably gonna have him
on Monday for this but the the the short
version is
the Congressional Progressive Caucus
leveraged their votes for Pelosi's
leadership bid to get seats on key
committees that are instrumental if you
want to get progressive legislation
passed but also instrumental if you want
to deny the corporate Democrats the
ability to water down other and to to
influence the outcome of those
legislative fights the tough part is
getting people to actually now that
they've got a commitment to get those
seats to actually get people to take
those committee slots because there are
atypical committees for progresses it's
a fascinating story it is such an
important thing to understand in the
context of of getting better legislation
and how Washington works and I was going
to go through the I was gonna go through
the piece today but I think it's better
to wait until Monday and I can get day
and in here and we can talk about it and
go through it but it's fascinating and
there's also mention of the progressive
organizing around the the pay-go which I
spoke about the other day and the
limitations on taxation that Pelosi is
trying to push through we'll see we'll
see
secret identity politics I can assure
anybody dreading a conservative family
Thanksgiving that it's better idea not
to go after hearing for my dad that 31
documented cases of voter fraud over the
past twenty eight elections was evidence
that the government doesn't want to
catch it I gave up don't waste your
energy comrades stay home and bone 2018
a square the genius of Janeane Garofalo
to bring us this new entry into the Hall
of a Republican crazy racist artisanal
moonshine
can't wait to line up at the bell house
to get that got my tickets for the
january live show enjoy the holiday I
hope everybody's got tickets that show
do we know how many have sold out at
this point how many have sold gotta move
quick folks got to move quick
Sam totally random but you should have
dated Samantha on Sex in the City
you're a total hunk you would have been
a reoccurring character instead of a
meat spinning psycho yeah they don't let
you choose when you audition for that
beast but in your campaign against Chuck
Schumer I am most looking forward to the
moment when you energetically say
Pokemon go to the DSA meeting left his
best cedar 20/20 Karen in Sullivan
County babysitting my five year old
buddy listening to Mr he's already
saying bag over my head and what a mean
lady he also knows a little Sam and dr.
Nate them young I say JJ cool I thought
some of your libertarian debates
couldn't be topped what Cindy is a
contender hiccup edia lol have a good
Thanksgiving all can't go Fonua trous
someone needs to follow up a message to
those who are offended by asking and
what's your message to those who were
not offended by your comment Winnipeg
Craig cedar for Senate the Chuck stops
here Matt what game did you get rid did
redemption to majority report hot Sam
can I hit on you and your staff if I
donate to each of your patreon 's of
course I don't even think you need to do
that you can hit on us and any I can't
can't promise anything you don't get
extra license if you paid you guys you
get the same lesson you can do the same
amount of hitting on that's right call
him from a six for six area code who's
this where he come from hello hello yeah
hey hi who's this yeah I am my name is
Sid Joel I'm from Nigeria sigil from
Nigeria are you calling from Nigeria yes
I'm in Lagos right now wow okay
yeah I wanted to kind of just briefly
well not so briefly maybe but talk about
how Donald Trump's just abysmal behavior
is too toxic for the international
politics political landscape and how
it's like his bad behavior especially in
this case of Saudi Arabia games almost
everyone a free pass to just behaved
terribly please do yeah okay so in
Nigeria you talk about this I think like
she's like a week ago or so in Abuja and
the shots of protesters who were I think
trying to get a fair wage and might not
even have been bad I can't quite
remember but I know there's people
trying to get a fair wage now and not
only is Trump's bad behavior in terms of
just civil rights encouraging people to
behave this badly internationally it's
also his grotesque worship of wealth so
these little men they roll around in
them like caravans of ten Hummers and
like five police cars escorting them
it's ridiculous and they have the nerve
to not want to increase the minimum wage
to $30,000 a month which is below $85 a
month so that's the kind of behavior
people can get away with now I guess one
of the things that I'm aware of is that
when Donald Trump said that the military
could shoot people throwing rocks at
them that I think it was the Nigerian
military retweeted it and said see ya
yeah yeah that is yeah that is a big
problem
it is a it is a big problem that the
president of the United States gives
license to the worst instincts that we
see internationally I mean it's it's bad
it is that is a bad situation
and when boo Harry stood next to him
after he had made the comments about how
all of our
suitable countries he stood next to him
and he laughs he did nothing like he
just sucked up sucked up to Donald Trump
and made the entire country look foolish
which he has been doing for a while now
considering he's but like a service
Presidency parking like the government
jet in Heathrow Airport because he's a
medical tourists and that's his main
thing be like how the quota leader of
the free world
you're breaking up beat tally bad
behavior hello hi sorry you were
breaking up a little bit I'm sorry yeah
it just certainly see how much further
back we're going in terms of progressing
in the society you know it's it's
disturbing and I think you know people
are just it was one of the questions
that early on when Trump was elected
that you know I was posing to some of
the guests was you know what are the
implications of this and just I don't
know if people anticipated just how far
he would take the authoritarianism and
the rhetoric that opens the door to the
worst impulses you know around the world
which i think is was an underestimated
problem at least in my part but I
appreciate the call and thanks for the
active and I elections are next year so
maybe just keep an eye out for that see
what happens yes yeah keep us updated on
that right thank you thank you bye-bye
calling from a five to five area code
who's this where he come from that mean
it is you oh hey Sam this is Fernando
from Mexico and I just want to say how
I'm like very grateful for what you guys
do you think you guys do great stuff
over there and well I would like
year ago I was a libertarian and you
guys helped me like get out of that but
actually something that helped me like
really leave libertarianism and actually
liberalism in general was actually going
out and reading Atlas Shrugged Ayn
danger and there's any libertarian
hearing go out and read that book
Fernando how old are you how old are you
I'm 18 years old okay well I mean I
think generally I would say that if
you're 18 you should probably wait until
you're like twenty-two because you need
to sort of get out of like that age
eighteen can be a dangerous age to read
it a lot of guys get hooked on an R and
at about that age yes now you you
obviously you're maturing at a more
rapid rate than most perhaps that's
because you're not you're not in America
which I think attends to arrest the the
development of of men on some level but
but good for you yeah and you know we're
gonna in in in a week or two we're gonna
have a another libertarian debate on the
program and it should be interesting
yeah um I actually was calling about
something else if that's okay I'm Lisa
it's more about theory rather than
actual policy but like telling us if if
I stray like off topic or something but
it's about how like conservatives have
this narrative about loss of meaning
things to post-modernism I haven't heard
you tell me more about what the the
libertarian it is it basically the
rehash of the cultural of the moral
relativism or what I'm not sure what the
what the libertarian argument is yeah no
no it's not a libertarian it's more like
conservative in general but like people
like obviously not
like people like Jordan Pearson but also
now like people like Steve Bannon and
stuff are talking about
yeah like moral relativism but more
generally how like younger generations
have lost meaning and how we really are
like on top of just like moral stuff we
don't have like a way to lead our lives
and like that's what I see that's one of
like their main points for returning to
things such as like Christianity and
like yeah conservative yeah I mean look
they the this is a this is a classic
reactionary argument right that we it is
hip to return to the the order that
existed back when coincidentally we were
in power or we had completely
unquestioned or unchallenged power you
know the there is no doubt that there is
a transition period when you when large
segments of society are emancipated
whether it's women yeah dangerous right
it starts with it just like oh there's a
loss of meaning right but then like the
the argument extends itself to in the
case of during periods and it's
basically so your meaning should be your
identity it should be the fact that you
are a white man right well point is is
that there there's not a loss of meaning
there is a change in meaning right and
so it is no longer that you are you are
destined as a white male in in the
society that you it is your
responsibility and your destiny to lead
as opposed to any other demographic
profile
and you are of you know an elite you
know it's like it's basically like
saying too used to be like saying - I
don't know the you know some part of the
the the air force like where they where
they they go to the Rangers right and
they say you know the Rangers are an
elite force within the context of the of
the army and but then you can get even
more elite from the Rangers and so white
males were like you know link the
Rangers and you have the ability to
become the real elite elite nobody else
does the average grunt doesn't and yeah
the meaning is lost because it's like
you know what you're no longer the only
people who can hold these positions and
you have to yeah white men have to
redefine their role in society and
accept it and there's definitely a
transition I mean I've talked about this
is where the whole there's a whole
zero-sum zero-sum game stuff comes from
on some level which is it's inevitable
it is inevitable that the meaning of
being a white male in a society that no
longer systemic Lee suppresses women and
no longer systemic Lee suppresses people
of color and I'm not saying that we're
there yet but but where we are moving in
that direction is going to change and
that adjusting to that is you know
traumatic on some level for society it
and and and maybe the left is not as
success because the left's project is to
emancipate there is not yet the energy
to address you know the the the new role
for the the the white males but that to
me is a secondary project you know
sometimes you have to just you know this
is I think that parents need to do with
their kids and basically tell them like
look you know yeah like I without the
like
think that there there is like like to a
different degree and like in a different
context but they are tapping into
something that is actually happening
like with like this is an actual loss of
meaning in in in in like for younger
generations in the sense that that the
the things that gave us meaning
previously like now we acknowledge that
no longer work things such as religion
or such as like honestly capitalism in
general like we are coming to realize
that that that doesn't work and that
leaves um I kind of like existential
space there obviously the answer is not
um to return to sort of like the white
identity as a result but I do think that
there is a lot of meaning I agree I
agree of course and yeah they frame it
as if this is a this is post-modernism
doing this because if they said their
real problem is with like modernism
everyone would look at him as if they're
insane well that's the point there was a
loss of meaning when all of a sudden
like you're no longer we're no longer an
Ag in a great society go back to like
the 1930s and they're talking about how
we're entering the Machine age and it's
all gonna be this like terrible this
happens all the time and I mean I mean
it is it is literally the almost the
definition of time you know like like
when when the written word develops and
you know the storytellers that you know
the oral storyteller is is left a little
bit like what it was my new meaning here
like this happens all the time it's just
that and I would imagine in each of
those eras there is there are forces
that are saying this is unique we have
hit a unique it's like postmodern we
have me we have we have this is such a
unique time that this has never happened
before and they jump in to fill the
vacuum with bathe they basically a
return to the status quo but dress it up
as if it is something radical I mean
that's the definition of reactionary and
but I pre
just like lastly sir for taking up some
so post-modernism then is like more of a
symptom rather than a cause of this also
meaning like post-modernism is pointing
out that yeah like the previous thing
things that gave us meaning before no
longer work and we need to find
something new so conservatives are
actually being counterproductive like
they are talking about a real problem
but they're being counterproductive when
they when they say we should return to
those things
those are those things no longer work
they're unstable their move is to
mythologize the past into a way that
seems like it's more appetizing to
everybody and then say we can just
regain that when really we never really
had the type of especially when you
think about it like inclusivity we never
the past was never what they say it is
but it's easier to frame something is
we're gonna just regain what we had then
what the left tries to do is just we're
gonna achieve something that hasn't been
achieved before appreciate the call
Fernando thanks for listening but call
from a to 0-9 area code who's this where
you come from
hey yeah I think it is who's this my
name is Garrett Brown for the California
fill me I'm in graduate school I was
Kyosho egg day hey I'm gonna keep it
real dumb I thought um I thought that
one guy he'd do like he does um the book
review he's always talking randomly he
does a podcast we read the books Matt
yeah yeah Matt Matt I thought Matt was
the black guy this whole time
ya know he's about as Boz wise they get
from the editor he's from North Dakota I
mean what made you think he was black
North Dakota that's see that's either
white or Native American by getting
whiter he's like now what made you think
he was black
his voice may sounded like a see you
guys usually get these nasally callers
that's one glad you'll answer my Carmel
trying spicing up y'all life a little
bit but um but the way he talks he
sounded like Windows now I'm not trying
to disrespect to be like
Parrish dinars you know windows have a
black guy
I watched Paris Turner the media
training yeah that's right yeah yeah I
thought she was one of them for a second
I saw the camera kind of swing to you
real quick in there aunty aunty father
lady or whatever I like all right this
car white this whole time y'all had a
black person in the building so that
brings me to a conclusion that I mean I
know every now and then y'all had that
Benjamin Dixon guy on y'all need some
flavor in the studio man I mean you know
Michael Brooks keep out he applied Duty
cool man comes to the projects would be
you know say I mean I'll let him slide
to the hood you I make sure he don't get
his pockets ran through an anteater
I might bring you but we need to flavor
up there so y'all gotta fly me out to
New York breath well I mean maybe maybe
we can get some type of GoFundMe going
and you know what what is it Sam did you
say graduate school Tommy yeah I'm in
graduate school I'm at Sac State
University when I'm when I'm in class I
you don't talk like this but I talk a
little more academic vernacular but fun
right now what uh what is that what are
you studying sociology actually all
right so is that is that what you want
to do though you want to get the
sociology degree and then do a podcast
YouTube show ah maybe I mean I'm trying
you know the ivory tower of academia I'm
attorney answered um you know it's the
ivory tower Obama turn this into the
ebony tower academia well send us an
email and keep us updated as to when
you're coming east
I don't know if we have a a an east to
west or west to east flight program
quite yet but all right I'm actually
multi-racial too so uh my mom is
actually yours we can get this going man
we could have a I didn't I didn't
realize that no we have tickets
available
no I didn't realize the in reality I
didn't realize your mom was doing that
yeah no of course no way yeah my mom
plenty of I'm like I'm like a white
supremacist worse you know
worst nightmare best dream defined you
know black Jew yeah it's two-for-one for
them well with you see this 209 number
pop up I mean on the affirmative actor
with what sweet all right we'll put you
on the butchy I mean you get on there
twice
well the Jew thing you just get
automatically to the front of the line
anyways alright well John thanks to the
collie appreciate it have a good
Thanksgiving I calling from an eight one
six area code who's this where you come
from a famous Brad from Kansas City how
are you guys doing doing good what's
happening Brad uh not much I was hoping
Jeanine was gonna still be on because I
want her to like feed off of this
negative Republican energy that's going
on in the heartland because it's
becoming too much for sure yeah I would
imagine I mean it's been brewing for a
while I gotta say buddy yeah it's Oh God
so for example my 75 year old
grandmother who was born in a town of
about a hundred people see that we have
a lot of farmers in our family and of
course we've been watching cable news
like crazy and as soon as this tariff
 came on about the soybeans we knew
this was going to hit our family and so
thinking well okay the negative effects
are going to maybe wakes them up to the
fact that Trump's a piece of um I
don't think his work because um
she's already passionate enough do you
go after any Republicans who tries
and she's very fearless not that but so
I guess the these subsidies have already
started to roll out and she's already
threatened to go down there and start
calling them welfare queens which I
really want to get on video that sounds
like fun but I want to see that video
after you send it in to us I will and
yeah but I tell you what like Trump's
brought the worst that why wouldn't say
the worst out of her but I've never seen
her so animated when we watch we usually
watch Rachel Maddow together and oh my
god we scream at the TV and carry on and
oh god it's spectacular well it's great
things brought you guys to other then I
think it's good yeah yeah for sure
and but yeah are you having Janine on
later she is she is I'm afraid she is
she is not going to be back on no well I
did hear part of the Cindy hyde-smith
and I oh Jesus Lord when she does her
impressions including the Katherine
Harris it's oh my god you need to have
her more on I agree you know yeah I
agree
we have this we've entered any new she's
event we found a new racist it's really
hard to find yet in the Republican Party
so when you get when you get one you
really got a they really got to use it
well Brad have a have a good
Thanksgiving send us that video when
your grandmother goes down and her this
is the welfare the welfare farmers will
do thanks guys appreciate you guys so
much like I'm very politically ignorant
the watching your show was helped a lot
so I appreciate you guys thanks Brad we
appreciate your listening thanks let's
go to five five nine area code who's
this where he calling from hello hello
California's Jorge what's what's going
on well I just wanted to talk to you a
little bit about a few experiences here
I'm actually from the Devon unions
district hmm and uh that's one of them
yeah there's there's no the there is now
like how many California congressional
districts remain like like literally
just a handful it's something like 47 to
like seven I have to top my head I can't
remember but it is it is stunning the
Republican Party in newness who won I
think his last election by like 50 votes
I mean 50 points is is is is gonna win
this one only by about six percentage
points if I'm not mistaken
yes time I check that was like around 11
but yeah maybe 6 7 8 something like that
I'm not really sure so what's actually
interesting is that you know California
the rural parts of California which is
mostly I guess like the east part closer
to the mountains it's all very
Republican very rural very agricultural
here and there are just large large
numbers of Republican voters and this is
including a large number of Latino which
you know usually tend to vote Democrat
um so I actually volunteered for the
Andrew James campaign and it was on I
think deep down inside I knew that the
district wasn't going to slip but it was
so close like I would see so many
androgen signs so much energy for him
that I think towards the end like people
started like really really hoping that
he would actually unsee Devon unionists
and of course he didn't but this is the
first time that newness has won by less
than you know 1215 points right let
alone like yeah like 30 or 40 like last
time but that's kind of the story around
here actually wanted to tell you real
quick about one of my I played on this
uh City League basketball team and one
of our players is like the 50 year old
Mexican guy right there friend of mine
but he is extremely right-wing which is
kind of crazy his parents came illegally
from Mexico and I think so did he when
he was a child and the majority of his
family but you know we talk about a lot
of our politics and I'm again the guy
just he can't stand on a trapeze like
yeah he's child issues all of these
things but his argument is always I
couldn't have
forever votes for Hillary never because
in my opinion Obama never did anything
right you know and even though like I
bring up these counter arguments in
points there is just no changing the way
that some people think like it's
impossible and I do kind of watch fox
news quite a bit I like to know what
people around here think right and all
of his argument like talking points from
Fox News which is crazy but the story
that he told me about when he switched
from being a Democrat because I guess
that's what he used to be the Republican
was when his child this was maybe like
20 years ago was really young I guess he
um he went to school his son and on the
school was trying to force um some sort
of like health care program on his son
and my coke my teammate is very very
proud person and he arm
he completely hated the fact that what
he thought Democrats were trying to push
free stuff onto him when he could
provide health care for his own kid he
goes it was in that moment I feel so
insulted by this idea of freebies that I
could never vote for them again and that
was like the thing that like caused him
to switch and that's I mean that's it's
an interesting perspective I guess I
mean I you know I I imagine there are
some people who some reason get offended
at that at that notion and maybe maybe
because it's not universal there is a
you know there's a it's stigmatized in
some respect you know and that that may
be problematic I mean that to me is more
understandable than the idea that like
oh this is what our government provides
I mean because he's going theoretically
to a public school right yeah a kid the
kid is at a school getting free
education so it's not that the your
buddy has a problem with the government
providing free stuff it's just that for
some reason the free health care was
offensive to
and maybe it was because it's not
Universal I mean and I can understand
that maybe you know people have a you
know an attitude of this is an insult in
some ways I think that's a good argument
for for universality I would also
imagine that for every you know one
person who is like that there are two or
three or more who are like thank God for
this because I was having trouble doing
this or this is going to allow me to
save money for my kids college or this
is going to allow me to save money to
you know for his vocational school or
for you know you know Christmas presents
or whatever it is it's interesting but
California that California now has by my
latest count eight representatives out
of 53 seats and you're right it's all in
the eastern districts except for I think
you know the Duncan Hunter one which is
down just outstanding
but yeah so some mines have been changed
that's for sure yeah so it's a really
quickly about this suggesting um but you
know my chances are sorry Devin unions
is a poor chief and the Portuguese
community around here is very large and
central California there's a lot of
dairyman my stepdad is actually
Portuguese and he has known Devin
Eunice's family for a long time and uh
my dad's kind of like left less ringing
sort of guy and uh when I asked him I
was like you know we're talking about
seven units and he goes because I only
have one thing to say about Devin Union
he was a dumbass when he was a little
kid and he's a dumbass now that's a
reports with my assessment of him that's
for sure or hey I appreciate the call
all right
come from a two to five area code who's
this where you come from
hello hello hello hello is me it is you
Sam
yes okay awesome to be on uh my name is
Samantha I'm from Louisiana a first-time
caller longtime listener I really want
to go back to the other day when Trump
was not gonna go outside for the
armistice great well to be fair it was
raining well you know I feel like you
guys and TYT y'all missed the point of
it was his hair right he did not want
people to make fun of his hair
no I we did not miss that point we
caused it because it came on the heels
of what he had said after Pittsburgh no
I think we we explicitly said that yeah
no he was afraid of having a bad hair
day
well to me the whole thing is that it's
like all these conservatives they love
the military so much then they have this
jackass room no no offense but New York
here I live in the south and they almost
like the best taken opinion of people in
the north and you know I don't think
that they would really like him but
they're so for him and it just what was
my mind that he would do something like
that to the military and then he would
insult the people who got was some a bin
Laden like he did right and they still
stand by that I just really don't get it
wait I'm sorry what was your name again
Samantha right I would have remembered
that
yeah I am Sam
i I I am skeptical of everything that
conservatives claim to believe in I mean
I you know I said I don't generally
I mean conservatives there I don't
necessarily really subscribe to you know
a you know hard and fast principles that
dictate my all the outcomes for the way
that I deal with political questions
okay mine are just much more sort of
like broad precepts of what brings us
this sort of the least amount of
suffering and the best outcomes type of
situation which tend you know m to be
ones that are more associated with the
left but conservatives they all they
talk about is in the context of
principles and and they they and I think
I'm starting to become it's clear to me
that it is because they're compensating
for their utter lack of them.they debt
you know like for years we heard about
deficit reduction the deficit or the
size of I mean I'm just talking over the
years and years that I've been doing
this like the the the adamance
with which people proclaimed their
adherence to principles that within
months later become completely
irrelevant is is stunning to me they are
it is more of I think a psychological
perspective on on leadership and
authoritarianism explains so much more
of this I mean for Barack Obama like
they were they were mad about him
wearing a tan suit that it was
denigrating the the the the prestige of
the office that he once saluted one of
the Marines that were stationed outside
of I think it was Air Force One or
marine one must have been marine one I
guess if it was a marine but I can't
remember the context but he was coming
out of some aircraft and he saluted
holding a coffee cup and he went like
this and and that was a scandal for
weeks for weeks by the right and and and
not just look I get the fact that
conservative commentators are making it
all up I mean I'm not you know the the
the there was a lot of talk in the past
couple days about the the amazing
hypocrisy about about Ivanka Trump's
emails and III to me that's meaningless
I mean of course they were lying about
Hillary Clinton's they knew they were
lying it's not hypocrisy because that
wasn't the principle they were pushing
but the amazing thing is that I know the
followers the people who don't do this
professionally who just absorb this
information genuinely believed that she
had committed a crime because of what
you did with their emails and now they
don't care about the exact same activity
those are the ones who are it's clear
they have no principles they're just
authoritarian followers and that is just
nothing could be more self-evident at
this point about American politics and
about about conservatism I mean honestly
it's it's it's it's ludicrous it's it
feels redundant to even talk about it
but it's necessary yeah it's all
tactical and opportunistic their
principles and that's what I'm saying
it's like I don't even know if it's on
that level because that's definitely the
case with anybody who writes about this
stuff or commentates on it but the
people who are sucking I don't you think
it's tactical opportunity I think it's
just literally wrote like give me my
give me my precepts for the day
completely predigested or otherwise I
don't know what to do it's the same
impetus that you know why they refer to
themselves as fundamentalist Christians
and they don't even follow necessarily
any of the precepts or the the doctrine
but it's like I need an identity like
it's basically me with pants like don't
give me many options I just want to pull
the ones out of the drawer and put them
on that's it yeah hey one more thing
just for anyone out there they are I'm a
progressive unicorn and sea of red if
any of you out there want to piss people
off in the South just let them know that
you know George Bush is the father of
Isis and that's all I have to say thank
you appreciate
let me call in thanks have a great
Thanksgiving thanks so much for
listening really appreciate it
call from an eight four five area code
who's this where you come from yep who's
this
although I'm calling from Massachusetts
CC from Massachusetts what's on your
mind
a lot of new dogs yeah right so I'm
black with a lot of family in New York
so I don't have like you know the crazy
relatives argued with over Thanksgiving
so I make up for that by arguing with
people online and as it turns out I feel
like there's a lot of arguments that
could be made or that are made sometimes
like I here on your show but not often
in other places that really kind of like
show the conservative hypocrisy in their
positions and also just make me really
angry because it ends up like furthering
the cause of liberalism and capitalism
in order to try and make the point that
pushes more towards a fairer and more
just economic system so I'm not I'm not
sure I get your point that that it's
it's frustrating because you're having
to push back you're playing more defense
in offense yeah I I said a little bit
sorry no no like for a more concrete
example it's like when I'm a senior in
college right now and looking at my
student loans this gives me like a huge
thing of existential dread right so you
hear about your people going Oh Elsie
and Bernie and all of them want to like
forgive student loans and you know open
all that up and like the economic
argument is yeah you give people more
disposable income and the economy moves
around more people buy stuff that goes
straight up to the corporations that are
selling you stuff but then they turn
around and say that you know it's like
some moral or moral hazard right it's a
moral hazard because you know that's CC
we don't want to teach you that you can
go into loan and into debt and then get
out of it as if you were some type of
like corporation that could file
bankruptcy and go into debt and get out
of it exactly and then they turn around
and on a different economic copic so
they'll do exactly what you just said
like you can go into debt get out of it
it's completely fun you can crash the
entire economy and get off of the rich
there is the the argument for this debt
I mean and I saw a piece written by
David Leonhardt I think it was in the
New York Times actually saying
eliminating all student debt isn't
progressive because it's a it would be a
giant welfare program for the
upper-middle class now I I I got a
little bit confused by the way that he
wrote this because he suggested that
most of the debt is from people who
haven't been able to finish school from
for-profit universities and my
understanding is that most of those
students are people who have entered the
workforce and then gone back to get a
degree to help them get a little further
along but nevertheless the idea that
it's not progressive I mean who cares
you know if the argument is I mean if
the argument is that it's going to
starve resources from other programs
then you have to reckon for the what you
said would be the economic benefit that
would come from unburdening every one of
their student debt like I've said in the
past you know the the the chairman of
the Home Builders Association of the
American Home Builders Association
points to student debt as to why housing
starts first-time housing starts are so
are so
 that that the economic benefit
of writing off this debt both in terms
of like the risks that you will take as
an entrepreneur or the benefit you'll
provide for society in terms of like
doing those jobs that have a societal
benefit but would otherwise be priced
you'd be priced out of giving up being a
social worker let's say or being a
teacher there's a huge benefit to
society for this and theoretically right
I mean you're going to help people
across the spectrum the this argument
about you don't want to do something
positive for everybody because you'll be
helping out people who are rich or not
you know not not super rich right I mean
the upper-middle class we're talking
about is silly I don't mind paying for
Donald Trump's college Don Donald
Trump's kids college if everybody else
gets a free college in fact the best
thing that could have happened to this
country would be if Donald Trump jr. and
the other guys would have to actually be
subjected to people who are not so you
know completely awash in so much money
that every decision they made had no
consequence there could have been a
moment where they could have like gotten
some little bit slice of humanity maybe
in their lives but it is you know it's
it's self-evident that this debt is a
problem for for society that it wouldn't
that that relieving people of it
wouldn't help the economy and this
question of moral hazard is absurd
because you could easily argue that
education is something that is unique
within society it's a value that we want
to promote we do it K through 12 there's
no moral hazard that people going around
like I got my I don't have to pay for
you know high school so I don't expect
to pay for anything right like no one
ever makes that claim that's Brendan's
problem there is a there is a there is a
there is a deep
and abiding theory behind the concept of
Chapter eleven of bankruptcy there's no
bankruptcy doesn't exist in the wild
there's no you know like we have
bankruptcy a concept of bankruptcy
because it's important to the economy
that when someone takes a risk to build
a company to hire people - or or or or
as an individual that you want to give
them an opportunity to essentially have
a second chance and for what better
reason what you want people to to have a
second chance than to be relieved of the
burden of educating themselves more I
mean it's just absurd it's just absurd
yeah yeah argument strikes me as like
the exact same formulation as the type
of people who say like you know these
three people steal from welfare so let's
destroy it but 31 cases of voter fraud
so let's suppress the vote like Truman
sign
confirming wants to sign like universal
health care but the segregationists are
like we're gonna have to share a
hospital with black people and stop that
you know so it's like you're gonna call
yourself progressive and then use the
same exact arguments as the people whose
policies you supposedly accept as
detrimental to society it says I'm
really strong I'm really struck by I
mean I can understand how people are
like well you know how debt forgiveness
is a slightly different thing than
creating a free you know college option
in in every state or multiple free
college ones in every state but if
you're going to if you if you buy into
the principle of the latter than the
former makes a lot more sense it seems
to me but it's also I don't know why
there's such a failure of imagination on
this we had virtually free college in
multiple states in this in this country
through the 50s into the 60s we have
hey through 12 that's free we've
expanded pre-k for free in this New York
City and it hasn't been like this huge
morale has like and now I'm just gonna
now I'm gonna I expect my kids to I
don't know what
so the is expanding it I don't know but
uh let's see see I appreciate the call
have a happy Thanksgiving thanks so much
for listening thank you right all right
we have time for a couple more calls
you're calling from a two one five very
good who's this hi Sam it's Mindy every
day how are you Mindy hi well I really
just called to say Happy Holidays and I
wanted to tell the whole majority report
family that I love them and you guys
help help me immensely to get through
the last two years and well I get
nervous when you're not
we appreciate you you've made this show
a demonstrably better okay thank you and
I'm coming to your thing I'm gonna buy
the tickets today my husband's Kevin's
coming also oh great yeah coming with Jo
fantastic so can we maybe one you can
come out to dinner with us after I mean
I don't know I may have you think about
it but um but you guys when you're not
on I kind of kind of get lost for a
couple hours because I I'm like can't
watch MSNBC anymore but what I wanted to
say I was a that's all I was going to
say was thank you but now that you're
talking about the school loan saying
with the school I just want to just give
you a real quick story I grew up in
terms of you know we're from
Pennsylvania my son was very bright when
he graduated college and he wanted to go
to the University of Michigan and I made
him apply to Penn State because were
from Pennsylvania you get state money
and I was getting divorced at the time
or I was divorced and money was tough at
the time so he applied to Indiana
Wisconsin Tulane Penn State and
University of Michigan and the only
school he wanted to go to was the
University of Michigan
so I spent every day saying to him
chased you cannot go to University of
Michigan unless you get money because
it's out of state and it's like fifty
five thousand dollars a year you're just
going to come out there with major limbs
anyway long story short he got a
merit-based scholarship it was cheaper
than him going to Penn State he got a
full ride to Michigan all we had to pay
for was his room and board based upon
merit then he got and I'm not calling to
brag I'm just telling you my story then
he got a scholarship from one of the
people from the rough dozen school to go
to Ross you know to go get into the Ross
program and now he's works in the you
know he works in a really great job in
New York he lives in New York he's
self-sufficient he's not my basement and
I don't understand thirds are thinking
that people like my middle-class son
shouldn't get the opportunity to get a
scholarship merit-based
from the state I don't get it can you
try to find out to me like if he
couldn't have went there he would have
went to Penn State and I don't know what
kind of I mean he probably would have
gotten a good job but he I mean there's
definitely way better opportunities
graduating from the Ross School Business
there and there are from you know some
of the other schools that he was
applying to alright so your point being
yeah alright so your point being that
you could you could you could extend the
principle of a racing student debt as a
welfare program for the upper-middle
class that people in the middle class or
upper middle class shouldn't have the
opportunity to get scholarships either
is that what you're saying I mean that's
it no I'm trying to say that somebody
from middle class right somebody like me
that was middle class where he
absolutely had no there was no way he
was going to Michigan there was no way
we were going to have him come out of
college with $250,000 worth of debt he
never would have gotten ahead there was
just no way it was wouldn't have made
sense he would have had to go to Penn
State because it was like 1/10 the price
because we're in state
Janome but this this is I mean this is
the argument that this guy makes and it
comes down to this country
too many big problems to start showering
the upper-middle class with enormous
government benefits now the the I think
this is a very narrow perspective on
stuff but yeah no I agree with you Mindy
it's good I mean I'm glad for your son
now I should tell you this Saul is very
smart too I don't want to brag that he
was he's bright the point he worked
really wrong but the point the point he
was bright enough to get a merit-based
scholarship based upon our income at the
time and Michigan gave him money to go
there and had Michigan had they got rid
of those programs because they want to
get rid of those programs correct no I I
think you're conflating two things maybe
I'm complaining what am i complaining
nobody's calling for the elimination of
those programs but they don't want to
give well they want to but they want to
take away like the state money for him
to have gone to ten state that money
right not that I'm aware of
you're making no know somebody was
somebody was arguing that against
eliminating student debt David Leonard
and the New York Times was thinking it
if we were to forgive student loans it's
a giveaway to the upper middle class and
it helps them the most but it also some
get out of our basement right well I
have three children and each have a
partner they all graduated college
we have everyone's employed there's
nobody's in the basement well that's
good I mean I'm glad but I got to tell
you Saul is very very smart all argue
against merit-based scholarships
merit-based scholarships are bad because
the it's only the kids who come from
like households that are conducive to
getting education 'he's read like
wealthier kids that are going to win the
merit-based thing i mean that's why
things like affirmative action and those
things are good but yeah i think i
getting merit-based scholarships the
same way like as at philanthropy which
is like a band-aid that's not actually
solving the problem so did I miss this
whole point totally a little bit but
Mindy I am so glad that you called I
want to wish you a Happy Thanksgiving
you and yours thank you so much for
being a part of the show that's perfect
nailed it nailed it all right we got
time for one more call folks that's it I
am sorry we've had a lot of new callers
though today all right one more call I
know we have people who have been on the
line for almost two hours calling from a
2:09 area code who's this where you come
from can you hear me yeah who's this oh
this is Daniel from the 10th district of
California Daniel what's on your mind
got to be quick your final call sorry
the week yesterday I had a birthday I
just wanted to show far that's perfect
I'm sorry
happy birthday have a great Thanksgiving
okay god bless all right thanks man
there it is the shofar for Daniel on his
birthday and a couple Iams then we got
to get out of here
gila Nader I realize you have your
exploratory committee but as long as
we're playing political fantasy football
what about AOC primary humor in 2020 in
2022
will she be old enough old you have to
be to run for Senator oh that's a good
question she's young that's nuts
Sean didn't the Republicans criticized
Democrats for liking Saudis in ignoring
9/11 human rights violations the
hypocrisy so thick you could spread it
on toast camp Superior Court judge may
enforcing republican governor paul
lepage to implement medicaid expansion
after multiple vetoes and a ballot
initiative it's almost like the courts
matter on a state level to be chris
lapacho do you think there's any chance
that trump knew about the khashoggi
killing it
ants he hates your I don't think he did
I think he just I think you know they
just got the sense from him that he
could do they could do whatever they
wanted Nate from Casey I tried watching
a kolinsky interviews jimmy dore video
my brain is hurting I know I know does
did this to myself
thanks for being here Sam Matt and
Brendon Happy Thanksgiving
psychedelic Quaker sent an email of a
short phone call I had my US congressman
about medicare-for-all Pago and the
social security gap I'll look for it
soggy flat flatulence I miss Jamie okay
fake moves Happy Thanksgiving everybody
also the Georgia Secretary of State run
off it's December 4th go out and vote
for John Barrow Sam's tinder profile hey
girl swipe right I'm thankful for you
and Social Security reports mirela Sam
for those of us who live far away will
you do a live stream of your show in
Brooklyn we won't do a live one but I we
probably videotape it Congressional
baseball fan it's tradition for merry
Americans to play a game of football
with family on Thanksgiving this year
try something different it's never too
soon to practice pitching and hitting be
thankful that spring training is only a
few months away socialist Jewish social
Jewish warrior how do you interact with
conservative friends would be curious
for Janine's response i watch RBG and
they focus on Ginsburg's clothes relate
friendship with Scalia one of our
friends said they can never have been
friends with Scalia I have one friend
who is Paul Ryan acolyte I find this
worldview utterly disgusting I agree we
do not uh that's bizarre
what is your media diet where you come
away from it thinking Paul Ryan is a guy
to look up to mmm well for a long time
it could have been just about any
Washington Post yeah
and the final I am of the week before we
get there folks
[Music]
let me just tell you take this
opportunity to thank all of you who
support this program and frankly thank
all of you who listen or watch this
program we can't do it without you
obviously I am very grateful for being
able to do this for a living and also
thanks to Matt and Brendan and Michael
Jamie
the best crew of any podcast out there I
mean except for like the pod save
America guys
therefore they they're just so much fun
other producers are a lot of fun to do
those guys are just they're the best but
you guys are also you're up there
I can't wait to find out which one of
you guys secretly works for a Republican
PR firm I got a funny story about the
pod save guys I'll tell you after what
I'll tell you why wouldn't you tell us
now ah not appropriate okay great inside
info
but honestly thank you all we will see
you Monday have a great Thanksgiving
there'll be a show not tomorrow but
there will be one on Friday we will be
back live on Monday Happy Thanksgiving
in the final I am of the week race is
the presiding force over today's
politics says black Marxist my fellow
gay POCs fought for a guy like dave
rubin who then turns around and fully
identifies with white supremacy Marxist
too often missed this in their class
analysis alright folks see you later
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made the
option
[Music]
laughs we try
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
they play
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
