so judge let's let's start out first
with and you have written about the the
lost history of FDR's court packing
so-called scandal and it has it is a
timely piece because we are it's already
come up in the campaign I think Peter
Jake
the mayor of South Bend has said that he
is open that this should be on the table
he's one of our our growing number of
presidential candidates vying in the
Democratic primary undoubtedly this
question is going to come up over the
course of the campaign as there is still
and I would argue rightfully so a lot of
sense that the Republicans have broken
the Supreme Court appointment mechanism
and process by denying a hearing to
Merrick garland and essentially stealing
one of President Obama's court pics and
we are one justice away from a sort of
almost a supermajority if you will on
the Supreme Court by conservatives so
this is something that is going to be
that is very much in the air and the
give us a sense of first what the I
guess conventional understanding of the
poor the court packing scandal is slash
was and you know we're talking to people
in this audience who who may not have
much of a background as even the context
in which this took place of course thank
you so the the traditional understanding
that the probability audience may be
vaguely remembers from history books is
that after Franklin Roosevelt in 1936
landslide election victory in the
presidential campaign one of the biggest
presidential campaigns victories in
American history
he's very soon afterwards brought out a
plan
to add six new members to the Supreme
Court supposedly of course all of them
Democrats and all of them sympathetic to
his New Deal policies he was upset with
the old Supreme Court for striking down
a host of different economic regulations
that he thought necessary to recover
from the Great Depression and he was
worried that any new proposals that he
fronted over the next two or three years
of his presidency would also be struck
down for this by the Supreme Court so
his goal in the traditional telling was
to add these six members to make sure
that the court upheld his new economic
puzzles and but the reaction to this was
pretty severe and swift the country rose
on masks and supposedly original story
to say that this was monkeying with the
constitutional structure of American
government and even with a supermajority
of Democrats in the house the plan was
shot down and FDR never recovered
politically in the New Deal as we know
it never really revived after this
defeat there are some of course aspects
of the story that are true but there's
some parts of it that I think do get mr.
student have been lost the history that
I've been doing a little research on
well give us a sense of what you think
was is true about that conventional
wisdom about that period of history yes
so there is no doubt that Roosevelt
suffered what was the largest single
political defeat of his entire career
the loss of his court packing proposal
or as he called it the judicial
reorganization bill permanently split
the Democratic Party and did Drive a
significant number of them especially
conservative Democrats in the South away
from Roosevelt and his dude New Deal a
lot of political scientists historians
have argued that this split in 1937
massage - sort of 30 to 40-year majority
of a conservative coalition were
conservative Southern Democrats aligned
with northern conservative Republicans
to shoot down
more radical economic reforms missus
again this is probably true is also true
that Roosevelt was upset with a Supreme
Court that had been striking down a
number of his economic reforms and that
he did want a more sympathetic Court it
is also true which I didn't mention
before many people may remember one of
the most famous lines to deal with the
court packet incident was the joke about
a switch in time that saved nine the
nine members of the Supreme Court that
one justice justice Owen Roberts who had
previously voted to strike down some New
Deal legislation started in the midst of
this court packing fight to uphold a
number of New Deal acts and therefore
seemed to make Roosevelt's plan
unnecessary research has shown probably
that this had more to do with the
different sorts of cases that were
coming up to the chord and less to deal
with em switch in his mind for political
reasons but there was a switch in the
Supreme Court rulings at least as the
public saw it that seemed to make the
plan less necessary and again these
parts are true and that it's hard to
underestimate the ramifications of the
court packing battle or its importance
for the New Deal and for Roosevelt less
necessary or perhaps on some level and
I'm talking about what you know at least
the interpretations that I've seen less
necessary or perhaps on some level
somewhat effective right like this is
indicative of a potential movement in in
society or this is a way of you know
preventing the court packing by changing
I mean I don't know if that's I don't
know if that interpretation and and of
course you have you know a revision to
this history but I don't know if that
other interpretation is particularly
plausible that someone would that a
judge would be so easily swayed by the
potential of a core parking but who
knows right but that so these are the
these are all the sort of the prior
interpretations
of this event in history and like you
say this is coming out of this we we had
at least the viability of a significant
portion of the New Deal which in other
words in another circumstance might have
been in jeopardy yes so it's the there
is still an ongoing debate about how and
of course it's very strange because it
does deal with this very big national
bader what was going on the mind of this
one just as just as Owen Roberts and
servers appointed by Herbert Hoover we
do know now that he had already decided
to switch his votes or at least uphold
one of the the Social Security Act and a
minimum wage law in December 1936 so
after Roosevelt was reelected but before
his court packing plan was proposed as
some people of joke before it could be
that Owen Roberts reads the arrest the
election returned that could have been a
part of it even besides in the court
packing proposal but it seems unlikely
and the he merely cat was cowed by the
for the poem by the political proposal
pack the court and switches vote and and
some people today who kind of argue for
the the court packing ideas seem to hope
for a similar outcome and I think the
history is not with them in that regard
it seems unlikely that a justice would
be would be as you mentioned so easily
swayed to change its Vodun if anything
you one would expect maybe a hardening
of the opposite views right and and and
we should say before we take a break
here that I think the other theory that
some people have in terms of floating
the idea of court packing is that it may
lead to other reforms but I don't want
to get ahead of ourselves in terms of
the Supreme Court let's take a quick
break and when we come back I want you
to talk about the the lost history of
the court packing scandal and how this
lost history may give us a better sense
of a roadmap of how we
and what kind of reforms are possible
for the Supreme Court I'm Sam cedar this
is ring of fire radio we'll be right
back in just a moment with the judge
Glock
