you
[Music]
you
CEDA the destiny of America is
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of annihilate
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday October 16th 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Marshall Steinbaum from the Roosevelt
Institute on the death of Sears at the
hands of a vulture capitalism meanwhile
Lindsey Graham calls for a regime change
in Saudi Arabia presumably so he can
continue to sell them weapons and the
state of Georgia working hard overtime
to disenfranchise black people living
our la vida loca without the Voting
Rights Act Chuck Schumer got played
again Republicans plants judicial
hearings in October yeah but well
whatever
that's all I have and the Laffer curve
fails again we're not in Kansas anymore
in the wake of a corporate GOP corporate
tax cut meanwhile Trump administration
looks to kill the Chicago Police Reform
deal because why not so why say vote for
the green candy DHS finds more attempts
to hack US elections and does nothing
about it
meanwhile New York Police Department
seeks nine quad boys on riot charges and
Yemen on the brink of the worst famine
in 100 years maybe maybe if people get
exorcised enough about a Washington Post
columnist will be able to avoid some of
that and Charlie Kirk's turning points
USA Florida Chapter slinging racist
means and Tucker Carlson's Yelp account
goes dormant all this and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen
yeah let's just let's just jump in this
very quickly I know we weren't playing
do this but I I'm so distraught by
what's going on with Tucker Carlson that
I want to put this up on the top of the
show I wasn't planning it I mean we I
know we have what we will talk about the
gram in a moment but this is too tough
folks too tough Tucker Carlson who you
have to understand people get into
habits into ruts live in New York City
maybe you have a small kitchen maybe you
get home from work too late
you can't cook for the kids but Tucker
has none of those issues Tucker is not
only well-paid because of his Fox gig
but even when he lost all those
different jobs that he lost and was
desperate to make a name for himself
with the was at the Daily Caller I think
it was his thing even then it wasn't an
issue because of course he's an heiress
or an heir to the Swanson frozen food
fortune so Tucker
is used to eating out and used to eating
out at nice places all right so the
transition is that much hard this is
that's why this makes the story that
much more difficult it would be easy to
Slough it off and just say wow you're
like 99% of the people now but that
discounts how difficult it is for some
people to change their loss aversion
exactly term in behavioral economics
it's it's not the same for him because
he's used to a certain lifestyle um
apathetic Sam
I can't really go out to a lot of
restaurants anymore because I get yelled
at Tucker said on a national review
podcast or at least that one day I don't
feel threatened having someone scream
 you at a restaurant it just wrecks
your meal Carson said he only goes to
one restaurant these days I go there
because I love it nobody hassles me Oh
incidentally that's the palm steakhouse
I think you probably find that that
place is still open
yep I can't wait for this revolution to
end so I can go back out to dinner so
[Music]
if you scream at someone to the point
where they have to leave the restaurant
that's an act of wild aggression he said
last week on his television show which
promotes race wars and also promotes
people like Gavin McGinnis and promotes
vigilance gypsies yeah Julis against
gypsies live spreads neo Nazi propaganda
about South Africa but the only
restaurant that he can go to anymore is
the palm that's a real bummer of the
steak house for lobbyists I was simply
trying to get that is what like being
really like being gay in the 1950s it is
just like being gay this is my
impersonation of myself at a restaurant
Tucker's at and of course the irony is
the the palm it's not in the Upper West
Side right no this is in DC this is the
lobbyist place 19th Street Northwest he
lives he lives in DC and Jefferson place
that's 19th Northwest Street
all right well then forget everything I
said about the feeling bad for him cuz
you got a big kitchen probably no I
thought when you said none of these
problems apply to him that was the joke
about him not being in New York oh I
thought you were actually setting that
up I thought you're doing that on
purpose I didn't know but I mean I knew
I mean there you have it so Tucker
Carlson just waiting for this moment to
pass so he doesn't have to deal anymore
him in your prayers he should be forced
to eat those frozen dinners that's right
they won't swear it probably done it we
call if the delivery man did the Swanson
delivery mail is just like oh here's
your frozen dinners from your era from
your a fortune and you there you go
folks staying properly hydrated is one
of the most important factors in flu and
cold recovery prevention Jamie if you're
listening what did I tell you stay
hydrated and we actually just got a new
a new box of a min so I don't know why
she didn't she must not have seen that
thankfully liquid IV provides the same
hydration as drinking
two to three bottles of water it is not
your average electrolyte drink mix
liquid IV has 110 percent the daily
value of vitamin C b12 and non-gmo clean
ingredients it's a healthy alternative
to traditional sports drinks and it
delivers hydration to the bloodstream
faster and more efficiently than water
alone five essential vitamins it also
has more vitamin C than an orange and is
much potassium as a banana I pop one of
these like certainly when I've got a
cold but also what I'm starting to do
now is I put a bunch of these in my my
bag when I travel because you can't
obviously travel with electrolyte mix I
pop a couple of these on the airplane
put them in its powdered put them in the
water as I'm flying on the airplane
maybe I'm imaginated imagining it but it
but it helps with both a jetlag because
every time I go on a plane it seems like
I'm going to lose but it also helps when
occasionally I may enjoy the alcohol a
little too much we're here we here I'm
bringing a bunch to LA this weekend for
politican I'm bringing something I'd oh
well I love the liquid IV and I know you
will too right now my listeners get 20%
off at liquid - IV dot-com when you use
my code majority a check out that's 20%
off anything you order at liquid Ivy's
website go to liquid - IV dot-com and to
my promo code majority to get your
savings and start getting better
hydration that's liquid - IV dot-com
promo code majority don't wait get
hydrated today
all right let's um right now I mean it's
sort of interesting and I'm not quite
sure if this is a Republican attempt to
seem reasonable to keep a guy like Chris
Murphy from getting out ahead of this
maybe it's there is I'm not quite sure I
don't know if it's because we have an
impending
massive catastrophe in Yemen with a a
famine that has been unrivaled in this
century within a century not even in
this century within a hundred years but
and maybe just killing and dismembering
a Washington Post columnist is just a
bridge too far
incidentally Donald Trump floated the
idea of a rogue killing he didn't want
to get into the mind of of NBS but it
might be a rogue killing I think he said
the other day and then apparently the
Saudis were leaking that they were
contemplating now pretending that it was
a road killing despite the fact for the
past two weeks they've been insisting
that Khashoggi
left the embassy which is a weird thing
to circle and square it's also weird to
like oh my god we accidentally killed
this guy while we were torturing him
before we rendered him so what do we do
to make up for it oh I know let's chop
up his body into pieces apparently
that's the that's the line from the
White House and from the Saudis no word
on what Thomas Friedman has to say about
this but here is Lindsey Graham
understand put aside the issue of
killing a journalist put aside the issue
of our support for a brutal bombing
campaign of Yemen where incidentally as
a result of Trump loosening the
restrictions on on targets as a some
type of fig leaf to protect citizens the
number of citizens that we have killed
has I think doubled put all that aside
this isn't a personal offense to Lindsey
Graham Saudi Arabia the Secretary of
State is heading over there now to try
to get some answers about what happened
to the Saudi embassy inside Turkey you
know what happened who's to blame well
I'm
this nothing happens in Saudi Arabia
without NBS knowing it whose MBA he's
the 33 year old Crown Prince who jumped
over other people he's the son of the
existing King and I think he's on a bad
track I can never do business with
Aussie right I love the idea that he is
he has an issue with him jumping over
other people as if this is like some
type of democracy or something right
like you didn't follow the proper line
of ascension to the dictatorship it's
also that that was a positive for him
when people are running fluff pieces
that he wasn't fitting with traditional
monarchy protocol because he was a bold
reform job he's being right he's
completely disruptive he's very
disruptive to the Saudi monarchy that's
why through a bunch of his relatives in
jail and that was reported positively
like okay he's being serious poker up
ssin vs. ha ha
I wonder why like a young aspiring
unhindered instruction might put on
khals in a you know the team the
creative destruction just with Saudi
Arabia again until we get this behind
this ring and what does that mean that
means I'm not going back to Saudi Arabia
as long as this guy's in charge so
you're selling the crown prince has to
leave this up to them but I'm not going
to I've been their biggest defender on
the floor of the United States Senate
this guy is a wrecking ball he had this
guy murdered in a consulate and Turkey
and to expect me to ignore it I feel
used and abused I was on the floor so if
I understand Lindsey Graham correctly
the all the other things that that NBS
was considering when he was going to
kill this guy
putting aside everything that's
happening Yemen according to Lindsey
Graham that NBS didn't stop and say what
will Lindsey think about this this was
Khashoggi should have said the guys were
torturing and murdering him this would
be very disrespectful to Lindsey Graham
please stop or I feel used and abused I
was on the floor every time defending
Saudi Arabia because there's a good Ally
there's a difference between a country
and an individual the NBS figure is to
me
toxic he can never be a world leader on
the world stage
what does the president do thanks it's
up to the president but what I would do
I know what I'm gonna do I'm gonna
sanction the hell out of Saudi Arabia
you know we deal with bad people all the
time but this is in our face I feel
personally offended they have nothing
but contempt for us why would you put a
guy like me and the president in this
box but after all the president has done
this guy's got to go
Saudi Arabia if you're listening there
are a lot of good people you can choose
but NBS has tainted your country and
tainted himself that's up to them so my
job this is so bizarre because Lindsey
Graham is literally going on trying to
pitch to the president what he should
say that's what's going on here I mean
we have a I don't want to say a
five-year-old I think it's closer to a
four-year-old in the White House and
Lindsey Graham is sitting there trying
to trying to just model behavior for
Donald Trump but look the bottom line is
Lindsey Graham has laid down the
gauntlet ladies and gentlemen he is not
going back to Saudi Arabia because that
guy has embarrassed him and we know when
Lindsey Graham says something his word
is his bond this guy is not the type of
guy it's not a fair-weather senator
let's play this clip this is I'm
confused wait oh this is from oh just
about a year or two ago okay don't
believe Donald Trump is a reliable
conservative Republican good luck will
Paul Ryan trying to find a conservative
agenda with this guy and I don't think
has to temperament of judgment to be
commander in chief a lot of my
colleagues will vote for him
enthusiastically some will hold their
nose I just can't go there with Donald
oh oh and now he's his biggest fan so
now he's big literally one of his prime
advocates in all of Congress so would
you say Lindsey Graham is gonna be in
Saudi Arabia by early December or do you
think this will be he'll wait until
mid-december yeah he seemed really peppy
there so but on the other hand I'm gonna
you know what it's gonna
depends on how savage the winter is in
DC that's how he has nice weather and I
will reserve judgment to find out if
it's gets rainy and cold
just keep me in the loop just keep me in
the loop on the weather forecasts re
months from now
now what could do with MBS is doing we
gotta take a quick break when we come
back Marshall Steinbaum of the Roosevelt
Institute on the death of Sears
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program research director
and fellow at the Roosevelt Institute
Marshall Steinbaum Marshall welcome to
the program thanks for having me
all right let's let's start it on this
this the story of sears they I guess
they've basically announced that they're
heading into bankruptcy and this has
been a slow I guess well in some
respects pretty quick I guess when you
look at the the how old this company has
been but this is a story that we have
seen quite a bit we saw it with Toys R
Us we saw it with anchor hockey we saw
it with Sports Authority we've seen it
with many other companies
tell us what happened to Sears well I
think you can definitely draw a line
between the with those other examples I
think what you see is that companies
with established market shares in in
brick-and-mortar retail faced in a sort
of broad sense rising competition from
online I'm in other distributional
methods and I'm basically financial
interests like hedge funds and private
equity you kind of see this and what
they see is that this is an industry
that is going to be in long-term decline
it's going to lose market share but that
presents an opportunity where if they
can take control of of the business then
they can you know radically cut expenses
lay people off load the companies up
with debt to pay themselves a gigantic
dividend and you know yes that will push
the company out of business they might
by doing that cause that you go out of
business a little bit more quickly than
it would have had the sort of you know
natural evolution of the market played
out but that presents an enormous
profit-making opportunity in the
meantime that is the customers are going
to leave but they're not going to leave
so quickly that you can't make an
absolute killing during the period of
time that you just could control and
parasitize this declining business so I
think that's what we saw with Sears and
with those other companies I mean is it
the case though and that there was that
that
that the demise of all of these
companies is that inevitable and my
understanding is that different you know
like for instance over the toys-r-us I
haven't seen the sales figures for Sears
part of that just seems to be complete
mismanagement cuz this thing fell off a
cliff but tourism I mean I think the
story is probably you know variations on
a theme across all of these companies I
don't think it's you know totally
inevitable that Sears has to be replaced
by online I mean Sears itself could have
changed its business and you know you
take a company like Amazon that has
profited so enormous Lee at the decline
of brick-and-mortar retail I mean that's
a company that doesn't take profits
because you know while they have
enormous market share they use the
proceeds of that or sorry Norma circuit
power they use the proceeds of that to
expand into other lines of business and
you know they're really interested in
growth that is not taking money out of
the business for the shareholders today
but ensuring that the the business as a
whole is as maximally powerful for the
long run as possible so you know it's
it's hard for an outsider to say that
that business model was available to
Sears to but in any event it didn't
follow it instead being older companies
kind of succumbed to what I would
consider the sort of shareholder
shareholder first ideology that says
well you know we're in a position where
we don't have to do that much work to
make a ton of money right now let's do
that and you know two points one is
Sears if there was any business
understood you know delivery by mail in
this country for the past 30 years right
Sears I mean they literally pioneered
this idea of I'm looking at I'm not
going to a store I'm looking at pictures
of it it just happened to be in a
magazine as opposed to I mean in a
catalog as opposed to online but just I
mean I want to just I want to tease this
out in plain language so that people
understand really what what the dynamic
is here because on some level it starts
with essentially it's basically looking
at a animal that is slightly wounded and
instead of going in there with the
intention of oh I'm going to capture
that slightly wounded animal it's going
to be easier for me to capture them and
then I'm going to nurse them back to
health it is I'm going to see that
slightly wound
animal and I'm going to eat it because
it's it's I mean that's basically what's
what's happening here so so walk us
through this the how this went with
Eddie Lampert because when we say
shareholder it feels like Oh mom and pop
down the street with their pension there
may be some of those people but this is
we're talking about one guy who had and
and one fund maybe he had some money
from his friends as well but are going
in to take a massive company with tens
of thousands of employees and
essentially sucking its blood to make
himself just himself us like bigger yeah
yeah I couldn't agree with you more I
mean I think we really need to adjust
our thinking when it comes to you know
what is a shareholder and what is the
concentration of power by shareholders
mean in this economy it is definitely
not mom-and-pop and their pension fund
what it is is you know the wealthiest
interest in the economy basically
consolidate cannot just you know the
kind of legal ownership of companies but
they use that legal power that being a
shareholder gives them to take control
of boards of directors install their own
faithful puppets and in many cases you
know I think it's even kind of
anachronistic to talk about shareholders
and managers and executives being
independent interests in this economy
that's kind of the old way of doing
things now the the concentration of
power within corporations is such that
managers and shareholders are
essentially the same people I meet CEOs
are invariably nowadays among the
largest shareholders of the companies
that they control and that's you know by
design we have policies and we have an
ideology that encourages us managers to
be personally invested in the companies
whose decisions they're making and the
idea was well that would mean that they
would make better decisions because they
would personally benefit from them what
it has actually meant is exactly what
you pointed out is in the case of Sears
where you know the company becomes a
sort of parasitized a profit-making
entity where the whole goal is to
benefit the people at the top I'm at
expense of all of the other stakeholders
be they consumers or workers or
suppliers to the company I mean all of
these other stakeholders are there to be
kind of sucked dry while the company is
still in existence and to gusher the
money out to to that kind of shareholder
slash executives at the maximum possible
rate so now it was Lampard CEO uh was
that his official title I mean good I'm
actually not sure about the answer that
I think he hasn't been at times enough
but I'm not I'm not entirely sir okay
but he does own about almost 48 percent
of the stock there so he right right
right petrol you know and and and I mean
his business model was exactly as you
described it as he saw the wicked animal
and you know used his financial power to
to operate it completely in his interest
I mean I want to go through some of the
sort of the highlights of this so that
people understand and and and and so
people the way for people to conceive of
this is that lampur came in and he
appears to be the CEO of Sears and he
and buy appears I mean well he is the
CEO of Sears but we all are stuck in
this mindset that if you're the CEO of a
company your goal is to make that
company succeed but what we don't
realize is that he's also the CEO of you
know Lampard empty enterprises I'm
making that up but that's basically the
way he sees this yeah and Sears is just
one element and so one of the things he
does is he
he sells Sears owns all their all their
stores he sells all of Sears stores to
another entity that he sets up called
Sara Tosh and then leases back the
properties to Sears except for the good
ones he sells off to other interests and
basically I mean this is a scam it
really this is a total yeah yeah yeah no
you have this sort of like separate
entity you chop it up and then you milk
Sears by having it pay rent to this
other thing and the other thing you know
doesn't have pension obligations doesn't
have all those doesn't have creditors
you know for the reason you know so such
that you know when Sears declares
bankruptcy it's like well who does
glamper care about that
you know he got all the money out
through this this this other entity or
you know as you said so the most the
plot the the the most valuable real
estate to you know what I would assume
would be like more real estate companies
right and and and people should
understand if Sears goes into bankruptcy
and owns all this property that's a
major asset for them to sell off to pay
their creditors to pay and in and yeah
but yeah now they don't but Lampert
loaned money to Sears put himself in the
first position as a creditor and down on
the list are those people who get
pensions from Sears people who deferred
their compensation so that when they go
into retirement they would have the
ability to get the money then but those
people are going to take the haircut
because there's no assets anymore
because he stripped them off he stripped
off Lands End which is another division
they just kept basically it's like it's
like he took this tree and he cut off
all the limbs all the leaves anything of
value that would still be there and load
it up debt onto the trunk of this tree
essentially yeah and I think you're you
know allusion to the idea that you know
workers might have been invested in the
long term house the companies through
deferred compensation and Pensions
kind of gets to the difference in the
way that American capitalism this
practice now versus in the past I mean
in the past you know you're a worker who
you know has some degree of Defense
dependents but also investment in in
your employer and you would see that as
like a stable thing that you would you
know wouldn't mind having your own you
know family well being tied up in it in
more ways than one because you know
you'll draw your pension after you
retire well you know that is a kind of
relationship that what I would call an
economic turn is an implicit contract
where some you know financial Raider
like like a Lambo would come along and
say oh that's a profit-making
opportunity for me you know these
workers are working they're thinking
they're going to get some benefit out of
it in the future
you know I bet I can legally rob them of
that benefit by loading up the company
with debt subordinating the obligations
to them and you know
I'll kind of re-engineer the terms of
that contract so that I'm the one who
benefits from it and the workers who
think that they're gonna that they have
a stake in the long-term health and
Sears you know we're gonna be left
holding the bag when as you say you know
all the leaves are stripped off and the
branches are cut down and we should say
that this none of these things were done
out of desperation I mean it seems like
he had a ten-year plan right like in
2014 he sells off Lands End which is one
of the more profitable aspects of their
business
he owns 60% of that company and so he's
got that money and that is secured
creditors don't have a say on that
that's not part of the bankruptcy filing
he sold off the properties like we saw
said to started so all those assets are
also you know secured put away he sold
off Canada Sears Canada and owns a big
chunk of that as well I mean it's almost
as if like you're involved in this
marriage you see you know that you're
gonna get divorced in five years and you
start taking money and burying it in the
backyard essentially and by the time
that you guys kept lit up there's we got
no savings I don't know where that money
went
yeah yep yep I think that's a very good
analogy so what what can we as a society
do about this I mean what what has
changed let me put it this way cuz I
know that you know we've heard this
story in terms of toys-r-us
I think Mitt Romney was involved in that
one Bain was a big sort of pioneer in
this business well where they go in and
they just they basically take this they
buy this entity and they take all the
value out they load it up with debt they
crash the company they make money off
the fees and etc etc I mean they
literally pick apart this thing and they
leave the carcass the carcass is really
just the tens of thousands of workers
and maybe the community that relied on
it in many respects what what changed
was there anything from a statutory
standpoint that changed that opened the
door to this or was it just simply that
re yeah
money I mean you know so there's many
different sets of policies that changed
that basically legalized that kind of
business model that would once it didn't
illegal so you know I work a lot on
antitrust policy which pretends you know
it's definitively about what kinds of
profitable business models are you
allowed to engage and and what types you
not allowed to engage and and you know
there's just very plain evidence and the
economy that business models that used
to be illegal are now widely adopted and
extremely profitable I'm thinking of
things like franchising vertical
integration which we know is a huge
issue in telecoms you know where our
telecom sector is way less competitive
than other countries that have more
effective antitrust our tech sector is
entirely the child of a loose antitrust
enforcement of the modern era and so
that's one area policy when you say
there's other statutory changes like we
still have the same antitrust laws as we
had from 1890 and 1914 but what changed
was judicial interpretations that really
baked in a kind of retrograde and
simplistic economic theory into the law
and said you know the law used to mean
this one thing now it means this other
thing this other thing means that
nothing that businesses want to do can
ever be anti-competitive can ever
violate the antitrust laws we should
assume that whatever they're doing is
actually efficient that it will serve
consumers and consequently the liability
got you know got real the way back in
beyond that I think you know in this
case there's a lot of changes in terms
of how corporate governance functions
I'm so like for one thing stock buybacks
whereby companies take their profits and
use them to buy back stock owned by
shareholders the main way that that
shareholders take value out of
corporations those used to be illegal I
mean they were just flatly illegal under
SEC regulations up until 1982 when under
the influence of this kind of idea that
you want the executives of the
corporation and the shareholders of the
corporation to have one another's in
debt for the executives to have only the
shareholders interests at heart when
making decisions you know a key way that
executives were supposed to be able to
make shareholders benefit from the
profits earned by the company was
through stock by
and so instead of being illegal and
assumed to be insider trading stock
buybacks went to basically de facto
legal there's also huge changes in tax
policy basically you know as I would say
used to be difficult to be rich in this
country in the sense that the top
marginal income tax rate was ninety
percent so if you're you know in that
top tax bracket why would you want to
earn another dollar why would you know
Betty Lampard was already rich already
owns ahead fund says oh well here's this
wounded animal there I can you know
totally take control of it and strip
that carcass well if 90 percent of the
meat the East ripoff it is going to go
to the government why would you care
that much about you know doing that and
now you know it would so that certainly
statutory changes that have radically
reduced effective marginal tax rates on
the rich such that you know now the
government I mean words we've seen with
the Trump Empire you know he's barely
paying anything in taxes you know so you
see that that carcass you know full of
fresh meat and it's like great let's eat
you know because we're gonna get to keep
all of it and the government's not
taking any any anymore that you know so
that's kind of like what what policies
reigned in the power of executives and
shareholders to profit by dominating
these these companies that they own or
run and then you have you know a whole
set of other policies that were about
empowers and impound
excuse me empowering countervailing
stakeholders like unionization like
Labor Standards where the point was to
say okay well workers have to have a
seat at the table whatever major
consequential economic policy decisions
are being made whenever the pie is being
sort of split up and doled out within
companies you know you can't just kind
of seem all the workers and take
everything for the shareholders so I
think I mean there's a whole panoply of
things that just make the economy
function much much differently now as
you've been describing relative to how
it used to be and we should say a lot of
things you're talking about I mean they
had been ongoing but the buybacks
changed by the sec was in the 80s the
change in the perspective on existing
antitrust was following Robert Bork at
the Chicago School where we changed from
a posture where we saw antitrust to be
an issue not just in immediate savings
to
consumer but broad-based implications of
having that type of consolidation of
power that was flipped on its head we've
never returned back to that pre Bor Qian
a perspective on antitrust and of course
the tax the change in the tax laws
really the biggest change happened with
the capital gains taxes under Reagan was
the the big one we have we haven't seen
any democratic or any Republican for
that matter also reversals on that and
like you say all the forces that would
mitigate these changes it's basically we
just unleashed the greed right I mean
that was that was the that was basically
what you know the 80s were all about I
mean I think you know greed is good and
we we still we dress it up slightly
differently now but but we still operate
in that fashion
speaking of of antitrust I want to just
also touch on Amazon for a moment you
brought them up in the context of being
you know at least wounding some of these
animals and allowing for them to be just
wounded enough to you know have a
vulture swoop in and and finish them off
Amazon announced a couple of weeks ago
presumably because they were shamed by
Bernie Sanders and his sort of
introduction of a piece of legislation
to get to get Amazon to raise their
minimum wage it turns out that the
majority of Amazon workers are still not
going to get a $15 minimum wage why is
that yeah well I mean I think that when
the announcement was first made there
was a big question about how widely this
would apply to Amazon's contractors as
opposed to the employees who work
directly for the company and it sounds
like you know not a lot which is a major
concern I mean one of the major major
kind of labor market trends is the
outsourcing of workers to staffing firms
to you know kind of upstream suppliers
and in the supply chain where the
dominant firm
I can disclaim responsibility for
adhering by labor law and cannot you
know they can like it's a if you if any
if Amazon going to be unionized you know
that would it would be a totally
different thing to unionize its
contractors and these are ways in which
you know powerful companies increasingly
kind of put their workers at a distance
and an arm's length where it's much
easier to exploit that and you know
Amazon has certainly been the forefront
of doing that with its logistics supply
chain and the question was well
basically would those contractors be
included in this new company specific
minimum wage and you know increasingly
the answer appears to be no or at least
there are a lot of exceptions
the other thing I would say about that
is that that's also an antitrust story
but it's definitely a labor story
in the sense that our labor laws are
tailored to employers having to provide
certain benefits to workers in exchange
for working for them and if you can kind
of legally at least extinguish the
employment relationship even if you are
in reality the the person who controls
the workers day-to-day life as Amazon is
for all of these contractors then you
can kind of get at wriggle out of all
your obligations the antitrust part of
that is well even so if you put these
workers kind of in a different firm so
that they're not under the same roof
legally speaking you can still force
them to do what you want so this is a
key area in which antitrust has become
much much weaker since the 80s that you
it were firms that are up or downstream
in the supply chain from a dominant firm
that dominant firm can still force
contractual terms on their suppliers and
then those in turn the suppliers in turn
you know turn around and extract wage
reductions from their workforce so the
crucial issue is you know who has
control and who has responsibility and
what you get in a company like Amazon is
that the dominant firm has total control
thanks to the retreat of antitrust laws
while totally avoiding any
responsibility in the form of the
retreat of labor laws where would like
the National Labor Relations Board in
the event that we had one that was not
essentially I mean that it was you know
sidelined but an aggressive National
Labor Relations Board I mean like I'm
just thinking of the McDonald
case where they had determined that yeah
even though these are franchise yeah
that it's really joint employment I mean
how much of that would but would be also
another angle in which you could attack
this well you could in theory I mean
under Obama there was better you know
kind of guidance from the National Labor
Relations Board that is to say more
expansive definitions of joint
employment and thereby you know you know
not just your media employer but also
the firm that they're functionally
affiliated with that is to say you know
McDonald Central and the McDonald's
franchise you know could jointly be held
liable for violating the National Labor
Relations Act or the watch I think was
the Fair Labor Standards Act but no
National Labor Relations Act in that
case where so you know that's certainly
a thing I would say that even
notwithstanding the provisions for joint
employment the National Labor Relations
Act is really premise on on organizing
workplaces as you as single employers or
single firms so it's very hard to
organize an entire sector workers and in
fact no workers are forbidden from
striking against any firm that is not
their direct employer which means you
know that that you know they're
functionally you know trying to get
something out of Amazon well they can't
take you know kind of industrial action
against Amazon because Amazon's not
their employer so I think it will take a
kind of revolution in labor law that
that abandons that kind of firm based
conception of where does responsibility
for workers lie either at the sectoral
level I think that's one interesting
proposal that's been made or you know
frankly from the government I mean one
you know we keep talking about what does
it mean that the sort of traditional
employer has declined over the years
that you know people don't you know if
they ever did who knows but you know
people don't still work for the same
employer for a whole career you know
that militates in favor of greater
provision of social insurance and and
labor standards directly from the
government because the government's not
going anywhere alright so lastly let me
you know how how revolution how much of
a revolution do we need for all this in
other words mean if we were to get in I
mean I
you know obviously Elizabeth Warren
antitrust has been a big issue for her I
imagine you know someone like Bernie
Sanders also has a fairly developed
sense of what needs to happen on an
antitrust level but let's just you know
generic lefty politician who has an
awareness of these issues if they were
to become president like what more do we
need that we need like a generation of
new judges are their statutory fixes
that could return us to a an antitrust
regime that is more robust I mean how
you know how many years would it take in
the best case scenario to fix something
yes yeah I mean frankly you know it's a
daunting task you know I think lots of
statutory changes are needed recently
released a paper with my co-author
Murray Stuckey called the effective
competition standard so that's a series
of mostly statutory reforms to antitrust
to basically correct the mistake in
jurisprudence I mean and I trust is a
nice one in the sense that we don't have
the same sort of constitutional nonsense
coming from the courts as you know so
that what the courts have weakened is I
just love what they're doing and saying
you know the Sherman Act you know used
to me an X but we actually think it
means why they're not saying the Sherman
Act is unconstitutional
now having said that if we did pass you
know legislation to amend the Sherman
Act to take away some of this terrible
jurisprudence now then you know that
these conservative courts might say oh
well actually you know the entire sermon
I violates the First Amendment so you
know nice try I'm so that you know so
they're certainly good at modulating the
arguments I mean taxes is another area
where it's just a matter of you know I
mean I would say you know 95 percent a
matter of bad laws being cast and we
need to pass better ones I think you
know one I mean I guess on the larger
point and and you know and then I don't
want to mitigate the extent to which the
judiciary this is a gigantic problem I
mean you know we've seen this before
where even when you do get a you know
generational progressive shift in
legislation you know the fact that
you've got an unelected chamber of rich
old white men deciding what our economic
policy is you know becomes a major
barrier to accent and this is why in the
you know second half of the news
you know the the Roosevelt
administration you know was forced to
resort to at least the threat of court
packing of course the threat in that
case was enough to get what they wanted
after didn't actually have to follow
through with it but you know all of
those sorts of major major institutional
shifts definitely need to be on the
table I'm the one I'm the sort of larger
point I want to kind of get to because
you said you know really well you know
senator Warren or senator Sanders might
have a sense of kind of what's necessary
and um in terms of performs the economy
I mean I yeah I think those those
politicians have been you know Kay vocal
leaders in the sense of like what's
wrong with the economy pointing out the
concentration of power but I also want
to you know point to individuals and and
people to take action on their you know
on their own and in some sense you know
that's a necessary precondition I worry
a lot in about this idea of you know on
the one hand people saying you know well
this you know the economy clearly has
lots of problems it's you know hard for
a kind of lay person you know the normal
people understand it deep sense that
they're big screwed over economically
but precisely how and precisely which
piece of legislation was tweaked one way
and now needs to be tweaked back in the
other direction you know that can be
daunting but you know nonetheless it's
necessary I mean this is you know even
the powerful can withstand the most
intense public outcry unless it is
directed at you know specific changes
that will actually be powerful and I
worried that a lot of you know the kind
of dissatisfaction that people that hear
about the economy are is inchoate in
some sense and will be ultimately you
know horribly not that threatening to
the incumbent powers unless it can be
channeled towards specific ends that
actually are responsive to the issues at
the concentration of power but this way
you can't get around this issue that
what we've been talking about how you
know powerful hedge fund managers or
private equity people control the
economy you know as important and
necessary as free college or Medicare
for all might be and how am I you know
radically lessen the profits available
to health insurance executives you know
restructuring their relationship our
relations in the economy cannot be done
just through that means that requires
the type the types of policies that
ultimately been
deal came down to and I think those are
there are a lot of people who deal with
these issues on a day to day basis like
I am coming to you know major reforms to
progressive taxation to antitrust to
labor law that kind of thing that really
are functional about structurally
functionally shifting who has power in
the economy Marshall Stan bone of the
Roosevelt Institute thanks so much for
your time today that's yeah that's part
of what we try and do here is to get
incredibly specific and but thanks so
much for your time I really appreciate
it yeah yeah great to be with you thank
you bye bye there you go folks not gonna
get any more narrow than that we get
down to basically like specific bills
but those that I mean those are the
three you know antitrust covers a lot of
this but the antitrust and the sort of
the way that we incentivize this the
whole concept of shareholder value as a
way of running companies and then of
course you know encouraging enormous
greed even if it comes at the expense of
other human beings that's basically
that's the game plan here's what is this
did you see this Louis Louis Hyman there
Louis Hyman Lewis Hyman he was just on
the show this is it's fascinating it
hadn't occurred to me but we did have
Louis on the show right yeah oh very
recently what was the book that he wrote
Tim on the temp write in my history of
consumption class I teach about Sears
but what most people don't know is how
radical the catalog was in the era of
Jim Krause makes total sense every time
a black southerner went to a local store
they were confronted with forced
deference to white customers who would
be served first and the store would be
filled with racist caricatures of black
people in an effort to sell to white
people the stores were not self-service
so the black customers would have to
wait and then they'd have to
- prior to give them goods off and on
credit because of sharecropping landlord
often owned the store in every way a
shopping reinforced hierarchy until
Sears catalog undid the power the
storekeeper and by extension the
landlord black families could buy
without asking permission without
waiting without being watched without
national with national I eat cheap
prices southern store keepers fought
back they organize catalog bonfires in
the street wow these general stores
often doubled as post offices and the
owners would refuse to sell stamps to
black people or money orders to use the
catalog services interesting
Tracy McMillan cotton said it reminded
her of sort of how uber and these sorts
of things also laid the sort of initial
frictionless or less friction for you
know minorities or people that are
oppressed interesting you could just
bypass the actual post offices by giving
the letter and money to the mail carrier
interesting interesting history in terms
of Sears and but the the broader story
is you know where we have a an economy
structure in such a way that we think
the guy is the CEO of Sears and really
what he is is he's just the the guy
coming in to extract all the values just
a vampire I'd also just like to point
out that that's a useful case study for
when you get into arguments about with
libertarians about how it was the poor
shopkeepers they wanted to serve black
people right it was the strong arm of
the of the Dixiecrat governments that
were saying nope you can't do it even
though it'd be better for your bottom
lines right of course of course it's
completely a it's just irrational for me
to not be able to serve African
Americans with dignity and respect it
hurts my bottom line god damn it you
will need marks and you will
discriminate I just got a letter from
Sears asking me to read up on my four
year
you know protection for my my dishwasher
well I mean they're going into
bankruptcy I don't know what's gonna
come out the other end that's probably a
final cash grab mark Greene tried to do
that with Air America at one point
really yes he calls me up this is right
after well I'll tell the story this is
fun half story let me tell you something
in preparation for this phone a story
because I'm sure plenty plenty of people
probably I don't even know who Mark
Greene is well mark and I said one time
I asked you though before you get into
all of it later because it's gonna be
good but I when I really wanted to
understand in the beginning of when you
first started talking about this guy I
was like I really Sam really doesn't
seem to like this guy and because I just
knew him as just basically like a kind
of annoying liberal pundit I didn't
really know much about him one way or
another New York City I realized that
because I looked him up after you talked
about him a bit and I said it's your
choice Mike Bloomberg or mark Greene's
mayor of New York and you actually were
like I don't know right I was like whoa
yep mark Greene is a bad Oh bad guy
speaking of the fun half and Mike
Bloomberg you will not guess who is how
you say promoting but sort of seeing the
value of perhaps a Bloomberg presidency
you will not guess do you want try to
guess mb/s nope Thomas Friedman he's
actually friends with mark Greene I know
MBS is friends oh no no no no this guy
I'm talking about I'm speaking of green
though okay so it's gonna have to be
some type of garbage sort of no a good
girl Ralph Nader
yeah nailed it chalk it all right we got
to take a quick break ahead into the fun
half of the show ladies and gentleman
just a reminder this program relies on
its members for ninety six point three
percent of its revenue at of course that
number is as an aggregate over the
course of 18 months that's the way we do
our accounting here I have no idea where
saying I just I also wanted to get
Marshall on the phone Steve how we would
how I would load up of the majority
report with all sorts of debt and start
selling off like the sets or something
like that rent out the chairs but in the
meantime before before you know in the
meantime before I figure that out your
support as a member is what keeps the
show alive you can become a member by
going to join the majority report com
join the majority report calm and as a
way of saying thank you we give you
extra content every day just a reminder
I'll be debating charlie Kirk this
weekend it appears that it's gates going
through Clash of the Titans oh yes and
I'm gonna be doing a couple of panels
that little we were to sell it well I
mean I sent them an email saying hey
you're aware there's no socialists on
this should we be socialist panel and
then you know what their response was
what nothing that the panel with you and
Pakman and kolinsky I think Marcus
mellitus and there's one other person
like there's no there's like a couple of
social ruling was was gonna be on and so
I sent an email and said like what about
Liz brunette she probably said I don't
wanna be on a panel like that but I mean
what any other hand it's like hey it's
somewhat vernacular and who cares I mean
it's not being some people are obviously
talking it's not the biggest deal in the
world she's gonna be an awkward panel
and it will be awkward does she get
Jason ton room alright folks today oh
Jesus it's only Tuesday
Hey it is only Tuesday folks and that
means that we're nearly at Tuesday night
and on Tuesday nights
the Michael Brooke show happen it's can
you guys check that I am that I just
sent you though it's it's apropos of
nothing but it's hysterical
that's hysterical just let's have a show
that's happening tonight in the show is
and Noah chunga's joining us we're
talking about her grassroots work in
Georgia let's just look at well we'll do
that open Apple I'm sorry okay
we're talking about her grassroots work
in Georgia the stacey abrams race and
voter suppression and how the sort of
dynamics of southern democratic politics
are turning to the left but also you
know grafting on to the strategic white
supremacy the republican party the
commentary will visit on nancy McLean's
democracy in Chains which i think is one
of the most important books for
everybody to read right now and
hopefully we'll have her on the show
soon as well and of course all of the
regular segments seven o'clock live
tonight jarred report youtube channel
but also check out our youtube channel
at michael brooks show and get the whole
thing at patreon.com slash TPMS alright
we're gonna take a literary hangover
what do you got this week literary
hangover i did the hopelessly thing i'm
going to be doing a monologue form it's
gonna be just me solo this saturday
we're gonna be talking about the mystic
massacre the Pequot War and that sort of
stuff the co-hosts couldn't handle the
heat co-hosts has uh is a movement so
shout out Alex but he'll be back shortly
after then alright folks gonna take a
quick break headed to the fun half six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is the number we'll be right back
after this Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube he's up there buggy
whipping like he's the boss
I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defensive idiot we're just going
to get rid of you all right yes
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
scroll fine we can double dip yes this
is a perfect moment no all right take
quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some of the libertarians out
there take whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber
lassic I'm feeling more chill already
hood Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
I see some people Shitler with such
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
[Music]
thank you for calling into the majority
report them we'll be with you shortly
we are back it is the fun half ladies
and gentlemen well I didn't realize that
all of the stuff about darn it
about who turning points yeah I just got
the final stats on the softball season
what was your uh where are you were you
placed no big offseason contract for you
this year Sam
what was your on-base plus slugging I
don't way sick it was my on-base plus
slugging son-of-a-gun
the problem was I didn't I just didn't
get out and play as much as I normally
do for a number of reasons you know it's
I'm still getting used to it sometimes
being a a you know the single parent
that which happens you know half the
week and just a myriad of other things
so I didn't play nearly as much as I
want to I don't even know if my stats I
only played 10 out of like a total I
think 21 games maybe my on-base and
slugging 475 +5 41 on-base is 475 and
the slugging was 541 but my average was
only a 405
and I was really hoping to go over 500
what's the yeah what who's the team
leader for better no there is somebody
who bet 600 Wow
and then there's one two three four
other guys who above 500 so I'm a little
bit disappointed I only have one home
run this year - all right I'm not gonna
sit here like Gary's time too much I
don't please don't send me any emails
okay
it was three minutes I just looked at
that all right I just got the text about
it and I wasted three minutes of your
time it's Jackie Bradley jr. this year
mentioned earlier I mean this is just it
just struck me as bizarre first off I
mean look the the demo the idea well
let's listen to Ralph Nader I mean this
is what's problematic is that there are
structural issues there are issues with
the Democratic Party not just in terms
of a campaigning but in terms of
delivering stuff but there's also just
sheer stupidity that gets you on
television all right and and and and
frankly you know Ralph Nader has done
obviously some very important things and
very very positive things for this
country I was supportive of him in 2000
not in battleground states and I in fact
I even vote swapped for with people in
Florida but this is a perfect example of
a guy who just is going to say whatever
he wants as a way of getting on
television and then you know something
that just goes completely off the rails
here he is on re melbourne show he's
responding to a clip of obama saying the
dam shouldn't treat politics like
Coachella right
that an important message for Obama to
deliver no it's very important because
the Democrats are falling into the trap
of Trump that's it let's run against
Trump
you couldn't have a present easier to
run against pop that doesn't put bread
on the table I posit God first of all I
don't know why like like who he is
talking about because every single
reporter who is to the extent that we
can know these things right I mean it's
not it's not it's not that easy there's
a lot of places where there's no polling
and this nap there's a lot of place
where we have huge deserts of local news
coverage but if you google every
campaign ad I mean if you look at every
campaign ad of Democrats in
congressional districts if you talk to
reporters or listen to reporters on this
show on other shows when they're out on
campaigns there's no there's there's
like virtually no Democrats running in
these races that are running against
Trump that's all implicit the explicit
thing they're running on is health care
and so he just says this because he
doesn't know he doesn't you know like he
and I probably have very similar uh you
know sort of like we in terms of like
how we travel right except for I'm
actively reading this stuff every day
and he apparently is not or he just
refuses to blue but continue able they
have got to go down where people are
working living and raising their
families they're gonna blow the next
month's election if they continue
business as usual and the Democratic
natural committee headed by mister peres
who hasn't returned my call for over a
year I have some suggestions for him why
do you think he's not calling you back
because they don't want to hear from the
Civic community they just hear from
their political consultants and all the
millions of dollars that are put in
insipid TV ads because they get a 15%
cut it also raises the question have you
tried texting him we have emailed them
yes and
have takes we've done everything look
you're looking at the next election then
you see it for a second now look I mean
I think there is definitely a problem
with Democratic the DNC the d-triple-c
sending in consultants this is a huge
problem and there have been attempts to
reform that and we still got to work on
that but Ralph Nader getting a return
phone call is not necessarily the best
bellwether for that that's a classic
Nader though he likes to publish the
letter that he wrote to somebody on his
Facebook page that the person that he
wrote it to probably never looked at
that's continued the next election then
you see Mike Bloomberg now rear edge'
stirring as a Democrat I imagine you
view him as a classic corporate
politician pausing party posit we're
gonna go back a little bit this is why
we pulled this clip and the other stuff
I had just we saw as we were but this is
this is why we pulled this clip because
I wanted to hear an ATAR crap all over
on this oleg arc Mike Bloomberg election
then you see Mike Bloomberg now
re-registering as a Democrat I imagine
you view him as a classic corporate
politician he's moving parties based on
where he may have a political
opportunity do you think it would be bad
for the Democrats that Mike Bloomberg
run or become the nominee no what about
Wall Street Wall Street is his weakness
he's for corporate welfare on the other
hand he's not your routine Wall Street
guy he's an entrepreneur and he thinks
for himself I think he could shake up
the Democrat Party I think because I've
known him and talked with him I think he
ruins the day they didn't run four years
ago I see I mean there's an origin to
this though I looked this up there's a
book that Ralph Nader published in 2011
called only the super-rich can save us
which is a fictionalized account of a
Warren Buffett actually I think it
literally is Warren Buffett basically
watching Katrina on television and
getting so disgusted that he decides to
intervene in politics right I have a
couple couple of brief thoughts on this
I mean one obviously right there he told
on him
and the Perez doesn't talk to me
Bloomberg does all right so that's the
narcissism for sure but I think Ralph
Nader I mean obviously has still done
more for American well-being than almost
anybody in politics like just in the
sixties and seventies a record alone but
I do think that I don't know if it's
explicitly socialism or not but it shows
the flaws of he doesn't have a broader
view of politics he has a sense of
corruption and he has a sense of justice
but he doesn't have a sort of broader
system critique and I look at Brazil and
I look at the way that a certain type of
technocratic or civic minded person is
able to get swept up into quote-unquote
anti-corruption politics and uh I see it
I see it here and I see him also as
first as evidenced by that book he's
hopeless
he's totally done he doesn't see a way
out here other than altruistic
billionaire class and that goes back to
this book in 2011 you know who you know
who also run ran has a Anti Corruption
billionaire there you go who said I
can't be tainted because I don't need
their money well that's what happens
with you I'm not is what happens I will
play Jamie here that's what happens when
you don't have class politics well
that's the truth this is not even it's
not even a question of class politics
there's there's no structural critique
whatsoever in Norse and regardless
there's no structural regardless of what
the basis is of it and on some level
it's also indicative of and listen I am
an older person myself but I mean
clearly what happens over time is a lot
of people it all becomes about them and
what maybe if Ralph Nader had not had
the opportunity to talk to Michael
Bloomberg he wouldn't have this
perspective and you know I don't know
how durable it would we have Bloomberg
forever I mean like it what what does
that spell
to fix well the subtext I think in the
book or in not the subject of the
subtext of that statement and I think
the point of the book is actually the
theoretically this civic minded
billionaire would impose all of these
great reforms like cleaning up the
campaign finance system and getting end
where it's like Mike Bloomberg
explicitly will not do any of those
things not only explicitly explicitly in
his record I mean the guy shoveled so
much money into New York politics of his
own fortune but also propagate all so
setting up all sorts of patronage well
how else would he win the election town
right right I mean that I mean it's just
it doesn't make any it doesn't make any
sense it doesn't make any sense but
that's where we are oh let's go to the
phones it's calling from a hold on one
second
come from a four seven eight area code
who-who is this and where you come from
Sam this is Griffin Georgia good thank
you Jeff from Georgia how fortuitous to
hear from you
[Music]
that in his heart grew three sizes that
day y'all it's that's a damn that's a
fact this morning actually I'm so
excited to see for seven was in a car
every more art we got a couple of
Georgia colors but I was hoping that was
you what's uh what's on your mind Jeff
well let's beta I feel a little bit like
a kid calling Mozart with tips on
playing the piano but I won't talk about
Charlie Kirk's your Motown is pretty
young think of him I just you know I
haven't have a little angle that they're
kind of like you to take they'll take
you very very amusing
Charlie Kurt people I can't talk about
you know the classics they're being
chased out of schools down by much of a
rabid leftist right like you can't learn
Shakespeare you don't bore just like
that I just wonder if you just asked
Charlie Kurt what are some of those
classics what lessons it takes of them
because I know he ain't got a damn
answer you know if you're feeling a bit
faster you get in quote bit of
Shakespeare had a blast but a walking
shadow a poor player that struts and
frets his way up on stage and is heard
no more it is a tale told by an idiot
Charlie full sounded fury signifying
nothing that's just an idea for you
saying that's all free free charge may
be careful we don't want that canceled
as a babe even if indirectly quoting
Shakespeare there yeah you know all
that's fair I'm not I'm not asking you
to call me I'm not a
knew his face doesn't I'm not asking
even you to tell him the child Kirk
wouldn't know classic if Plato himself
made love to his wife while he posted
himself up the corner and watch while
we're to dress you don't gotta say
nothing like that nothing unfair host
nothing out of bounds right
just some yeah just some questions about
the classics they are just my two cents
for you mean I will look into that
thank you Jeff from Georgia thank you
for the tip those a drawing strong call
today you you are quite welcome it would
have gone after dissident peasant folks
dissident peasant oh why was it
why wasn't that built into his theme
song Jeff from Georgia this an impasse
or something like that I don't know it's
nice and snappy but it is snappy like
you should do that Sam um folks this is
this is pretty cute you remember Scott
Walker well Scott Walker warned the
Republican Party about I guess about
about nine ten months ago said there's
gonna be a big blue wave coming and here
he is wearing his Green Bay Packer that
that's socialist jacket awful yeah and
you have that all this frame bastard
that team is owned by the Wisconsin
Heights so we call Wisconsin Heights and
here he is he's doing a video on his
campaign bus and let's see how long he
can go without telling a huge huge lie
I just want to say that it is true his
name is Scott Walker as far as we know
and this is we're hearing a lot of this
now where Republicans are going there
basically trading off their the illness
that their children have or their their
families have as a way of saying I am
going to pretend like I'm empathetic
with other people and by doing that I'm
going to say that because I have someone
who's sick in my family I wouldn't do
horrible things I have family members
that's right my wife to there's a type
one diabetic my mother is a survivor of
breast care
my brother as a heart condition
see covering pre-existing conditions is
personal to me
unless it's just the right thing to do
as long as I've governor I
all right that's great
you might cover it but your state
apparently won't because your state
attorney general is part of a lawsuit
against the federal government and
Obamacare to get rid of are you ready
for this
preexisting pre-existing conditions we
have Republicans in about twelve states
let's see I don't have that list in
front of me where is it here it is that
are part of this suit
there are 20 states excuse me Alabama
Arizona Arkansas Florida Georgia Indiana
Kansas Louisiana Maine Mississippi
Missouri Nebraska North Dakota South
Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas
Utah West Virginia and Wisconsin if you
want a list of the states on that list
that are run by Republicans it would go
something like this Alabama Arizona
Arkansas Florida Georgia Indiana Kansas
Louisiana Maine Mississippi Missouri
Nebraska North Dakota South Carolina
South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah West
Virginia and Wisconsin isn't that
convenient
so he's lying Plus will you go back to
that tape for a second I think we can
also see the script he's working off in
the reflection of though the window yeah
you can see that right there right above
his arm I think you can see the script
yeah see yeah see there's there right
there there's the person holding the
script about how is his wife and his
kids are sick we just draw they put the
the arrow up there can you put your menu
yeah right there you can see it right
there and you can see there's somebody's
arm as soon as you go yeah he's looking
right over there mm-hmm
always got to be worried about
reflections folks when you're shooting
so don't want this I I don't begrudge
anybody
you know you need a script for that type
of thing but I wonder how many takes it
took to actually pretend like you cared
about family you don't want to
accidentally forget one of your family
members that has pre-existing condition
exactly let's go to the fun brother is
also a loser
let's go to the phones calling from an
eight five zero area code who's this
where you come from eight five zero
eight five zero once eight five zero
handgun gone from a five four one area
code who's this we come from hello Sean
from Eugene Oregon what's on your mind
well just wondering if you gave this
much thought or talk about it at all but
I looked at googled a document called
juris judicial disqualification and kind
of a long thirty page document what a
dope illegal to use and kind of coming
through it so if you gave any thought to
the idea that the judges that a that a
court case could maybe be thrown out due
to a judicial bias there is some mention
in here on this document about it but in
the case if a case were to go to the
Supreme Court though what it would it
matter no maybe the no because the buck
stops well first off the first off
conflict of interest laws I mean the
rules I guess do not apply to the
Supreme Court justices and I would I
don't know if that particular
law or rule or regulation applies to
Supreme Court justices my guess would be
no because there's nobody who judicata
in that instance I mean I and and you
know like that's what people talk about
Clarence Thomas his wife Jenny is worked
for multiple entities that have cases
him before the Supreme Court and you
know if he was a lower court just a
judge there would be a good reason for
him to recuse himself or the big
argument that he said he did he should I
mean he should recuse himself on the
Supreme Court but he won't
so yeah that's not gonna work but
[Music]
appreciate the call keep trying I like
the effort calling from a 607 area code
who's this where you come from hi this
is Nick from upstate New York Nick from
upstate New York what's on your mind
so I have a little bit of bad news I
don't know if you guys have seen it or
not but the working family party line in
New York just gave their line to Cuomo
you know I I heard that they were going
to do that and you know it is one of the
you know the problems with being a
fusion party is that they need they need
50,000 votes and they basically lost in
the in the primary and so yeah they need
50,000 votes on that line I I'm not
convinced that does it make you think
like I loathe the Green Party as a
National Party and Mesa mostly as a
state party I think it's useless but I
will say like I think because that
probably doesn't sure their line
hopefully they've given it to Cuomo it
makes me think you know I don't know how
he Hawkins is a teamster he's a
socialist
maybe I throw him a vote well that's
exactly what I was thinking but my
question to you would be do we give the
WFP enough so that they can stay on the
line or do we just go ahead and go for
the Green Party oh you know like for me
I would like this is a tough choice for
me I
and I I agree
it is incredibly distasteful there's I
mean my disdain for Cuomo is white-hot
but if I don't contemplate it from that
perspective like Cuomo doesn't need my
vote one way or another no I'm not gonna
keep Cuomo from office right so then the
question is if I can't keep him from
office what outcome do I want Cuomo well
I mean no no I don't I don't want party
if I can't prevent an outcome what
what's left for me to get from this
right you know and in self-satisfaction
is not a is not a political currency
that's just like I know says you because
you're I mean so I would
probably me personally I mean me
personally I'm probably probably if I
can just like stomach it gonna vote for
the WFP
vote for that guy on the WFP line
because I want them to stay in business
you know you know and they and in in
some instances they've been effective in
other instances they haven't been that
effective but let me put this way
the cost to me is aside from my own
personal you know the bile arising up in
my in my mouth the cost to me in terms
of like politics like I can't I can't
come up with a good argument as to what
the value of me voting for Howie Hawkins
would be over the WFP right I can
understand what the value is with the
WFP like like even if they're 20%
effective and I think they're more than
that but even if there are only 20
percent effective then that value that
vote has some value to me to vote on
their line well I think what is Howie
hawk it's like what is a vote to Howie
Hawkins gonna get me does nothing
I mean III don't love them but it is it
uh am i sending a message to cuomo when
i vote on the WFP line hey he doesn't
care
nobody yeah don't none of those in fact
the only i can think of the only thing
that i can think of to actually try to
think of a reason why to vote for howie
is to lessen the degree of which cuomo
you know kids yeah the vote so that it
shows that he may not even get you know
a couple of votes in here in new york if
he tries to run for president
yeah i mean i think that is actually not
i think that's the best argument i would
say that's the best argument the only
thing i would tell you is that the issue
for cuomo is less the general election
and more the the primary that already
but I do think but but I mean I let me
put it this way
I think that theory is a legitimate one
and and that's why I don't think this is
a slam-dunk
you know deprive quarrel of a vote it
makes him look weaker in terms of
setting him up for national election
you're also depriving the WFP of an
opportunity to be on the ballot line and
I think there's you know there's a
legitimate argument that they haven't
been they haven't been that effective at
least in the context of Cuomo and that
doesn't mean that they can't be more
effective in the future and that they
haven't been on more local levels so I
don't know it you know maybe you flip a
coin well I don't think it's a slam-dunk
by the way right but here's the other
reason too though because back in 2014
when he was running against you know
everybody in the race anyway he only got
52 percent of the vote in the general so
if there's new voters out there thinking
well I've been the same strategy of
trying to get rid of his vote shirt so
he doesn't have the ambition to go for
president then he may lose legitimately
because there's so many new voters here
in
III don't think use but but yeah it's a
tough call
it's tough call yes yeah good luck with
it
all right well thank well thank you say
and thank you everybody there at the
majority port and left is best there you
go well done Nick well done
he did a good job this was fun a
frequent guest friend of show I would
think Eddie glad we could say
Patamon over he's won you know been on
the show I think I probably had at least
yearly yeah once or twice a year at
least but for a decade I think I've had
him on was on Bill Maher's program and
and Bill Maher you know has a real
problem with what's going on at college
campuses incidentally should also note
that a studies show that there's a lot
more attack on left-of-center speech on
campus than that of right-of-center it's
just that we hear more about the right
of center because there's entire
industries built up around I'm sure bill
Morra would speak out for professors
that critique is really apartheid right
no doubt i but it does it regularly I
remember when professor Juan Cole was
denied a position I think it was a brown
or you know yeah because of that and
Bill Maher spent okay no time right okay
but here we go
Eddie is free speech on campus being
stifled with students protesting
controversial speakers I mean what about
that part of political correctness that
you can't speak on campus the home of
free speech anymore
I think that's overstated really yeah
you can imagine after Milo smoked you
silly he probably went someplace else
this book without any any any incident
you think about charles Murray and
Middlebury he probably wound up which he
did it in why you the next day without
any incident so if that pick where you
can speak no no use what I'm saying
there's how you can actually speak
wherever you want it's just that you get
paid
and to have a an auditorium there you
need to actually get invited and it's
like when are we talking about free
speech are we really talking about like
whoo so that wasn't even the I mean
compulsory that was right yeah
compulsory respect that wasn't even the
point he was illustrating the fact that
even these times where a speaker was
shouted over right there speaking 50
other people anomaly including other
places that by the way actually fit a
similar profile which actually surprises
me I thought the point was like over 90%
of colleges are like not like private
liberal arts colleges in the Northeast
but he's saying even like Middlebury was
rough for you well the people that and
why you are nicer right a shockingly
that actually surprises me go down the
road and speak at Hamilton crazy yeah
precisely know know what I'm saying
there's thousands of lectures on college
campuses across the ideological spectrum
that happen everyday without these
incidents what you usually write a lot
about it a lot I know that's because
that's because it's it's sensational
just like you in your opening monologue
you talk about the weatherman that guy
remember that guy on the weather report
where the wind was blowing and the
people were walking behind him and
casually sometimes we report about
what's happening on campuses in a
sensationalized manner okay
all right Steve anti sjw cottage nice
tree and because no easy to report
because guys like Bill Maher really that
somehow like completely comports with
their sense that they don't have the
respect in society and that they are not
as welcomed as they feel that they
should be and so when they hear this
story it completely comports with their
perspective college kids are just too
freaky for me these days
I mean it's this is like get off my lawn
ISM on some level for a guy like that
have me on your lawn is right exactly he
did his best little Tucker Carlson in
there to where he was like so we got to
choose where he can speak we can't just
speak wherever he wants
yeah whether I can't just like take what
I don't know I haven't gotten it's so
bizarre because there is I mean you can
you can make that critique without going
to all the dumb places that Margo's but
he wouldn't be making that same critique
but there's just not there's just not
enough to really warrant it right up for
the fact that it's just well I think
there's enough actually for people who
are actually on the left and it has
actually only implications for people on
the left everybody outside to the left
it's just a hustle for everybody from
Charlie Kirk to Bill Maher do you know
that Chuck Carlson can't go any
restaurants anymore
meanwhile oh wait wait my impression may
I do it again this is me with Tucker
Carlson at a restaurant
 you why did you say you to me
people join me alright now this is this
is usually this is very upsetting to me
because as you know I have agreed to
debate charlie Kirk he is the leader the
president of turning points USA turning
points USA of course is the organization
that funnels millions of dollars into
college student government races so that
a Republican reactionary wins this is a
legit organization just doing what
everybody anticipate should happen with
with college and university elections
that is millions of dollars of outside
money being poured in so that they can
win it and to hear something like this
is very upsetting and surprising because
apparently the Miami New Times received
messages it's just very hard to find
loyal people these days that the Florida
Chapter at Florida International
University they had a chat group called
T P USA FIU fun and which they were told
to avoid the we quote here just avoid
saying the n-word and don't reference
Richard Spencer too much too much and
don't I like I like the pragmatism of
that yeah so she was straight guy yeah
and don't you hate just cuz all the time
right words listen you're jul 8 and it
shouldn't happen all the time cuz that
gets boring it should be like let's have
a thoughtful conversation about how Jews
control the media but don't always go on
about how much you hate the holidays you
be fair when we all start our slack
groups or our discord groups that's one
of the first things that we say don't
forget don't be openly racist don't you
hate just cuz but there's also there's
also a little more now I don't mind the
the sexual innuendo but one member of
the group posted a meme featuring a
brown Pepe the Frog which is of course
the alt rights mascot and this guy
happens to be raping a Swedish woman
while another brown Pepe holds a gun to
a man's a head as you can see a white
person now this still does not make any
sense so oh this is this is too
normalized that we could even be having
this conversation but they're doing a
lot of things here in addition to being
racist and misogynist and disgusting
because I thought the Pepe was supposed
to be their person their thing as
fascist but they've made the Pepe Saudi
so are they acknowledging that they
actually want a Saudi system here I
don't know there may be a little bit
confused but the idea is that a refugee
that refugees because it signs says back
they're refugees welcome will overcome
the the white goodness of Sweden I get
that but the refugees are Pepe's yeah
and if anything they're sort of gender
politics and interest in the Jew
question might have some interest in the
Saudi Court well you you could probably
sit him down and
and try and warn aggragate right or not
right exactly another messages members
of the group discussed dressing up as a
nice officer to aggressively grapple
latinas and deport them and eluded to
watching lowly hentai which is a form of
anime porn depicting girls so there you
go back in 2017 The New Yorker reported
that a top turning point official texted
I hate black people Turning Point also
invited an activist with a history of
anti-semitic remarks to the influencer
retreat let me just say this to the eye
I maybe I should get a promise from
Charlie Kirk that he will not Jew hate
on me during the debate but I feel like
he probably keeps happening it's weird
you know a lot of times these groups get
infiltrated so that they can pose as
loyal members like this happens all the
time with well some guy infiltrated a
DSA meeting in DC apparently and just
recounted their minutes that they
probably could have gotten from Facebook
well yeah but there was a lot of
parliamentary hijinks in that meeting
that he reported I know this um if
you'll remember like Kosh members of
like like the Nazis like there were
infiltrators they were Nazi infiltrators
into the Nazis who made the Nazis look
bad by the time we otally
infiltrated we were committing genocide
you don't know who to trust never their
attention we just merely wanted an
environment in Germany what people could
speak freely
look it's unfair to hold the whole group
responsible for a few bad apples and
leaders okay I challenge anyone out
there to form any type of conservative
group and not have to run into some of
that well it's just a difficult thing to
do
right so cuz obviously most young people
who have bizarre fixations about Western
culture and weird sexual issues in
otherwise Michael have no I know you're
being sarcastic no I know you're missing
the point they're like nuking I
challenge anybody you could say this is
Charlie Kurt Kirk's fault but I
challenge anybody oh no to round up an
organization of more than let's say 25
conservatives and have them not be
racist or have a problem with Jews or
ten okay or ten I'd like to be extremely
fair I think that's gonna be difficult
pheromones so I don't care who you are
so before you cast the first stone you
go out and try and find 10 to 15 to 25
conservative people put them in a room
and it's not you know tell me they're
free of people who are gonna joke about
being anti anti black let alone you want
to start a national organization I just
I just know I feel bad for Kirk cuz I
know how upset he was when the crystal
Clanton's stuff came out at the National
Field Director that said I hate black
people like them all I hate blacks
end of story that's what she said and
you know you think you turn over a new
leaf and then you fall right back into
the same old habit when you're like
actually I got into this business
because I'm so concerned about the
plight of the black family war and peace
why do you think Sanders is a better
candidate than Warren it seems to me
they're platforms and bases are nearly
identical but she's better poised to
take advantage of me to activism women's
activism than he is Sanders also still
has a problem with many Hillary
supporters 2016 primary it just seems to
me that Warren is a better candidate for
the moment the country's now okay so
before we open this up I'm just gonna
assume that you're talking about in
terms of a candidacy as opposed to like
programmatic issues like I think there
are some things that I am or said in the
beginning though that they were
indistinguishable mostly on policy which
I is programmatic and not true well
their platforms are nearly identical I
don't think that's true their bases are
similar I think
but I don't know that their platforms I
think she is stronger in areas like
banking and antitrust and more focused
on that Bernie I think it's better in
foreign policy and more sort of like
broad-based economic issues but I think
she's stronger in terms of like just
sheer sort of inside politics I mean she
has the way that she the the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau her ability
to sort of work through Washington I
think it's pretty impressive but IIIi
don't know all that's debatable I mean
for all of the take advantage of the me
to activism and women's activism there's
also a tremendous amount of misogyny in
the country I mean you know let's have
this conversation after the midterms
I gotta just touch because I'm curious
as to like how Heidi Heitkamp is gonna
do I'm curious as to how you know what
we're going to see in terms of of how
well women are doing we're just talking
about sheer candidacy I'm I just it's
just to me I mean I'll work it backwards
I think that there's a truth about some
sort of residual bizarre Hillary type
hatred of Bernie but I think that that's
very over-represented on social media
relative to real life and then I think
it's conjecture like we what we actually
know is that Bernie's very popular and
ran a race and has a base we don't know
Warren could be better for the reasons
you outlined she also I could totally
fizzle out we have a proven entity in
Bernie and for me it's not just I guess
I would probably just I don't know I
mean she might be better on policy
mechanics of banking but I don't think
that there's gonna be any real
difference in terms of how they would
approach it particularly because I don't
think I think we're still in a situation
where it's not passing Congress and it
is about who they're appointing and and
so on but I think that with regards to
the larger story of inequality and
indeed foreign policy like we're in a
global moment right now like these
things cross borders and I want somebody
who's just as
serious about what's happening in Brazil
I want one of the only person that I'm
credit caucus who voted to save me
you're getting off the candidacy
well no no she said programmatically
they're not they are not and they are
radically different programmatically and
and Barney already has a base so I just
think I mean wait and see but hopefully
I don't want that test because I would
hope they don't run at the same time
attorney Andrew coming with lots of
stuff today to follow up on Jeff from
George's comment Chapo read from Charlie
Kirk's book on their latest episode in
the very first paragraph it's a book
about how famous are just about how
famous are just breeding sjw's and not
teaching young adults things like
grammar he recalls going into a campus
where students said Charlie Kirk as a
jerk
Charlie noted good alliteration guys
good job at alliteration guys yeah
charlie Kirk doesn't know what
alliteration is he thinks it's rhyming
oh is that because I didn't he says
Charlie Kirk is a jerk he's like thanks
guys
nice a literary wait a second he wrote
this in his book in his book in the
first page but is there no
editor hey Charlie that's I feel like
there's there's a there should be a
documentary about people who edit
conservative books for like publishers
it's like quite as bad but I mean
remember the Reuben thing we played the
other day well there was the Milo book
too there was the Milo book and then
there was Reuben maybe like having been
on a teleprompter going currently in our
modern times maybe there's just a typo
maybe it was Carly Kirk is a Kirk hmm
Charlie with a K yeah some very abstract
protestors hmm Carly Kirk is a Kirk I
like the way Candice Owen thinks last
weekend klippstein reported the ted
cruz's new national security adviser did
PR work for laurent gabato of the ivory
coast gaga who is on trial at The Hague
for using child soldiers torture rape
and mass executions look everyone
deserves a PR representative actually
our Constitution I have heard that I
have heard everybody gets a lawyer I
mean look at Ted around his own kids
Elizabeth Warren's ad regarding her
native heritage seems to be blowing up
in her face at least on Twitter
particularly Native communities are
critical of the notion that
native ancestry can be determined by
using usual DNA testing methods yeah I
think that is a cross current that they
did not anticipate you see the Cherokee
nation's they haven't on the Kim
Tolbert's I mean yeah I think that was
not a good play Jason Miller who CNN
fires after the court documents showed
allegations of domestic violence and
causing unweeded winning abortion ensued
splinter news and catherine krueger
personally for a hundred million for
reporting on these court documents yeah
well I mean I think it's a intimidation
play Mary Lou from Connecticut yeah good
afternoon Sam it gives me no pleasure to
say this but I want to thank MBS for
chopping up that journalist if his death
gives Thomas Friedman pause before
licking the taint of another camel king
and the bloodshed is worth it thanks hey
that's a is that I don't know
Connery Carlson hey Sam when you see the
Swanson fortune Airy this weekend tell
him about blue apron and a free exchange
of frozen lasagna ideas oh yeah and tell
him a few for me thanks Mitch from
Houston these corporate rating schemes
just sound like a elaborate wage theft
some respects militant apathy Sam I
looked at that selfie that the proud
boys took after they jumped those people
the other night tell me why the eff I am
seeing an Asian dude in a Hispanic dude
throwing up the white power sign there
was somebody he's about this in The
Daily Beast by aaron Gupta who's a great
journalist about how actually these
groups particularly the proud Boyd's do
have some black guys and Asian guys in
them it turns out fascism isn't
biologically determined it's right races
right I mean I think that that's sort of
like that authoritarian fashion like if
you have a group that gives enough
plausible deniability that this is a
nationalist and not a racial project
then it will appeal to people of an
authoritarian mindset who you know
aren't white I mean it just says how
racist the country is that there's that
few of them too brave that's the truth
and also look at a I mean look at that
guy in Wisconsin sheriff Clark right I
mean he's I mean he's not as serious as
our Payoh but I mean he is like the kind
of shield somebody with a hydration yeah
I mean that's the that's the other like
fascist prototype Sheriff and a literal
use that word
Sammy last week caller asked about
question one and the Massachusetts safe
patient limits question Michael said to
vote the way of the unions a yes vote
which I very much support since then my
dad works at a local hospital as a
therapist has told me that a lot of
nurses are voting no out of fear that
this will mean closing our Hospital nor
the rural ones I'm super confusing
conflicted about it now sure of how to
vote because I distrust hospital
executives and administrations I would
support unions but I don't want a
hospital closed no of a lot of the
people confused I you know what I know
nothing about that question well that's
what I said is I know less than nothing
but my instinct on those issues is to
follow the Union vote Jeff from Regina
is Sam still debating Charley Kirk at
politican Hasan just tweeted that
he is debating Kirk yeah he is I guess
on Saturday Sprint I'm so hot I'm gonna
do it on Sunday so by the way I didn't
mean to suggest when I said it's not a
deep concept but or determined
biologically race and biology aren't
race isn't a deep concept biologically
it just in case anybody used left this
race side not lack here we go good job I
was being facetious calm well I'm a 502
area code who's this okay this is Tom
from Lexington again Tom from Lexington
what's on your mind Tom I called you in
a few months ago about Jordan Peterson I
know Michaels writing a book about it I
actually have to write a paper about
Peterson's rhetoric and how cultural
marxism is not a real thing
oh so that's what I'm working on right
now I got a recommendation for you CUC
philosophy today I did a good tech down
on YouTube of this that's a good channel
thank you I already subscribe to them
and I subscribe to all you guys but the
thing I want to talk about is did you
all see to think progress piece about
how Portland cops found guns and all
right people loaded up yeah I have that
right here actually this is where over
the summer and this is actually from The
Oregonian so Patriot prayer members
that's their group stationed themselves
on a downtown Portland rooftop with a
cache of guns prior to a summer protest
city have found a fish
announced this for the first time on
Monday which is apparently the first
thing that mayor Ted wheeler learned
about it this is pretty shocking that
the cops obviously didn't share this
with anybody the Portland Police Bureau
discovered individuals have positioned
themselves on a rooftop parking
structure in downtown Portland with the
cash firearms they had the weapons
included long guns they and it was just
a press conference there were no arrests
made because the protesters had not
broken any laws and had licenses to
carry concealed weapons ask why the
public was not told to the incident
sooner
chief Danielle outlaw said hindsight is
always perfect hmm they're out of
control this is not the first story from
the you guys needs I needs to follow
Cori pine on this he reports this really
hard and we did a show on majority
report over a year ago on the murders
that took place in Portland with that
all right guy as well and there is a
very long-standing pattern here of the
gentle version would be police
incompetence and I would argue maybe
some sort of complicity in this more
vigilance than that would be I be
vigilant very vigilant this is not
probably nuts that the police department
as a regular practice does not inform
the mayor that there were armed folks
who were not just walking the streets
with their but actually taking a
position on the top of a parking
structure which offense ibly is like
where you would go if you were being a
sniper right I mean you don't have
sometimes tactician to know this it's
pretty nuts yeah and I want to I mean I
am from Kentucky so I apologize for
Mitch McConnell and the failure
Kentuckians for the rest of this country
but if you google EKU and police
infiltration someone at EKU published a
paper and I could wish I could pull it
up right now but I can't about how white
supremacists have infiltrated police
departments all across the country and
more enforcement branches
now we're seeing it play out real time
with what happened in New York what
happened in Portland yeah I have to say
a woman yes sorry good yeah well I got
one more thing for you Michael but it's
on a different matter but you go ahead I
just look maybe it's I think there's
even something to be said even in this
sort of like who is the ultimate enemy
sort of conversation and obviously
recognizing that centrists and
neoliberal czar a major problem in new
york if you didn't have Cuomo who is the
worst and de Blasio who in some ways is
frankly pretty bad immediately come out
and use their platforms like that I
don't think the NYPD would be going out
and doing this and making sure that that
dynamic New York that's a perfect
example of why those relative choices
definitely matter matters folks the
tanks of Michael is I'm a TI the rapper
published of this yesterday that
insinuate him and Melania had sex in
Oval Office he says I'm not cut Kanye
and I loved it I like T I appreciate the
calls get stop it
yeah all the good yeah then the LBJ
didn't expect a crazy like
me calling from a 5/1 to area code who's
this where he come from
hey fam this is a Jason from Austin
Texas
Jason from Austin what's on your mind
yeah I just wanted to talk a little bit
about Vado and what's going on in Texas
um gingka it's popular for pundits every
for two years to kind of poopoo the
chances of you know Texas turning blue
or purple at least I've lived here all
my life and I definitely feel like this
midterm is different it feels different
Beto's been pretty effective at the
ground game he's setting up these pop-up
offices all across the state volunteers
can come in foam Bay block walk not just
for him but for all the down ballot
candidates and there's some really good
ones and I don't know I just I feel like
he has a good shot I recently has him
down
see or from 9 to 12 points I just I
don't think that's accurate I think
there's a lot of energy and a
miscalculation of the expected
electorate so I just wanted to get my
two cents on that I mean I hope you're
right Jay I hope you're right I guess we
what what one more thing I had I can
call back and talk about this later but
um I I work in the television and radio
and for a short time last year I was a
producer on Alec Jones's show Wow whoa
don't call back wait a second
be a guest all of our shows all the time
Jay from Austin is a okay but so most
talented run yesterday ever worked with
do tell totally unprompted close
absolutely the guy's a madman and he
eats about five times a day he you know
he drinks you know about three or four
mixed drinks you know vodka and the
mixer before he gets on and pretty much
wipes himself out by about 4:00 or 5:00
in the evening really yeah yeah he he
you know he's taking the page of Trump
you would always say in the office like
you know I'm just going to go for my gun
now on I'm not gonna I'm not gonna think
about things I'm just gonna deal with my
dad and he certainly been doing that and
so I'm very talented so a second are you
saying that he is he's he's genuine like
he's not he's not putting it on or or I
mean how much of what we see from him is
just he's a guy who has a drinking
problem and and and is you know just
some type of a glutton and a little bit
maybe unstable how much of it is that
and how much of it is sort of calculated
to make money or is it sort of tough to
disaggregate those yeah I mean there's
no I think he's lost any sense of
humanity throughout the years is he go
just kind of melded into his brand and I
think he's a very confused and disturbed
person but he's a genuine that he's
capable of being he just is um he's just
a very disturbed person you know and he
said he's not he's not a bad guy like
he's he's friendly in the sense of like
if you're around him he has moments of
humanity you know he's yeah oh you know
I don't know I just I I don't think he
has a real sense of himself he just
exists in his own you know
warps gasps and trick mine you know
means he seems very sick Jay what what
brought you to work for him and why did
you leave yeah well I I was working on
that show that wasn't renewed and I just
needed the work I applied not knowing
exactly what it was and it ended up
being him and I just I was so curious I
just had to do it well I'm a few thing
member and a leftist but I just had to
do it you know and it's the people that
work there actually a little more
disturbing than Alice himself they're
the true believers you know Alex doesn't
really believe anything he just is but
the people that works there they have
gotten pretty good or they were getting
pretty good at them developing their
propaganda through was Twitter and
YouTube and they will just churn out
content around the clock it's like
constantly churning out this this this
filth and it was pretty impressive to
see from that standpoint
yeah why did you leave I just you know I
got a real job so I worked through the
state now so I you know I never go back
I mean do you have any friends who were
there no I mean there's you can't you
can't make friends with these people
they're uh they're all people all right
well Jeffrey's not that Troy that
he seems really centered yeah the cut
player the Kuck
wait yeah did you miss minor figures -
yeah did you like what yeah it's a whole
big family over there Wow
anything interesting that you can tell
us about them I got Watson or The Cook's
lair I mean they're the most interesting
thing is how boring they are you know
they extraordinarily boring they have no
hobbies or things they do and that they
everyone that works there you know
they're single people mostly they can't
form relationships it's a pretty
miserable place that is check check
check check
yeah prejudice which makes them prejudge
all of my prejudgments are being
validated right in my shop well imagine
my shop merge in my shop
Jay really appreciate the call if you
think of anything else to let us know
about what's going on there let us know
appreciate feel bad for Alex in a good
correspondence Alex Jones should have
cooler people around him he's a
broadcast talent
I shouldn't have these nothing's you
want him to be a little controllable
lemons right legs they show up on time
we should have asked that's true should
have asked about sort of it Farmar ago
yes we gonna do that again
farmer Gillian just an FYI Portland
Oregon the mayor is also the police
commissioner and the Portland police
chief Daniel outlaw is a black woman who
previously worked for the Oakland Police
Department Oakland Police Department if
you look into that story there's some
pretty deep corruption yeah there's a
lot going on there
classical conservative Pompeo in Saudi
Arabia to put the last touches on the
story behind the assassination involving
rogue elements in the government Ryan in
California Sam did you have fun playing
softball don't worry about the rest of
it have fun play isn't work it's play no
of course I had fun it's about the
numbers
chopping burrs back in the sixties
pro-war advocates never faced such
intense dissatisfaction from students
signed born yesterday left is a googoo
gaagaa Sam your power levels 9000 so why
are you being put up against a little
fish like Charlie Kirk while Jenkins
Tucker Carlson which I'm sure he's going
to eff up just like he did with Ben
Shapiro you know I haven't seen that ben
shapiro thing but you know jenkins got a
much bigger channel
dr. chaos md Bill Maher's problem with
college campuses that no one on them
thinks he's funny anymore and they don't
want to waste their money time listening
to his BS indeed Kentucky Fried comrade
hey I'm our Cruz special save the date
reminder November 3rd marks the one year
anniversary of the altercation between
Rand Paul and his neighbor we'll be
tweeting out pictures of BBQ ribs in
honor of the occasion
old school new rules Pepe is a victim of
these awful memes he's not used to
consistent used consistently because he
was pushed into right-wing memes by the
left reporting it that way yeah says who
Jason Miller yes is suing Gizmodo phat
Nixon do you still think Warren's
release of the DNA test was a good idea
yeah I do look I think it was I think
it's been more problematic than they
anticipated but I don't think in three
or four weeks that people are gonna know
are gonna remember it yeah I think
Warren paid lip service to the tribal
affiliation and DNA distinction in the
clip but she probably should have done a
lot more of that yeah but I think what
your point is is the people that were
saying that this was meant to make that
Mogga people shut up about it that
wasn't the point oh the point is to stop
the like keep it off the editors day in
six months they're not gonna be writing
of long features about this anymore like
they would have been had she not done
this that's that's my theory I mean if
they start writing those six months from
now we'll see but JJ cool using your
blackjack skills and baseball stat
analysis what are the odds that any
official is held accountable in the
Khashoggi murder zero ramble on Bernie
helped the Klan get elected if you think
as brown folk don't recognize that or
resent him for that you're F
crazy doesn't have the Warren doesn't
have the baggage she'll kill him in the
primaries we'll see I don't know how
Bernie helped the Klan get elected I
don't know how you make that assessment
blaming Trump on Bernie yeah I mean more
Bernie voters voted for for Clinton than
in Clinton voters voted for Obama but I
don't follow that
I mean primaries of primaries comments
dog Doug comrade dude teach die fire
lesson vote for Kevin ah artisan knob I
was looking for a pro-union t-shirt as
part of my Halloween costume came across
one that said if you hate unions move to
Communist China first what does it mean
when they call it a mitch Daniels troll
shirt or do they mean second is it
actually pro-union
I can't follow any of that as mitch
Daniels some sort of Chinese and we'll
see a Chinese ambassador I know China
purred John Oliver is very afraid of
american-style organized and then their
factories that of course come from 647
area code hi okay let me get out of the
office
sorry yes hello
look I'm hearing yeah you out of the
office whoa hello hello hello oh hi
sorry yeah so my name is Josh and I'm
calling from Toronto Canada I'm actually
calling about God right a little nervous
calling but cheers Canada and how
basically foretells what's happening
with just holding one day if you're
interested in that OC rink and a-- yeah
yeah yeah yeah okay so basically it's
mostly the same cast of characters
Edward Jake Lambert was the majority
shareholder followed by a couple of
their crony friends they were actually
friends in your life circle it's their
home capital uh-huh and Schwartz of
Blackstone financial and basically like
you were saying they were basically
stripping all of the yeah the valley
from Sears Canada so one of the things
that they did is there after believe it
was four to five years no more actually
seven years probably posts or two of no
profits what they did is they all being
alesis to be two largest stores
basically the yeah flagship store yeah
and one of the other ones and a very
profitable suburban mall and this and
because the leases were signed in his
70s he the prices were very handsome so
much so that actually called she was
kind of the posted first profit about
six seven years and immediately they
took that money and how did a hundred
percent into Givaudan and of course the
same cast of characters they were the
majority shareholders in Sears Canada so
they got all the money to themselves
right instead of be investing into the
company they just went into Eddie
Lampert and yes so right
if the whole things is the largest
shareholder followed by Eddie Lampert
and they are basically one in the same
Eddie line but actually help shares by
himself
and part of that happened was there was
a time once when up to 75% of Sears
Canada shares helping Sears Holding
eventually was sold off little by little
but by the time a tree Lampard came in
to came into the picture it was about
just under 50% and one of the things he
did as calm as a squeezing out more
money is to sell off the horse and all
these series candidatures from from
Sears Holding right and as majority
shareholder Jess who got the majority of
Sears Canada shares he and it's all in
fact of course your exact so basically
that what I was that story about the two
the leases being so low that goes what
happens with Sara touch and the thing
I'm not sure if she mentioned but the
thing about that is 50% of heritage is
actually held by Sears Canada and of
course I mean Sears u.s. Sears Holdings
and of course majority shareholders
Sears Holdings is Edward Lambert by the
which way he gets his cut at the end of
the day yeah he is completely this is
this is he set up a situation heads I
win tails you lose
type of situation but yeah it's amazing
but I appreciate that insight about
Canada that's fascinating that is just
basically just naked draining of the
profits one more note quick yes so
basically this is going to be the real
reason why I call so I am very
relatively unscathed but this is what's
going to happen to the US people knee
Canyon years retirees got a shirt a
haircut of 25 percent on their
retirement the defined benefit then said
because you
Canada was intentionally not investing
into the pension fund as a way of
holding off on bankruptcy probably same
things can happen to us
and because of the ways that the laws
are written just like the fact that I
was owed over 25,000 in severance pay I
got none of that
because bankers that loan money to a
company that's declared a bankrupt are
first in line to give us money okay yeah
let me explain this this yeah I don't
think I did mention this so he his hedge
fund loaned money to Sears he made it in
such a way so that they were it was a
secured loan so when a company goes into
bankruptcy there is a list of people
essentially or into entities and there
is a hierarchy as to who gets paid the
the first dollar and once our made whole
then you can move down to the next class
of people who get the second dollar
essentially and when he let Sears the
money he put himself in first position
and the workers are way down the list
in fact there's probably going to be no
money for them at all they're gonna go
to the pension Guaranty Trust which
basically only provides them about 65 to
70 percent of their pensions this is an
entity that is a quasi governmental
agency that is funded by sort of a fee
essentially over years and ran by
minuchin I believe and I was on the
board
yeah Sears with Lampert so yeah this is
such a scam it is and that's why I say
like it really is the equivalent of
being in a marriage and knowing like
uh-uh we're getting divorced as soon as
the kids go to high school let me go to
college right so I've got a seven year
window and every every time I get a
paycheck I'm gonna take a couple of
bucks and I'm gonna bury it in the
backyard
or I'm gonna go and you know
you know I'm gonna sell our our our boat
or I'm gonna sell our you know whatever
it is our washer/dryer and I'm gonna
take that cash I'm gonna put in the
backyard and just tell tell the wife oh
yeah I think broke we just throw it out
we can't afford a new one I mean that's
basically what's happening with this
whole thing there from day one this was
the plan run this company in the ground
pull out every single dollar put him on
the hook send them into bankruptcy it
doesn't matter because I'm I may lose
some as the shareholder theoretically
but I'm gonna make twice as much as the
person who put him in the hole i
preciate the call thanks Ross thank you
very much thanks for your time and
apparently that's already happened in
Canada and the the the extraction was
taking can't the Canadian divisions
splitting that off he extracts as much
as he can out of the Canadian thing and
then he sinks that one too
it's unbelievable it's such a goddamn
scam it's like they turn the economy
into a board game that they can play
well this is what I have been saying I
mean I have been saying this for four or
five years that there is there running
these companies like it's all about the
side bets for them they have their own
cottage industry embedded in this bigger
company so we look at the CEO of Sears
and say like oh it's in this guy's best
interest to make Sears successful but
what we don't realize is that he's got a
sort of a a transcendent enterprise in
which Sears is actually not relevant in
fact it's really just a machine in which
you extract from it's like it's like you
know the you know I'm trying to think of
another metaphor here where you're you
know we think it's important for the car
for the engine to run but no actually
it's a you know she's gonna suck all the
energy out of the engine it is not
really fueling this car its fueling a
different vehicle
you had a bunch of metaphors during the
you so I think I'm with you I mean I
think the the I know we're getting
divorced and so I'm gonna start stealing
away money as a tree one was pretty good
to the tree one yeah that's that's from
the giving tree I'm not sure if you're
aware of that book I know shel
silverstein is Wow look at you
falling up there you go
o M G we got to have Andy Kindler on the
bill there Dennis after years on the
right Dennis Miller wants to find
comedies middle ground Wall Street
Journal yesterday oh my god
chills oh my god it's the end of an era
folks my work here is done
it was great lasted but now I can go
home
what was the Scott the story I was gonna
tell him I'm mark Greene the Michael's
not here to prompt what are we talking
about
was it Nader related I can't remember
huh Bloomberg
well Shawn Sierra's first strike on a
slow spiral downward was taking the
candy and nuts stand out of the stores
the second was stopping the wish book
and final strike was when they separated
the hardware from the main store I was a
big wish book kid I'm a good at sex
you're bad at sex
crystal Canton works for Ginni Thomas
now so there's that oh my god
producer Lauren speaking to Native
Americans remind us some of the North
Dakota residents affected by the SCOTUS
punt last week live on the Standing Rock
reservation will any of the pipeline
Prost protests like Mark Ruffalo and
shailene woodley help natives get legit
North Dakota IDs for election day left
his best that's a good question
Masshole why do you think the GOP keeps
punching Warren specifically in ways
that help her they never talk about
Harris or Gillibrand is arrogant or
impolite McConnell never shut Booker or
Sanders down Trump isn't campaigning
against any other 2020 hopefuls for the
most part he never mentions Biden or
Sanders or the the two who pull well
well first off he mentioned Biden the
other day said he could beat him up it's
just that I the the real question is do
you think that Warren is the candidate
they want is that a mistake no I don't I
I think that is you I don't think
anything of what you're saying is true
let's put it that way it just the
coverage pops more when it's Warren and
I'm not a hundred percent sure why and I
don't think it's because they want to
run against Warren as opposed to anybody
else mr. Bush thoughts on the
possibility of Republicans reprising a
Bush v Gore style fight against blue
election wave results now that they have
just a spoof on the SCOTUS it's much
harder to do it in localized elections
but who knows I'm gonna take one more
call come from seven eight seven eight
one area code who's this uh hi I'm Mike
from Massachusetts can hear me yes I can
hello Mike what's going on well first I
wanted to remind people that I'm pretty
sure the only reason Bill Maher even
started
tending to be a liberal was because he
got kicked out of the conservative
 commentators association short
CAC a because of his 9/11 remarks right
right like I mean he was I mean look his
whole thing was politically incorrect
and he was pushing back on he was
pushing back on the this you know the
the you know the whole notion that we
have to be politically incorrect I mean
correct I mean it was just silly but yes
more Ontarian but yeah and I just wanted
to say one comment with regard to the
whole like Warren whether or not she'd
be a good candidate
now obviously Fox News and its ability
to reach outside of the Republican base
is somewhat diminishing but what goes
through my mind is there are basically
four women that Fox News and right-wing
media has attacked for years they would
be it's Hillary Clinton Nancy Pelosi
Michelle Obama and then Elizabeth Warren
and I can't help if that sort of like
target practice means that they'll feel
more prepared to attack her more if she
were the nominee I mean I I would
imagine they they are more practice but
you know there's nobody nothing compares
to you know we had 25 years of people
dredging up Hillary Clinton stuff
literally I mean like literally like
there was so much baggage there not and
it's not her fault it's just the reality
of it and I don't think it's the same
thing is there with with Warren I just
don't all right well thanks for taking
my call
Goodwin thanks you too I mean I I think
I mean it's conceivable there'll be
other people I'd be interested in
outside of Warren and Sanders I just
don't know who they are at this moment
you know III like Merkley as well but
that again would be sort of a fallback
position we'll see
okay I know what it was with the green
thing was you know the idea of like
Amazon like it like it was it it was
just management I think it was I think
it was just talking about bad management
maybe no I can't remember I honestly
can't all right I'm gonna take that's it
for calls
forgive me callers well let's take one
more call this guy's been hanging on for
a long time come from a 95 for area code
who's this where you come from Michael
from Miamian who are you hard to reach
Michael Miami how are you i finding you
is like trying to find i don't know the
office what that caused the avati copan
around the the jewish holidays it's
incredible the afikomen incredible
nothing coming alright there you go yeah
no I know you're Jam for time so I don't
want to I don't want to chew up a
valuable space but we're it's just been
interesting down here obviously you've
been keeping track of everything yeah
the big the big item is obviously going
to be the Gilliam race and unfortunately
I don't know if is North Dakota Matt
still there yeah yep yeah you know you
can explain the Bradley effect everybody
around there as well Sam already knows
what it is I'm afraid that's what we're
looking at down here that plus the fact
that there's a strong Israeli contingent
that's trying to make a push they get
Gilliam painted is you know obviously
any Israeli in any Jewish and that's
that may have a problem as well but I
have a funny feeling that even though
the polls show Gilliam up I wonder it
even it's going to be very hard
extremely hard to try to pull him over
the finish line given everything that we
just talked about there's a lot of
people here who are very uncomfortable
with the idea of a guy from Tallahassee
who's been affiliated with and we're
still essentially a pink purple state so
we are that are going to be able to you
know justify his policies even though a
lot of them makes sense on a
case-by-case basis but it's it's an
again it's a marketing and an image
problem that they're going to run into
and the state has been drifting right
for years now you and I've been having
this conversation
well the Bradley effect actually I think
if you dig into it is actually a myth
but well he was gonna win that race
according the LA Times polls
and then obviously there was a lot of
the people the basic theory is people
lie to pollsters right that was the
theory benighted
the whole the whole premise as to
whether it actually impacted on the
California race is debatable but there's
no question that the scholarship showed
that people were not being truthful with
people when it came to running with
people of color or considering people of
color I'm an Andrew Gilliam fan I I
voted for him in the primary I think
Gwen Graham would have probably won this
race easily which is for a lot of people
who care about state government and the
people who are employed by the people in
state government made life much easier
okay from a variety of reasons as I
mentioned you know Medicare expansion
contracts for businesses a lot of other
things which would have been helpful
down here offshore drilling the red tie
problem that we have but I'm sure you
guys heard about us there although it's
dissipating a little bit now you know
this you got to think about that people
can't go to the beaches in Florida dude
you know what that means to our economy
yeah okay and winters winter is coming
now normally this is a summer problem
anyway but you're talking about a huge
impact and not only that it has a huge
impact on the watermen and the fishermen
what's going on with Nelson that's what
I also want to know about he's an empty
suit well I know that by but but he
can't win he can't win unless Gilliam
drags him across the finish line with
some some serious coattails
he cannot he's a terrible campaigner
Sammy tell he's off is he even
campaigning hey Terry he cannot
formulate anything that isn't scripted
literally hand and foot for him he isn't
capable extemporaneous speaking now he
happens to be running against the most
corrupt governor in all 50 states but
that hasn't stopped you know my brethren
from electing this crook twice right and
with the amount of money that Scott has
from his stolen Medicare and you can go
back and review the all the transcripts
and look at the deposition testimony
everybody understands about 57,000 times
he took the fifth right but Bill Nelson
is an awful candidate he just cannot
articulate his way out of a paper bag
I am the only hope he has is if Gilliam
somehow gets out and I and I have a
50/50 feeling on this I do think that
Andrew Gilliam can put together a sort
of mini Obama coalition and draw from
votes from people who normally would not
vote and I think that's his only hope to
really just
Jim the turnout to such a degree date
nelson sweeps in under his coattails
because as it stands right now if you
put a gun to my head I'd say Gilliam
loses 5149 and Nelson loses 52:48 that
would be my guess right now
well but I hope I'm wrong I hope you're
wrong too but we will get a better
notion as we get a little bit closer
it's pretty bad Camp Nelson I regard
horrible stories about for six months
like centrist he's a lot of things you
guys don't like it and but even aside
from I'm talking aside from
ideologically I'm talking just about in
terms of just sheer failure - yeah I'm
just talking about best practices with a
campaign pretty bad all true did you
guys happen to see the Parkland Town
Hall when they did it with the kids at
the Broward Center right afterwards like
and as a market Rubio got roasted yeah
point I'm there for that okay and as bad
as Rubio looked and he did look you know
out of his element Bill Nelson looked
like a doddering old man yeah who just
appeared completely out of it
yes and you can only the only reason
that he's close is because he's running
against the guy who is just incredibly
corrupt and incredibly unpopular in some
respects but he has a ton of money and
at the end of the day with about ten
days ago
he'll do what he did four years ago
dumped about fifteen and twenty million
dollars of his own money into the
campaign and then they get him across
the board but but Andrew Gilliam is
capable of overcoming that with a big
turn it's all about turnout I I know
it's a cliche but it really is true yeah
you're right well well that's really the
story across the country frankly yep it
is and I wish we had more time to talk
about the other things in the house and
I just think that they've gotta get rid
of the Senate forget the Senate the
Senate's lost you've just got to try to
win the house and pray that you can do
that and and we also we also though you
know we for 2020 it's important what we
you know that we main we can keep it you
know fifty to forty eight we're in good
shape I think for twenty tie I think so
by the way you'll see a dearth now the
Cavanaugh's been cedar you're going to
see a dearth of mulher stories I think
that's that that ship is sail
now they've got five votes in the
Supreme Court he can shut down any
investigation he can I think as soon as
the election is over we're gonna see
some type of move to get rid of Muller
we'll see yes I I agree it's gonna be
about a combo deal the other thing is
going to happen is the Supreme Court's
now and this is what really I'd be
curious with your legal scholars would
have to say you have an guy who usually
covers the Supreme Court is pretty good
from what I remember listening to you
guys but the real threat here is that
trumps going to have there's a case
actually working it's with the federal
courts which is going to allow a federal
pardon power to expend the state action
yes back yes
that's going on right now appreciate the
call thanks Mike everybody talking okay
we'll talk about that core that case
that's serious yep bu all right folks no
more time for calls a couple Iams then
we'll be out of here a programming note
Michael will be here tomorrow I will be
here Thursday and an early Friday early
Friday we're gonna start at 11:00 a.m.
because we've got to fly out to LA for
politican brother from Brooklyn Warren
destroyed her 20/20 chances Harris
Booker and Jill bran will attack her for
faking her identity Jamie's right Biden
and Sanders are the only two who would
beat Trump John Pilger Zuck Sam do you
consider joining in term at intramural
basketball league I can and I can easily
see you averaging twenty twenty ten a
game in addition I think literally
dunking on people who do wonder she her
self-esteem left as best Charlie Kirk as
a clock I would I would do that Christo
I should I thought you were going to
mark Greene so I can't remember it can't
remember French call me Michael thoughts
on my Crohn's raids of John lamella
Sean's house and party headquarters
non-ironic lefty I got to read that and
read about that hey with all this police
complicity and white supremacy what do
you guys think about leveraging mayor
and local politicians instead of
leveraging only police for security
getting community defense when
every gets to take part in securing
their community IIIi think it's more
effective to get the DOJ to do these
type of things but not in the time being
Danner key Minnesotans if you're going
to be at the Minneapolis Chapo Trap
House Late Show and want to have an mr
crew meetup hit me on twitter DJ Dan our
key that's a good block right there
JB Upstate has there been retaliation
for the prowl boys jumping to those
protesters Sunday night they are not no
retaliation as far as I know fake moon
I'm pretty sure mitch Daniels was the
Republican governor of Indiana also a
good show herb Marquess Oh Tom from
Lexington again it forgot to add vote
for Amy McGrath maddaddam man Sam the
debate Bernie V Warren is that Bernie's
way strong on both fronts of policy and
electability like Michael said bernie is
a truven track track record yeah look I
mean I think that we're probably not
going to have to make this decision I
think they're gonna make this decision I
think maybe not David on Dennis Miller
smoulder toxicity the Atlantic reports
that 80% of Americans across racial
lines have a problem with political
correctness how does this fit into red
piling of kids on YouTube yeah that
question I think is really weird because
I just don't know what that means but
YouTube is a problem and the final I am
of the day for F sake this is reading I
was sticking around for the Mike Green
story see you tomorrow in that
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get there I was late I just
got caught
[Music]
[Music]
clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
they play
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
