okay this is the fan art oh my god okay
so and I think I'm gonna be covering
this I've covered this on T and BS on
I'm going to cover this more extensively
on both show sanctions are kicking back
in in Iran as part of this catastrophic
unraveling of the Iran deal which the
rest of the world Europe China and
Russia are attempting to save and the
sanctions kickback not only undermines
this very important diplomatic
achievement which all international body
said Iran was closely following and
makes the likelihood of war more likely
it's also doing things like getting
people off of their medication regimes
blocking access to heart medication or
you know or even upgrading airplane
fleets for domestic airline
manufacturers in Iran this has a lot of
pain for the Iranian people and just as
the Trump administration is brutally
targeting Venezuela with sanctions the
theory seems to be and has been
basically publicly stated as such by
Mike Pompeo that the people will suffer
until the regime is removed which is
both incredibly cruel and not going to
work and so this is what they put out
this is some idiot put out a sanctions
or coming with Donald Trump posters
still looking like a buffoon but
apparently they think he looks imposing
in this sanctions are coming November
5th and that and that's split with a
character I forget her name but a
character Sansa from a game of Thrones
okay so and the job of me here is the
guest who did this column II so yeah
this is I think it's a will summer is
that his name he yesterday he put out a
call for a certain right-wing sort of
you know a true shock troop on line had
apparently put out some fanfic between
Sansa and the Donald entitled the lady
end of the Trump and I guess would be
from what little I watched that show and
I don't watch it as closely as other
people but my sense would be that if
Trump was in that show his relationship
with her
would be an incredibly disturbing well
well we're gonna find out here this is
called the lady and the Trump from
October 15 2015 so early on on the Trump
train for this guy yes sorry tell me to
get dating in October 15th to 2015 okay
let me just get something and the
guesses are the first time Donald Trump
locked eyes with her he built a tower
straight to Santa's heart
Sansa knew he had won her faster than he
had won the support of the Nights Watch
due to their similar views on
immigration named Lady of Winterfell and
warden of the north
after King Stannis won the Iron Throne
Sansa's next duty was to find a suitable
husband she needed someone strong
someone with the resources and know-how
to rebuild the war-torn North Donald
Trump would have like a panic
the Donald all those things and more he
would way he held himself as a true Lord
the way he spoke with the confidence of
a great leader the way his hair fell
onto his forehead and neck and ears and
kind of on the shoulder but not on one
shoulder but not the other yes he is the
one for me thought Sansa still she could
not give away her affection too easily
many others had come calling to woo her
hand in marriage woo her hand in
marriage ah whatever
I'm not gonna be too picky woo her hand
in marriage in the year since Sansa had
ordered the quartering of Daenerys
Ravens had Ravens had this a bit of a
run on Ravens had flown from as far away
as Prince trystane and Sunspear and many
had arrived from Lord Theon on Pyke
she had instructed master Samwell to
respond with only vague courtesy they
were ardent callers but not right for
the first lady stark of Winterfell in
her own right I know it is so poorly
written it's making give me an aneurysm
I well you guys can stop me if when
YouTube and I'm studied literature Matt
yeah matt matt has more of a taste for
the tasteless a hasty marriage to the
donald however and rumor and folly would
spread throughout the lands and the
specter of another war would rise
Sansa glanced back from the window well
at the Donald who was sitting backwards
in one of the wooden chairs in the Great
Hall listen Sansa I know this is a big
decision for you he started but let me
tell you something we would be
phenomenal I will cherish you as much as
I cherish my first two wives and my own
mother and my daughter even I have many
women that work thing and that I am
going to do great things for him and
great things very very very good things
she replied that you may but what will
you do for the North the North look and
now what I mean is I would be a huge
game changer for the nerd huge I mean
I'm very very smart and have a lot of
respect for northerners a lot of blood
on my first men to work in my castles
and keeps and let me tell you they
absolutely demonstrably love me they
love me my whole body is ready for this
iron I can't think the say okay okay
this is pretty incredible it's
disgusting although it does seem like it
could be read as an unintentional insult
yeah I mean there's a I mean who knows I
mean this is you wonder who it is I do
who wrote this
Jackie Sobiech now I wish I played a
game because I almost definitely would
have picked him there is one part that I
want you to read back and you can find
it it the passage describing his hair
okay that I've already read here yeah I
I wasn't listening that closely but that
sounded insane to me the way his hair
fell on to his forehead and neck and
ears and kind of on one shoulder but not
the other I see I thought that's the
line where I thought is he with
Trump but now you tell me it's jacked
asobi I can nope and then I think that's
totally sincere yeah and I think like
the Trump impression he's just enjoying
that it's not like us where we think
it's funny and I really like people love
me right he thinks like yeah it's cool
when he says that he means it and he's
actually your tease actually right
that's super cool it will be huge for
the North I don't see exactly how this
will well I'll just skip a bit to the
end no never mind we can we can beat the
Soviet also wrote a
fiction like a sort of Tom Clancy style
novel to write I bet he did I have no
idea but I would not be surprised do you
want to hear what wins over a Sansa sure
go ahead any so I think she's like what
about trouble in the East and he
mentions China and looks like there
might be some yeah there's some racism
against China that I'm glad I don't have
to read out and no China China China
China China chinny-chin so anyway he's
talking about some Dothraki the Dothraki
those whiners though these slave losers
they're losers what a bunch of goofballs
and to be honest I'm going to be honest
with you Sansa they're boring
Daenerys she did an absolutely horrible
yeah this is do boring oh my god I'll
tell you what I think they think I could
definitely see a Trump Ivanka storyline
fitting into that show
