[Music]
just play this clip here we're talk
about trying to clean up a mess here is
Brian Kilmeade really I mean this guy's
really go under the mat right like
Kimmel is right we got to we're you know
like it's one of those moments I think
where they're like there's no way we can
get around this there's 2000 Facebook
Ads 2000 Facebook ads that the Trump
campaign placed is reported by the
Guardian today and when I had seen that
number yesterday so they use the word
invasion to describe what's going on at
the border then again we've said this
set this way way way before this guy who
killed 20 people used it in his screed
to justify why he was doing it we said
time and time again you used the word
invasion what are you telling people how
to react how do you repel an invasion I
mean Trump and May said other places use
guns to fire at it but we're not
supposed to I mean he said that to a
crowd and so when you're caught dead to
rights as it were with all of your
people all the people on your network
using the term invasion what do you do
well you just maybe invasion doesn't
mean what we think it does
with the president has during his
two-and-a-half years is a major problem
at the border which was not his doing
unless you want to blame President Obama
for the unaccompanied minors it streamed
through here in 2014 when you have over
a hundred and ten
thousand people coming a month over a
million last year and then well over a
million this year if you use the term is
as an invasion that's not anti-hispanic
it's a fact
if the Russians were coming through
Alaska through Canada the president will
be using the same language but it's the
fact that's happening at the border if
you talk to people who are apolitical at
the border deposit now wait a second
if the Russians were coming now I don't
know if he's saying like if Russian
civilians were walking across the border
through Canada or through Alaska if
that's the what he's talking about or if
he's saying like they started a military
in like attack do you'd call it an
invasion kind of sounds like the letter
yeah it sort of does like I don't think
he realizes like it's like an invasion
well if this happened with Barack Obama
why didn't we hear that term man why
didn't we hear the term invasion then
because you need to terrify people you
need to make them afraid of these people
you need to make them think that America
is facing an existential crisis and it
is of course not but when you gin up
this type of fear and it's not like
there hasn't been a history of Minutemen
at the border lunatics who have done
this this is what you're gonna get
in this guy's trying to justify it
if the Russians were coming through
Alaska through Canada the president will
be using the same language but it's the
fact that's happening at the border if
you talk to people who are apolitical at
the border people want to look at the
words offense to invest in invest
infested or figure like that and look at
the with the president saying and then
they say well look at how could he use
this rhetoric one of her turns out
elijah coming to this using the same
exact rhetoric ten years before the
president was even hosting the
apprentice so I guess Elijah Cummings
use the word infested
Elijah Cummings does the okay sign all
the time all the time I mean it's
unbelievable to your daughter it's
unbelievable God I mean I hope they pay
Brian Kilmeade just what is it a
quadrillion dollars a year to uh the
actually having tried to justify that
crap yeah the point about Trump saying
the word infested isn't that like
anybody who uses the term infested is
like clearly meaning it in a racist way
it's that Trump uses it when he uses it
he's always talking about black people
yeah he's always talking about black
people I mean I don't love it when
anybody uses it but it's clearly
different when Elijah Cummings says it
well I don't know what a lot at what
context Elijah Cummings said it you know
for drug infested yes so there were
drugs in there he like drugs are a
horrible thing he's saying we should do
everything we can to eradicate them
Trump actually tweeted that video out
too so that's work that's where kill me
it's getting his research from it's just
absurd but he's also having to change it
from infested to invasion which he
started with and like I don't even know
what he's saying like even if it was the
Russians coming he would say it's an
invasion what is that supposed to mean
that like he likes the Russians and if
they're dead Russians he actually said
Baltimore is getting infested by white
people
oh is that they said Whole Foods and
everything else they're bringing many
many problems some are nice people if
the issue is that we cannot absorb these
people why do we not hear about the
equal number of people who have
overstayed their visas as an infestation
we have an infestation problem from
those people who have overstayed their
visas I mean give me a break
give me a break nobody knows that I mean
nobody believed that grab let's go to
the phones call from a 2:09 area
