[Music]
let's get started with people Missa when
we talk about Sebastian Gorka and look
you know the guy is really unimportant
he's kind of back to the like the
terrify senior citizens at a buffet in
Palm Beach about Hezbollah Circuit and
he's got some dumb radio show which you
know I mean hey I welcome anybody who
wants to to call and share your thoughts
about him with him tell him about
himself on his radio show if you're so
inclined but uh Gorkhas back he's back
in the game he was at the CPAC
conference and I mean he really is the
most David Brent thing in the world this
is Sebastian Gorka talking about what's
really going on with the green New Deal
the biggest threat to America is not
socialism in Moscow socialism here in
America
millena plans according to the amazing
victims of communism Memorial Foundation
they did a poll last year in which they
found that 52% of American Millennials
would like to live in a socialist or
communist America that yes indeed boo
that is why 44 0 Democrat candidates in
the last midterm election called
themselves socialists that is why
Alexander Ocasio cortes oh my god he's
begging for a boo here has introduced
the green and New Deal which is which is
remember this one use it it's a
watermelon green on the outside deep
deep red communists on the inside
they want to take your pickup truck they
want to rebuild your home they want to
take away your hamburgers this is one
Starling dreamt about but never achieved
right you are on the front lines of the
war against communism coming back to
America under the guise of democratic
socialism which is just a PC term for
communism I want everyone to take to
heart Donald J Trump is never going to
let it happen and as he said to Congress
America will never be a socialist
country
just soak it in soaking it in is my
puppet this is my heroic journey paws
looking down with other members of the
America America first that's a great
name for a radio show have you heard of
it
no go check it out America first America
always god bless all of you
can I ask your favor before I go the
boss always likes this can you stand up
and we'll give you a thumbs up everybody
god bless god bless hmm America first
radio sponsored by webistics which you
might remember from season 2 of The
Sopranos it's not a very alpha way to
end a speech to take a picture for your
boss everybody we're going to crush
communist Russia socialists now if you
wouldn't mind can we take a selfie for
the balls when I say Alexandra Co
Cortese that just signal to start booing
[Music]
we've been there's a new Amazonian root
that yours diabetes they've bought block
advertising look out then back your days
are numbered
now if you'll excuse me I rented a Lexus
I mean this guy's whole career it's
amazing it's like you get some like joke
degree and then you just you go on the
circuit and and it's somewhere it's a
cross of hilarious and terrifying
because in one hand that's not totally a
joke I'm sure there are a lot of like
you know concerns seniors at the Palm
Springs luncheon for saving democracy
from Islamic terrorism and this buffoon
goes up there and basically you know
terrifies a bunch of 80 year olds
should be sitting on the beach and
enjoying their their golden years but
instead he's they're gonna look you what
you don't realize that what you're on
your way to get you a macchiato Hamas is
watching shooting tortoise all off in
their bias and then in a in a non tragic
comic way this is also the type these
like you know pseudo terrorism experts
were hired by local police departments
and other law enforcement agencies where
they actually are basically just fueling
you know conspiracies bigotry and
propaganda to loop into actual
initiatives against like the Muslim
community and so this is a roundabout
way of saying you know look Sebastian if
everybody could get a rich wife a
 degree and become some type of
weird like David Brent of faked
terrorism Studies maybe we wouldn't all
be democratic socialists before we
abolish ice it's got one last operation
I can't wait till this guy dad that that
should be a new demand for twenty twenty
Democrats deport Sebastian Gorka did he
acknowledge his association with various
undesirables on his immigration
application did he I don't know I think
I saw something the tablet that said
that was fall fine oh it was all oh yeah
I think you'll find that connections to
fascist movements in Europe are totally
fine if you're willing to say that
Palestinians aren't human beings you
must be wearing orthotics because you
stand corrected
