[Music]
the I am named geopolitical politics
comes from Maggie McCain the trust-fund
baby one of the more sort of maybe the
most entitled stupid person on
television I don't remember the context
she what do you guys remember but she
said geopolitical politics a couple
weeks ago was one it was a funny
chestnut I certainly noticed that I
appreciate that I am are noticing it the
conflict I mean you know it is hilarious
that you have three members of the panel
who are you know self-made people I
disagree with plenty Whoopi Goldberg
says I disagree with what Joy Behar says
from time to time though she probably is
my favorite and then I always forget the
third woman's name is sunny sunny what
sunny Costin so basically like all three
of them
sunny Austin excuse me all three of
these women are self-made people who
have worked in entertainment television
I think isn't sunny also an attorney I
believe so and then you have two
Republicans on who are the children of
prominent Republican politicians and
then megan mccain has the like demeanor
and you know I mean this is she's sort
of like I I don't even know I mean she's
like a kid and like the Willy Wonka tour
or something and so she you know the
conflict between her and Joy Behar is
really funny because it's like good
versus bad self-made versus brat
empathetic versus entitled
talented versus shockingly not talented
and Meghan must know this on some level
because she really loses it with joy and
I am amazed every time that joy doesn't
smack her it was interesting to me it
was hard for me to watch Marco Rubio and
Lindsey Graham in there oh but I know
Marco Rubio came out this morning saying
it's not unusual for me to be supporting
as a senator to be supporting the
president as well but he was sort of
negging Lindsey Graham at the same time
and I even tweeted love like what was
doing president was again
yeah please and he was saying he was
sort of saying like his his poll numbers
were so down and now he's here and I was
like yes this is what happens you have
to show up the rally and you have to
kiss the ring and you'll be great
politically in the Republican Party and
it was it was just a weird thing for me
to watch ads all of you can probably
understand my father my father my father
my father my father also that's not as
good as the last one but politically in
the Republican Party and who wardrobe
derp it's funny how this is going cuz
she's saying like my dad's best friend
is like hanging out with his mortal
enemy and that's really hard for me and
everyone around the tables like yeah
damn sucks yeah Wow - I mean like the
mortal enemy that you also like defend
from like charges of racism from time to
time and you clearly want to like gobble
up his tax giveaways because you're
another greedy reactionary trust fund
baby go ahead so it just it's like the
transformation is complete beyond that
don't belittle the crowds don't belittle
the enthusiasm Democrats still have a
lot to come because there's a lot of
people still enthusiastic and I was
trying to explain because one of my
producers this morning was saying why do
people love him so much and I was like
sometimes it's not just that they love
Trump so much it's that they hate the
same things Trump hates that's what's
going and I am an you know what joy I
really cool over here every day open
minded just trying to explain it not a
fun job but she's asking you to continue
yes explain it I cuz I I mean I guess
I'm obviously I mean and it's somehow we
live in such a deranged world that Megan
McCain gets call somebody else a weed
but I mean what what do you think you
think that it's like those people who go
to rallies and have physically assaulted
black people and look like sort of like
out of shape n√ºrnberg shouting at the
press and she rat terrorizing immigrants
that what they're really they're going
look I'll just share Donald Trump's
real hatred of the swamp I think it's a
legitimate question because I would go
to hate of Mexican people and black
people myself but of course very
triggering for Megan McCain much it's
that they hate the same things Trump
hates that's what's going on and now I
am in who do they hate who do they know
what you know what joy I really come
here everyday open-minded just trying to
explain it okay not a fun job but hate I
know you're angry
yeah you're angry that Trump's president
like a lot of Clement that every single
he knows drink yelling at me is gonna
fix the problem okay I just said that it
was hard for me oh yeah yes I just said
it was a pretty grand so I considered an
alcohol for a long time talking about
the trouble is do it I don't know 20 20
is not in the bag for you where is it
okay guys okay okay
we always have to do it's a it's a great
discussion and we can't go back to it I
just need everybody to take a beat every
day well whoa
did she say that just need everybody to
take a beat Republican every day well
I'm just trying to here's the thing he
headed to Florida
hold on the here let me tell her
 all this we'll be right back
[Applause]
Wow you know you know what I really know
what it is I mean look obviously she's
dumb and she and she sort of you know
and she's doing an impossible job she
has it's impossible I mean who could sit
on the view and make 10 million stigman
yeah what happens at abhi Huntsman a B
Huntsman I think gabion suppose if
anything seem more uncomfortable being
associated I indicate anything else but
but here's the thing it's like this is
though why she's accidentally good right
we always say like though Megan McCain
sole purpose in life is demonstrating
the incredibly damaging and dangerous
effects of intergenerational wealth and
just you know entitlement and trust fund
babies in this country because she's
such a deranged demented narcissist
there that she actually would say like
look I understand maybe there's kids
dying in ice custody but I have to
confront joy every day yeah so talk
about difficulty this is approaching
like WWE levels of like just
caricaturing her own like lifestyle or
it's like yeah I don't like what's going
on at the border but I got to keep my
tax credit and she's the heel and she's
doing like a really good job yes
did she I mean obviously there's there's
there's odd there's reciprocity being
what I you know I'm gonna keep doing the
like my father emits Marie Antoinette
shtick but I don't think it's just a
shtick like I do think that this is
somebody who is so totally delusional
and warped I mean look again just
objectively if this was I don't think
that we should have the disproportionate
outcomes we have in this society
regardless but it's like and there's a
lot to critique across the board even of
the so-called meritocracy but you get
some look Barack Obama gets to be
president because yes he's got some
Intel
and some traits that if you combine that
with the right luck and the right social
setting you're gonna take off if Megan
McCain was not her dad's daughter I mean
you would have absolutely no idea who
she is and she doesn't even have 1% of
the self recognition of that which you
know again really exposes the like you
know the mentality of these people like
why isn't joy listening to how hard it
is for me where's like well I mean
you're talking about the easiest life
ever down to you get paid millions of
dollars just to be disgusting on
television we should just be a bit clear
about what it's so hard for her to do
right the way that she reacts to joy
here when joy says asked her to clarify
well who do they hate what do they hate
the same things can you be specific just
about that point she makes McCain says
well I've already been specific about
criticizing the Republicans and like
Marco Rubio and Lindsey Graham like her
career as Lindsey Graham er was he yeah
she said look because he was like an
uncle to her because of course even that
it's like Lindsey Graham being a total
shark you know a shill for Trump and the
worst things in America that's secondary
to the fact that he used to like worship
her dad right but so Megan's like joy
don't make me spell that out because
that will be me criticizing my fan base
even more than I already just did and
it's much easier for me to go after you
know these people that Trump's made
everybody hate already than just the
average Republican who is just as
hateful especially yeah I mean you're
getting I mean you're getting the dose I
mean you're getting to understand who
the Republican base is if you go to the
Trump rallies you're getting I mean
Donald Trump and Megan McCain of a lot
of similarities I mean you know these
are two deranged entitled trust fund
babies who thinks they're stablemates
they think that their own emotional
weather patterns should dictate national
discourse in politics and that they're
the victims
I mean Trump says no one's been treated
worse in America than him I mean I could
see Megan McCain saying that nobody has
been treated worse in the history of no
one's gonna sacrifice um television more
often and I have been Nolan no one has
had to deal with and other matters as
such as me and that's virtuous and
that's virtuous that's heroic it's
heroic to get grandfathered into the Ivy
League at an SNL internship and be a
perpetual TV show host even though your
only talent is for making people hate
you and I mean and what's funny again is
is bear in mind like what she's
accidentally great at in terms of
creating this viral content is of now
when she first started going on
television there wasn't the same
marketplace of like can we clip Megan
McCain can being a complete jackass
there were years where people actually
had to pretend that this was like an
intelligent person that had something to
say other than the fact that they were
their father's daughter now it's funny
cuz now it does kind of work now it's
like oh she's gonna have a bratty
meltdown then her idiot husband is gonna
do something bizarre homophobic wrath I
mean in 2019 in clip culture it actually
does work but several years ago I mean
people I mean could you imagine we
should give this woman a vehicle with
with Michael Ian Black I mean what I
mean you know this is this is I mean you
know of course I mean look Chelsea
Clinton got a TV gig you know I mean
made several hundred thousand dollars a
year I think did two or three hits in a
year this kid's got rolls yeah I mean
that's what it is
so capitalism is not good for
facilitating talent folks
