[Music]
speaking of giving people a pass here's
another thing that's wrong with uh with
the Joe Biden I mean look we Oh forgive
me Father forgive me forgive me Father I
uh I I so I can't pay for a republic
forgive me Father
hurry I gotta admit I kind of like that
move that's not that is very good yeah
this is Joe Biden and Walter Mondale at
the University of Minnesota back in what
is it's 2015 while he's sitting vice
president and two sitting two vice
presidents we know uh yeah Mondale was
what sneaked I believe Mondale was in
fact there was a Carter's but Carter's
vice president I'm probably the only
person I know read Walter Mondale's
biography Walter went to the Bureau of
Labor Statistics and God looked it up it
now was how they developed a new
mezzotints one setting one one not and
they're there and they're talking about
Dick Cheney Vice President Biden did you
talk to your immediate predecessor about
this I did no I didn't talk to him about
the job look about how the vice
presidency worked know when I talked
about him
look first of all I actually liked Dick
Cheney
for real I get on with him I think he's
a decent man and when I went to see him
pause it for one second let's just take
a moment and talk about what what
constitutes decency in a man or woman
for that matter what is it what what
what is the what does it take for you
not to be a decent person okay so let's
just say we have a baseline cares about
his wife
cares about his children maybe even
maybe even donates money to charity or
two or five in the community what is the
base is that is it is it impossible for
you not to be a decent man at that point
what if you what if you when you when
you drive by certain neighborhoods you
give the finger to kids playing on the
street so that you don't like I mean
does that make you undestand even if you
do all those other things or what if
actually you um you you see a cat or dog
in the street and you decide like I'm
gonna speed up just a little bit to hit
it cuz I just want to see how that feels
or that's fun or what does that make you
undestand if you do all those other
things or what if you encourage the
invasion of a country that leads to the
deaths of hundreds of thousands of
people hundreds of thousands of innocent
people and you you also force
intelligence agencies so that to give
you information so that you can
basically present a lie to an entire
country to allow for the killing of
hundreds of thousands of people mothers
daughters sons fathers kill killing all
of them
and creating four million refugees but
you're good to your wife you're good to
your kids you give to a bunch of
charities in your community and you're
also you know if you say you're gonna be
at lunch with somebody you show up there
at time does that make you a decent man
I'm just curious where is the bar what
can you do to not be a decent man if
Dick Cheney is a decent man don't forget
the part where you have to be nice to
Joe Biden right no I I'm I am you know
more on the side of like let's all deal
with the fact that nobody's perfect and
so on part of the reason that I have
that perspective is I think you do need
to actually hold the true this is a gent
we evil negative force in the world for
those occasions where it really rises up
and I think Dick Cheney would be the
most clear example of that maybe even
still in the Trump era from Halliburton
to torture to voting against a
resolution to free Nelson Mandela - by
the way this is should be an angle not
just you know for the left issues we're
talking about but Biden's riding Obama's
coattails Dick Cheney was at the
forefront of profound disrespect
borderline incitement against Barack
Obama yeah III I mean I I just I'm just
curious as a like a just a philosophical
question what does it take in in in Joe
Biden's mind to be an undies --nt man
continue science attorney for real I get
on with him I think he's a decent man
and when I went to see him I didn't talk
to him before I went to see him after we
were elected and I went to see him at
the residence and he and his wife were
extremely gracious to Jill and to me Wow
and and he talked about how how the
office worked as related to the
functioning of the office this is how
you stop high intelligence relationship
and he was a powerful vice president he
had a very different relationship with
with President Bush and one of the
things I learned from and I'm it
probably sounds like I'm making this up
when I say learn from but I spoke to
this man repeatedly about this job and
does it wait what is a Mondale don't we
keep going here Mondale says says
something like yeah let's get that clip
because I we owe it to Walter Mondale to
show that there's actually a me because
this is important actually because it is
not a requisite for you as a politician
to simply judge other politicians based
upon not what they do as a politician
but as like the way that they are in
their real life like I want people to
have a glimpse of Dick Cheney like we
all have this caricature of Dick Cheney
and this
but I want you know in real life he was
really gracious to me as the sitting
vice president like in it and that takes
a lot out of a guy you know a lot of
people that's it's one of the things
that's the one of things I have on my my
my you know my bumble profile is like I
want to make sure that you treat waiters
and waitresses and sitting vice
presidents nicely if I cuz that's the
way you measure the decency of a human
group all a Cheney gave an interview
right before Obama was inaugurated
actually and this was see this was not
just even to Biden this was a big Indian
view and he talked about the legacy of
Bobby Kennedy and MLK and said it was a
great day for America so it's like okay
you came across that clip first of all I
act okay we've got it
he's always been really nice what a
wonderful wonderful man
Vice President Biden did you talk to
your immediate predecessor about this I
did no I didn't get it
and but he had a very different
relationship and he was a powerful vice
president he had a very different
relationship with with President Bush
and one of the things I learned from and
it probably sounds like I'm making this
up when I say learn from but I spoke to
this man repeatedly about this job and
Senator excuse me you know I actually
think thing is to he's like I think that
Joe Biden could say like I learned from
this guy I didn't agree with him and I
had some real problems what he did but
there's not many vice presidents and I
learned some things from him as much as
I was not you know what you would call a
fan he could have said that and in fact
even if he thought in his heart nice guy
very nice to me on some level the idea
that he doesn't think that he has a
responsibility to show some measure of
maybe disdains too strong of a world but
to show some measure of dissent
as to anybody who's creating a narrative
that this is how a vice-president should
act like you have a responsibility to
the country to society even if you don't
even feel that personally to indicate
some problem with this man because of
what he did in fact the reason why
you're sitting there as a sitting vice
president is because Barack Obama was
supposedly against that war and why
would you be against that war because
there there was no reason to wage it and
it killed hundreds of thousands of
people Dick Cheney was intimately
involved in both of those aspects it's
an insult to people's intelligence -
we're not here to find out nobody in
that audience is there to find out about
Dick Cheney as a private person well
that's the thing is he's be saying like
it's almost more important yet to what
degree is this a game to you if you
think being friends with other people in
the political class is more important
than the lives of hundreds of thousands
of human beings the aircraft to the you
know the housing center vice-president
why do you have some views on the bite
of the Cheney vice president's a little
bit different I would say he was he was
kind to me he's kind of Joan we visited
the home and so on but he said early on
that he was going to take things to the
dark side and I believe he really did
and he created the vice presidency the
sort of a privileged sanctuary wouldn't
respond to subpoenas stiff the Congress
on who yeah yeah and he he was he worked
with some of his key guys to bring about
the torture memo and so on
I think those were were bad days for in
the history of the vice president I know
all the things you said are right but I
have a kind of
I don't just agree with it harsh view of
man i-i-i i have a harsh view of how the
vice presidency the office was used and
so that's why i never passes right right
right i think it was unfortunate what
happened to - it was on fashion what
happened Anita Hill all these things
happen and people just happen to be
there you know I have to say this
honestly like the I never paid that much
attention to Joe Biden I mean years ago
as a senator you know I was not terribly
enamored with him the Democratic Party
was to the right of where it is and you
know he I was never a fan but the more I
watch Joe Biden now like honestly like I
don't know if there's anybody in the in
the in the Democratic race like I say in
the first I don't know if top eight
candidates I don't know who you know
after that but Joe Biden I think it's
just horribly problematic person I mean
as a leader and and I mean politics but
just like just even this exchange where
he's like oh yeah I know I can if you're
gonna remind everybody about the torture
about the disdain for Congress about the
war
about all these things let me just say
it's unfortunate that that stuff
happened around him but if there is
anybody in the Bush administration
responsible for the horrific things that
happened during the Bush administration
if you could point to one person I don't
think you can ever point to one person
but if you had to you would have to say
Dick Cheney and now I got he said this
back in 2015
before the the movie vice came out
but but seriously this is bad stuff and
you know I'll talk to Weigel on on
Monday about you know sort of what what
the Democratic voters that he's come in
contact with us trying to think but
there there is there is going to be a
tremendous amount of buyer's remorse if
people think a that it doesn't matter
who can beat Donald Trump and be that
Joe Biden necessarily can I mean I you
know like let me put it this way
shows like ours tend to be Canaries in
the coal mine and now this stuff may not
be effective for Donald Trump to put out
there on video but people are going
through it exists and this is highly
problematic I think well I think there
are arguments for both Biden and Bernie
being able to beat Trump I think Biden
will peel off the people who care more
about being socially conservative and
Bernie will peel the people off who care
more about economic populism and their
material interests but given that there
are equally strong arguments for both
electability we need to pick the one
that is going to be good but it's kind
of help people and not you know bring
back all the terrible politics from the
90s
