[Music]
now on the phone its pleasure to welcome
to the program
erik blanc he is a former high school
teacher writes about labor and author of
red state revolt the teachers strike
wave and working-class politics
welcome to the program Eric thanks for
having me back on so Eric we've spoken
to the past on Ring of Fire a radio as
is a lot of these strikes were happening
over the course of 2018 and in we really
did have a a resurgence of of labor
activity by teachers particularly in
states that haven't seen much labor
action in years let's start with with
West Virginia what what brought about
that that you know what were the
different forces that that spurred that
that strike well in some ways the big
stories how similar the conditions are
for teachers across the country so in
West Virginia like in most states
JAAA pay has been stagnating there's
been a real concerted underfunding of
schools particularly since the Great
Recession a push towards privatization
and generally speaking there hasn't been
the type of massive resistance until
very recently despite these conditions
and so really one of the particularity
of West Virginia is that in part because
there's no collective bargaining and the
unions are relatively weaker that
created a bit of a political vacuum in
which a relatively small group of
radical teachers who first got organized
together through the Bernie Sanders
campaign and then the Democratic
socialists of America group that came
out of that they were able to take the
lead in late 2017 to fight in the
direction of a strike to stop a proposed
increase of almost two times the
cost for health care so they really
initiated this rank-and-file upsurge
that then in turn spread across the
country so the the I guess the paradox
here is that the the lack of an
institution allowed for more aggressive
elements I guess amongst the teachers to
to step in like is what you're saying
and let me ask you this how much and
before we go you know any further we're
talking about the the dynamics these
strikes
how much did No Child Left Behind and
race to the top and impact this because
I just remember talking to elementary
school teachers of of my of my
daughter's you know maybe ten years ago
and them telling me some of the older
teachers saying that you know the
younger teachers who come in they don't
have the sort of the same sense of what
they can do as a teacher and it
disempowers them across the board but
was there any I mean did was the the
so-called education reform movement of
of the late Ott's or the aughts in the
the early teens was that was that
implicated at all in any of this oh yeah
it's a huge part of the story because
really what you're seeing is on the one
hand stagnating pay worse working
conditions and in turn combined with
that you have just the practice of being
a decent teacher has been made much
harder by this over-testing regime in
particular and overall kind of
disciplining and semi-authoritarian
incursion into the classroom in which
teachers are really prevented from
having the necessary autonomy to be good
teachers and start teaching because the
book start teaching to the test and so
you have this combination of factors in
which teachers want to do a good job you
know a lot of us get into the profession
because we believe in what we are doing
but the corporate ed reform push by the
Democrats just as much I mean some ways
even more than the Republicans made
doing our job
increasingly difficult and that plus the
low pain underfunding set up a very
explicit mix so alright so let's get
back to to West Virginia I mean in what
was unique because West Virginia
basically started a rash of strikes if
you will that went from West Virginia to
Virginia Oklahoma
I guess North Carolina and Kentucky
Georgia Colorado Arizona ultimately in
LA this year and South Carolina North
Carolina and the just in the past couple
weeks not even good past week or so so
alright so but what what was unique
about West Virginia relative to those
other states with their other elements I
mean you talked about this the the
political vacuum that is a function of
it being a right-to-work state
were there other dynamics that that
we're taking place there that were
unique to West Virginia yeah there's a
reason it started in West Virginia and I
think part of that is the history of
labor militancy in the state you know
this gets over drawn a little bit some
of the mainstream reports gave the
impression that you know everyone there
is coal miners son or daughter and it's
not exactly like that but there's an
aspect of truth to that story
particularly in the beginning parts of
the strike where you know there was a
very deep fear across the state in West
Virginia like another state to take an
illegal action these were strikes that
broke the law you know public sector
strikes are illegal in most states of
the country including West Virginia
and it took the initial kind of barring
that and and the courage of teachers in
the southern part of West Virginia Mingo
County Wyoming County in which there
really is still a very real tradition of
labor militancy that does
going back almost a century to the mine
Wars of the early 20th century and there
they really put their neck out for the
rest of the state and ultimately the
rest of the country by doing some
initial one-day walkouts that inspired
other teachers across the state and that
in turn inspired people across the
country I do think that that history of
labor militancy at least in this pocket
of southern West Virginia served as a
catalyst that explains why West Virginia
was first and and and just also just you
know outline for us there is there are
unions or associations there right I
mean we did explain to us just what the
dynamic is in terms of like the
institutions that exist there and I'm
curious as to what your sense is of what
they learned that's a good question
yeah they're they're actually three
education unions in West Virginia for
the most part like most evenings across
the country they've limited themselves
over the last years and decades to
lobbying the Democratic Party and that
has been ineffective in large part
because the Democratic Party when in
power in West Virginia which actually
ran West Virginia for 80 straight years
I was almost one-party rule up until
just 2014 you know imposed really
draconian budget cuts and anti working
class policies so it's understandable
why neither the unions or the Democratic
Party has a kind of enthusiasm that one
might expect so the unions really had to
get pushed into supporting these strikes
to their credit for the most part they
did eventually come on board the union
leadership were reticent but under
pressure ended up supporting the strikes
and that was important because the
unions did provide resources and an
infrastructure in West Virginia for the
strike to cohere even if the leadership
so these unions didn't take the initial
impetus and so I think it's a little bit
unclear to be honest what the lessons
learned by the union leadership is you
know we should distinguish the members
from the top representative one of the
exciting things about West Virginia and
a lot of these other strikes is that in
their wake
there's been thousands of people have
joined the Union and some of these
radical rank-and-file errs who really
push towards the strike have also won
local if not statewide office and have
pushed to build a caucus and to really
do the type of transformative
organizational and political change
that'll be necessary to have real
lasting power and have a union that
doesn't just have to get pushed at the
last minute into supporting action but
can actually initiate it initiate a
strategic campaign okay so you have this
first strike in in West Virginia it was
resolved about three weeks later right I
think the first week of March or so or
maybe the second week of March yeah
that's right
and and so how much and then we saw then
shortly after that we saw one in in
Virginia that was a little bit more
limited but then we saw Oklahoma and we
saw Arizona and Colorado and Georgia
what did folks from West Virginia had
their I mean how much was how much was
being communicated there how much was
these how much were these strikes like
sort of cross pollinating each other
yeah that's a really good question I
think it's probably useful to think of
that running on a few different parallel
tracks the big story is that when
whispered and Junia happened it captured
the imagination of teachers across the
country it partly because it was such an
explosive really inspirational strike it
did garner a lot of attention both more
organically through social media and
also through the national press so it
caught the imagination of teachers
particularly in red states who you know
for years have felt that actually
nothing could be done to stop this sort
of onslaught against their profession
and against school because they didn't
have the right to strike they didn't
have
unions in collective bargaining so they
just had to take it and all of a sudden
almost virtually overnight West Virginia
that's that and gave people a sense of
hope and courage and determination and
one of the really interesting things
when I did the interviews for the book
and also just traveling around is over
and over and over again I hear the same
story from the organizers of these
strikes and other states but they said
you know for us things were actually
really kind of dead there's very low
momentum until West Virginia and West
Virginia lit a fire in our state and
gave us a sense that something different
was possible so that's on the big level
and then there was some discussion in
between some of the key organizers about
strategies and tactics labor notes which
is sort of the left wing of the labor
movement provided an important space for
that to happen where organically some of
the rank-and-file teachers could shake
lessons could talk about steps could
organize solidarity for one another one
of the really exciting kind of
remarkable aspects of these strikes is
how much the role of solidarity and
particularly things like ending money
for food and pizza or just taking photos
of oneself in your school and sport of
strikers elsewhere it was a really a
central aspect of the strike in part
because the major national union at
least in 2018 did not really step up to
support the strikes like they should
have they've done a little bit better
now but at the time it really had to be
much more organic over social media and
these relatively loose networks to
support the other teachers going out on
strike so you have a broad process of
inspiration and then some cross
pollinate pollination strategically
through key organizers interesting so in
many respects the West Virginia ended up
being sort of the emperor has no clothes
moment for other strikers or potential
strikers I guess to to realize the power
they had within their labor so talk to
me about the the relationship between
the the strikers and the community at
large
because this is something that you know
I think we saw first with the Chicago
Teachers strike now I guess 7-8 years
ago this this notion of maybe we didn't
see at first but we saw it most
prominently I think in recent times this
notion of social justice unionism where
and teachers are very well situated for
this obviously because of the nature of
the relationship between teachers and
the students and the parents of students
in the community but how much was that
in practice where the the the strikers
the union were were garnering community
support and and actually you know
fighting on behalf of the community in
many respects he has a huge part of the
story public sector strike in general
and teacher strikes in particular really
depend on winning and maintaining public
support you can't really win a strike
without that because unlike in the
private sector you don't have the power
to halt profits and so your leverage in
large part is by garnering public
support creating a crisis and then
channeling that anger and sort of crisis
dynamic against the politicians so the
the need to win over the public is not a
secondary question it's really central
and as you mentioned Chicago in 2012 did
really set into motion a much broader
understanding amongst teacher activists
of the potential for this kind of
alliance building and turning West
Virginia that took a lot of different
forms part of it may be most famously
was that the teachers before beginning
their strike spent a lot of time
preparing food and bag lunches to give
to their students because in West
Virginia like in most states
working-class students depend on the
free lunch and often free breakfast
provided and so to undercut the media
and politician narrative that teachers
were hurting
student by going on strike the teachers
that's a huge amount of time and
financial resources to make sure that
food was provided and in fact after
spending eight nine ten hours on the
picket line or at the Capitol very often
they would spend hours in the evening
hand delivering bag lunches to families
so that students can eat the next day so
small actions like that made a big
difference and then also bigger demands
on behalf of students and really
working-class families generally were
just as important you know so in
Oklahoma in Arizona the major demands of
the strike in addition to pay were just
for more funding for students that
students needed to be able to have
classrooms in which their chairs weren't
broken in which the roots weren't
leaking and which had textbook 15 years
old and these types of demand made it
clear to the public at large that the
strikes weren't just quote-unquote
greedy teachers but were in fact strike
on behalf of students and parents as
well so what that particular element and
I'm curious as to you know if there's
any theories or you know principles that
have come out of the experience that
these teachers have had that you spoke
to where that dynamic can be replicated
in contexts where there isn't it's it's
just frankly just not so easy or you
know I mean in this instance it's like
okay the the teachers have a very clear
you know advocacy role for their their
students they have already pre-existing
relationships with and in benefited out
from parents right who deal with them on
a daily basis very often want to talk to
them anyways how how are those that that
element right extrapolated for let's say
like people who are working in
sanitation departments
or people who are working you know in
the highway workers or whatever it is
like how how is there been work on as
far as you know not just you know this
cross-pollination in terms of teacher to
teacher from state to state but teachers
to other public sector workers who have
you know communicating those ideas yeah
there's definitely initiatives in that
direction
part of the part of the dynamic is as
you mentioned that there's something
teaching about the positions that
teachers are in as far as their direct
interaction with a huge amount of public
that being said it's if we take a step
back there's quite a few industries that
are similar so the most obvious parallel
is healthcare and a lot of health care
is public and so it's not a surprise I
think that the other sector of Industry
other than education where you've seen a
significant number of strikes recently
has been health care the dynamics are
very similar you have nurses struggling
for lower nurse to patient ratios which
is an almost exact parallel to teachers
fighting for lower class size which is
with a major demand for instance in Los
Angeles so there's quite a few
industries in which the public interface
can be leveraged and I think other
public sector jobs are similar you can
make a case that if for instance you
want better public transportation where
you need to have more funding for public
transportation and part of that is
hiring more workers it's part of that is
expanding public transportation so that
for instance you can move away from the
fossil fuel complex those huge
implications if you just take a step
back around the green new deal for
expanding the public sector and having
Union who right now might be very
narrowly focused on just interests that
are members if they're able to raise the
to expand public services for all into
lower-cost actually that's a very direct
point of leverage that can be used the
reason it hasn't been is not because
it's impossible but for the same reasons
that hasn't been leveraged in education
until recently is that you didn't really
have enough Rankin sylars and radicals
pushing in that direction I think that
one of the real particularity in of
education is that for various reasons
you have more left-leaning workers you
know people who go into it maybe the
profession because of social justice
reasons so you have a critical mass that
can push but historically these other
industries in the thirties forties even
well into the 50s did employ a sort of
social justice unionism in which they
fought not just for their members for
working class as a whole so I don't
think there's a structural reason why
that can't be spread the main difficulty
is just resources and you need people
and pushing in that direction I mean are
we when we look at this is are we
looking at a the when we say why now is
it is it a function of of just simply
you know time plus deprivation at one
point the the the camel's back breaks or
is it that there are people going into
this profession now who have more
radical ideas or is it just simply a
combination I mean is it I mean I what
we looking at you know sort of like the
the natural progression coming out of
the financial crisis that you have a
generation of people who who have much
less opportunity so they're much more
open to you know the the idea of
fighting to to get you know some basic
basic pay and services and they go into
the teachers profession and this is a
profession that has been you know do
repeatedly denied over years I mean is
it a combination of those things there's
a one factor more
prominent than the other that's a really
good question I think it's hard to
separate these out in so far as the
general condition that the economic
recession and austerity and really
decades of neoliberalism created are the
same condition that led a smaller group
of people to become organized radicals
and so the way that that context plays
out is different or let's say a
Republican voting teacher who went out
on strike they are ideologically not as
committed to some sort of social justice
strategy but in practice are moving in
the same direction and are willing to
fight back and then those same
conditions certainly inform the
trajectory of a smaller group of folks
who radicalized through the Bernie
Sanders campaign and then took the
initiative on these strikes so you know
taking a step back what I see is the
really unique thing about the strike
wave is how reflective it is of broader
social dynamics in the country and one
of the reasons why it doesn't feel and
there's no indication that this is a
one-off because as you mentioned it's a
reaction against not just this or that
policy but really a generalized
underfunding of the public sector and I
think in some ways it's reflective of a
disenchantment with the political center
and the status quo in the United States
as a whole so the same type of phenomena
that you see with the rise of Bernie
Sanders the rebirth of a socialist
movement through the kind of reborn
democratic socialism America in the
strike wave all of these both feed off
of each other in very concrete ways and
a reflective of a generalized push in
the direction of more radical more
working-class politics so give us a
sense of just you know how these strikes
turned out and we're talking about West
Virginia Oklahoma Kentucky and Georgia
Colorado Arizona
North Carolina la there was a strike at
the beginning of this year there was a
one-day walkout so if I'm not mistaken
in South Carolina and in North Carolina
or earlier just just last week and
Tennessee is having a sick-out what are
are these are all being successful I
mean I've heard some talk at one point
that West Virginia is just teachers
we're gonna go back out on strike
recently what what has been the outcome
of this and then we'll get to you're
gonna tell us what the future is going
to bring to bring the the the short
version is that these strikes have one
more in about a year than decades of the
old strategy of lobbying the Democrats
using huge gains 20 percent pay raise in
Arizona the defeat of charters and
privatization in West Virginia West
Virginia won not only in 2018 but they
had a new illegal two-day political
strike to stop a latest attempt by the
Republicans to impose charters and
vouchers in West Virginia had another
strike just this year I think the Los
Angeles strike in particular is really
the highest most powerful expression of
the wave so far and in some ways one the
most because it wasn't just a defensive
battle but proactively put forward new
demands to transform and when wind types
of public schools that you know as their
slogan said the schools that our
students deserve so one things like
lower class sizes at one anti-racist
demand like fund funded by the district
to support immigrant families who are
facing deportation
it stopped random searches at black and
Muslim students a whole slew of real
qualitative changes to the schools in
addition to more funding for nurses
and counselors things like this so that
you know the story is that the strikes
are winning they've not come really
close yet to the fundamental
transformation and improvement of the
school system to do that you can't do
that in just one strike you also
probably can't do it solely through
strikes and that's part of the reason
why in California and in some of the
other states there's there's an effort
to now use the energy of the strike
movement into creating a more strategic
campaign around winning funding really
billions of dollars in funding for
schools and systematically defeating the
privatization movement so that requires
a political intervention in the state
both by electing Pro education people
and having initiatives and valid images
I think that ultimately the movement has
really just begun and the exciting thing
is that there's a cross-pollination
between these strikes and things like
the Bernie Sanders campaign which is
supporting the strikes and then in turn
the strikes are supporting the Bernie
Sanders campaign because I do think
ultimately you're going to need
political power to have the deep-seated
changes strikes are amazing and
important but not enough on their own
