[Music]
so here is Donald Trump ABC has been
rolling out this part of this interview
that and he did multiple interviews I
guess with the George Stephanopoulos and
here is Donald Trump losing his patience
a little bit it feels like with with
George Stephanopoulos
there's a little bit of like Michael
Grimm involved in this Michael Grimm of
course was the former congressman from
Staten Island who threatened to throw a
New York one I think it was reporter
over the side of in the Rotunda in in
Congress throw him off the balcony and
drop him down to the next floor Donald
Trump I think probably talks a little
more than does in that situation they
said wait like they'll see gabbard date
Michael Grimm is that a true rumor is
that a true I'm where I've literally
hurt I'm asking you I don't know I have
no idea all right but it would have been
a funny bit though
here is Stephanopoulos and Donald Trump
talking about obstruction but if you
answer these questions to me now why not
answer them to robert muller under oath
because they were looking to get us four
lies for slightly the statements i
looked at what happened to people and it
was very positive for one second i know
people hate it when i pause after three
seconds in a video but why does Donald
Trump look like he just walked off the
set of Chernobyl first of all and I
would also add that when you're asked
why you didn't say this under oath and
your response is because I don't want to
get caught in a lie I feel like you're
off message but if you answer these
questions to me now why not answer them
to robert muller under oath because
they were looking to get us four lies
for slightly misstatements I looked at
what happened to people and it was very
unfair very very unfair very unfair I
gave them 1.5 million pages of documents
right I gave them four or five hundred
witnesses
I let Don Magan testify I let him tell
you the White House Counsel I let him
touch I knew he was dead for an
interview you didn't answer questions on
the structure wait a minute wait a
minute I did answer questions I answered
them in writing not I don't know about I
don't know I answered a lot of questions
they gave me questions I answered them
in writing not an obstruction look
George you're being a little wiseguy
okay they're just you know typical for
you just so you understand very simple
it's very simple there was no crime
there was no collusion Wow
it being a little wiseguy simple all you
need to know is no crime he's so
obsessed with people's physicality like
what is this George oh he's a little
look she's literally short so what's
he's being he's being a little wise guy
yeah I could squish you doesn't look
like he just got barbecued George Bush
had the same quality about you know he
was all like but it was supposed to be
like more benevolent and you know that
was the thing that people liked him he
would make nicknames out of everybody
right Brooks leak yeah he absolutely
would I remember even at Bates you know
there was like a pretty big contingent
of like prep school kids and the enemy
oh hey Brooks you said I was like oh
this is weird your ID if I never
understood before it's like all right
yeah that's right I came from Brooke see
now right tall stuff tall stuff and
bricks you over here oh that's fine
what's my own tattoo girl that's good no
no what's up girl a dress girl dragon
tattoo
[Laughter]
just gonna call her tatts what you doing
over there bren-bren I know that is how
movies
