Oh also this just in can we put up this
breaking story from listen from a former
CIA analyst Evan McMullen former Senate
candidate - right didn't even
presidential Trump I forgot oh he got in
Utah right he did well in Utah he
apparently has been doing some digging
and he actually found an actual line
from the Democratic socialists of
America website you could probably find
this at I don't know TSA dot-com or do
you probably just google Democratic
Socialist American and website on the
dark web or no now this is a quote in
the short term we can't eliminate
private corporations but we can bring
them under greater Democratic control
[Music]
they call themselves socialists because
they are socialists
I mean it really are we I mean this is
this is the this is the fear that the
that private corporations are gonna be
brought under greater Democratic control
like maybe union members will sit on the
board of directors or then maybe they'll
be management councils or well he was
sent around the world
CIA operative to help stop well I did
not know the part about him being a CIA
analyst that makes it so much funnier oh
yeah that's that's how he figured that
out that was this initial brand
preposition yeah that was as well he was
like on the guys in the CIA who's worked
for was at Paul Ryan and he worked
directly for Paul Ryan he worked for the
staff for a prominent report think a
mout of just like I learned a thing in
CIA tradecraft about not being overtly
racist see you on pod save this idiots
made him redeem one of the things when
you work for the CIA you learn is that
the words in between the quotes are what
they say
yeah god I love that just it's like more
and more you realize like I feel like
we've all been a little bit gas lit and
to thinking to this class of people
is it least like competent you know
that's their main selling point she's
the most qualified candidate of all time
but like no actually they're not they
just they just wear the lanyards and
they try to trick you knock it off
