[Music]
we mentioned Donald Trump saying that he
does not need congressional
authorization to strike Iran and now
john bolton is in some semi retreat the
Iranians have played that's pretty smart
some time ago there was it was sort of
there was reporting that part of their
agenda was to basically peel John Bolton
off of Donald Trump and certainly Bolton
and Pompey owes failure in Venezuela has
helped in that project there was
reporting I guess last week that Trump
was a little bit pissed about that - I
thought it was gonna be easy but now I
look like an idiot
again I don't know if Donald Trump has
any ideological grounding in any of
these things I think he wanted to get
rid of the Iran deal because Obama had
done it and it had been perceived as a
signature achievement of Obama's and in
many respects was certainly was from a
foreign policy standpoint I think it was
you know arguably his Camp David Accords
and so now john bolton is in some
measure in retreat and here he is
arguing like look I I start this thing
with with virgin eyes it's not like I
came in with an agenda tell us what is
your endgame regarding Iran is it a
regime change perhaps a new nuclear deal
oh it's not regime change it's not the
policy of the United States
so go ahead butcher what's your next
alternative posit incidentally what you
just witnessed was a guy answering a
question that was not asked
they were asking what his agenda is and
he answered what the policy of the
United States is ask me if I'm a fascist
and I will answer I am NOT a communist
just alternative because you you
stressing the past that you think that
the United States should push for regime
change okay stop there let me just
address that because it's been six
months since I've been in Israel so I
have to do it periodically you know when
I was a private citizen I said and wrote
many many things they're all out there I
still believe in them but that's not my
function here today not not to be a
commentator on what I said before versus
what the policies of the US government
are the president sets the policies I'm
the national security adviser not the
national security decision-maker
go ahead look if if if Iran gave up its
pursuit of nuclear weapons its ballistic
missile development program which is
designed to create delivery vehicles for
nuclear weapons if it gave up its
support for terrorism that stopped its
other malign activities across the
region we'd be very happy secretary
Pompeo last year gave a speech where he
listed 12 things I've given you four
it's sort of an expanded list that's the
endgame we want now of course when
Donald Trump entered an office like two
of those things that basically been
ticked off and dealing with support for
terrorism and hostile regimes even if I
stipulate that they do this that all the
regimes that we perceive as hostile are
legitimately hostile we were halfway
there in fact some people would argue
halting the nuclear capability is more
than halfway there
that's like two-thirds of the way there
but that was punted so there's John
Bolton really basically trying to
explain to President trouble you could
trust me I believe me I no one would be
more upset than I if they just didn't
capitulate and avoid a war I want to
just say it's not just that as a
quote-unquote private citizen that he
was this relentless war monger about
Iran and also regime change advocate
across Latin America and even a war
monger with North Korea he took money
from the m EK which is a cult i mean you
know it was taken off of the terrorism
list because of that type of sort of
political activity they have a people as
diverse as bolton and howard dean yeah
but that was just a lined interest and
there were being money there right very
popular group in iran i mean the the the
group that fought on the side of saddam
hussein while they were while he was
deploying chemical weapons against the
iran is a great group to rely on to ease
a regime change
