senator pug of course it rained the
heaviest it has have in a while in LA
today for the start of the teachers
strike still as a member of the film
industry union I joined the teacher this
morning on the picket line for
solidarity good for you oh yeah
despite the downpour that was a good
showing by the teachers they are
committed and the amount of enthusiastic
honking cars drove by was encouraging
here is some footage of those teachers
striking in LA and the interesting thing
is is that because of some moves by the
district officials in the LA School
District based upon improved funding for
schools by gavin newsom they've been
able to provide a permanent full-time
nurse for every elementary school that's
their offer which is sort of shocking
that there's not that's not there
already at elementary schools they're
also valuable on-the-job experience by
nursing each other indeed right this is
like it say think of it as like a work
learn environment every secondary school
would get a lot which is also sort of
shocking that you don't have a librarian
list of things like the gym teacher do
it after you teach his health class and
I mean those are the two big sweeteners
not to mention a slight raise but here's
the problem all of this increased
staffing only guaranteed for guess how
many years one year and so deal well
that's why they're striking and here's
some of those teachers marching right
now
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
so there they are and obviously I mean a
big part of this is wanting a better
teaching environment which is basically
they want better services for their
students this is so important and I I
just liked it because we talked about
that sort of that way like Occupy Wall
Street black lives matter and Bernie
Sanders campaign as sort of these three
galvanizing forces I think behind what
opened the left and the sort of modern
iteration and I would definitely add and
you were super on top of this the
Chicago Teachers strike as being right
up there I mean it was obviously it's a
city it wasn't a national movement in
the same way as those other three things
but God that national attention yeah
because it reset and it also you know
that also was a really brave before it
was just so commonplace to you know even
just acknowledge that there's different
politics inside the Democratic Party and
critique the Obamas when they need to be
critiqued but all well of course the
ramen ramen was obviously always easier
to critique than Obama because he's so
unlikable but an Arne Duncan who was a
promise from point man and came from
Chicago and was the architect of
education both in the Obama government
but also in in in Chicago so the courage
of that movement set and and you know
and now we see all of these teachers
strikes in the red states and now going
over la like they were both at the front
lines of being d legitimizing the state
and the sort of like conservative
backlash I think if we look at the
history of it and now they're leading
the way in the you know reaffirmation of
what we actually need to do yeah well
according to Jonathan Chait they are
lazy and need to be defeated Leo
Jonathan Chait is obviously I would do
you think John tomorrow is that one more
time to talk about this Jonathan shape I
wish I wish you could see off on there
20 minutes shade on that
I know you I'm on 20 minutes yeah you
take 20 because it's also like how many
periods you think he could last it's a
public schoolteacher like I'm not
talking days like literally periods
it is so his piece is so it almost like
like my first thought was honestly and
we'll talk I'll talk more about this
tomorrow but my first thought was like
this is a false flag you know my first
thought was flag thing this is they
somehow the warrant people got to him
and like please write this please write
this because we need yeah this is you
know she's been not having the greatest
rollout and if you could write
absolutely critical Ronix we need to eat
we need to capture three quarters of the
Democratic Party please write this yeah
her one problem is she's too beholden to
Teachers Union yeah that's that's
definitely the issue with Elizabeth
Warren her support for public education
my thought was like like like a well I
don't want to I thought when I first saw
it was this is so effing wrong my
thought was his wife is the Charter
School of Minister well yes that cats
been out of the bag for a while paid to
have bad opinions so of course he has
the status no disingenuous and it's
based upon research that is while
legitimate is so narrow in its its focus
the the perspective on this is just
shock it it is shocking to me and then
to basically build the story around the
medical device look man this is my
preview okay it's a preview there's a
preview you're gonna do twenty minutes
tomorrow deep breath deep breath deep
breath
Jonathan shape will be I I tweeted out
today that and of course I it was a
fictional tweet on some level because no
one in the office well although I guess
it's fair it was a fair assessment on my
part I we did out let me just see if I
can find that what the tweet was it was
seems like Jonathan Chait is becoming my
young
young show producers Mickey cows and
that was just my that was my way of
signaling my bet the best response to it
was I'd like I like that sam cedars not
afraid to show how old he is or
something today but most people didn't
get any of it but that that went up on
this is so effing wrong well they're
literally it was a tweet that I was like
you know sending out to like half a
dozen people catch that H we ghost
exactly see do you see it is true that I
feel like shade is painting himself into
a corner of complete and total
irrelevance hey man a share as the share
as a share but I that's the thing is it
I don't think I think that this in the
long run gets him a lot less shares
that's my point hate clicks yeah trust
me I used to be a high-volume blogger
things that make people angry get way
more shares that these people agree I
don't doubt that either but the thing is
like Mickey cows can't even do that
anyway I think I think a dude well
that's the thing is I think that like
anger donkey on him whatever it's still
a share but you're missing my point
at one point you get yourself so out of
the game that it's not even fun to dunk
on you and no one cares and I coulter
zone I exactly right like it happens
like with all the contrarians is that at
one point like people are just like oh
that the interesting thing about you
being a contrarian that's no longer
interesting anymore
you're right out you're boring you're
boring it's boring I think he's there
yet
judging from Twitter I get in there I
think he's getting there
I really do what's this one I think this
is just the interaction I saw
about a week ago so basically Joel D
Anderson where he's at now still a
BuzzFeed know he's it looks like ESPN
now so he wrote original tweet we can go
to basically people this is Joel
Anderson people love practice humility
especially from black athletes which is
why you saw so many people share in that
clip of MJ yesterday also people are
suckers and loved plantation politics of
sports so they prefer athletes who
operate within the system and not
outside of it
Jade goes into his replies do you think
athlete do you think an appreciation for
humility from athletes is inherently
racist for what it's worth I love LeBron
James and it always despised ain't now
the problem Joel had with him is because
apparently this is the second time chase
ever replied to him and both times has
been sort of Concerned trolling about
racist questions so Joel Anderson says
he always seemed to holler when you get
hit my dude yeah I just think that that
shade is I mean is far less relevant
then he was when he was doing this
schtick 10 years ago and I think like I
I don't like people just broadly don't
comment on him anymore
on Twitter you see it but shades I just
I don't think it's happening for him
much longer
I really don't
