[Music]
here is a Donald Trump you know on the
White House lawn talking about how wrong
these thirteen agencies which found a
genuine threat to climate change I mean
I would wonder I wonder if we could at
one point someone should quantify the
amount of reporting solid reporting on
this climate report right like going to
the locations that this report says is
in danger versus the day the the
reporting that was involved in they
supposed danger of the caravan like to
put the caravan and and weigh the danger
it represents in terms of world history
of world history of just popular any
take it really take any population
center in the country right like take
any subset of world history take any
subset of world geography measure the
danger that that Caravan represents to
the health and wealth of any human
beings in time or across you know
Geographic plane and then weighed
against what the danger that report
talks about like the it's it's almost
impossible to compare those two things
like it would be the the Delta between
those two sets of danger is so huge that
it's almost it's like it's trying to
conceive of like ten dollars versus a
trillion dollars so difference in kind
and not degree exactly the degree is so
great that it is a completely different
form of danger and here is our president
not talking about the danger that that
report represents
[Music]
John go ahead
I've seen it I've read some of it and
it's fine
yeah I don't believe it no no I don't
believe it and here's the other thing
you're gonna have to have China and
Japan and all of Asia and all of these
other countries you know address
addresses our country right now we're at
the cleanest we've ever been and that's
very important gentlemen but if we're
clean but every other place on earth is
dirty that's not so good so I want clean
air I want clean water very important so
let me see if I get this straight
I've read the report probably like fine
it's fine it's a fine report I don't
believe it I don't believe that we have
any global warming but and he doesn't
even say but if we do it just goes on to
blame other countries for something that
doesn't exist and then he sort of makes
that shift I like I like clean things I
like clean and I like clean no germs and
I like germs remember I said about germs
so if we're the media let's forget about
that
let's focus on the caravan because
that's where the real danger lies ladies
and gentlemen meanwhile is there anyone
that this is why it's so bizarre why
would you I mean just contemplate who
you would bring on to talk about this
climate report okay it's not enough that
the president of the country doesn't
believe it he doesn't believe these 13
agencies why not bring out a guy who had
to resign his position from Congress in
disgrace who they called him hot tub Tom
back in the day because of all the
shenanigans the guy who got into public
service because he was so mad that the
EPA outlawed the pesticide he was using
for his pest control business because it
was so toxic to human beings pets why
not bring that guy on turn his lawn do a
guy's you've not been in government for
a deck
why not bring that guy on the guy who
set up Denny Hastert to be his front man
to be his front man because he knew that
Denny Hastert may have been very
compromised and he could have control
over this guy why not bring that guy on
to discuss the climate change report
here's Tom DeLay you know about this is
there something that Republicans should
be doing here now they should be
standing up for a good solid I tried to
read the report that came out Friday and
frankly it is horrible it starts it's a
plea document and I can't understand
what by the Trump administration allowed
and I know that the statute calls for
such a report but for this kind of
report which is nothing more than a
political document and an alarmist
political document why they let it out
like this they should have written a
completely different kind of report
based on real science the climate change
is real we see you I you think
scientists in the administration you
think that they went so you're basically
saying that there was sort of a
conspiracy to do something that was
inaccurate I guess I'm not following you
well look at the report the report is
nothing more than a rehash of age-old 10
to 20-year assumptions made by
scientists that get paid to to further
the politics of global warming that's
that's what this is all about it's 19
new science it's not any new and the
only new stuff is the alarmist stuff
that in 80 years we're going to see
people dying and starving and all that
kind of stuff we've had I remember
growing up with Paul Ehrlich in his
Population Bomb he predicted that right
now we would all be starving worldwide
and he's been discredited and deposit
for one second see I don't know if
there's a name for this type of argument
but the argument of all of these
scientists and the
13 agencies are wrong because I read a
book right once that was wrong Paul
Ehrlich's 1970s population alarmism
somehow validates Wow pitting maybe
that's an incredibly odd thing that's
like a little notice
that's astral travel that's a just
totally different domain that's
mind-blowing and most people what that
is also very that's politics Dennis
Miller because nobody watching that oh
yeah right Ehrlich I remember well but
the argument is just I mean the argument
is an age old a conservative argument
which is like scientists have been wrong
to strum him yeah this is this is a
there's more than one guy no Breanna
everybody bought into that population
bond mom and it affected the politics
and a lot of bad stuff was passed in
Congress and others that never had
benefited anybody or or had any change
we need to be focused on adapting to
climate and droughts and fires and those
kinds of things we can adapt you
mentioned Houston the only reason we had
the huge flood that we had was the
government-run dams that failed outside
of Houston so in other words it's real
but we cannot mitigate it we don't we
parently have no way of telling what is
causing it we have no way of knowing we
it's a complete mystery
it's as if like cars just existed we can
drive them we should get out of the way
of them but don't look under the hood we
couldn't possibly understand what's
going on in there
the one thing we do understand about it
though is that it's gonna be too bad for
Republican donors bottom lines for them
to even consider and like who does he
think is paying off all these scientists
and for what end the global plan to get
more money to the scientist white deeper
game
if you really push them on it or you got
them on like a James O'Keefe style
camera they would well they'd say sorry
so they'd say like it's socialists yes
where it dovetails with Illuminati and
Flat Earth conspiracy theories because
the only motivation ascribed to the
people who are supposedly paying off the
scientists is like they're just evil
Blizzard no don't want to create
Robertson said green on the outside red
on the inside that's right they it is
socialists and communists who were
spending the big bucks so that society
will then theoretically take away their
money right it's Soros who's doing this
so that we have a socialist society and
then he's not allowed to have his cash
it doesn't make a whole lot of sense I
guess that's where the flexibility comes
in its masochism white people work and
it's George Soros it's Bill Mitchell
yeah well this guy wealthy capitalist
and socialist
this is this guy expresses the why is
the only solution to manmade global
warming is always socialism now mmm
first of all that's obviously not true
things like cap and trade which
Republicans have been against is not in
any way socialistic it is simply a to
them that's pretty social well that's
not I mean I actually agree with that I
think socialism really is the only
long-term solution but it seems like the
Conservatives are filling in the blanks
for themselves well but here's the other
thing is that they perceive any action
that is collective to deal with climate
change to be socialism so uh that's why
the only solution to manmade global
climate change warming is because it's a
global problem and it's going to involve
not individuals making choices but in
fact entities large societies making
choices and definitionally for them that
is socialism this comes up again in john
ziegler he says if liberals really want
to persuade conservatives global warming
is real they need to
read this and it's all the same sort of
thing you always are on about about like
liberals are just too in-your-face about
it and they're saying it's settled and
stuff like you've got an egg you got an
egg global warm know you don't like
negging they don't like they want here's
the same thing again later in the piece
he says when you add the fact that
surely by pure coincidence the solution
to this massive and imminent problem
sounds like an excuse for implementing
global socialism and it's no mystery why
conservatives won't blindly go along
with it no it's no mystery why they
blindly go against it exactly and I'm
saying you neg climate change
you don't neg the Conservatives you neg
climate change like clowns gin not that
big of a deal and then conservatives go
no it will be it is a big deal that's
the that's the prescription that they're
saying I wish that we had the money to
perpetuate a global conspiracy for the
purpose of overthrowing capitalism but
if this is the case and all these
scientists are actually secret Marxists
I take back everything I said about
science nerds me to you exactly I like
Bill bill Mitchell's the guy what are we
doing a bit about him one so he's the
guy who like he says these things that
he doesn't even he isn't even aware of
like like hey attention Nazis the Jews
never stopped me for bacon buddy it's
like the the alt-right but say
stuff like black kids are your street
well I do push-ups
