[Music]
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Fernando tor most aponte he is at the
scholars strategy network in a post
doctoral fellow at the University of
Missouri st. Louis and he's from San
Juan Puerto Rico is a recent piece in
the Jacobin called Puerto Rico Rises
Fernando thanks so much for being here
thank you for having me so let's talk
first about what happened yesterday the
governor was forced to resign governor
Rosello can you talk a little bit about
who he is and maybe also if you could
connect it at least to the the two main
political parties in Puerto Rico that
and and sort of how those parties work
what are their ideologies how does it
sort of differ I guess from what most
people sort of think of between sort of
center right or center left parties as
an example
certainly governor ricardo rosado or
should I say our previous governors
ricardo rosado is the son of governor
Pedro Rosado and ricardo rosado in a in
a way was was bred for this position he
was given an Ivy League education he
went to a private high school in Puerto
Rico and in an exclusive sort of
privileged neighborhood he had kept a
somewhat public profile throughout his
entire life where he would always
portray himself as an erudite as someone
who if and when would take the reigns of
Porto Rico would have a plan for
everything because he was an
intellectual he had a PhD you know the
record of publications and of course
this was how he portrayed himself in the
campaign trail he ran for the
governorship through the paddy Doyle
Protista which translates to
new Progressive Party of course a lot of
folks now criticize this name because
many say that there's nothing
progressive and nothing new about this
party
in fact under this party Porto Ricans
have been made to suffer through
austerity measures that have been
severely cutting social services such as
education and health care while the
pockets of folks who are in the inner
circle of people like the Corrado say yo
have been lining up with government
contracts many of which are now under
investigation on the other side of
things is the popular Democratic Party
and this was the party under which we
saw the change of Puerto Rico status to
what we now have the estado libre
asociado
which translates to freely associated
state this name many have criticized
because of course but politico's not
free is not necessarily a state and it's
not really the association with the
United States is something that is very
much problematic both parties have in
the face of fiscal crisis proposed the
adoption of austerity measures both
parties have faced corruption charges
and what we saw with the unrest is
outrage and indignation directed at both
parties and the political leadership can
put the vehicle more generally what are
those telegram messages reveal in the
reports and I know like a lot of you
know stuff that just made people look
bad in terms of how they spoke about
political opponents comments about
gender and poor people and so on all
these kind of disgusting comments but
did these messages also in addition to
the more sort of salacious stuff
actually point to bribery and corruption
networks and relationships with the
promesa the control board
that's correct this chat was the kind of
x-ray that any population would like
half of their government to really
reveal the inner workings of their top
brass of their political leadership
beyond of course as you mentioned these
comments against their own supporters
and of course their opponents and
political dissidents it showed the
workings of the leadership of ricardo
rosado administration which included
sharing documents and doctoring
documents sharing documents with
lobbyists like alias sanchez who many
are calling for his arrest and
prosecution Illya Sanchez directed like
a Little Caesars campaign in 26 that led
to his election in 2016 he was in this
chatt in which there were confidential
documents discussed in fact some of
these documents were titled highly
confidential but of course Elia Sanchez
was had access to these documents and
thereby some of these clients benefited
from this kind of access not only that
and the chat reveals that at one point
one of Rogers top aides Christian
Cellino who comes from similar circles
in Puerto Rican society privileged
private school and that sort of a
privileged sector of the population
tells everyone that the fiscal Control
Board in which he was a government
representative of the ricardo rosado
administration had sent him prior to the
publication of a document they had sent
them this document for him to quickly
review he shares with everyone in this
chat and he says we're going to come
back to them and tell him that this is
inflammatory and we need to strike this
so apparently they send the document
back to folks in the fiscal Control
Board that was ushered in by the promesa
law and hours later it seems like from
reading the chat this document gets
published and they struck out the part
that the local government had objected
to so
