talk a little bit about this Brazilian
election obviously been covering it for
a while and I will just start with the
obvious point and a point I will extend
tomorrow on TM vs that anti-corruption
politics are not only not a sufficient
way to understand the world they're a
handy tool for the far right and also
movements that were actually important
and justified and to say 2013 dealing
with the rightward moves of the Workers
Party government under Dilma Rousseff so
and and later on moves towards austerity
moves involving the World Cup the
Olympics things that were bad for the
Workers Party social base they
absolutely warranted pushback and
protest and the Workers Party made
mistakes by not having a mobilized base
the whole time it was governing and at
the same time when people allowed a
free-floating context free corruption
rhetoric to to reign it meant that it
was used as a coup against Dilma she
literally was removed for office for
accounting errors okay and then to
imprison an incredibly popular important
leader Lula da Silva on the flimsiest of
charges that's it I've said it a million
times but that is the reality and the
reason this matters is obviously it
matters that Lula is the most prominent
political prisoner in the world today
obviously it matters that the assassins
of Mariela Franco the city councilor who
was gunned down with her driver six
months ago by people connected to the
military or paramilitary or police and
most certainly in the drug trade it
matters it matters that police and
military already go into favelas and
murder people of color and poor people
in Brazil all the time and it matters
that bolson ro campaigned jr. Belsen ro
campaign
on increasing that number and said that
Brazil's military dictatorship made a
mistake and not killing enough people
and not torturing enough people and that
one of his main policy aims is to unlock
the restrictions on gun ownership
opening a huge new market for small arms
manufacturers in the United States and
it matters that Steve Bannon was just
photographed with the guy's son
yesterday because he's over there
advising them as part of literally a
global fascist push the first round
looked terrible
bowl scenario took about 45 percent of
the vote Fernando Haddad of the Workers
Party the substitute for Lula who would
have won Lula was always polling at
above double-digit lead over balsa
narrow and what's stunning to me is that
you actually did have an example there
Lula is no leftist Lula was a union
social democrat who helped democratize
was a major leader democratizing Brazil
and then as president lifted tens of
millions of people out of poverty and
was globally recognized he actually is
what all of these resistance types say
they would want which would be a genuine
democratically committed social democrat
who would defeat a literal fascist
menace Haddad is a substitute candidate
from the Workers Party he received 28
percent of the vote
Cyril Gomes got about 12 percent is also
a center-left candidate and will almost
certainly back Haddad bolos who received
less than one percent of the vote but
every vote counts was a great has a new
part of a new socialist front very good
candidate very sincerely to the left may
have been the one that I would have
voted for in the first round Marina
Silva former Environment Minister
classic example of somebody drawing
insane false equivalencies using her
personal grievances as a loser to Dilma
Rousseff and last in the 2014
presidential election to draw false
equivalencies about
the corruption in the Workers Party with
the fascist threat of junior balsan ro
so the only hope now for millions of
people in Brazil and of course millions
of people mainly of color poor labour
they will go and they will destroy the
labor base in Brazil they will rollback
rights for women
the LGBTQ community they will target
anybody on the periphery they already do
and both narrow campaigned explicitly on
it and is campaigning explicitly on it
is a broad-based anti-fascist front with
whatever tiny remnants of the
center-right that may go to haddad there
might be some alcaman who's the
right-wing candidate got about 4% of the
vote and some polls actually indicated
that a fair amount of his supporters
will go to haddad and then that
everybody else gets together for the
bigger picture to defeat this threat
that's so serious that I have to say our
old buddy John Oliver even acknowledged
that literally anything is better than
Bolton ro so but there needs to be a
bigger lesson here too about purity
politics about not justifying corruption
but understanding different types of
corruption functioning in different ways
there's a difference of a party that
delivers for working people and has a
social base that still needs to fund
itself in a corrupted funding system
versus parties who literally exist
purely to run patronage networks which
were the parties that actually went
after Workers Party they have no social
base they have no purpose other than
money funnels for themselves and then
you have a fascist who along with you
know drain the swamp was able to
capitalize on a general social
reactionary undirected rage at the
elites and the status quo even as most
of those elites have already begun
back him because Oh incidentally the
other side of all the fascism is
privatization austerity and literally a
University of Chicago economist who
advised Pinochet so if the Workers Party
was a proxy and granted you know Lula
was no Obama no Clinton the most
successful modern president of our world
but they could learn in the center you
need to have a mobilized based and you
can never have a permanent armistice
with the right and with Oleg our key you
can never have a permanent peace with
them but then conversely people who got
into and and still even tweet at me
about whose party to do this and they
still do so and corruption well you were
nitpicking small war things you were
missing an attack that started with the
removal of Dilma and the immediate
implementation of austerity a cabinet
that went from the most diverse one in
Brazil's history led by a woman
president to one of all white men and
now a literal fascist rate riding a wave
of far-right social authoritarianism and
generalized anti politics
I saw a clip on al-jazeera of a young
man who no doubt watches a lot of
YouTube saying bolson arrow is terrible
but he's the only one that might be
centralized things enough to deal with
corruption and that is what happens when
people don't think structurally about
things and you just take some word like
corruption you don't ask why where who
and how it connects to say a bigger
structural corruption of an oligarchy
that has existed in the country that
ended slavery seven years after we did
and a one that personally loathes a guy
like Lula even though they made more
money under him simply because he's
smarter and more talented than they are
and he comes from the lower classes
so we'll keep covering it pray to God
Brazil pulls together a lot of horrible
things will happen to Paulson arrows
president not least of which a lot dying
in prison
even more civilian casualties and police
murders and a new flooding of weapons
from the United States obviously we're
not defending corruption here but there
does seem to be two animus --is that
drive this sort of anti-corruption
sentiment which is one is sort of a
political nature of it people like
behind that because right behind it it's
just people are bad everybody doesn't
like something bad and then think about
anything there's also the steer thing
right like there somebody's getting rich
off the government well actually most of
the time people are getting rich
especially if you read the Trump story
right that's some sort of relationship
to government the government should be
made to spread that around as like
equitably exactly point not that it's
there shouldn't be anything there well
exactly and the point being that like
and of course you have to draw lines and
of course there has to be you know laws
and institutions but there's also a
difference I mean I know that there's
people who will tell me in a u.s.
context and I'll actually agree to them
with them to some real degree that like
oh well you know you criticize Obama and
Clinton and this and that but they need
to function in a certain system and that
actually has some truth to it well as
does Lula and Dilma and the Workers
Party and unlike other people on the
center-left they managed to exist in a
system while actually massively
delivering for real people so you know
yeah corruption is and if you wanted a
left anti-corruption politics then you'd
have to take on the whole thing
then you'd have to say you know where
they did make mistakes well why didn't
they take on the media monopolies why
didn't they you know deal with policing
issues I mean there's a lot of reasons
why I obviously didn't do those things
and the political context wasn't there
for it but that's the real big picture
not like oh somebody go to condo it's
like you're worrying about somebody
getting a condo supposedly and you're
gonna get destroyed
and you also let a whole right-wing
media in the same way that you know
again more far more valid criticisms of
her than Lula and you can't even put
Clinton and Lula in the same they're not
in the same bracket but there was a
similar dynamic to of like this big
sprawling corruption case happens it
implicates everybody except actually for
Dilma because they have to remove her
for something that has really nothing to
do with it people say she was involved
with it but she's never been charged not
what she was removed for and then all of
these other parties and all of these
other characters literally people with
indictments but not going you know
towards any criminal process because
they're still in the Congress they all
of a sudden make it a Workers Party
issue because the right uses things
cynically and strategically while you
know different parts to the left Haman
haha and perfection eyes and we to say
the least don't have time for that
