it's a great ad there's a lot happening
with with das we almost had a big wind
up in Queens with Caban and I think is
she contesting there wasn't there like
another level of investigation that was
happening with some of the ballots
recently but I don't know what the deal
was there was some suits to count
ballots that were uncounted nevertheless
with krasner in philadelphia there is a
sort of a wave of there's a reform
movement amongst DA's or at least the
you know do you know people who are
seeking the position of district
attorney this is a key as a boudin jessa
sorry
boudin who is well let's play the the ad
I mean some people may know who he is
already we live in a city built on
simple ideal it called equal justice for
all but for so many of us this ideal is
being betrayed we become a city of
prosperity but also an abject poverty
we've become a city of aspiration but
also of exclusion and inequity our most
vulnerable residents do not receive the
mental health care and shelter they need
we fill our jails with african-american
San Franciscans
make up more than half the county's
inmates but only 5% of the city's
population
we let the wealthy defendants go free on
bail even if they're dangerous by the
poor remain behind bars even if they're
innocent I know what it's like to be
impacted by the criminal justice system
well I was an infant my mother was
sentenced to decades in prison my father
may never get out my earliest memories
are walking through steel gates to visit
them when I served as a public defender
I brought those experiences with me to
the courthouse every day as I worked on
behalf of the poorest and most
overlooked residents of our city to
ensure that people who couldn't afford a
lawyer still had access to equal justice
I'm part of a growing movement that's
bringing a new vision to the District
Attorney's Office a vision to make the
criminal justice system work for all of
us not just a rich and powerful
justice demands an independent voice
someone willing to directly challenge a
broken system that means someone willing
to confront those with power not someone
beholden to a political machine not
someone who owes favours to the people
who protect the status quo San Francisco
is one of the greatest cities on earth
but isn't money or power or venture
capital that makes us great it's our
vision of a society that values everyone
we can end money bail test every single
rape kit stand up to ice and the Trump
administration and eliminate racial
disparities we can make San Francisco a
city of equality and inclusion we have
that choice before us right now in this
election
let's make San Francisco work for all of
us
please vote chaser Budin for District
Attorney
so his folks Kathy boudin and David
Gilbert who were members of The Weather
Underground and were or you know I think
it was a Brinks robbery and sent to
prison for I can't remember how long
Kathy boudin was it was in there but
maybe 20 years or something or 18 years
and then raised by Bill Ayers and
Bernardine Dohrn and and now he's
running to be a cop and now he's running
to be a cop it's poetic right yeah
and shout-out to Leighton Woodhouse and
his partner I don't know Layton's
partner but they emailed out the this
they worked on this it's an impressive
ad rank it's gonna be interesting it's
interesting to see reform hit that
position mm-hmm
in a way that like you know in a way
that is you know I don't it expands the
imagination of what that position can be
in a really important way specially in a
state like California with the private
prison complex it's just owned the
state's criminal justice system and
politicians for decades I mean we see it
with Komal Harris right now I think it's
it's a great narrative counter-narrative
and you know her approval rating in her
own State forget about the presidential
primary are going down so it's it's
amazing to see just the the shift so
drastic and so rapidly in California
even in Northern California where you
think it's just like beacon of progress
right there's been a lot of
conversations within DSA specifically
about how to approach these
quote-unquote progressive prosecutors
that are running right now there was a
resolution that I think did not make it
to the floor at this year's convention
and I can honestly see it from both
sides I think if you're more of a
progressive liberal reformist type it's
a no-brainer
these are reformist performs its
harm-reduction it makes sense if you're
coming at it from a perspective of
abolition as the organizer is from no
new jails are the people that I spent
all day with yesterday at the no new
jails rally that's not enough it doesn't
fit into an abolitionist horizon as they
say there's no such thing as a
progressive prosecutor and no new jails
is a non reformist reform and that you
are not just making things better for
people in jail you're reducing the
number of people who can even be put in
jail in a way that hopefully has a
snowball effect and the relationship
between these two approaches and between
these two tactics is it's got a fraught
history it's really complicated but my
hope is that an organization like DSA
can kind of walk the line between them
because we have so many different kinds
of politics and we have so many
different kinds of organizers and you
know in all the internal contradictions
that come with it but you can do both
though you can apply the political
pressure I mean a DA doesn't have the
ability to to really decide on whether
or not
no no no new jails are set up after you
close Rikers it's really a political
decision at the City Council decision
it's a mayoral decision so having you
know you have to if you're gonna go the
political route I understand where to
apply that pressure effectively and
where to apply the pressure within the
terms of the DA is gonna exist it's not
gonna be shut down so would you rather
have the thing there or well I think I
think there are I mean I think you know
at one point the DSA has to or you know
figure out what positions are we going
to endorse what positions as a matter of
policy we will not endorse anybody
because we don't think the position
should exist
well it's delicate right because there
are people in the know new jells
movement who don't trust us a partly
because it's you know our race and class
makeup that we have right now but partly
because we do do things like endorse
DA's and we do things coming from more
reformist less abolitionist perspective
they uphold at the end of the day the
carceral state and the bourgeois state
so I mean I want them to trust us I
understand why they might not
I also got to give a shout out to folks
like Tiffany Caban who did endorse no
new jails and took up the cause of
abolition despite knowing that the
people who are most heavily involved
with this are never going to give them
their support or their endorsement in
return
[Music]
