[Music]
his bootp buddha judge basically doing
the republicans work for him it is quite
clear that what's going to happen the
day a real a Democrat gets elected to
president we will hear of the
unsustainable debt and deficit that has
accumulated and we need to cut programs
immediately you could raise taxes but if
we are headed to an economic downturn
except for on a very narrow set of
people you don't want to necessarily do
that here is people to judge basically
staking out you know the common sense
this is what Nancy Pelosi was pushing
basically Pago right it's another way of
saying that like look I have a very
progressive agenda but we just cannot
implement it right now um I think much
more concerned about the debt than what
is fashionable among most people in my
party and it's largely generational
because Lord willing I'm gonna be here
when a lot of these fiscal time bombs
that have been set by leaders in both
parties but especially under this
present go off and it used to be that
the tug of war was between Democrats who
favored more deficit spending and
Republicans who wanted to do something
about the debt and then the Republicans
took charge and revealed that they don't
actually care because they blew a giant
hole in the deficit and so the very same
deficits that were being used as an
excuse when we were told we couldn't
expand
programming for education or or invest
in our infrastructure deliver health
care to more Americans became something
not to worry about when it was time to
pass a giant tax cut for corporations
what's amazing about this clip is he he
recognizes how it's been used in the
past and then he uses more of their like
what is the fiscal time bombs that he's
talking about well they're like what
time bomb we have at one point
something's gonna explode and blow
everything up what is that what what
exactly is he talking about I can't
really elaborate but I'm young as you
can tell other can leave me you'll be
dead by the time you understand so but
one day it's gonna happen you'll likely
be dead I'll be alive God willing as far
as I keep eating my veggies as far as
different types of disasters that might
happen if we don't take action today
right the dead is not really upset it's
not incredible that we have like a media
and political culture where there there
is okay there's an ongoing issue which
no one ever talks about which is nukes
which could cancel the world at any
moment and then there is the
acceleration of an ecological crisis all
of that doom and gloom rhetoric could
apply to both and then it's done to
something that like worst case you could
just like oh I guess we just need to
bump taxes up on rich people and plug a
few holes no problem um no mistake
though no surprise that he he cleans up
in those donor lists he has the
wealthiest zip codes in the country ah
see what is this Brendan greetings from
the Hamptons where people judge is
winning the monogrammed shops and I'm
saying count cup count race the results
of which have been proven right in every
election except 2016 owner Valerie holy
cow I wonder if this is where I got I
didn't get it from the Jeb Cubs the Jeb
cups were somewhere out on Long Island
Camp you're capturing I think wait we're
Sanders if mama
if anyone's buying Sanders cups
and cups out there though I see that's
unbelievably R terrible people they
don't support Bernie Sanders they're bad
people folks wow that's amazing bad
people
that's amazing other Trump cups too of
course they're Trump cups yeah of course
I mean these are this is this is
actually a micro version of just like
another reason to vote for Bernie is the
anti endorsement Wall Street list this
is a homespun version of that oh don't
don't get all huffy about the monograms
hey I love my hello I love going out to
the Hamptons lucky at all of just say
monogram I can't I've gone out to
Montauk and I actually enjoy that but
that's all those in the actual water is
nice but the scene is not ish I'm stuck
between Budig and Trump supporters yes I
mean literally so Bernie Sanders came
out with a massive criminal justice
reform bill it's six thousand word
proposal it includes banning cash bail
solitary confinement and civil asset
torture
