[Music]
but here is a Donald Trump he is
welcoming to the White House Victor
Orbin Victor Orbin is the far-right wing
leader of hungry you remember the that
Sepp Gorka his dad mm-hmm was a part of
the fascist crew in Hungary I mean
there's a nice tradition in Hungary for
far-right hierarchy respectives yes
exactly
hierarchy respecters and our bond has
basically staked out the most
anti-immigrant immigration and immigrant
position in europe he his party ran on a
almost an exclusively anti-immigrant
platform the they have passed our they
have promoted a new bill known as the
Stop George Soros bill as part of their
electoral campaign that many perceived
as classically anti-semitic it's the old
school was that conservative from POD
save oh is that right I don't think
actually was old school stuff does
Donald Trump have a problem with this
you decide respected all over Europe
probably like me a little bit
controversial but that's okay that's
okay and you've done a good job and
you've kept your country safe we'll be
discussing NATO as you know hungry is a
proud member of NATO and whether he's
kept this country safe from as their as
is there some type of invasion of
Hungary that I'm not aware of Oh
apparently there is continued
we've really gotten to know each other a
little bit and we'll be discussing trade
very much so and lots of other subjects
will be meeting with representatives of
hungry later on with the prime minister
and we'll spend some very good time
together so mr. prime minister thank you
very much for being at the White House
thank you very much it's great I'm going
to be there thanks moments later Trump
was asked about the reports of the of
democracy itself backsliding in hungry
apparently Trump not so worried well
people have a lot of respect for this
Prime Minister he's a respected man and
I know he's a tough man but he's a
respected man and he's done the right
thing according to many people on
immigration and you look at some of the
problems that they have in Europe that
are tremendous because they've done it a
different way than the Prime Minister
there you go tough man respect did I did
it a different way I mean they let
Muslims come there that's right big
mistake big mistake
