call him from a 646 area code who's this
where he come from hello hello yeah hi
hi who's this yeah I am
my name's vigilance from Nigeria sigil
from Nigeria are you calling from the IG
RIA yes I'm in Lagos right now Wow okay
yeah I wanted to kind of just briefly
well not so briefly maybe but talk about
how Donald Trump's just abysmal behavior
is too toxic for the international
politics political landscape and how
it's like his bad behavior especially in
this case of Saudi Arabia games almost
everyone a free pass to just behaved
terribly please do yeah okay so in
Nigeria you talk about this I think like
she's like a week ago so in Abuja and
they shot some protesters who were I
think trying to get a fair wage and
might not even have been bad I can't
quite remember but I know there's people
trying to get a fair wage now and not
only is Trump's bad behavior in terms of
just civil rights encouraging people to
behave this badly internationally it's
also his grotesque worship of wealth so
these little men they roll around in
them like caravans of tan Hummers and
like five police cars escorting them
it's ridiculous and they have the nerve
to not want to increase the minimum wage
to $30,000 a month which is below $85 a
month so that's the kind of behavior
people can get away with now I guess one
of the things that I'm aware of is that
when Donald Trump said that the military
could shoot people throwing rocks at
them that I think it was the Nigerian
military retweeted it and said see yes
exactly
that's what I was thinking about yeah
yeah that is yeah that is a big problem
it is a it is a big problem that the
President of the United States gives
license to the worst instincts that we
see internationally I mean it's it's bad
it is that is a bad situation
and when boo Harry stood next to him
after he had made the comments about how
all of our countries are suitable
countries he stood next to him and he
laughed he did nothing like he just
sucked up sucked up to Donald Trump and
made the entire country look foolish
which he has been doing for a while now
considering he spent like a service
presidency parking like the government
jet in Heathrow Airport because he's a
medical tourists and that's his main
thing see like how the quota leader of
the free world
you're breaking up beat tally bad
behavior hello hi sorry you were
breaking up a little bit sorry yeah it's
just it certainly see how much further
back we're going in terms of progressing
into society you know it's it's
disturbing and I think you know people
are just it was one of the questions
that early on when Trump was elected
that you know I was posing to some of
the guests was you know what are the
implications of this and just I don't
know if people anticipated just how far
he would take the authoritarianism and
the rhetoric that opens the door to the
worst impulses you know around the world
which i think is was an underestimated
problem at least in my part but I
appreciate the call and thanks for your
perspective and our elections are next
year so maybe just keep an eye out for
that see what happens but yes yeah keep
us updated on that right thank you thank
you bye-bye
you
