[Music]
so let's go with this this was pretty
amusing on Fox and Friends how are they
going to deal with the reports out I
mean look we know the initial reports in
terms of the Republican tax scam wherein
they basically just gave wealthy people
a huge huge bonus in terms of tax cuts
there was massive tax cuts for offshored
profits that money came back and of
course it went into the hands of
shareholders we know that 84 percent of
stocks are owned by 10 percent of the
country's population despite the fact
that Charlie Kirkwood have you believe
otherwise I actually recently contacted
the the author of that study and he says
it has nothing to do except for her
households so but that's for another day
so Fox and frankly it was definitely
very petty of me to do it Fox and
Friends tried to deal with what a lot of
people are finding out is that they did
not get their their tax returns and they
do not get a tax refund that they had
anticipated and here's they're trying to
slough it off and then they move into
the territory where state and local
taxes are not are no longer fully
deductible which was intended to put
pressure on blue states that actually
collect taxes from its inhabitants to
provide them with services and here's
how that way what taxpayers are
complaining as the average tax refund
drops an average eight percent from last
year but are you actually making less
money here to break it all down for you
and what it means for your wallet
Charles Payne host of making money with
Charles Payne on the Fox Business
Network
so Charles you know people look forward
to their tax refund I've never seen his
show is his whole show is about
basically just come up with some type of
just pick up an ability to recite right
wing talking points and that's how you
can make money is that more or less one
it's like one of those I was a kid like
you could find in like comic books like
you can make money selling money-making
secrets and you would buy it and it
would be basically telling you just to
do what they just did to you yeah only
this one you actually do make money Oh
getting back the money that they
overpaid to the federal government
exactly you know here's the thing is for
the most part the IRS is telling
everyone that they just simply did not
make the proper adjustments on them with
Holdings at the beginning of the year so
they've been making all this money at
stake well it's not necessarily their
mistake it's the your employer or you
IRS actually put a lot of memos out they
even made it pretty easy to go on their
website and figure it out this is at the
beginning of last year of course most
people didn't do that so while people
weren't obviously seeing fatter
paychecks they were still counting on
that refund that they always got which
is interesting because you kind of
hinted at it that we would allow you
know the IRS to have like a two thousand
dollar loan our money right yeah because
we overpay so people probably should
consider making these adjustments anyway
unless you want to give the IRS two or
three grand of your money to hold for a
year maybe they can make the interest on
it you won't but usually here's the
problem there's certain things that have
gone forever and that is in these blue
states in in Illinois in New York as
well as Los Angeles New Jersey school
Los Angeles as well as California you
can no longer ride out of state local
taxes well there's limits right with the
assault do ya right now that's gone no
more you that's gone that's gone in a
lot of these states are complaining and
listen that's what Governor Cuomo was
meeting with the president yesterday
that's why he was meeting with the
president but you know that these states
have put themselves in a bad predicament
because they have taxed their residents
they've created these these obligations
they've made these promises and they
need to find out some of the taxes that
they can probably address rather than
you know incidentally those promises are
things like health care or decent
education or good roads public
transportation public transportation
maybe
food support Medicaid support you know
promises like that government asking
someone in Mississippi you know to
subsidize a millionaire in New York's
New York cities that subsidize their
mortgages New York State should run more
like Texas or run Absolut like far
absolutely well yeah hey that brings up
a good point about subsidizing people
across state lines can we bring up that
chart on just who are who are the five
least dependent states do see mention
New Jersey New Jerseyans receive only
point forty eight cents back for every
dollar they pay an income tax Delaware
Illinois mentioned also by Ducey
Minnesota Kansas New Mexico here we go
these are the least dependent on the the
five most dependent states would be New
Mexico Mississippi Kentucky Alabama then
that guy actually say Mississippi and
Montana the least dependent would be New
Jersey Delaware Illinois Minnesota in
Kansas there you go it's surprising
about Kansas Kansas surprises me oh this
is 2015 that I'm looking at that's part
of the problem I have a feeling Kansas
has moved on down the list quite a bit
hard to imagine but there you go that's
absurd and the idea that New York
doesn't put back into the federal
government more than it takes out and so
it's not really subsidizing across state
lines it really is just a question of we
have local services subsidizing
billionaires tax cuts and corporate tax
cuts that's basically what it comes down
to
