all right let's just I know this is
gonna be difficult for people because
everybody gets disgusted now when they
hear Brett Kavanaugh but here is Brett
Kavanaugh pledging to be independent and
impartial this is what you want out of
your Supreme Court justice you want him
to or her him if it's a Republican
appointee obviously him or her to be
impartial to rise above the political
fray right to not not get caught up in
the politics are one part of American
life party disputes or another part of
it but when you're a judge all that just
goes away and listen to how he expresses
that article 3 of the Constitution
provides that the judicial power shall
be vested in one Supreme Court the
Supreme Court is an institution of law
it is not a partisan or political
institution the justices do not sit on
opposite sides of an aisle we do not
caucus in separate rooms the Supreme
Court is a team of nine and I will
always be a team player on the team of
nine yes now he also knows that he's
going to be in the five of the four but
let's put that aside I don't want to be
cynical I don't want to be cynical the
same five everyone yeah I don't want to
be cynical because he is what he's
espousing there I believe is that he is
going to put aside all of the rancor
from the committee hearings he's not
going to it's not about things like you
know how he got there or what not he
understands the political process he's
not gonna hold any grudges Newport
feeling because you know no hard
feelings it's not a team it's not team
politics this is just about being a
judge so he's not going to he's moved on
from the process right it isn't blame
anybody or anything like that oh but
wait a second the speech continues I
thank the members of the United States
Senate Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell for his leadership and steady
resolve
I thank Judiciary Committee chairman
chuck Grassley for his wisdom and
fairness and I give special gratitude to
senators Rob Portman Susan Collins Joe
Manchin Jon Kyl and Lindsey Graham they
are credit to the country in the Senate
I'll be forever grateful to each of them
and to all the senators who carefully
considered my nomination oh he qualified
that it wasn't all the senator I think
he's gonna say do all the senators who
were doing their job but no in fact he's
basically saying in almost a polite way
it's almost a polite way fu to all you
senators who voted against me yeah well
if they didn't vote for him then they
clearly didn't consider it carefully
yeah well I mean the point being that
this is not a guy who's showing any
judicial temperament even after winning
right this is the easiest thing in the
world to do is to come up after you win
and say I understand there is political
rancor that is part of the territory
it's not pleasant but I understand
that's part of the process and I
appreciate all senators for doing their
job that is the way even a normal just a
baseline normal judge who cares about
just his own legacy and the legacy of
the institution of the judiciary would
respond even if it was completely
disingenuous the if you if you had one
shred of respect for the judiciary you
would come out and say I have to be
magnanimous here because I don't want
the people of this country to believe
that one of 9p
ball sitting on the highest court in the
land that makes a fundamental decision
about the power of government and the
rights of its enough American citizens
is in any way biased or holding grudges
against political parties or entities
who may or may not have supported me
that would be the baseline for someone
who has even iota of judicial
temperament and even if winning this
Snively little privileged man couldn't
even work that up
well he's showing what these people are
really like right like if Trump had
nominated somebody with the exact same
horrible politics but maybe a better
manner people might still think that the
Supreme Court is an apolitical body when
in fact it's clearly not are there
advantages to it I suppose I mean I
suppose until we start seeing those
hearings if someone was gonna vote
exactly the way this guy was but this is
an indication that this guy may be even
worse in some of these instances I mean
we don't know there's no way to know I
mean in a perfect world we would have
the ability to divine you know how is
one person going to vote versus another
but this is indicative of of someone who
clearly had no judicial temperament and
it is a reflection on on exactly who the
Republican Party is because they saw
this in this guy he's Breezies parading
it on public in public well they're so
tell me it is well that's all it's all
about the politics of aggrievement
right like even when they're winning
they still need something to be pissed
off about otherwise they can't whip up
the base
