let's talk about this this new I mean
this is how absurd our politics have
become and become is the wrong word I
mean it's been like this for for for for
almost two decades now at least maybe
more but the the centrality of this is
also fascinating and I think part of
this is because of the government
shutdown right now because in the
absence of an argument over policy and
like you know there doesn't seem to be
any arguments left right about the
government shutdown it's not until like
I said earlier people wealthier people
start feeling the pain will we hear the
stories of the the most marginal who are
feeling the pain so it's really a air
travel but right now and this is gonna
seem bizarre to a lot of you the right
wing is up in arms about this web ad for
is it for Gillette now you know how like
that they had that slogan Gillette is
the best a man can get well Gillette has
done a short film on essentially toxic
masculinity right that which is I think
it's you know it's a it's a glib term
but there is a a problem when you have
the overwhelming number of mass shooters
Armel when you have a tremendous amount
of domestic abuse perpetrated by males
sure there are examples of the opposite
no doubt that's not to diminish it when
you have the incredibly high incidence
of of rape and sexual harassment when
you have environments that are difficult
for women because of the attitudes
of men there when you you know all of
this it's a problem for society so I
understand it's not a problem
necessarily for all men it may not be a
problem for some women but as society as
a whole it's a problem and so a
corporation sees that they decide we're
going to take a position because it's
gonna help our sales I don't think that
Gillette is a particularly good company
because of this but yeah if you just by
Gillette just because of this you're
buying into a broader logic that's right
problem but with that said that's a good
I don't think it's bad to get out there
right brands but very this is a very
dopeboyz guy it's it's it's symbiotic
it's a very dopeboyz conversation and
it's like you you praised the brand for
moving in the right cultural space and
forwarding things but you also don't
fall for the bigger hustle of like oh
well here's how I have you don't even
have to praise the band I can just say
you gotta have something wrong with you
if you're upset about a Gillette
commercial that says men shouldn't be
abusive to people play this is this the
best a man can get
is it we can't hide fern it's been going
on fart now posit just explain what we
just saw we saw a kid a boy crying and
the implication is you've been bullied
bike being called a freak and a
 but whatever it was and then we
see you know some sitcoms that are you
know the joke is about a woman's ass or
breasts or something like that I mean
stupid stuff some stuff that we would
just look at is like just boy that is
you got to be moronic in this day and
age to think that's funny and or oh
that's incredibly cruel there are kids
who are really bullied in school and and
certainly bullying happens with girls
without a doubt I know this for a fact
but again the message here is hey we
used to have an image of our product
that we think is anachronistic and we
want to update it and we want to say
that there are certain things that maybe
that that concept of the best a man
could get was a little bit maybe a
slightly problematic or at least was not
aggressive enough and saying you know we
there's some responsibilities whatever
but continue
[Applause]
we can't laugh at all
what I actually think she's trying to
say making the same old excuses but
something finally change that's cool and
there will be no going back because we
we believe in the best in men men need
to hold other men accountable smile
sweetie come on to say the right thing
to act the right way not cool not cool
some already are in ways big your men
and small eyes job
[Music]
but some is not enough
we treat each other okay
because the boy is watching today
we'll be the men of tomorrow disaster
well I wish that madmen had gone far
enough into the future for a very old
Don Draper to have to deal with this
kind of advertising culture he would
have made the ad well yeah but you guys
felt very good alerted about it gotta
stop a bling I notice I don't like this
is I mean you look at this and the the
amount of outrage that has been I mean I
just like what possibly how could you
possibly get upset about that bad ad if
you love toxic masculinity I mean
honestly what are you Sam it's
inhibiting boys ability to beat each
other up at a at a barbecue well
according to a very smart YouTube
commenter all of you guys on this show
have actually been feminized by your
exposure to radical feminism so for that
I a must apologize I do remember
Rush Limbaugh complaining about the fact
that people wearing pink ties it was
feminizing of course not regressive
psychopathic boys they simply don't care
oh by the way I will be wearing a pink
tie at the TPMS live show on February 4
is that right yes I mean this isn't
right Jordan a purpose no I
it was the wardrobe choice plan before
this in fact you've planned out your
wardrobe choice yes Sam I'll take these
and don't bully me for it
[Laughter]
