[Music]
really the the protest with with Diane
Feinstein yesterday when we mentioned it
and it is it's it's garnering a you know
perhaps maybe a little more attention
than people would have anticipated but
it is I think indeed it clearly is
indicative of of something that has
struck a nerve and because as we get
closer to the potential of defeating
Donald Trump and perhaps taking the the
Senate in 2020 a climate change is going
to re-emerge as an issue that we can
actually do something about to some
extent it goes away during I mean
because it climate change self does not
the urgency does not obviously it grows
with with time it's less of a focus when
there's a sense that you have completely
controlled Republican government because
they will do nothing about it not just
do nothing about it they will actively
fight against the the reality of it and
as we get now that we have a
democratically controlled house that's
why that debate begins to to heat up and
that's why it becomes largely an
internal democratic debate because the
Republicans are movable on that Accord
and ultimately to the extent that
climate change is going to be addressed
in a timely fashion they're going to
have to be irrelevant to the equation so
the argument becomes between people in
the Democratic Party essentially who
will hopefully have
a hold of levers of power and how
seriously they will will take this and
that's why pushing Diane Feinstein to
swing for the fences when we already
know that there's not gonna be any run
scored until Democrats take control
she's up there saying look what we're
gonna do is we're gonna try for a single
because I've been here for 30 years and
I know the best we can do is a single
but the fact of the matter is it's not
going to mean anything either way
everything we're doing now about climate
change every argument we're having about
climate change is for what can be done
when Democrats take control so when
Dianne Feinstein says like I I can get
something passed it's irrelevant
anyways passing something with the
Republicans today is irrelevant the
Interior Department just rolled back
1,700 or provided 1700 waivers for
safety regulations following the BP
disaster there's no part of the Trump
administration or the Republican
governance that is going to actively
engage in climate change so the the
places to to fight about this are within
the Democratic Party and I guess also on
the view where Megan McCain has a really
interesting take on this just I want you
to just before you hear her take on this
I'm just gonna say her name to you and I
want you to think about that her name is
Megan McCain what the hell I love Dianne
Feinstein now I loved everything about
Adam and the minority on this I really
hate when people use children as
political props in general i what i
thought of thank you very much is that
there was a kid named Jonathan Crone who
spoke at CPAC in 2009 and he was like
the new young conservative voice and he
came made cable appearance
and later on as an adult he said he was
naive he was just saying the stuff he
had heard for a long time he also said I
shouldn't have done that speech it was a
bad idea later on as an adult and I
think children have to be able to grow
up and make their own political
decisions about what they want and
anyone shaming Diane Feinstein she has
been doing this 30 years and if you
don't like it she also said in that I
won by a million vote margin I don't
agree with her politically but she makes
a lot of good she's talking about
basically the things you have to go
through but you know I would make just
one point about this because years ago
during the AIDS crisis Larry Kramer was
on my show he was the person who did act
up and really went after people about
aids medical help it's such a child Hey
no he was a grown-up Larry Crim his
famous activist and he was going after
Elizabeth Taylor now Elizabeth Taylor
was a pro activist she was one of the
champions in the AIDS crisis and he was
going after her and I said why are you
picking on her and he said because if I
go after the aunt eyes nothing gets done
I can at least make a dent when I'm
talking to someone on our side and Diane
Feinstein has an incredible record on
climate change so yes go to her because
if we go to that guy in half who's
holding a snowball and thinks of that
makes the point about global global
climate change you're gonna get nothing
out of it and Trump same thing I
actually think that kids today know a
lot about climate change and they are
the ones that are gonna be directly
affected by it my kids know a lot about
climate change they know a lot about
recycling and I think you give them
short shrift if you say you know what
they don't know enough they should keep
their mouths shut
I think my daughter Paloma is 12 years
old and she could give Diane Feinstein a
list of reasons why she should vote
Pop's and I I don't like the way the
cheese this is a common cheap trick
using the kid as a prop I never liked it
I never did fit yeah yeah so in other
words the two people who are sitting at
that table because their dads were
stationed and with that I would like to
announce that I'm leaving the view right
exactly
I know Jonathan Crone we had him on the
show actually back four or five years
ago months before I started and I
remember going through the the the
archives that's one of the more bizarre
we well I was actually talking about him
on on break room live and mocking him
and I think the problem that Megan is
having is that she's finding out that on
the right they use the kids as props and
you know kids you use the props in all
sorts of contexts and put in this
instance these kids it really is their
future and you don't need to be a
scientist to make the case that we have
a urgent need to address climate change
because the overwhelming number of
scientists who study this stuff have
made that case so you can just simply
rely on the 97% of scientists who weigh
in on this and you don't need to be a
scientist yourself and Dianne Feinstein
has probably done no more reading then I
would imagine some of the parents who
are with those kids about this oh
definitely and it's also just such a
I'll be on brand for a second and I'll
mention South Africa there's a there's a
you know a thing in there's the ANC
Youth League right like just the civil
rights movement was powered by you know
teenage and younger activists so like
it's very funny that the conceptions
anyways I mean totally but more broadly
there's an important point here too that
like not only is is young people in
politics not a prop necessarily it's
actually
Howard some extremely significant things
and it's going to meet you on this
because they're literally like we are to
a much higher degree to Diane Feinstein
and if you're 14 to a higher degree than
us live on this planet that's being made
on habit about the parkland well right
that's another great example of course
not I mean so these kids were like 5 to
6 years younger but the issue is is the
message they was bringing is probably
fairly straightforward and so Megan
McCain may have issues with the way that
she was used as a prop at different
times which perfectly legitimate she
should write another book about it but I
would love to read that book good for
joy behar to for making the point that
you you protest people you have leverage
with there is there may be some modicum
of value to protest people you have no
leverage with but it is really just more
for your own well-being and to make
yourself feel good but you protest on
issues where you want legislation with
legislators who on some level at least
are within the ballpark of needing to
listen to you and all of the things
we're supposed to at least pretend that
they have to listen to you right well I
mean dianne feinstein did not like to be
in that situation even if she's not
gonna she not to run for reelection or
whatnot but the the bottom line is she
feels some pressure from that because
somewhere in her social circle somewhere
in her political operation there are
people who are who are susceptible to
that type of pressure and if she wasn't
she would have just lock the door and
not how don't come in at all yeah so the
you know the they feel the pressure
certainly more from their from you know
then had they gone down to JM in offices
office definitely and you know there's a
certain amount of some psychology and in
otherwise she just you know she I mean
Dianne Feinstein can't possibly be like
I'm just gonna watch my back as a
pre-election sign also in the ways where
everybody's sort of praising her for
breaking down supposedly other world
works to these kids is indicted why the
world does it is constituted it does not
work I've been here for thirty that is
the most extra credit party leaders
because unfortunately Republicans have
accomplished a lot a complan but you
have all of these Democrats running
around saying I've worked on this for
decades well okay well let me apply a
little market logic to that right
exactly I think about your life think
about your choices
