[Music]
so I've been telling people I have not
been sleeping well maybe this is part of
the reason but I'd like to well first do
we have a clip of Donald Trump to
explicate this this is a yeah which one
was it
Oh number 2 let's play number 2 this is
Donald Trump with what was his former
friend Fox News's Maria Bartiromo
on the issue of Senator McCain and
replace we would have had great health
care but mr. friendly said he can't
punch back I know you punch back he's
dead I don't talk about it people ask me
the question I didn't bring this up you
just brought it up you asked the
question he talked about it this week
you asked me the question when I went
out yesterday to the scrum they asked me
the question when they asked me the
question I answer the question but you
people bring it up I don't bring it up
I'm not a fan he was horrible what he
did with the repeal and replace it was
what he did to the Republican Party and
to the nation and to sick people that
could have had great health care was not
good so I'm not a fan of John McCain oh
that's fine do you feel a responsibility
as president to bring the nation
together I do I do and I think I am in a
certain way bringing it together I can
tell you that a big portion of this
nation is united like it's never been
United before you look at our economy
you look at jobs you look at African
American the lowest in the history of
our country unemployment numbers the
best numbers they've ever had but that's
what I miss panic you look at Asian you
look at women the best in 65 years best
numbers in 65 years I think I am
bringing it together I think I'm
bringing it together talking about John
McCain I just said you brought up a
question Maria I didn't bring it up I
didn't mention John McCain until you
asked me a question about John McCain
now I could say I have no comment but
that's not me but you shouldn't have
brought it up actually I thought you
weren't supposed to bring it up but
that's okay you know nothing fake news
that once it
it's not fake news you just told me why
you have an issue with him I it's it's a
very serious issue he handed something
to the FBI on me
he knows was a fake he handed it to the
FBI that's an issue and now we're gonna
get Helen replace of Obamacare he
campaigned for years that's an issue but
I didn't bring it up Murray you did Wow
I really feel like there's some type of
falling out there anyways like I say I
have not been sleeping well and I think
I know part of the reason I don't know
if you're there or on what device that
we could be reaching you but Senator
John McCain's ghost are you with us
how are you my friend the pipes keeping
you up at night they they are they are
thank you for for joining us I don't
know where he sounds like it can is
there any way you can turn him down I
don't know if there's a senator can you
just you know give a counter I'm going
to a different you know spiritual realm
right now are you there
I'm right here okay that sounds it to go
yeah just a problem all right well so
Senator John McCain's ghost I'm I have
to ask you why why are you why are you
hunting Donald Trump in this way well my
friend as you know John McCain's Telly's
tells it like it is which is the
opposite of Donald Trump and it's a
complete lie I haven't been haunting him
at all I've been haunting joy behar who
has been a total to my daughter on
the view I said that's who I've been
haunting my friend and the idea that
Donald Trump where was he in Vietnam
I've been haunting joy and one night I
made whoopee think that her dreads were
that there was a bird in her dreads but
besides that it's all been joy a bird
and her dreads okay but you are you so
you tell me you haven't been I mean
because it really appears like you know
you died months ago a year ago I don't
know and Donald Trump seems to be
constantly talking about him are you
telling me that you have not I mean you
have not been haunting him I have not
been haunting
Trump it's been a very disorienting time
for me and I'll tell you the most
disorienting part of even realizing
being of what it's been like to be dead
is a completely different life altering
experience
Donald Trump has nothing to do with it
well what has been disorienting about
being dead
well for one getting used to not having
a physical form and secondly not getting
invited on Meet the Press on a weekly
basis right that's got to be very that's
gonna be tricky but let let let's let's
be clear about something my friend
whatever it is in my spiritual form not
getting invited on Meet the Press you
know what it is what it's good for John
McCain it's good for John McCain there
was a lot of that back in the day but
all right so you have you ever
disrespected my daughter you Jew yeah I
have I'm sorry well get used to the pipe
noises and coming in and complaining
about your your back and whatever
goddamn else the one thing I like about
being dead is I could call you a Jew
like that and no repercussions no
repercussions and so tell me I mean what
you you you you you haven't been you
claim you haven't been haunting Donald
Trump but yet the only I mean we have at
least almost a half a dozen Republicans
who have come out and said it's
inappropriate for for Trump to be
criticizing you in your death I mean no
Lindsey Graham used to ask me for
pictures back when I was in the in the
airforce just so we could look at him
you were loyal back what's that I'm
sorry John McCain you were quite a snack
so I don't think you can really blame
him that was never in question was that
in question was in question just asking
you so now is there a is there so you
claim not to be haunting Donald Trump
but yet why is your name still why we
been talking why are we talking to you
first of all we do you want sex in the
city or something did you ever do
anything notable with your life that I
would know you for well I was actually
on Sex in the City I did do a guest spot
there I'm guessing it was with the
lawyer broad and not one of the hot ones
it was with the lawyer broad yes not one
of the hot ones did you even get to
sleep with her or is it sort of like a
best friend but straight guy sort of
thing originally written for a gay guy
but giving to you instead is like a Jew
thing yeah I know that that's almost a
totally accurate depiction of the role I
played yeah well I appreciate you being
straight with me so I'm gonna give it to
you straight
I haven't been haunting Donald Trump but
have you ever seen the film The Sixth
Sense I did yes actually you know how
Bruce Willis yeah didn't know he was
dead right so for several months after I
died I'm in the well of the Senate
saying that we need to give madula
Moldova's suitcase nukes to confront
Putin and Lindsay isn't even there to
give me a back massage and it was a well
how did you come to realize that you
were actually dead I realized it on the
fourth time that Chuck Todd did not
return one of my texts when I said hey
you cue ball loser where's my
spot on MSNBC and there was no response
and then what would you my daughter stop
asking me for money and that's how you
knew that you were dead at that point
and I said my friends if we don't
simultaneously bomb Libya Ukraine gives
suitcase nukes to Moldova arm and
insurgency in Venezuela and unilaterally
recognize a joint state between Saudi
Arabia and Israel
boutonnieres won and there wasn't one
media booking but Scott did you have
that moment I mean I remember that movie
where like Bruce Willis was completely
freaked out and he kept running around
the house and looking and replaying
stuff in his head like what did um what
are those things I called Jeff Flake I
said hey what's up gay flake nothing
I told Cindy that her new nail job maker
looked like a working woman I didn't put
it that way nothing registered just
ignored just like totally ignored yeah
as you can imagine having a complete and
our statistics personality disorder is
very difficult when you're a ghost
can you imagine that's difficult have
you have you reached out to anybody else
I mean it's sort of weird that you and I
would connect cuz I was never quite the
fan well I mean I was obviously a never
fan of you I found politics aside
Janeane Garofalo to be a much more
appealing radio personality but I've
always enjoyed the company of Jews who
 and whine about their health and
since Jo like Lindsey has completely
portrayed me not only chump but the
goddamn Chinese and I can't seem to get
an NBC Booker's to get booked as a ghost
but that's working on my friend so I
would like to come in my spiritual form
and explain why of course we can
assassinate Maduro actually very easily
so you've come to me because Joe
Lieberman wasn't available is that what
you're saying is that the most insulting
thing you've ever heard in your life
well it's pretty close I mean kids a
little bit worse but look like I bet
your facial expression which I can see
right now spiritually looks like my wife
when I tell her what her hair look like
all right well listen John McCain's
ghost thank you so much for taking the
time today maybe we will talk to you
again in the future I will see you
tonight my friend but I hope you enjoy
your Casper mattress because no rest oh
well I appreciate that thank you very
much that's great John McCain's ghost
doesn't mince words he's super cranky
still he's already cancelled so he can
say whatever he wants
