[Music]
ilan Omar came back to Minneapolis
Airport was this last night I guess yes
and this is good to see here she is
that's good to see that's encouraging
it's great
yep here's let's just hear her she spoke
in the wake of Donald Trump's attacks
and there's you know there's genuine
concern about her safety the safety of
the members of the squad frankly there
should be concerned about I mean
throughout the country but here she is
[Applause]
they did send her back they didn't know
I was already going back so everybody
talks about how he is threatened because
we criticized him but the reality is he
is threatened because we are inspiring
people to dream about a country that
recognizes we are pushing for a
government that takes care of its sick
of its most vulnerable which are its
children and its elderly we are pushing
for a government and a country that
recognizes that we are all one that what
I gained is a game for my sister and for
my brother we have always been about
creating a more perfect union an
inclusive one one that is not just
tolerant but accepting and so since the
first day this president introduced the
Muslim ban knowing that Mike the country
I came from was on that and that my
country now was on the track of
implementing fascist laws I knew that I
had to speak up
[Applause]
because hope lies hope lies in the
dreams of every immigrant who is able to
achieve that American dream hope lies
and every child that is able to achieve
its full potential hope lies in every
student that achieves an education and
has a regular pathway to success hope
lies in our constant renewal and so when
I said I was the hope of the United
States is because I embody with that
hope should look like nightmare while
you're watching it now
because kids nightmare is seeing a
Somali immigrant refugee
[Applause]
[Music]
nightmare is seeing the beautiful mosaic
fabric of our country welcomed someone
like me as their member of Congress and
so we are gonna continue to create that
hope we are in the people's house and we
are gonna continue to keep fighting
until you have the America we know we
all deserve thank you
she's she's obviously has for a very
long time been by far my favorite member
of the house and I mean that's just such
an important reminder here too of like
getting back to the fact that this like
mushy has done more for most of the
idiots and Trump's crowd then he's done
I mean in fact he works against them if
we're talking about the economic
policies I mean while this was happening
just this week she and Sanders have a
new push against Amazon in their factory
conditions yes she's the co-sponsor on
the debt relief bill Medicare for all
eleven first responders 911 first
responders which is which is you know
stunning of course because one would
think she would have a different view of
that from although I shouldn't even make
that joke I mean the lies about her just
so grotesque and she's like that's it
firm grounds of anti racism but also
it's a positive affirmative shared Civic
space and then let's go achieve common
goals it I mean it's people have no idea
how lucky they are to have that kind of
leadership now it is I mean let's just
for a moment like just to contemplate
the idea that Rand Paul
was pushing for the 9/11 compensation
fund and Ilan Omar was the one who was
holding it up right like I'm right what
like like they would they would they
would they would be sending police
squads to the hill they would be
attempting to arrest her if she thought
us out like that
and the there is nothing more discussion
this is like one of the few times where
I wish like the the Jews had a Pope so
the Pope could come out and say like hey
incidentally all of you who are trying
to leverage the Jews in this way you're
disgusting and you're all if you Jewish
you're excommunicated and if you're not
just you know I'm the Pope of the Jews
104 so I mean it's it's really been
grotesque and anybody look I always have
to say just you know Chuck Schumer Steny
Hoyer and Nancy Pelosi not only did not
have her back in the first wave a couple
of months ago right they went to a pack
and co-signed on lies about her and they
and and that editor at the forward I can
never remember her name but she's
constantly trying to drum things up
against Al on you they share a role in
this it's disgusting
not only they share a role I mean from a
from a moral perspective all right let's
just step back from that sure but from a
political perspective a opened the door
agent Lee well they open the door but
Russ remember not only did they open the
door to this because they they they sort
of capitulated with their narrative they
stepped all over their big rollout of
their big signature bill HR 1 and I
don't know if people remember this but
they did they had this House Resolution
1 was a massive anti-corruption bill it
it across the board it got money out of
politics I mean it's just it would be an
impressive piece of legislation it did
not get five minutes of news coverage
because the Democrats opened the door
Nancy Pelosi etc - to this
criticism of Ilan Omar and they tried to
exploit it they got they lost that
internal battle and they lost much of
their agenda because they signed on to
it and yet they will not learn that
lesson and frankly you know I've been
surprised that there's not more there's
not more been written about this because
that was there that you know on day one
not quite today one but week one week
two they completely dropped the ball for
their agenda even on their own terms
well that's the lesson with all of these
people were gone are the days of I
disagree with them maybe like vehemently
but they have some sort of ruthless
efficacy and narrow political games
these people don't have that and I also
just want to say from the social media
perspective I just want to reiterate
that if a politician or journalist or a
think-tank person is saying you know if
they put out the I condemn the president
xenophobia blah blah blah it has to
mention her name specifically you have
to have the specific stake of how this
is being weaponized against the specific
person because as Mehdi Hasan tweeted
yesterday or the day before and his
words they're trying to kill her you
need to be very clear about who this is
centered on
