so let me ask you a couple questions
that struck me as saira bizarre how is
it in my understanding is that the gap
with Gilliam is still closing and we had
somebody call in last night who said
that the new florida licenses that were
issued apparently did not scan by the
voting machines you know when they
signed them to vote cool democracy and
that all those people were given
provisional ballots because if some
screw-up with the three deep imprint on
the floor two licenses now I haven't
confirmed that Florida but but if that's
the case that there are a lot of
provisional ballots and Gilliam you know
accounts maybe I don't know maybe it
becomes closer maybe we'll see but how
do you reconcile the idea that amendment
for which Rhian franchises 1.5 million
felons overwhelmingly passed in Florida
but DeSantis looks like he won how do
you square those two things hunter that
came across as kind of like a like a toy
provisional ballots are important they
do flip elections sometimes Democrats at
this point especially in a race in races
like it like states like Georgia rather
and Florida are pretty good now at
chasing people who had election day
problems and if they had written about
going after them so that is why I think
you have not seen a call on the Florida
Senate race for example there that's why
there's a couple of races I think you're
not going to resolve for weeks and you
know if this is this is something that I
think Democrats you're going to have a
discussion from some of the House
Democrats about introducing a bill that
would not pass but would bring national
attention to voting reform
to solve this problem because look a
Brian Kemp might end up winning this
election after I met after running at
this after running it pretty badly the
two issues that I think Democrats have
begun to highlight as the kind of good
government issues are voter integrity
and gerrymandering and on both of those
when gerrymandering was on the ballot
this year got completely wiped out in
Missouri in Michigan in we're waiting on
Utah in the least two states dinner you
know people voted against you're a man
during I think there's probably a
electoral majority for how about we
don't make people stand in line for five
hours but he don't screw up the voting
machines etc but Democrats have not you
know the last time they had power they
didn't do a ton on that issue and I
think they've gotten scared Street since
then all right well I'm sorry I so I had
two questions I had two questions that
were rolled in there one was just sort
of leading in about maybe the chance to
Gilman pick picked up but how do you
square the the the fourth amendment in
Florida winning or I should say
amendment four or whatever I can't
remember what winning so easily and
Gilliam losing like how do i does that
make sense to you can you explain that I
can very easily so this is this is this
is like a great little game theory
question because on the one hand the
stakes were very high to win the
governor's race in Florida the other
hand the stakes were high maybe for you
know generations to get this amendment
passed and in Florida you need 60% of
the vote to pass a constitutional
amendment so there was a decision made
by the people behind that amendment not
to make it super partisan now Andrew
Gilliam was for it Ron de Santos was
against it
believer Scott was against it certainly
Rick Scott probably personally denied
enough for felons rights to get him the
lead he has right now but they kind of
kept Republican big money on the
sidelines by not turning in this into a
partisan cause and the people behind
amendment for very very clever
I got you know coke coke money some
Republican criminal justice reform money
they kept them on board with this as a
we can all agree on this Good Government
Reform and so they didn't yolk the
Democrats to that and they had they it's
hard it's hard to say what would have
happened so in Ohio you had about
measure that that failed on criminal
justice reform and the statewide
Democratic ticket failed in Florida all
you need it was this thing to get 59% of
the vote and you would have lost your
best chance perhaps ever to change that
law so I think it was a strategic
decision and you know but for a hundred
thousand votes in Florida we're not even
asking about it I mean they're saying it
was brilliant at it that's I mean that's
amazing right I mean because it also
suggests that like when you do have
races you know these special elections
when all the Democrats pour in their
national money that that may be
counterproductive because you are sort
of like triggering you know like
everybody like it's like out the
electorate now has this sort of latent
virus that can be triggered by
environmental changes and once the
environment changes they turn into you
know everything becomes super tribal no
it's not just that but imagine if the
President had just tweeted at the start
of early voting
I don't know they'd kitten the trumpet
voice here Florida membered for the
disgrace would bring criminals to our
streets vote against it for the troops
you know something like that
the president's like use his campaign
megaphone to say vote against this and
that had flipped you know two hundred
thousand votes that would have but that
would have been the ballgame so they had
to be very careful about this and that's
there's a quirk of the way Florida
amends Constitution which to me about
the craziest idea I think getting 60% of
the votes probably good I mean North
Carolina passed a couple of bad
amendments now with 55% of the vote
how so that was the way that they
decided to build the campaign around
this and
how do you explain let's say like Ohio
