[Music]
Johnny Ramone with fam Peeta the destiny
of America is
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any elite
they are unanimous in their hate for me
and I love that hatred we must guard
against the acquisition of unwarranted
influence whether sought or unsought by
the military-industrial complex so much
our day report with sam cedar
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
it is Monday October I apologize
October 22nd 2018 my name is Michael
Brooks this is the five-time
award-winning majority report on a
Michael Sam Monday on on today's program
we have a brand new interview that Sam
conducted with Anand Jude artists dear
Dardis author of winner-take-all on our
age of extreme unequal outcomes this was
recorded on Friday and then we've got a
bunch of stories to get to in the fun
half Jamal khashoggi the Saudis have a
new version of an increasingly bizarre
but actually you should be expecting a
story from the Saudi monarchy as
president air Dewan promises to reveal
everything within 48 hours which is a
good negotiating tactic forever whatever
he wants from the Saudis in the next 48
hours bolson ro committed apparently
through a slush fund mass voter illegal
voting tactics through fake news spread
on whatsapp you expect better from your
fascists you expect better from your
fascist you also might expect better
from I don't know what's up parent
company Facebook which I thought just
set up a warm room to deal with these
sorts of things apparently not for
Brazil I guess John testers race is
tightening up he might be susceptible to
a Republican challenge in Montana as
Democrats maintain a national edge and
Donald Trump circles in on the core
Republican brand proposition white
identity politics fear and racism as he
lies and lies and lies and lies about
that caravan of asylum seekers at the
Guatemalan and Mexican border Fox
and the Republicans are going back home
in an attempt to stave off a blue wave
in the midterms plus Tucker Carlson
we're gonna get into the Carlson
methodology you'll never guess what
Republican congressman Jason Lewis is
attempting to suppress and public
Richard Oh Jetta releases another great
ad which could point the way for the
future of how to flip red states even as
I just got back from doing a little bit
of canvassing for expand Idaho an
excellent Medicaid expansion project
pulling a very well in deep red Idaho
did you get a cowboy hat out there Oh
next time I go out there I said I'm
gonna we're gonna I'm gonna get on a
Carhartt jacket cowboy hat and getting
goddamn yeah I'm ready to do that I like
that I actually I will i I want to go
back I want to go back to Idaho go west
young man I'll go back out west listen
ma'am understand listen to on your Alex
Jones and you're under educated but
think it was that I think you want some
goddamn health care is that matter you
learned that's what I said door-to-door
it's like you might be you may have a
linear family treat is strawbe I vow
that I did a bad George Bush impression
and I insulted people and fish Medicaid
I would really recommend that everybody
get out and do something like that
whether it's door-to-door I actually do
you know what I always say like phone
bank or go to a protest or you know
break a window now I'm just playing I
don't say break a window publicly but I
always sort of like put all of that
stuff out there but I would say there's
actually something super specifically
gratifying about going door-to-door
it's an incredibly educational it's it's
a good thing it'll do you good
particularly if you're feeling very
bleak it's like going online but in the
real world yeah which is better
got it like literally in every way shape
and form it is significantly better oh
yeah people tend to be nicer IRL people
are nicer IRL and they do tend to be
they're a little it's a little bit more
complex not everyone and also you will
have occasion like I will like I
remember and I I I actually think on
this show we're pretty good about kind
of not buying into that sort of really
basic nonsense of just like sort of you
know doing like basic market
segmentation with people like oh that
guy has like a you know a camouflage hat
and a beard so obviously he's some type
of far-right whatever and and I will say
like the firt one of the first houses we
went to and I didn't have that much time
because I was mainly there for something
else I wish I had more time well the
first house we went to sky in the yard
it definitely hit me I was like yeah
this dude he looks like a Republican and
he's just like you know gotta worry
about it I already voted for you guys
early and I Luke my friend who's
spearheading this whole thing and has
this incredible team around them was
like oh I'm just okay thank you and I'm
curious like you know what got you over
the edge
and the guys just like well I just
that's the type of thing I vote for I
want people have healthcare man yeah
play pretty simple right this is a
message that can transcend party I think
I think the guy was actually definitely
a Democrat but yes it's story I will
tell later it can transcend party but
that's for the fun half let's um let's
do a nice little contrast here because
it is it is actually time and I'm and
one of the reasons that we maybe we
don't bang on about this as much as I
really do assume that if you're watching
or listening to this show you're
registered to vote you're engaged in the
process you understand the severity of
the midterms you're going to go out and
vote for Democratic candidates you're
gonna find the leftmost candidates you
can vote for who can win and you're
gonna make it happen
from district attorney's races DA's
races are crucial I want to shout out a
candidate in the fun half as well I'll
get the information up she's running in
Suffolk County
atchoo sits that's a to Democrat race
but one of the Democrats is uh you know
Pro drug war and the other ones as a
real reformer so you know this one of
the very important race is the
gubernatorial race in Florida and not
just because in my estimation Andrew
Gilliam is a good candidate who does
provide something different again with
all the obvious caveats which I pretty
soon I'm just gonna stop listing these
it should go without saying that a guys
on the verge of potentially becoming
governor of Florida is not as left-wing
as I am this is not like I don't know
how much these sort of obvious things
bear repeating but he's running really
aggressively on health care
he's running aggressively on the
environment which we're going to hear in
a second and and neatly you should care
profoundly about voting rights which are
under assault nationally by the GOP and
very specifically in Georgia where
there's another huge gubernatorial race
with a great candidate in Stacey Abrams
and Brian camps whole Wars to suppress
the vote of people of color in and of
themselves they matter and they're gonna
play a huge role in 2020
for flipping a state like Florida out of
the Trump column so this race matters a
lot and I gotta tell you this is the
type of thing and this is me being super
superficial watch Andrew Gilliam talk
about climate the climate crisis and a
scientific approach to it and then look
at the Santa tsa's who's the Republican
candidate who is known for putting out a
creepy campaign commercial being a
bizarre Trump acolyte being on I believe
white supremists Facebook and internet
forums and and generally being a very
kind of awkward odd out of the
mainstream guy now I want you to take
this on two levels one is that Andrew
column is absolutely right about climate
and also if you just are observing this
on a body language level let's put on
our jordan Peterson spectacles I was
just having to talk about this guy for a
weekend which is kind of a nightmare but
which of these two do you think is the
head lobster in charge and the only way
that you could think that it's not
Andrew Gilliam
I am gonna have to pull out some some
race on you cuz I have no idea how
else you could read this look at this
well first what Florida voters need to
know is that when they elect me governor
they don't have a governor who believes
in science which we haven't had for
quite some time in this state I'm not
sure what is so California about
believing that the state of Florida
oughta leave in solar energy we're known
as the Sunshine State at the very least
what we can do is be a global leader
here we got to teach the other 49 states
of what to do and what it means to have
a state that quite frankly leans into
the challenges of the green economy in
bills one and at the same time bills and
economy that lasts I'm proud that the
same week that Donald Trump pulled out
of the Paris Accord I broke ground in my
city on a 120 acre solar farm tripling
the amount of solar energy that we
produce we're prepared to lead and we've
done so in my city and will do so for
the state that is one of the most
Awkward body language I've ever seen
yeah it looks like instant like a time
lapse of some guy getting sick to his
stomach it looks it's like it looks like
one guy is a confident leader speaking
urgently about the future and the other
guy is auditioning for a flown a sad you
have something else to play here no I
guess it's just the same clip but with
the identity governor they don't have I
have another theory about what we have
for quite some time and the Republicans
so I think the theory you know Gilliam
says the thing of oh man suddenly he
just stare into the void right he says
we believe in science right and that's
obviously we've been over this a few
times that's not really the point the
point is that Republicans are paid to
obfuscate science that's right but the
other thing is maybe there's another
reason why Republicans don't care about
climate change besides you know funding
which is that's that they are
cold-blooded reptilians because if you
look at his body language here it looks
like something out of the x-files known
as the Sunshine State at the very least
what we can do is be a
leader here we got to see other 49
states mouthing that quite frankly leans
into the challenges about child faith
and at the same time feels so what is I
like with your theory mixed with the
curb music I mean like he's like a
really my stress reptile
we got happily seems like not cut for
the job of being a shape-shifting
overlords like in the first scene of
Blade Runner when they're giving the guy
the replicate test and he just like
freaks out well that's a good call
except I love Blade Runner but isn't
it's because he's too human well the
thing about reptile brain Santos is the
opposite they're like dude you're the
santoses yet out of reptile DeSantis is
reacting he's in the unenviable position
of being sort of humanoid reptilian but
understanding having some allegiance to
humans and realizing that the human side
is all going to be cooked so makes you
think he's actually having some guilt I
think he's experiencing sort of
primitive emotions in his lizard brain
there's like friendly plastic what is
he's having like the equivalent of like
an acid trip which is just like
experiencing the shame of and horror of
what he's actually representing here I
did an ad where my son quoted from
Donald Trump's book what hath we wrought
Who am I why do I hate this nice
gentleman across from me it was a time
when I tried to listen to Public Enemy
let's talk about audible what would it
look like if we all listened more
listening to audiobooks motivate us
inspire us even bring us closer together
there's no place better to listen than
audible because now audible members get
even more exclusive audio fitness
programs audiobooks audio originals and
more audible has the largest selection
of audiobooks on the planet right now
with audible originals the selection has
gotten even more custom with content
made just for members every month
audible members get one one credit good
for
audiobook they choose plus two audible
originals from changing a selection that
they can't get and that they can't get
anywhere else
they also get access to audio fitness
and health workouts created exclusively
for audible plus your ebooks are yours
to keep with audible you can go back and
re-listen anytime even if you cancel
your membership didn't like your
audiobook exchange it no questions asked
Matlock obviously I've got to go to you
on this what's happening inaudible right
now what are you consuming at double
speed well actually today a new literary
hangover dropped where I go into the
mystic Massacre or as it's also known as
the Pequot War and in this in the the
research for that I found a book that
came out this summer who actually it
actually might be an interesting history
MRR sort of thing for majority report
but anyway it's called god warren
providence the epic struggle of Roger
Williams and the Narragansett Indians
against the Puritans of New England and
the title mentions the Narragansett
Indians but there's a really good
chapter on the Pequot of the massacre of
the Pequots they're really good reading
I highly recommend it that is the type
and range of things that you can get on
audible and of course in addition to all
of the bestsellers and amazing original
programs you can even get a super
specific really important and really
well-written history book like that
start a 30-day trial in your first audio
book is free go to audible.com slash
majority or text majority to 500 500
that's 500 or 5 5 0 0 5 0 0 that's
audible.com slash majority or text
majority to 500 500 you can do it with
audio books those are noise going
somewhere no it's not mine I always have
my ringer off it's ok big corporations
are getting rich from selling your data
and Congress has completely failed to
save net neutrality or protect
your online privacy now internet
providers and cable carriers like
Comcast and Verizon believe nas called
Comcast Digital Satan
it's my ad-lib mobile carriers like
Comcast and Verizon are free to restrict
websites spying your online activity or
sell your browsing history to
advertisers will help with connectivity
to help but with one-click Express VPN
shields your online activity from
Internet and mobile providers expressvpn
has easy-to-use apps that run seamlessly
in the background of your computer phone
and tablet expressvpn secures and
anonymizes your internet browsing
history by encrypting your data and
hiding your public IP address get
expressvpn for less than seven dollars a
month expressvpn is rated the number is
rated the number one VPN service by tech
raider and comes with a 30-day
money-back guarantee if you ever use
public Wi-Fi and you want to keep
hackers and spies from seeing your data
expressvpn is the solution I love it
I always emphasize it was incredibly
easy to install and use I'm not someone
who enjoys technology that's why Apple
is able to take advantage of me because
I don't like to deal with it have it
setup for me I'm allergic to installing
things this was incredibly easy to
install incredibly easy to put on my
computer and phone and now I know that
I'm not helping these companies stalk me
and stalk all of us we're doing a little
bit it's a little it's it's it's in
Douglas rushkoff phrase it's a little
pebble you're getting a little bit of
anonymity back plus it's a much much
funner way to use services video
streaming services and I'll just leave
it at that to take back your internet
privacy today and find out how to get
you can get three months free go to
expressvpn comm slash majority that's
expr e SS V P
dot-com / majority for three months free
with a one-year package visit expressvpn
dot-com / majority to learn more we are
gonna go in just a moment to Sam's
interview with an ond uninjured artists
on and giad artists on winner-take-all
[Music]
you
on the phone Anand Gear Dardis the
author of winners take all the elite
charade of changing the world
Anand thank you so much for coming on
the program it's great to be with you
all right so give us a sense of of what
went into researching this book
you-you-you sort of immersed yourself or
you did immerse yourself in a culture
just give us a sense of that to start
this am I was taken by the observation I
made that we live in this age of
profound elite generosity rich people
giving back at every turn signing The
Giving Pledge you know when you go to
the shopping mall you you see all these
products that you know give back shoes
that are going to give back tote bags
they're going to give back I phone cases
that are going to give back Bono is
invariably involved you know you go to
elite campuses today and every young
graduate has a scheme to start a social
enterprise that will somehow convert
recycled poop into coffee and you know
it's all it's all about helping and
giving back and saving Africa wherever
that is for for these folks and and and
more and at the same time this has been
an age of persistent maddening
inequality in the United States of
America and and the reality is working
people and middle class people have in
many cases not benefited at all from the
last 40 years of American economic
change and the gains of the you know
so-called fourth Industrial Revolution
digital revolution genomics the internet
etc has all but bypassed them we have a
situation in this country in the world
where eighty-two percent of all new
wealth created last year was cornered by
the same top 1% that so elaborately and
generously gives back and so I became
interested in the paradox of the super
elite we talked about giving back who
talked about building companies that you
know inherently empower the masses and
create community that talk about
building social enterprises that that
sort of solve problems through the
mechanism of business rather than
government and I became interested in
how those very same people who are
helping are also hoarding and I as you
say immersed myself in their world I'm
kind of in terms of my approach and
writing a kind of portrait artist and I
spend time with people and try to
understand the world as they see it and
I decided to spend time in their world
for a couple years to to make sense of
how those who claim to be changing the
world from the top change it in ways
that fundamentally keep it the same and
keep themselves on top and and and did
you have exposure to this world
beforehand I mean this because on some
level right there's a quality of yeah I
feel like 15-20 years ago we would have
called this whitewashing right at least
in terms of of watching or greenwashing
depending on what the the company was
right but this is this is I guess
different because we're living in an age
of like the ascendance of highly
concentrated wealth I mean we've been
there before at different eras in our
and and at least in this country's
history but to what extent is there a
self-consciousness about it like to what
extent is there is is this sincere or I
guess to what extent is it sincere let's
let's start with that look there's a
spectrum there's a spectrum from the
naive to the shrewd as Paulo Freire I
called it you know I think you have you
have folks on Wall Street who are
essentially motivated by greed and who
understand that a certain amount of
carefully structured well publicized
giving can be a lubricant in the engine
of continued greed I think when you go
to Silicon Valley as I was in last
couple days you actually get a very
different picture which is rich people
who deeply believe that they are making
the world a better place in order term
to do so and who in their almost
messianic quest to do so in their way
are blind to all the ways in which they
are you know gutting the middle-class
and and building an economy that works
for for too few people and siphons the
gains from progress upward you know I
think what's what's very striking about
the time we're in is that the rich and
powerful are kind of have a dual
psychological reaction to living in an
age of extreme inequality and what I
mean by that is I think if you are a
hyper privileged person living in this
time you read the paper you are aware of
the era you live in and you know that
this is a time that's been that's been
punishing for millions of Americans it's
which the American Dream has stopped
working for perhaps a majority of
Americans and so you know you live in
that time in it and it weighs on you and
that knowledge I have found in my
reporting has kind of to a pair of kind
of paradoxical psychological effects
effect number one is that it fills rich
people with a desire to do something to
help to give back to chip in the start
of social enterprise to engage in making
this country work better for more people
on the other hand a country that that is
as unequal as ours
essentially raises the cost of falling
out of the top and when you have a more
equitable society it's not a tragedy to
be in the top 5% instead of the top 1%
right but in a country that reserves all
of the good education I think the good
housing and so much of life's bounty for
those at the very very top it raises the
cost of falling behind and so that dual
psychology I think is at the heart of
what what I found in the book which is
you end up with a lot of plutocrats or a
determined to make the world a better
place and be determined to do so in ways
that do not change their world do not
change the social structure atop which
they stand do not change their
opportunity to continue being win
in ways that predictably reliably
foreseeably cause many many others to
lose I want to I want to talk about the
sort of the the the methodologies and
using examples that are how we do that
but I want to circle back to that
because the the that dynamic right and
and let's stick first would that sort of
that notion of like the fractal
inequality on some level having such
great disparity years ago Chris Hayes
had written a piece about going to to
Davos and the pain and anguish that a
hundred millionaires had that their key
card did not go up to the billionaires
like literally I guess I haven't been
there but that was difficult and on some
level that that's what you're talking
about is there's such a steep cliff here
to lose that perch that these plutocrats
are developing they're they're two
tracks like how much of that is is how
much delusion has got to be involved in
that or is that part of that sliding
scale of sincerity well I think the
delusions that I am became interested in
as I did this reporting or the delusions
about what it takes to make things
better um a lot of the folks in this
kind of stratospheric Club and are
sincere about making things better I
think I I spent more time with sincere
people than in sincere ones and and yet
they are guided in their pursuit of a
better world by certain ideas about what
it takes to make the world better and
what has happened is an older language
and theory about how you make the world
better centered on the kind of language
of power and justice and rights on
practices like building movements and
seeking to change laws change systems
change structures that entire discourse
has been kind of shelved when elites
take over social change in favor of a
discourse
about scaling up what's good in favor of
a discourse of win-win solutions and
there's no sure the win-win Sam is
incredibly important because on the
surface who's gonna be against a win-win
it's like a it's like one victory but
but then - but the reality is the
win/win has become this very sinister
idea in this in this fear of social
change win-win in its origin at about
market exchange you have ice cream I
have money to make a trade win-win but
what has happened is the win-win has
metastasized and into the arena of
social change so that it is now claimed
that social change must be a win-win
which is basically a way of saying the
pet the powerless and the left behind
must be helped in ways that benefit
those on top and so what you end up with
when when wind becomes a kind of
requirement or change is the kind of
change that changes nothing women who
people claim they want to empower are
told to lean in which is kind of win-win
feminism instead of able to count on the
kind of actual social policies that are
proven in other countries to actually
empower women you know we may do a
win-win of a charter school that lets a
hedge fund guy in Connecticut feel
involved have his name on it sit on the
board you know like he got you know a
couple kids into Yale so for minorities
and feel proud of himself and brag about
on the golf course on Saturday but
that's just that kind of win-win that
effects very few lives in the grand
scheme of the problem real change on
that issue would be you know equalizing
public school funding for everybody in
this country and not funding public
schools according to mommy or daddy
property taxes and home value well
that's the kind of change rich rich
people can't believe in and so they tend
to proffer either unwittingly or
wittingly these kind of light sack
similes have change or even fake change
that changed nothing at all so the the
this concept of win-win feels like a
rising tide lifts all boats and
you know the the solution to these
problems is growth but applied on some
level to the concept of power I think
that's exactly right
which is that you know the idea of you
can disorder that these nuns there are
some situations is based on resources
and it's often true for some kinds of
resources I mean it's true that you know
if we change our farming methods of
cooperating a certain way your farm can
be bigger and so can mine but as you say
you know while resources may be may be
finite resources may be you know have
the capacity to grow power in terms of
you know who has a percentage of power
is sort of necessarily zero-sum and if
you have you know fifty percent of power
and I want more power the only way to
get more power to reduce your 50 percent
share and what has happened in a lot of
the spheres I write about this kind of
market world but I that I write about in
the book is that essentially the values
of the marketplace and a kind of win-win
change have been applied to this rather
different situation of zero-sum power
relationships is this I mean is this is
there an analog in history where you
have plutocrats attempting to both like
sort of like simultaneously empower but
also make sure that people are not
genuinely empowered well I mean I think
I think you could say history is the
story of different versions of that you
know so so the simplest example is
humanism you know if you think about the
show like Downton Abbey right or any in
any other kind of feudal world like that
you know Downton Abbey you got this one
family the Grantham's living in the
castle living in all the land it's their
land it's their it's their Manor and
then you got all these other people you
got the servants living in the basement
you got the you know tenant farmers
living on the edges of the farm going to
work and getting I guess some share of
the crop and the Grantham family is very
kind and very generous and when
something happens the servant they are
generous and sometimes I guess give the
money or let them go away and deal with
whipping to deal with when the tenant
farmers get into a bad situation they're
not close to them they're kind they're
they're generous but the generosity of
the Grantham family in Downton Abbey
does not extend to justice because what
justice would demand in that situation
would be a change in the social
structure that allows one family to live
in the castle and own all the land and
everybody else to be servants in the
basement or land with tenant farmers so
that is a classic example of how a
ruling class can be generous can be
helpful can throw scraps down for the
top of the mountain but refuses to
question the situation that lets them be
on the mountain and everybody else be
living hard precarious lives and I think
what is going on in America is in many
ways a kind of brief utilization and in
it seems to me that to some extent that
we have that you know we've created a
lot of these sort of social mechanisms
in which to delude ourselves that that's
not happening right like we have a
concept of the meritocracy that is that
stuff is built into the cake like I'm
the only example I could use a beast you
know as someone's a great baseball
hitter in the idea that like you know
they always desired to get to the top of
the heap to turn it into kickball
they're just not going to do it because
real merit is when you when you hit the
ball with a bat as
opposed to kicking it with your with
your foot and on some level like we the
the meritocracy has been the this
instrument right that that that are the
the the power that we have is a function
of merit and it just so happens that you
know merit made us the winners yeah
I think that's right look I mean I was
at a podcast with Chris Hayes the other
day and he made this point that every
ruling class in history invents an
ideology and a kind of common cultural a
set of common cultural assumptions and
and that these and that this kind of
structure of ideas serves to reinforce
why they are the ones who deserve be on
top and this age is no different a lot
of what I'm trying to suggest are the
particular ideas that this generation of
super elites has spun in order to make
us think that this was the system we
should be living under because I truly
believe that a lot of what happens in
the world is because of illusions that
we believe in common and I think if we
stop believing those illusions a lot of
new ways of making progress becomes
possible
well was there a difference between the
the the I guess the disposition of some
of these people it seems to me can be
described as sort of consciously letting
some of the air out of the tires you
know just so that the things don't
explode some people you know genuinely
believe in this notion that we can
expand we can grow our way out of like a
power you know disparity what are we're
the different sort of perspectives on
this a just a function randomly of
people to people or were there like
different sectors where you would see
one sort of form of disposition versus
another I mean I don't know tell me tell
me in terms of the characters that you
read what do you think
about like there seems to be like a
distinct quality to sort of the tech
folks that have a sort of a more utopian
notion maybe then others who are sort of
like aware like I got a I got a kick
some back to keep things from from
boiling over yeah I think that's right I
think that's right and I think they you
know have a strong sense of wanting to
maintain this illusion of them them
inherently making the world a better
place simply by going their businesses
because if we all stop believing that
there's going to be as much tougher
regulatory and tax environment that they
face and you you also spent some time
with Bill Clinton I'm curious as to you
know your perspective on I mean the the
the Clinton Global Initiative obviously
became in the in the course of the the
the election I guess in some respects
got reinterpreted in some ways I'm
wondering like what to what extent you
have a perspective on that you know look
I mean III think that the I I decided to
spend some time with first reporting
from the final CGI and in September 2016
and then actually trying to talk to Bill
Clinton because I realized that that
perhaps no one on earth captures the arc
of change in the elite idea of change as
well as Bill Clinton does Bill Clinton
believe as much as anybody in 1964
believed that you change the world
through politics through movements to
the law through through policy and
eventually he came around to the very
different view particularly his
post-presidency that you change the
world through markets and by hanging
around the British people and getting
them to give back and work in private
public partnerships with various other
folks and and you make change by kind of
getting the rocket sound
and Goldman Sachs and McDonald's into a
room and with you know some local agency
and some African country and you make
stuff work and that captures in many
ways the arc of how many people have
shifted their view of what changes and I
wanted to understand how he got there
and I guess I'm curious as to like just
as you get into the psychology these
folks I mean you you were I guess
entered into this world through the the
Aspen Institute to what extent like it
would is there is there a difference
between sort of being I guess seduced
into this world into this mode of
thinking because I imagine there are
people who sort of enter into this world
by by birth and others who enter it by a
lock in accumulation like what what are
the factors I think like I don't know
were there times you find yourself
sliding into the to the possibility of
adopting this worldview no I mean I know
this has never been my worldview you
know I'm like many writers and then I'm
not a prude crack nor will ever be but
like many writers you know I
occasionally hang around on the margins
of these things because you end up at
the same events with these kind of
people and that's what happened to me
and I you know frankly started to be
very disturbed by what I felt to be the
hypocritical pretensions of a group of
people who were claiming to be changing
the world well in many ways upholding
the very problems that they were seeking
to solve I guess what what is the answer
to something like this is it simply just
sort of a higher awareness that when we
see these philanthropists I mean is
there that that we should be a little
bit more jaundiced to these efforts or
what well look I mean III think the
the most important thing we need to do
and that I'm hoping to wake people up to
with this book is it we need to change
where we go to pursue change all too
often unless and the right in the last
many years when we see a problem we
think of a solution that is essentially
a private solution well necessarily
public problem and I'm kind of urge
people to think about solving public
problems through public action and that
means thinking of solutions that are
public Democratic institutional and
universal every time you know every time
you you see something you don't like in
the world it's not it doesn't work to
identify a problem and then start a
cupcake company that gives back but
we've we've built a world we've educated
a generation of young people to think
that you know to think that way and the
only the only thing that ever really
approved this country came from the
bottom up through movements and policies
and laws that change things at the root
at the level of systems and structures
for everybody and we have to go back and
reclaim that change-making heritage and
and I think make sure at the end of the
Trump era whenever it comes is not just
the end of one president but the end of
an era of phony billionaire pretensions
and the birth of a new age of reform on
and Jared Addis the book is winners take
all the elite charade of changing the
world thank you so much for your time
today I really appreciate it thank you
hard cosine on that one a really really
good book I want to say thank you to I
was at this Jordan Peterson conference
I'll talk about it more some other time
there's a couple of good pods that we
did including one with Doug Lane and see
Derek varn myself on the anti PC
industry and how it sort of fits into
this but also obviously some internal
looking at the left's tactics and
strategy and failures of approach as
well but the main thing I wanted to say
is that Andrew and
thank you who helped sort of show me
around Boise before I met up my buddy
Luke and got me a place to stay and
everything along with all the organizers
David and everybody else in the event
you probably can't see this because this
is like Gorkhas you cheer a New Jersey
rune mmm but Andrew who was an organizer
and a great guy great guy he and great
people everybody says so
organizer for Boise DSA and he gave us
all a pins which were I think we're all
do you guys have your zone yeah we're
all proudly wearing our boys EDSA pin so
I don't know if it's showing up a camera
but I want to thank Andrew and Bella
give a shout out to the boys EDSA crew
who are doing along with actually a lot
of people including I keep saying expand
Idaho and my friend Luke with the
Medicaid campaign and the folks at Boise
State there's there's good things
happening everywhere oh yeah is this
like a referendum or a ballot measure a
ballot measure
oh hell yeah it's a ballot measure so in
an and and what's interesting I talked
to another gentleman from South Carolina
who's trying to do the same thing but in
South Carolina it like it's a process
where it like it goes to the governor
and then the governor can like mess
around with the word like it this is the
way it's in Idaho is they wrote it it
passes its law and if the legislature
can legislature can try to gut it but
it's much clearer it's like we gave you
this and if you try to touch it that's a
betrayal of the initiative so it will
get Medicaid if it succeeds to tens of
thousands of more people and there
definitely are the only he said the only
Republican who's up front statewide and
opposing it is the candidate who's
running for lieutenant governor who's
apparently like so extreme that it's one
of those scenarios where the centrist
Democrat might win the lieutenant
governor's race the current
comment Republican governor is being
super evasive on it because he does not
want to go out on the record as opposing
a Medicaid expansion so very Vegas one
of those videos yeah like it's one of
the most frustrating things and
observing politics is a Republican
evasive 'no stu owning the type of just
brutality that they're trying to inflict
through health policy absolutely
he also you know the other thing too is
it gives you a real ground-level
experience of how the koch networks
operate because like while there is
definitely not like a democratic party
machine in Idaho that anything that like
people might have seen or experienced in
New York or Massachusetts or California
he said you know there's sort of like an
old boy Republican Network that's
extremely conservative but they sort of
fit in the sort of more of the genteel
you know basically wealthy ranchers and
potato farmers who are also Republicans
and then you know the cokes dumped so
much money in that like they do have you
know paid operatives and obscure parts
of the state and it makes they're very
seductive to local journalists as an
example because they'll shoot you a
press release and you don't have to do
your own research on you know an
important ballot initiative but this is
how they're debunking that mythology by
literally going door-to-door and
debunking it and as you might imagine
you know while some of the stuff that
you know you might hear door-to-door is
is very bad on immigration as an example
you never hear any normal person like
going I just want to help the job
creators yeah that is not a proc you
patient of pretty much any normal person
I don't think I deserve health care so
nobody deserves health care no that's
another one that has not been reported
so Big Ups to Idaho and all the people
there and shout out to Boise TSA I wear
this pin with pride on yesterday's
Michael Brooks show gene Basler and I
did a systemic sort of run-through
of Bernie Sanders foreign policy address
which at Johns Hopkins which was
significant he actually really to his
turning his systemic critique and it is
a systemic critique of American
oligarchy to systemic critique of global
oligarchy and actually joining the twin
pillars of rising authoritarianism and
the ecological meltdown and joining them
in critique and it's it's you know it's
impressive stuff for United States
Senator and a serious presidential
contender and we went through it and
connected it with Daniel bessner who's
also recently being on T M BS about the
work of what an actual left-wing foreign
policy looked like getting rid of the
Platonic ideal of national security a
whole bunch of other stuff there's just
so much content that we've done at EMBs
at this point from elicit histories in
Congo Jamaica the European Union Iran
Brazil introductions to the theories
like the Gotha program CLR James Plus
that long-form show every Tuesday
tomorrow Brian mayor of Brazil wire
we're talking about what's happening in
Brazil obviously and I'm also going to
do a rundown of jeremy corbyn's proposal
to give workers the opportunity to
transition companies to public ownership
as part of the labor manifesto it's
pretty fascinating stuff and in the very
near future
Richard Wolf's coming into studio to
join us and confront David Griscom on
his attempt smack-talking it was pretty
intense when we met in Idaho so we'll
see how that plays your wolf he was the
keynote at the event talking for a while
yeah he's awesome
I like Dick Wolf that's why he did that
video I assume right oh yeah Bernie was
he did he did a great talk and only
three money like he literally did three
minutes for he was just like I don't
know about psychology so I won't comment
on it I know about Marxism and he's
embarrassing anyways here's the actual
things that are happening in the world
know
but he breaks it down like Richard
Wolffe does he's awesome and really
excited to have him on that's gonna be
happening in the next couple of weeks in
studio patreon.com slash team yes Jamie
what's going on yeah so what this week
on the anti Fattah we recorded an
episode yesterday with our friends Sean
and Andy two guys who are involved with
the new commune magazine which seems
very cool I've really liked a lot of the
stuff that they've had so far very cool
yeah we talked to Sean Cana first who's
editor a little bit about their media
project that they're doing with kommune
and then we talked to our friend Andy
battle who wrote a very good article on
why the New York City subway sucks so
bad
why do they suck so bad I mean in a
nutshell it's sort of a really good
example of the inherent tension between
public spaces in general and public
transit and freedom of movement as a
basic human right and public good and as
a site for capital accumulation so
that's basically the problem in a
nutshell it goes back to the subways
entire history we talked a little bit
about that and what it looks really cool
yeah history of the subway yeah and what
it means for people in other places as
well because we don't just want to be in
New York centric show and ended with
some calls to action about the public
transit as the potential side of
struggle sweet awesome Matt you have
already teased us a little bit with some
major developments in literary hangover
universe yeah so let's check in with our
good buddy steven crowder by violence
you can look at any historical account
of even the most one-sided battles and
find that they were still just that
battles
so that's steven crowder the first part
got cut off but he said genocide by
violence of course that never happened
here look at any battle even the most
one-sided ones and there were just that
battle as well
I took steven crowder up on that
challenge and I looked at the very first
battle in New England but
the Pequot Indians and the Massachusetts
Bay Colony and it turns out it was a
genocide if you want to hear the story
about that I have it here I great
battles like the Holocaust yeah exactly
right well in his is like four Crowder's
logic if a single Jewish person killed a
Nazi then that was about they did
exactly I exactly on many many said Abe
you saw and glorious bastards so yeah
what they did that was very rough stuff
released today the mystic massacre in
Pequot War and I did it solo that's why
I came out a little bit later but hello
track format yeah I'm I was a bit
nervous but I'm happy the way it came
out so I check that out
I'm patreon nice you got your sign look
at that 22 yeah
bigger on your way buddy I'm about
halfway there when I get to 200 250 or
so well 250 but I might do it before
that I might start twitch streaming
folks so if you want to see me game
you're gonna play a lot of music patron
buddy no well mash that patron button my
plan is to like play the episodes out
for like the first hour of play game
playing and then I'll commented on it
with my buddies and take questions and
so that's cool then you shouldn't play
some music as a sort of middle finger to
youtube is what I'm thinking
Oh on Twitch yes oh yeah we'll just play
like a full like yeah just have like a
whole like instrumental yeah exactly
that's yeah cuz f YouTube alright the
phone lines are on which is a reminder
to all of us as much as everybody else
and the IMS are open we will see you in
the fun half but first I got to tell you
this Congress has completely failed to
protect your online privacy and now big
corporations are getting rich from
selling your data but with one-click
expressvpn runs seamlessly in the
background of your device's shielding
your online activity protection costs
less than seven dollars a month to take
back your intern to take to take back
your internet privacy today find out how
you can get three months free go to
expressvpn dot-com slash majority
Express expr SS v pn dot-com / majority
for three months with a one-year package
visit Express comm / majority to learn
more on how
jaime and i may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cause you're rich I
have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube
he's up there buggy whippin like he's
the boss I am NOT your employer you know
I'm tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you're idiots we're just
going to get rid of you all right dude
dude you want to smoke this joint
yes exactly
I'm happy now it's win-win oh yeah
listen to me five times eight four seven
nine oh six five oh one four five seven
[Music]
56:27
1/2 5.9 Wow don't you see why don't you
get a real job instead of spewing
vitriolic hatred your lesson will
involve everybody's taking their dumb
juice today dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul had my first post-coital seat
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars you you
 alright gonna take quick break I
want to take a moment to talk to some of
the libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber laughing I'm feeling more chill
already good Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to I see some people flirt with
such America
[Music]
just flush this out a little bit I mean
look it's a free speech issue if you
don't like me thank you for calling into
the majority report damn we'll be with
you shortly
majority report Matt and Jamie in studio
today Michael may have not yet Jamie did
you watch much of the Charlie Kirk
debate with I did indeed what was your
impression did you watch it all because
it got it got truncated on the stream
myself who I watched it until they cut
the feed because Sam was doing too well
yeah look at that silenced again yeah I
thought Sam well one thing I will say
about charlie is it's clear that he's
eight strong debater hello Michael we're
just a recouping recovery and so tell me
about it I I actually really haven't I
caught a few minutes of the debate but I
was not I was not able to I was I was
indisposed I was flying and going
door-to-door for Medicaid so Sam was in
Tinseltown I was out in the heartland
trying to get people health care well
Sam and jank were or her hanging with
idiots yeah I I didn't watch the the
time that Charlie Kirk at the day before
salmon and Charlie debate that's so
triggered really yeah I got freaked I
heard that he got freaked out on the
with with um you like Obon son Hasan
okay sorry was gonna leap into the
audience and try to fight Jake youger
Wow he's like I live like a capitalist
every day it's like yes you're paid by
capitalist a defender ooh yeah if you
ever hope you were robbed early I've
subsidized propagandist I mean I guess I
really liked how every time Charlie Kirk
was lying or saying misleading things
Sam would just interrupt him like you're
lying
yes not true wrong yeah Sam Sam showed
the virtue of not you know the rules
where you're not supposed to butt in
like that but when somebody's lying
the rules right like I will break the
rules to point out that Charlie Kirk is
talking about wages as if inflation
didn't exist right and that and Sam was
really well prepared it was interesting
to see in to see him so well prepared I
think this was the best match that I've
seen Sam debate charlie is a good
debater I also thought that he's gonna
age himself out of his little you know
niche here he's not gonna be able to be
the college guy forever yeah exactly why
don't you ask Dan Noonan is that the one
you like for tends to be a millennial oh
yeah or I don't know Demetri Martin and
I like that actually really rich charlie
Kirk is the Dan 9 in the father is
actually pretty funny I just think
you're not gonna be able to talk about
the college campuses when you look like
a 30 year old right like who really
cares you'd be surprised
people's bread and butter I figure out a
pivot Jordan Peterson's talking about
college campuses and he's all the
he's a professor so theoretically
well maybe Charlie Kirk will become a
professor he was never even this too
tight
is that true he really never went to
college I don't think he finished I
think he I think he did go to college on
Foster Friess a dime I might be wrong
about that
don't don't sue Charlie I know you have
some financial relationship with Foster
good old father Foster what should I say
today father he does have the vibe of a
fail son but like a fail son who's kind
of good at his job I guess but Sam tied
a bow on him I don't think Charlie had
any big moments of triumph every time
like Sam would correct him on some fact
and Charlie would say you know we agree
 yeah you Financial Regulation you
told me this in the morning and that to
me I'm not I'm not you John debate but
that is to me that's always that's a
well if you're having like an actual
serious debate I guess where you're
theoretically sincerely exchanging ideas
then noting points of commonality can
mean that you're having some type of
like intellectual progression together
but if you're at politican or on cable
news and you say I mean I notice just
even from cable news
like if the dude you're arguing with is
like well actually you and I are pretty
close on that that's either um well it
sounds like he didn't do this you either
could do that as like a stealthy move
we're like oh well hey I agree with you
about um I don't know how crony
capitalism so I guess you're also a
socialist you could do that kind of move
which I like to do or you're just being
like totally full of which is
you're just sort of trying to like I
know that what the person I'm opposed to
is saying something popular right now or
something that intuitively resonates and
I'm just gonna claim that we share a
value set that we obviously don't and
that's what you said it sounded like
that's what Charlie Kirk was definitely
right okay
I like how fair Sam was though at the
beginning when he interrupted Charlie
like that's not true and he's like hey
hey we can both talk without
interruption okay and he's like hey if I
say something that's not true you can
interrupt me too
yep and that's a really good very
disarming Wow now I live guest that that
probably did not go over as well in
Sam's divorce mediation but as debate
tactic well yeah because lying is not
Sam's debate tactic no no I know no but
that's actually an incredible that's why
I really hate to give Sam credit but
that's like simultaneously like that's a
very smart domineering move it's also
again it's also actually substantively
sincere like forget the manners let's
actually let's hold each other to
account let's hold each other to a
higher standard and then third obviously
that rule is gonna benefit Sam but
Charlie can't and what is he gonna say
Joe said you all heard it fair because I
like well yeah you say that he has to
say that but the truth is is like he
should be sitting there like going oh
 now something great why on the
moderator I can't rely on the moderator
now somebody that knows much more about
every single policy metric we're talking
about is going to be able
to call me and my nonsense that's it
that's a really good move because
conversely if you could you imagine if
somebody was dumb enough to say no no no
the rule says no interruption well the
debates over like you've already lost
and that one move so you have no choice
but to say like alright let's go yeah
let's do it yeah Wow this little Jew
Kido from Sam their parents never did
and maybe should have do not want to get
there no corporate yeah definitely save
that from rhetorically I have to say
talking about corporal punishment with
people from the Caribbean is really
funny that is like no just like the like
I just love the Gulf of like I remember
once I'm not gonna get into like the
details around it but being at some
party basically like a dinner party and
so in the in the Caribbean and that came
up and it was all like oh the white boy
he doesn't want to beat his kid like
that was like consensus like oh wow so
sophisticated of you that you don't want
to beat the your kid Jordan
Peterson would agree I'd I mean look if
Republicans weren't so like genuinely
racist they could probably yeah roads
there I mean that's like it's amazing
how racist or public or even like
conservative minorities just Kevin no
not even a start like they can't because
they just yeah they would they could
knock it down a couple of notches like
yeah I wanna I want to hit my kids and I
don't like gay people but come on yeah
you're making me feel unwelcome still
you know what I look but the the polling
on Muslims and marriage equality also
really show how non-essential estándares
things are because now Muslims support
marriage equality United States I think
more than any other religious group and
that is clearly just because of an
experience of being aligned with another
maligns group of
but wait are you sure it wasn't like a
new edition of the Koran no is no yeah
the hadith was rewritten and so that's
what happened and it was because of a
Sam Harris podcast ok Richard Oh Jetta
this is a good example of a guy that
people should be looking forward not
backward with he made the wrong call for
the right reasons in 2016 we know from
the polling that very few people did
that but a handful of them did and he's
not only turning around to vote the
right way he's running the right way
he's talking about justice he's talking
about inequality he's even talking about
marijuana legalization in the context of
veterans health care crisis in Virginia
and he's also a guy who got stabbed
because of his political work and was a
major figure in the West Virginia
teacher strike this is an ad for Richard
Oh Jetta who's running for to represent
West Virginia in the United States
Congress is good at ten thousand gallons
of toxic chemicals poured into the Elk
River threatening the health of three
hundred thousand people and what did
Carol Miller do she voted against
monitoring the health of those sickened
by the spill Miller even supported
legislation allowing corporations to
dump more toxic chemicals into the water
no surprise Miller's accepted thousands
in campaign cash from corporations that
profit by poisoning us crooked Carol
Miller sold us
out I'm Richard Oh Jenna and I approve
this message it's great and that's real
you know I gotta tell you let's let's
get back to I don't know how many people
remember it but keep it simple keep it
simple guy he was only wrong about all
the stuff he wanted to keep it simple
about but actually as a general rule for
politics that's a good rule keep it
simple
my opponent took campaign contributions
from the same people that are killing
you and your environment and then she
voted to destroy your health and where
you live I won't do that and we're out
and for good measure here's my army sure
cuz I'm a veteran and you know that's
politics and by the way that is and I
don't I say this in a more neutral way
than most people say this we say it here
because we're we're we're not freaked
out by this but that's identity politics
too and that's a smart deployment of
identity politics you're calling from an
8 for 7 area code who are you where he
calling from hey Michael Josh from
Chicago Josh from Chicago how you doing
good good and on please report that
Ahmadinejad watched the Michigan and
Michigan bacon
he says known as Twitter so that's
awesome
I want you actually call in to uh debate
Jamie Jamie how are you no good oh hello
I'm well thanks
about something I was a discussion that
you got into you on Friday about racism
and tonight can I just Josh just before
you outline it can I ask you a question
yeah between a scale of 0 to whole show
how much of the show do you think I
watch when I'm not here
uh-uh negative eight such a thing were
possible and maybe if we're gonna
include like also not looking at anybody
from the shows Twitter feed you would be
correct
so and can I we it's we did we did just
talk well is there a way Josh well is
there a way that you could at least
bring this like have the debate but
bring it forward a little bit and not
just recreate a conversation from Friday
so it's a little fresher yeah I guess he
talks out okay he talked about Richard
Oh Jenna for example just now and about
him voting for Trump and I guess I would
say that just blaming you for me
Oh Jada that I Jetta link it so Jada
right so Jetta okay yeah I think he
still overlook a bunch of racist
rhetoric to vote for Trump and so I
don't think we can blame the racism that
we've the acceleration of racism that we
are seeing solely on capitalism or or on
capitalism I'm not sure if that was
Jamie's exact argument it was not my
okay tell us the exact argument okay
I think people might have misunderstood
what I was saying uh I mean which is
pretty weird cuz that never happens on
the internet well we started out by
talking about the motivations of swing
voters who voted for Obama and they
voted then they voted for Trump and
basically the caller and Sam and this
poll we're all saying that it was pretty
much just racism that motivated people
to do that and I I only disagreed with
that to the point that I think economics
played some role in people's conscious
or unconscious motivations but the thing
it I think is more important to look at
is the bigger picture and factors beyond
that small group of people's decisions
to vote for Trump they brought us Trump
so that includes the collapse of liberal
democracy worldwide that includes the
failures of the Democratic Party to deal
with the problems of neoliberal
capitalism I think a much larger block
of people right is the block of people
that did not vote for anyone and voter
turnout cratered from Obama to Hillary
including the turnout among the people
of color so and you cannot account for
all of that with voter suppression so I
think like both on the wonky level there
are more factors involved as well as in
like the macro sense where you get sort
of right-wing populism and candidates
with fascist characteristics following a
financial economic crisis are you there
Josh I I guess yeah okay I guess I agree
with a lot of that but I would also say
that especially with the rise of
right-wing populism at least the people
who are leading the charge in that sense
I don't think that their motivations or
it stems from the economic uh you know
from the default of capitalism I think
the Falls of capitalism helped trigger
that and help get some of the people
that they want either vote for them or
follow them but I would say that the
rise that you see is the extreme
right-wing and people like Trump also if
you look at what's going on in Europe
and even you know some of these attacks
I example that comes to mind this is the
attack in Norway that happened in 2011 I
think probably everyone remembers I
think those are things that are
[Music]
don't really have as much to do with
capitalist psychology I agree with you
those people are racist those
people I'm talking about
larger systemic processes that are some
of the reason why in a country that has
been racist for its entire existence
right this country was founded on white
supremacy why these things express
themselves in certain ways at the times
that they do I let me just add a couple
things to this so one I just want to say
I think that this argument is in general
and at least on this show it gets into
like Marxism and stuff that's worth
learning about but I it's kind of a
mystifying argument because I think that
there's a handful of people that you can
find maybe frankly they're pretty
marginal who really only say that this
is purely about economic anxiety or
whatever term we're using the almost
nobody says that including people like
me or Jamie who get accused of saying
that we are never say that and there are
some people who and I think it's just
because of what the position lends
itself to there are some people who do
not want the Democratic Party to embrace
things like single-payer who emphasize
racism and misogyny in a disingenuous
way to not move that policy agenda
forward everybody else on the right side
of this equation like literally
everybody else does actually not in any
practical sense dispute that it's both
ends not either/or so and the answer
that seems really clear is do you
indulge in or in any way soft pedal or
subliminally appeal to
people's attitudes that are bigoted and
the answer is unequivocally no period
and then conversely do you go out and
say here is a mass economic agenda that
would benefit a vast majority of
Americans yes you do we all agree on
that there's only two other things I
want to add to this that I think are
just worth keeping in mind that I saw it
and I am that said this as well.you I
don't and maybe Sam has read it so I
don't know but I know I haven't read
some of these studies in full and some
ones including ones that I've referenced
it that I'm referencing you we got to
get really precise about what research
methodology is and how these terms are
being defined because a lot of this
stuff gets thrown around and I've seen
studies that are like defining working
class in ways that I wouldn't and also I
have a problem with defining classes and
identity anyways I think it's a function
not an identity number 300g tip I looked
at the study afterwards and they divided
these swing voters by income group and
like measured their actual economic
hardship which is not always a
one-to-one indicator with someone's
economic concerns right people just had
on economic anxiety
it's totally divorced from their
material reality absolutely that's a
hundred percent true I completely agree
with that and number three I think what
you got to also start thinking about in
this conflict right now the the main
argument in the world today until we
create a real viable powerful
alternative is between multicultural
capitalism and white supremacy
capitalism and I will pick what
multicultural capitalism every time it's
a real thing it matters it has huge life
consequences that's why you vote for
Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump sure
and at the same time part of what you're
seeing that weirdly merges even people
who are incredibly privileged and not
driven by
sincere economic concerns in the way
that people on the Left talk about but
it does have an economic underpinning is
I think that some of what these
alt-right people and people drawn to
that message into it is that actually
capitalism right now as it functions in
a in a highly competitive globalized
economy is in some areas absolutely a
force against things like racism and
sexism if you need if you're serious
about your supply chain running like if
you go to Singapore or Dubai or places
that are like real hubs of like
unmediated technocratic capitalism these
are some of the most cosmopolitan places
on the planet and if you're a
recruitment manager at a fortune 500 you
are some of your sexism and racism is
gonna get worked against cuz you need
the best people to do that period
then you don't have time either for
touchy feely or for bigoted nonsense
yep and some of the I think some of the
what's getting interpreted in white
identity politics is the correct
interpretation that in an ever-shrinking
pie in in competitive vicious global
economy if you want to preserve relative
privilege and have identity based
politics you better start looking at
apartheid systems and that does link
unapologetic disgusting racism with a
absolutely read on material conditions
and it's not a country oh yeah Israel
yeah I think that makes a whole lot of
sense and when I'm talking about
capitalism as a driver of racism I'm
going back to the creation of race and
racism well there's a lot of commotion
shifted since then and I don't really
want to argue about the creation of race
and racism right now but we can if you
want to well I just don't think it's
only I think it precedes capitalism like
I read that but I quoted you and it
doesn't say it starts with capitalism it
says it starts in Cologne like its
colonial pad
of domination and capitalism comes later
to accentuate that did we have
racialized slavery before capitalism yes
I really don't think that we did in the
way that we have it now I mean not now
the way that we had it at the beginning
of this country and for many years after
and its effect still linger I think for
the 17th they didn't have race science
before then no but I think racial
racialized slavery developed in this
17th and 18th centuries which like is
like a pre I mean there's corporate
feudal states there and early beginnings
of capitalism but I think it developed
in the colonial period so I like idea I
think capitalism like basically
monetized those distinctions but I don't
think it created them ok fair enough
um I'm gonna go back and read it again
and see what I think but I just want to
make one more point because I still feel
like it might come across like I'm over
emphasizing the decisions of individual
voters in this and I if anything I want
to de-emphasize them because I think
people place too much emphasis on this
stuff when they're trying to look at
systemic some might say dialectic view
of history and I when I talked about the
cratering in Fodor turn out I'm not
blaming those people right I'm blaming
the inequality driving low voter turnout
which is a problem of capitalism the
single biggest determining factor in
whether or not someone votes is their
income their socio-economic class so I'm
not blaming those people I'm looking at
the factors that are causing low voter
turnout which benefits the right-wing
and we've seen it I mean there's a
fascist about to take power in Brazil is
that because the majority of people in
Brazil support fascism I don't think so
I mean Michael can probably speak to
that better than me well I think it's
actually there's parallels I think there
is absolutely a huge surge in support
for fascism in Brazil and there's also
been you're also talking about a country
that ended slavery 70 years after we did
and they're Oleg our key and they're
systems of Supremacy are profoundly
horrifyingly cruel and if Lula led by a
huge double digit margin and then was
silenced and became a political prisoner
and bolson arrows winning with a lot
with almost got 50 percent of in the
first round that means that yes there
was a chunk of if Lula was running I
would vote for Lula
if Lula is not running I'm voting for
the fascist so yeah that dynamic exists
and I'm just saying all these variables
and I and maybe it's also just like the
human tendency to not want to have like
complexity like it it's super
complex yeah it's not reducible to any
one of these things looking complicated
can I recommend a reading on this
because someone recommended it to me and
I read it over the weekend and I found
it very illuminating this goes back all
the way to trotsky's time our
friend Leon Trotsky wrote some really
good stuff on fascism what it is where
it comes from and how to fight it and he
wrote this right after Mussolini rose to
power in Italy and he was writing about
it as he was watching Hitler rise to
power in Germany and I think he has a
really good analysis of a what fascism
even means and B how it happens and
there's there's a lot a lot in there I
think it's probably best to just read
the whole thing and then tell me what
you think but basically you see the
petty bourgeoisie right small business
owners sound familiar
following an economic crisis they side
with the bougie y'see not the
proletariat not the working-class and
they bring a chunk of the proletariat
with them and this is this can look like
a populist movement but the ruling class
is still pulling the strings and it's
it's a whole lot but it's really it's
really fascinating to see this process
be replicated over and over again
throughout history and in horrifying
obviously you know if you google Trotsky
on fascism they have a pretty good
compilation at I want to say lib combed
org Marxist org something like that cool
I mean oh you're on Josh doe take make
your low okay I mean I get I guess I
guess the thing that I would just add in
one of the things that I've seen
especially in my time both like VSA and
also active socialist and I think one of
things that we should always remember in
particular and I think I don't want to
try speak for the caller who called in
on Friday but I think that what he was
talking about with burn in the black
vote especially in Bernie's early
campaign days on the campaign trail when
he was running for president I think
he's gotten better at it since he wasn't
able to always connect his ideas on
economic populist populism and also
racial justice very well but he would
even have the ideas they just couldn't
always keep them very rushed this is
where I went yeah sorry I mean I think
for me I I again I say this as someone
who's like a white mostly straight white
cisgendered man I think there's often
times where we just think economic these
economic populist ideas that go along
with socialism rule for example and I
don't think and it sounds like this
isn't what the point that Jamie is
trying to make will just cure racism and
I don't think yeah but let me let me
just just because they helped create
racism doesn't mean that they can put
that genie back in the bottle now you
know what I mean like capitalism had a
real role in the creation of
I said racism as we know it as well as
gender by the way and now it's it's its
own monster that needs to be dealt with
on its own terms
let me just Josh let me just throw three
three more quick things at you that I
think are actually relevant for that
though too right so if you start from
the premise that everybody who's serious
and thinking about this understands that
it's all of the above it's both in it's
not either/or right then you have to get
into the distinctions of how you of how
we actually especially when you're
talking about you know like a
presidential campaign right so Bernie is
a good example because like at first
when people were going after it went on
but Bernie became a lot better and we
said that Bernie would get better on
this show when black lives matter
confronted him but and then at a certain
point frankly like it just became like
all right you're just like the same
tactic over and over and over again and
it's not being applied to other
campaigns and actually the stances and
the policies have actually shifted so
they're what and then the Clinton
campaign you know did that incredible
disingenuous like you know sort of
smearing of Bernie on those issues
breaking up the big banks all races yeah
and all of that
and then I think we get to and then we
get to another thing which is what is
the most effective and strategic way of
talking about and confronting those
issues and I actually would say I mean
it needs to be I go back to Jesse
Jackson go back to people who actually
spoke about those issues became yeah and
and they were obviously unapologetic and
serious about racism and and and those
all of those structural issues but they
didn't use all they didn't use
intersectional jargon they didn't posit
it as like games of individual morality
and sort of like performance they
anchored it actually in both really
basic ethical appeals which I guess is a
question of personal moralism but like
really basic stuff like Golden Rule
stuff and then actually in
incredibly trenchant smart analysis of
how these things actually work together
and Obama did that to some extent Jesse
Jackson in a much more robust way Bill
Fletcher Jr who I've interviewed a bunch
of times talks about this really well so
I think that's the thing is especially
we talk about Bernie some people got
very disingenuous with that critique and
then what we're injecting should be
coming from a really smart and effective
political strategies and not sort of
like you know I mean frankly just some
of my campus stuff that's whack well I
like Brees idea actually because I think
it's true that working class has become
something of a conservative dog-whistle
for white working-class and even if
that's not fair that's often how it
sounds to people so even something as
simple as like naming the different
groups within the working class might
run counter to some sort of like oh it's
a it's a broad class based coalition but
like it's a rainbow coalition right I
know that was there was a lot that would
do a lot I don't want to I mean I did
the I think we unlocked the illicit
history of Jesse Jackson's 88 campaign
that I did with Bill Fletcher jr. I
really think everybody should listen to
that that is where that map will come
from thanks for the call man all right
oh and also militant apathy the half
that has not been told the the half that
has not been told labor in the America
making of American capitalism everybody
should read that twice yes that's a
essential book also a really good book I
would also throw in slavery's capitalism
by Sven Beckert it's a haven't read that
one it's a comment it's a collection of
essays
I mean spam Beckett's empire of cotton
is also extremely it's just exceptional
but Empire slavery's capitalism had an
interesting bit about depreciation and
appreciation of assets it was originally
in early economics history thought of
that those concepts emerge from trained
capitalism but they've this one of the
essays looks into it that actually those
concepts emerged from trying to figure
out how a productive a slave was going
to be over the course
lifetime so appreciation into adulthood
depreciation as they got older so these
these concepts of capitalism that has
since been applied to like workforces in
general
yep emerge from there that sounds super
interesting my friend John Clegg who
refuses to come on the anti Fattah very
annoying he actually did his PhD
dissertation on slavery and capitalism
and so maybe I'll go ask him some
questions and get back to you on my
analysis of racism as we know it as
related to race science as a convenient
justification for enslaving human beings
vote 2018 why do people think Christine
Hulk whist is struggling in Vermont 538
shows her losing to the Republican by a
lot can you have her can you have her on
before now in the six do you think it's
it's problematic for Sanders 2020 hopes
it's the government governorship of his
home state Falls to the GOP I'll work it
backwards it's been a Republican
governor for quite some time in Vermont
and there is Massachusetts which isn't
quite as you know it's more democratic
Vermont maybe has a bit more of a
progressive streak but it's a highly
democratic state has a Republican
governor so there's a tradition in these
New England states of electing
Republican governors that usually and by
the way are much more you know they're
certainly pro-choice they're supportive
of gay rights and so on they're not
reflective as much of the national GOP I
don't know about having her on as a
guest I have to ask Sam about that I
know in general we really don't
interview that many politicians that
really is like the rule of thumb for
that kind of question we don't and it's
a decent rule secretly majority report
really doesn't have many politicians on
that's very unusual maybe for Bernie now
yeah I mean obviously if it's Bernie but
I mean just sort of I mean yeah we just
don't have many politicians on unless
it's you know Bernie or obviously I'm
sure happy to have Warren on or you know
someone like Chokwe Lumumba who's doing
something you I don't even he's a
politician but he's also he's an
activist but they don't they often
don't tend to age well for instance we
attempt Canova on when he's challenging
Debbie wasserman-schultz and he's a bit
of a right nut I would say yeah he's got
all nutty so I've been anyway so yeah I
don't know about that but maybe for ring
of fire um and then I don't know I don't
know why she's underperforming my
understanding is that the governor of
Vermont has you know is relatively
popular and it seems like in general
even in this time Democratic and
Democratic leaning voters are less
likely than they were but maybe a bit
more likely than Republicans to be
willing to kind of cross that sort of
vote but I just haven't followed that
race at all I knew the historical nature
of her nomination and then didn't follow
it Joe from Lehi voting for da's yes
very important Larry krasner ran
Philadelphia on a platform to put on a
platform of reform and one that created
a model for the country in the spring
santana de berry ran for platform bar
from Kasner crasner and knocked off
establishment Democrats shall be elected
da in that County just November it works
it may be it may put up a challenge in
four years in my County from the left I
may put up at you oh do it do it Joe
that's awesome Vespa
so I'm guessing you're leaving the
political stuff for Sam to dunk on
tomorrow but I hope you guys played
Charlie Kirk blowing up with Hasan
Sam killed it though as always jank also
beat Tucker it was a good weekend for
the left and as always left is best I
actually don't see any reason why we
couldn't play the Charlie Kirk freaking
out with oh yeah I also sent a clip that
someone showed me of the debate with Sam
hello where this is actually pretty sure
okay stipulate yet catch yeah uh
relative games are growing but however
uh uh if you can afford this then the
aggregate number it's not gonna mean
very much to you well see I guess we
don't even need to play the clip here
Sam debate charlie Kirk Sam where are
you so mad about entrepreneurs creating
jobs you say creating jobs but tax
repatriation go see the shareholders
just his research from humans deep-sea
okay before Charlie Kirk I don't know
what he did he apparently I don't think
he freaked out while he was debating Sam
he must have no he kept this yeah must
take Kelly cool so there was this moment
and this conservatives love this I
did a IIIi I dislike if you have social
values and you have a critique of
capitalist economy or even just want a
universal safety net that that means you
should live in poverty actually the
point is that we don't want anybody to
live in poverty and we want everybody to
enjoy material benefits so but he
thought that he was doing a huge dunk
here by getting Hassan to reveal
his salary which like I actually have to
say like look it's a great salary for
like a single young person but it's not
like especially one that lives yeah his
parents in a multi-million dollar home
right charlie Kirk does right exactly
but Charlie Kirk thinks he's revealing
something here he's not a sawn
actually saw and handles is really well
which is just really sure I'll tell you
my salary what the hell does that have
to do with anything dude and then that's
gonna lead when the question when the
question goes in the opposite direction
charlie is eight well he looks like he
could use some milk from his mom so
she's larger the point is larger than
that charm I live like a capitalist
every single day shank
what do I do I get dirty every single
year my salary what's my salary all
right Oh ridiculous all right behave
everyone jeez okay right okay I practice
what I swing fairly nerds all right hold
on last point last point last one you
don't want to give them the attention
here every $5,000 check point out we are
funded by the grass roots of this
country a demagogue at all you are
okay can I finish my point all right
what's the dishonor yourself let me
finish my point let me finish my point
all right
right we're having it we're having a
reasonable discussion right we're we're
here we're talking to one another let's
stop screaming at one another including
those of the Young Turks who obviously
don't pay me enough so haha okay so I
just want to say as as my unending
emphasis on branding that's beautiful
because I don't care what else happened
in rest of that debate Hasan won it
because the only representation you have
of that mass media is Charlie Kurt
freaking out and having a bizarre
meltdown and Hasan being like dude calm
down and sit down so we can talk he won
the debate and then at the I was like I
you know I don't know I've seen Charlie
Kirk I'm not impressed with him
obviously but I've never seen him have
that kind of weird freak out before but
it's the hole you're gonna try to
demagogue it and say that I'm not
so he's touchy that he's funded by a
handful of oligarchs and he still lives
with mommy and daddy some fun that must
be littered some fun bit of practice as
if Charlie Kirk ever comes to your
campus just get like you and a dozen of
your friends and intersperse yourselves
in the middle of the crowd and agree out
like a preset time to just start
speaking at maybe just a room like a
normal inside voice just say Foster
Friess Foster Friess Foster Friess
Foster Friess Foster Friess that's all
you need to do that's right act like
he's a substitute teacher you want to
 literally check all the jargon and
all the other stuff and just yeah just
find exactly the way to make him
uncomfortable
and revealed for what he is indeed you
see the clip this is really funny I mean
yeah okay this am clip I just sent it I
just tagged you uh-uh stipulate that
that that the Consumer Price Index is
increasing
however if milk is going up above you
ages then then it's not really gonna
make much of a difference to you even if
it's increase in the Advocate oh my god
this is clarifying clipped my friend of
the show lizard Rumsfeld lizard Rose a
very talented Twitter very good at being
online
very good at being on so we see this
moment here in the debate what should I
set it up yes please yeah I don't know
where they're talking about how the yuk
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is
funded by money from banks fees from
banks and charlie Kirk is trying to say
that they're actually using your deposit
money to pay for this eve fpb and Sam's
like do you understand how banks work
this is gonna be fun in terms of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
saved consumers 90 million dollars worth
of bank fees in the last year of the
Obama administration alone okay so one
there has not been one enforcement
action since the Trump administration
has taken over so what's the CFPB budget
what is the budget it is completely
funded by fees that they get from the
bank now okay so so forcibly take money
away from the people that are depositor
and then say that they're saving 90
million dollars of fees on the back the
balls of that argument I'm like I'm in
all of that because you know it's the
only play he has because again you give
money out of your bank if there is no
normal person on earth that is gonna
oppose the idea again besides the Koch
brothers or Foster Friess or if your
salary depends on people like that
there's no normal person on earth who's
gonna object to okay you put a fee on
banks and that money subsidizes them not
defrauding me I support that you know
maybe some type of weird kids used to
call in for like libertarian debates and
salmon everybody's explored that so how
if you're a right wing propagandist you
make this awe-inspiring lie which I
guess maybe sounds good to some people
but ironically for like a capitalism
propagandist you're revealing that you
don't know how one of the most basic
aspects of capital circulation works
let's finish this deposit your money
so so the banks make money by people
putting money in it and then they borrow
it out so those are depositors so you're
taxing the depositors to then put on the
back end of the government agency that
is run in a and the CFPB sure can be
completely abolished it's an
unconstitutional agency or there's the
pivot and it's used as a weapon
bankers against your on us loan out
their depositors money exclusively
that's why you have capital controls
they loan it all exclusively that is one
form and function of a bank but it goes
back to you well obviously goes back to
you know most of the money in your banks
actually not in there Sam you know that
right that's the way a bank works so you
the FDIC that insurance it up to a
certain amount but that money is
probably somewhere else in the economy
on loan or on lien to somewhere else to
try to make the bank money so when
you're taxing the bank to try to fund
the CFPB you're actually taxing the
depositors you're yet you are you're
taxing the money within the bank the
people that put the money in the bank
know you're taxing the profits they make
off of their land they make right yes
that that is amazing you're taxing the
people that do fraud to protect people
from fraud yeah but you're not doing
that because what banks are is you just
take a hundred dollars and then you put
it in a bank and it just remains your
hundred dollars it's what looks great is
that he's like totally Bank illiterate
and that it's beautiful because then he
gives you the next two moves which is he
he's like oh cedar nobody's
it's not even - not in a constitutional
that's always gonna be number one that's
the first pivot and then the second
pivot is I've been completely humiliated
on the basic mechanics of Finance and
now I'm gonna actually try to just flip
this I'm just gonna I key to it like hey
you know that your bent your money's not
actually there Sam I just revealed but
like I just revealed myself to literally
not understand how banks work to tell a
on sputtering lie about a thing that
protects American consumers
I noticed the Constitution doesn't
work with normal people anymore so let
me do the
reverse expertise move it's like it's
like that's that's Star Wars I know I've
been shamed with my own ignorance let me
adopt a pedagogical tone and act like
I'm going to teach you something about
banking like literally like like a kid I
like a museum tour attraction would
start kicking in he really doubles down
he's good well that's his job propaganda
he's mastered the effect game of debate
right like if someone says something to
me even if I'm like 90% sure I'm correct
about it I'm like oh oh well
that's it that's the whole time you're
not that's that's the thing that's so
stupid about these debates is it's more
like wrestling than like disco or like
in in discourse rights it's all about
the on-the-spot rhetorical flourish and
the the message you can convey to a live
audience like I think if you wanted to
have debates between people where
they're just supposed to speak
extemporaneously about things they know
fine but don't have a live audience
there to be like a sort of lever of yeah
you know appeal to write because then
then you that that's that's my main
problem with presidential debates there
should not be a crowd there no they go
through the song and dance oh please
don't clap or applaud they shouldn't
 be there I'll be there
I mean politican makes that a bit
difficult cuz that's the whole point
that's the whole point wrestling for
lanyards who did a lot of extra credit
in high school that sounds like a
nightmare and the reason Sam does it
well see this is a good right because if
he just had the facts about how banks
work that actually wouldn't do the job
I'm not saying it helps it helps that he
consistently revealed it helps in a
rhetorical way but it's because of how
he sells it if he literally was just
being there well no actually the way the
banks were cuz then Charlie Kirk will
just keep steam rolling I'm a
but it's because he's right but he's
also giving him to like I actually like
he's doing like he's an alpha copy he
has somewhat put upon professor trying
to explain to this freshman how
the works exactly like listen you
 idiot like and that's what comes
across
it's not the facts yeah exactly people
aren't applauding because of the facts
are playing because he got sonned
by like Sun by facts that's a good yeah
that's a good thing right if they're
actual fat you got sonned by
contextualized facts and authoritative
and deliberate of supposed facts right
that's right but that's it that's the
whole game that's what all these people
who've been trained on ben shapiro
that's all they're doing it's a number
if I don't get out of this tone you're
gonna think I'm still winning that's it
start taking testosterone not the ben
shapiro has a lot of good say that's a
very I don't think that's the the first
time that that phrase is ever my little
conversation about ben shapiro do you
see but like the confidence of
privileged white man that's something
else that he's running on something now
he's running on some other fuel that's a
whole other operation Julian's
I'm Tony yeah I believe I believe I'm
almost entirely there with you do you
see I missed the beginning of the show
do you got did you guys give your boy
Sam praise for totally owning Charlie
Kirk of Politico yesterday well I as I
said it seems like it if that was any
indication of how it went that was not a
good exchange for Charlie Kirk yeah
angel what does Tucker Carlson Genda did
you see his quote-unquote conversation
with jank why to Tucker seem sensible
well because Tucker's really good at
what he does and I think that people
need to actually start like we need to
assess I mean well I'll keep doing like
why can you say that anymore because you
know part of it of this show is
entertainment and mockery and everything
but Tucker Carlson is extremely good at
what he does and he is very adept at
doing the twists that we're talking
about actually of taking um at times
legitimate grievances and twisting them
towards fascistic a specifying them
fashion fine that's a good phrase fashio
fiying them or also um doing what Trump
did uh
which you know many his son was the
first person to point this out some
people on the Left found it refreshing
that Donald Trump was responded to
sanctimonious TV interviewers asking him
about Russian human rights records by
saying like you think were such angels
and some people were kind of like yeah
that's kind of refreshing because every
you know every day some politician is
extolling the endless virtues of a
country that for 90% of its history I
believe the numbers ninety percent of
its history has been at some form of war
or another that hat presides over a
global Empire that you know we know all
of this stuff and this isn't just like a
moral accounting it's it's part it's in
our DNA and strategy as a country from
the genocide of the Native Americans to
global kinetic warfare now from Somalia
to Yemen to Pakistan so he is able to
but as many Hassan said Noam Chomsky
points that out because the point is is
that we shouldn't be doing any of that
whether it's us or Assad or Russia or
Iran or China or whoever we need to
create a better global system that does
not treat so many lives as expendable
Tucker Carlson is in adroit he is a
master of using those correct hypocrisy
zand Pyatt ease but not to evolve to
devolve the discourse and you're seeing
a lot of this with the Jamal kesaji
story right so look me to write to like
oh this happens all the time
therefore it's fine first this this
happens all the time therefore we need
to do something about it right therefore
we need to uproot it that's why
hypocrisy arguments are insufficient
that's what exactly so we saw with Jamal
has shaggy which Tucker's gonna talk
about in this case though obviously he
talks about the examples you just
brought up plenty and uses those as well
Jamal khashoggi was yes Lindsey Graham
who is a self-proclaimed regular
defender of the Saudis had a big
meltdown about what happened with
Oh soggy of course and you're gonna see
this in the clip the Saudis are engaged
in a campaign of mass murder in Yemen
and while I do not buy the stupid line
on the other side of this equation the
Saudis undoubtedly support Salafist
groups in Syria and they have their own
profoundly repressive and cruel record
inside the kingdom and why is that like
what leaps out about this thing well
actually one thing that does leak of
bleep out about this thing is that this
still is a level of brazenness that
shows again a devolution of basic
standards and that actually does matter
but more broadly we should be using this
as an example to evolve another system
but watch how Tucker Carlson uses this
it's really effective and people got to
be watching this guy so there you have
it cuz shogi is in fact dead as we have
already been told and the Saudis did it
they admit it now what should we make of
this well the usual head daughters on TV
seems stunned by the news they could
hardly believe that a bloodthirsty
medieval theocracy would do something
like this really the Saudis the same
people who cut off the hands of Thieves
and behead adulterers and public parks
the same regime that is currently
prosecuting one of the world's cruelest
Wars in one of the world's poorest
countries Yemen you're telling me these
people murdered a political puppet
doesn't sound like the Saudis we know
come on of course they did it we knew
they did it their only concern was
getting caught now they have been caught
and they probably regret the whole thing
all of that makes sense none of it is
surprising what is confusing is the wave
of false posturing on display from our
own mindless ruling class because Yogi's
death are telling us is now somehow the
most important story in the world far
more important than the many political
murders China commits each year far more
than Saudi Arabia or the countless
children the Saudis have bombed and
starved to death in Yemen more than that
they're telling us it's a moral litmus
test the latest in a long series of
moral litmus tests or delivered to us by
Fiat on cable news support this don't
support that otherwise you're a bad
person that's the message of almost
every show share my beliefs or you are
damned now in this case it's a little
confusing because keep in mind these are
the same people the ones commanding you
to hate the Saudis who just months ago
were uncritically repeating saudi
talking points right from the embassy
remember when we bombed syria last
spring and bombed it before the year
before well the Saudis push that
everyone knew that it might have been
nice to hear that on television we could
have used some media skepticism at the
time but now only this show pretty much
brought that up the rest of the press
loved it they loved all wars the more
distant and the more pointless the
better okay but spare us the theatrics
now so he's right about a lot of things
in that I agree with probably 90% of
what he's saying and he ends to which
he's using it our this is another reason
to hate liberals this is an internal
conversation in the United States and
the conclusion should be to roll your
eyes at anybody who expresses any
commitment to humanitarian concerns you
see how he flips that if he said these
people are full of they are
concerned about this horrific incident
but they have nothing to say about the
structure of us-saudi relations which
are the way they are because of oil
companies because of the way we've
designed our economy they have nothing
to say about well he didn't actually say
it's not just a Saudi war in Yemen it's
our war in Yemen and if you want and in
fact they are right in a limited sense
that having an ally have a u.s. resident
go into an embassy and murder him there
that's actually pretty unusual and that
is the type of thing that if it goes
unchecked means that the next range of
things that were unacceptable escalate
and that is actually where I'm sorry to
say liberals are right
that actually leads to the type of thing
where maybe the Chinese do start doing
that type of thing maybe it leads back
to like in the 70s when the Chilean
dissident was blown up in DC with
kissinger's knowledge as far as I
understand
maybe that becomes more of a regular
thing so that's why it matters in and of
itself but the point is is that he'll
take a lot of points that are absolutely
correct but he will zero in on a
generalized heat of elites and D
legitimize the whole thing which is hey
you know what let's do something about
Yemen let's do something about Saudi
relationships and by the way if you want
to do something about Saudi
relationships the other thing that's a
major factor here is the amount of Saudi
money parked in New York real estate and
in Silicon Valley and probably Elan musk
company pretty soon as well and that's
when you get to the real structure of
hypocrisy and elites and capitalism
which is that when money's at stake
nobody gives a and that is
something that Tucker Carlson will not
have much to say about because he
doesn't have a redistributive agenda he
has a exploit your grievances agenda
yeah and he only he's only talking about
this now because it's it's useful to
fascism right right like we we I was
looking for in previous times he's
talked about Yemen and it's only ever in
the context to defend like defend Assad
basis right right right
I'll use it to defend another fascist
yeah not to say that what's happening in
Yemen and Syria which implicates if you
include those countries basically every
major regional and every major global
power in crimes against humanity yeah
this is why leftist they're more
effective at countering the far-right a
lot of the time because yes we can agree
about liberal hypocrisy and we can agree
about like some of the some of his
analysis of political economy was
correct
it was stuff that I think it's true when
he was arguing with
and shank did not have a critique of
capitalism in the other direction so it
was kind of hard for him to counter that
like I don't believe for a second that
Tucker Carlson actually cares about the
average American worker but he was right
when he brought up the fact that bosses
can use undocumented workers to break
unions and drive down wages now his
conclusion from that is that we need to
have this genocide all degree of
enforcement at the border and basically
keep them out but no like the leftist
conclusion from that is we need to
incorporate these workers into an
organized internationalist labor
movement as we have done I mean not me
but as organizer has organizers have
done with success throughout American
history like Cesar Chavez was not right
about this and that was another fact he
brought up there was correct labor
organizer Cesar Chavez was very opposed
to illegal immigration and in some cases
even legal immigration and it wasn't on
the grounds of racism because Cesar
Chavez was mexican-american it was on
the grounds that it would weaken unions
but then other organizers were like no
way we're all workers we're all it's
it's the Brotherhood of men we're gonna
bring these folks into our movement and
in the end that's strengthened the labor
movement so these are these are things
that I want people to have a grasp of
when they're dealing with these slippery
right-wing ghouls definitely let's run
through more of these clips this is a
with regards to Jamal khashoggi because
I do want to sort of keep running
through this story the new information
that's been released a president air
Diwan is promising that within 48 hours
he's gonna release all information which
they've been dripping out gradually to
sort of perfectly pin the Saudis over
the last week or so little or almost two
weeks at this point the most bizarre
thing now is actually the footage of a
body double apparently one of the
members of this hit squad
I walked out with fake facial hair and
Jamal cushaw he's closed and walked
around Istanbul and going to different
tourism sites and the Saudis evolving
reasons it went from first he was
accidentally killed and now if sapere as
if they that there was just this team
that hit him in embassy but of course
with no senior oversight or approval
which just defies imagination this is an
al jazeera clip it begins with a clip
with the Saudi foreign minister whose
first interview was granted to Fox News
just interesting we heard in regards to
this conversation I wonder why that
might be and then there's a little bit
of context around it in terms of some of
the reporting we have on this of the
operation there weren't people closely
tied to him were involved in this
operation there were pictures of some
security officers who may have been part
of the security detail from time to time
but this is normal security people who
deal in security details rotate among
different officials both domestic and
foreign so having somebody in a picture
does not imply that they're closed at
all the crumpets has denied the
circumference is not aware of this even
the senior leadership of our
intelligence service was not aware of
this this was an operation that was a
rogue operation that doesn't explain
however why this man Mohammed rib
reportedly made four phone calls tube
inside man's personal secretary during
the time that Ashok G was being killed
and if as Joubert says the senior
leadership of Saudis intelligence
service was unaware why then has Amidala
Siri its deputy had been fired by Royal
Decree questions to as to why send an
autopsy expert if the plan was yes
there's a lot of questions about this
and of course what they did every crime
it's a perfect crime I want to do either
random guy did it did it let's just go
right to because I'll for more context
to this Middle East policy is being
shaped in no small degree by a crown
prince of Abu Dhabi
who
is very far to the right and muhammad
bent summons mentor there's a big
Emirati dimension to where Saudi Arabia
is going and in fact if we're real that
will mean no improvements in any type of
regional or domestic rights writ broadly
but it will mean a much more progressive
socially open atmosphere which would be
better for most Saudi people no
undoubtedly being in Abu Dhabi or Dubai
is a much more pleasant experience if
you're a citizen not if you're an
indentured servant in either place by
the way but Salman and then Jared
Kushner I mean these are people two of
them are in their 30s these are vicious
trust fund babies remaking the Middle
East and there has been nothing in
Mohammed been someone's life that would
indicate that he couldn't get away with
ordering something like this this is
Jared Kushner talking about it he's
speaking with Van Jones at the Citizens
for him
what kind of advice have you given NBS
in this whole situation just to be
transparent to be fully transparent
though the world is watching this is a
very very serious accusation in a very
serious situation to make sure you're
you're transparent and to and to take
this very seriously how do you respond
to that how did he respond to that
counsel we'll see I mean I know that the
Secretary of State had some good
meetings over there and and and we'll
see there is absolutely no Rio there's
no reason to think that he did not see
why he could not get away with this
entirely this guy has been praised and
feted by everybody from Thomas Friedman
to the rock and I have to say I hope
people can follow this things like
getting rid of the ban on women drivers
in Saudi Arabia is a very positive thing
and Saudi Arabia is still a country of
gender apartheid
but part of the Western press coverage
of this guy reflected a very narrow
focus on certain hot-button liberal
issues that we get focused on we think a
lot about what women are wearing or not
wearing in Saudi Arabia we think a lot
about these driving issues now they're
important issues but if you talk to the
women who have been imprisoned who are a
citizen activists not only on driving
but on a whole slew of issues to
actually become equal or significantly
more equal citizens in a gender
apartheid state and they've been
imprisoned because specifically when
Mohammed bent someone released the
decree the frame was this is a gift from
the prince
this is not a response to your pressure
this is a gift from the ruler and when
Norrell Donnell and all of these people
went over there it's all oh my god did
you hear what he said about the abayas
and cars and some of it was very unusual
stuff to hear from a Saudi leader
there's no doubt and making religious
police not able to arrest people and
letting women drive are big significant
social reforms they're great but they're
in the package of a young vicious
dictator consolidating power over his
family and we're sitting here just going
you know oh my god they're not wearing
those burkas we hate anymore so there
was this very narcissistic narrow frame
that we ignored people that are actually
activists in Saudi Arabia who are being
crushed by this guy and he could play up
to a global audience and consolidate his
power on a couple of important but but
non structural issues and you know and
it really took literally getting a hit
squad to abduct a u.s. resident
journalist and cut his body
apart while he was still alive for
people to understand that maybe this kid
isn't nice
and the reporting was there okay
like this was not coming from nowhere in
any way shape or form trill burner the
discourse lover on Twitter who does the
agent Napoleon podcast at a tweet I like
to something to the effect of if there's
not a lot of sort of values from the
founding generation that you want to see
revived but a knee-jerk distaste for
aristocracy and monarchy is definitely
yes no
that's a great no you actually do read
the founders they're they're pretty good
on that they're not impressed it's like
our current aristocrat is seemed to be
yeah there were certainly some good
things about the Enlightenment values
that brought us this nation and brought
us from feudalism to capitalism where we
do have more freedom then people had
under feudalism it's just a question now
of oh we could probably have a lot more
freedom and our freedoms been rolled
back since what we might call the Golden
Age of capitalism definitely chomp sorry
for some of us like I mean some of this
is right right there's surf domes and
slavery's and stuff it was I mean it's
funny it was Richard Wolff was saying
he's like we're done like capitalism is
over we don't and it could get much
worse but like we're done it was
interesting was interesting reading it
seems to be transitioning into some sort
of neo feudalist hierarchy emerged
between Amazon and trading horrifying
yeah and it's pretty horrifying Chomsky
all this recent Saudi outrage is just
triangle ISM on a slightly higher level
where was the USA when Saudi was Brian
bombing him and I children yeah we've
we've pointed this out yep and also I
mean look and and I mean just to add one
other thing anybody who uses this to
undermine how disgusting what happened
was is just morally sick and jamol
cachaca
like he doesn't need to be a hero or a
pure being for this to be absolutely
wrong and in some ways what the point of
this is it's what makes it so gangster
in like a very literal sense of the word
is that he wasn't a dissident he wasn't
he was a guy who wanted a more sensible
he supported those reforms but he didn't
want it in the context of a preening
vicious Prince and he had relationships
and support with rival members of the
Saudi monarchy so he was nobody who was
quite he never talked about getting rid
of the House of Saud and he was close to
the House of Saud and that underlines
even that much more how brazen this
is yeah hence this widespread outrage
right right because it's not like some
sort of dissident his relationship to
power there was the relationship a lot
of our journalists have to our power
structures right exactly
Oh Tomcat hi guys good news and bad news
good news I finally became an M R member
and TMDs patron last week thank you
shout out to the discord bad news this
is my last live show before I move out
of the country to start training for my
new job and career after all so long in
financial difficulty and I won't be back
until the new year I just want to say
thanks for all of you for making it a
lot more enjoyable spent my patreon
money wisely Merry Christmas Michael go
on chapo and can you all do a soy face
to camera cheers and left as best I
don't know what its way faces
what's the soy face I'm assuming it's
some sort of like soy boy thing that
they used to make fun of liberals I
don't know I don't know what it is
though um do blue steel I'm Kira we do
blue steel all the time I am curious
what did what the gig is though let us
know if you can uh that's taking over
see Scott from California everyone
should watch the devil we know just pay
YouTube five bucks and watch it do it
after the show okay uh according to
urban dictionary yeah soy face is the
face a new male mix when taking a selfie
with his mouth wide open a new male
yeahthere's I have to go to another
urban dictionary entry to see what they
mean by a new male new is spelled n you
okay I'm gonna say it's you know this
this degraded form of feminized man
who's been ruined by feminism I just saw
a realism I can't I just I just can't do
it to be honest it's just impossible
that yeah my face doesn't do that sorry
you're calling from a five one seven
area code who are you where you're
calling from that is a pretty gross
basic let's be real five one seven or no
Michael this isn't can you hear me yeah
go ahead
hi Michael this is Matt I really liked
your interview you guys did TM BS but
also just in general with Matt Taibbi
and kind of his relook at um Noam
Chomsky's manufacturing consent yep a
thing that I think that kind of gets
overlooked is just flack and the concept
of flack are you familiar with it yeah
but tell everybody yep so basically you
know kind of like right-wing
organizations you know as soon as
there's some kind of narrative in the
media that might be going against and
they kind of fire a build flag machine
like like basically like a like a
thousand times more powerful right-wing
media matters mm just all kinds of think
tanks and everything and I was curious
Media Matters obviously does pretty good
work but in terms of kind of like the
more reactionary reporting local kind of
like local news like basically just like
a boomer scaring machine and they just
kind of just print you know print and
read police reports verbatim is there
any kind of like grassroots effort you
think would be helpful to kind of create
a left-wing flak in that regard look at
what I look at expands Medicaid expand
Idaho and it just and it's a spillover
effect because you're countering all
sorts of lies and propaganda from like
the coke Network about what that means
but you're doing it through a real
policy initiative that will save
thousands of people's lives and it
happens naturally as a byproduct of that
I think and then of course I think like
that's part of what we do and that's a
part of like spreading you know that's
definitely alternative media platforms
are really important for that but I
think we're at large I think I wonder if
the left should think about projects
that synchronize getting a policy or an
action out there and as part of that
effort naturally there's going to be
propaganda debunking because you know in
media manners does do some definitely
does you know some good work but it also
you know it's it's um you know it's it's
it's democratic and I think you know
more broadly you know obviously there's
it's not just gonna be Republican
talking points that we're debunking or
getting slack from it's gonna be a whole
range of things that you might have to
deal with to you know build a more truly
Humane Society but I just think but Luke
was telling me that like he some of that
is happening as a natural consequence of
getting people to back expanded Medicaid
in a red state okay thanks I appreciate
that answer I'll look into their kind of
program and whatnot thanks man
appreciate the call can I add one thing
to the degree that it's possible getting
your information into the mainstream
media is also very important
definitely and like I write for
mainstream publications you know mostly
because they pay the best but also like
even if I have to water my politics down
a little bit it's really important that
I get class politics in front of the
people who read like NBC News learn how
to write good press releases because a
lot of report it helps reporters a lot
you're calling from a 6 1 to area code
who are you where you're calling from hi
Michael this is Brenda hi Brenda's good
to hear from you how you doing I'm doing
great but I'm a little bit concerned oh
okay
The Times recently had an article on the
Trump
administration possibly changing the
definition of sex as to to eliminate
trans people yeah and this would have
far-reaching consequences yep
and so I'm calling basically to request
that you get somebody or somebody
address this on what the consequences
would be how they would affect people
because I mean this is this is a time
when it's something that could seriously
affect me in the most immediate effect
that I've read about is it would affect
the the bathroom debate debates in among
trans in the military and and in schools
and that doesn't affect me but it could
affect me in other ways because I get
assistance and things like that you know
I I'm older I get medical care I don't
know how this would affect me if you and
I don't care if the person you talk to
is is transport just that they're
informed but I would really really
appreciate some expert coming or just
even just you or say I'm talking about
it it doesn't we could find out what
this would be I was really worried I
yeah I hear you I mean of course yeah I
mean we're um yeah I saw that today I
was out of the loop yesterday out of
over the weekend and I think you know
and there were there's a cut there's
been a couple of stories in the times
where they've leaked some truly
grotesque horrifying policies this
policy yeah and also one on I think
deporting or something with legal
immigrants that had accessed government
services I think it was from recalling
quickly yeah it hasn't actually been
deployed yet so but no I mean we're
that's that's on the docket definitely
to get a guest and also and to not only
talk about you know more in-depth Lee
than I did today I I didn't I basically
just wanted to read up on it more but
that's something that we're gonna
yeah I mean but that's something that's
just gonna be part of regular coverage I
think part of it I do think and this is
both really disgusting and maybe I don't
know what the right word is but I some
of those stories I see like it it reads
to me who potentially less like policy
and more like midterm based turnout but
obviously I win turn put anything past
these people and we're all over it well
no and of course it should go without
saying that it won't stop with the trans
community right of course not
yeah yeah of course not absolutely
absolutely I mean the role that
conservative notions of gender roles
play in the conservative movement
there's been lots of material on that
and I'm sure we could get someone to do
it I mean it's all about enforcing these
rigid hierarchies and we've seen several
fascist movements that were extremely
conservative about gender because
they're interested in defining women by
their biology and then using them they
see us as you know reproductive labor
where baby machines for the Reich right
and when you stop seeing people as human
beings you stop respecting their gender
categories among other things so it's
it's really scary I went to a talk at
the socialism conference on the history
of capitalism and the gender binary that
I thought was super interesting but like
that doesn't cover everything here right
because there are certain formations of
capitalism that's perfectly fine with
having trans people be full citizens so
it's well this is a great example of
what I was talking about before
where we need in my view the something
that is not just multicultural verse
white supremacy capitalism but this is a
great example of serious lives at like
human life at stake that hinges on that
choice
and why the false equivalencies and the
stupid flattening of you know to
profoundly not okay things but one is
yeah you know infinitely I don't think
not only is it more destructive than the
other it's gonna it is much more
committed to in building and locking out
what could arise to replace it that's
like um a chill and bimbe when he writes
about necro politics you know the when
when you when liberal humanism collapses
for all of its flaws and you start
getting to a post humanism to this like
death politics then you're you're
locking out structurally those
opportunities that we are going to need
to exploit if we are going to change
things but anyways being that it may
Brenda I hear you and we are going to
cover it extensity
I'm sorry worried about it appreciate
some I'm sorry my my heart goes out to
you seriously and if cisgender women
think this doesn't affect them they're
wrong as a friend of mine noted the same
rubric that they will use to define
transgender people out of existence is
the same rubric they will use to justify
dominating women's bodies but dominating
biological women's bodies I should say
because that's some handmade still
yes Brenda thank you conservatives are
really worried about gay men I can't
take place my finger on it I gotta say
actually can I you know what you know
what Brenda would you like to hear
something that's a bit light that
relates the way you just said her help
okay if you Murr would help I will share
this with you in preparation for some of
the stuff I had to do at the Peterson
conference I won't lie and say I read
all of it but I did actually deal with
some of maps of meaning which is
Peterson's like you know late 90s
academic book and the the story I will
share that is very funny as he explains
why he went from Freud where he was
drawn to young instead of Freud and it
was because he was having dreams of
nuclear and I know I mispronounce that
word deal with it people he was having
dreams of nuclear annihilation
and when he went to Freud Freud said
that all these dreams were about sex and
that was ridiculous because it was about
Armageddon so he read young and Young's
theories were more satisfactory and then
he reveals what his dream was and his
dream was is he's sitting in a living
room next to his cousin which I think he
describes as something and I'm not being
precise Jordan please relax but a cousin
of his who was one of the most beautiful
girls he's ever seen in his life may be
the most beautiful girl and he's sitting
with her and he's looking at her and
he's receiving her beauty and then an
atom bomb detonates and yeah took
definitely nothing sexual about that
[Music]
Game of Thrones fan kick
yes yes I could see that that there's
there's definitely that element that
there's that element but I just thought
I just it was good I was good I liked
the element though of him like Freud
just didn't get it I'm just looking at
my totally hot cousin and then a bomb
went off
it's about Armageddon oh my god Brenda
thank you okay we're gonna cover that
aggressively we're with you thanks of
course thank you okay
let's just play this last clip of the
day sorry we could do all okay let's
just go through this segment so there's
a caravan of migrants I'm just gonna
read briefly from The Washington Post to
set this properly there's a caravan of
migrants from Central America grew to
about 5,000 Sunday a massive group
stitching along the city's main highway
for more than a half mile they spoke in
different accents fleeing different
disasters joblessness and parts of
Honduras a mounting political crisis in
Nicaragua cities in Guatemala where they
are sure their children would be
languish as they had and then there were
the deportees many of the migrants that
previously lived the United States for
years or even decades joining the
caravan to reunite with their children
or resident resumed their old jobs they
were undeterred by the American
authorities who had apprehended them or
the US president who promised to keep
them out
some of them had returned voluntarily to
their homes long ago but eventually
determined there was nothing there for
them now they were transferred
traversing Mexico while President Trump
tweeted about their journey demanding
that the migrants apply for asylum in
Mexico before continuing north it's time
for me to get back to the United States
it's the country where I live where I
can live my life unlike guatemala said
job-job Ria's 36 who spent most of his
childhood and teenage years in Los
Angeles attending kindergarten through
high school there this is a group of
people who would almost certainly meet
any fair legal definition of as Asylum
and have already been victims of very
draconian laws that were actually signed
into the 90s about if essentially if you
have come here and you're resident you
committed one felony you can you're gone
so even you know the rapper's shine is
big in the late 90s he was involved in
bad-boy after Biggie's emigrated when he
was a very small child from Belize he
was involved in an incident at a club
with Puff Daddy and Jennifer Lopez and
he's he did a jail term and then he was
gone
went to Belize Charles Ogletree took his
case and he didn't win it and I say that
not because I'm you know particularly
concerned about shine pretty sure but
you sure free shine but or I think he's
become an Orthodox Jew so I actually
don't know his current name but at any
rate the point being is that even as
someone who had a lot of some real
resource and privilege behind them we're
still you know at the effect of this
policy so these are people who are
profoundly contributing members of
society they shouldn't have to be
contributing in order to justify basic
human recognition but they are like at
some point as much as I resist these
arguments you are gonna have to hit some
people back with like you know what all
these immigrants you're constantly
bitching about they feed way more into
the system than they
cake and you benefit from them so let's
be real here and this Caravan what
should be an ethical call for all of us
and hablo has already promised that he's
not gonna play our game at the Mexico
Guatemala border he's gonna humanize
that border so we'll see what he does
when he assumes the presidency in Mexico
but he's like I'm not doing the Trump's
dirty work on this that Louie
Gohmert is going to as always in his
just depraved way he'll get you the
essence this is the Republican message
for the midterms and the Trump reelect
one more question is I know you favor
the wall I don't know what effect that
would have on a caravan like this but
let's get that in a moment some of the
side reporting we're getting is that
there's some political unrest in
Honduras that started that initiated the
caravan I don't know what information
you have others suggest that they're
doing a little bit of this for the TV
cameras there get in cars and they drive
a little bit and then when the cameras
come out they walk I don't know how much
is true and how much is not what can you
clarify sir so I just want to stop there
he doesn't know how much of those smears
were true or not but he would like to
repeat them for the he would like to
repeat them for the audience and then
queue up one of the most dangerous
unhinged demented ill-informed bigoted
people in American politics to tee off
on it you clarify sir well they're
supposedly were some political factors
in this getting started but Bill once it
got started
it takes an inertia of its own and there
is money coming and I'm sure there's
some from the United States going to
help this Caravan along but it's
building of its own momentum and it's
going to take a very strong president
which we have to stop it and we've got
to make clear to Mexico they're not
coming in we're closing the border even
though how do you decide it for those
who support the caravan how do they
believe the images support their cause
within our own country 15 days from an
election well I can't help but think
that the Democrats perhaps Soros others
may be fun
this thinking it's going to help them
but they're going to be surprised
because the president it's number one
thing was we're gonna build a wall we're
going to stop illegal immigration and
he's gonna have a chance to show that he
actually means what he says which
indicates he's not a real politician you
know so if we're gonna do Alex Jones
this is the best that a racist white
identity party could hope for in terms
of ginning up paranoia and nonsense to
get people vote in the midterms the
reason that these people might not be
anticipating the media response hits
from their Caravan is because they're
fleeing things like political repression
cartel violence and complete human
misery and they are at pushed to such an
extreme where they're actually trying to
get into this country that is presided
over right now by these cruel maniacs so
when you're in that life condition you
don't have time to access how this is
gonna work in a four p.m. hit on Fox
News now the next part we're gonna play
this is also from Fox is this six or
seven okay it's the one place you can
look for some decency on Fox and now
independent voters right and I think
this is a really this is a really
important thing here it's very important
to remember in these conversations that
you apps on a level of basic decency
there's actually a lot of people you can
reach and again it might they might not
be the most woke on everything they
might not use the right words they might
not get everything blah blah blah blah
blah okay and sometimes that's really
important sometimes it isn't
but actually we should have more
confidence that a lot of Americans don't
want to actually in another example
define transgender human beings out of
existence because maybe they're not well
versed in gender theory but they're not
cruel maniacs and a lot of Americans are
gonna say Oh
a cartel um threatened to kill your
family if you stayed on a block that
actually is like the reality that the
president's always lying and
fear-mongering about I sure wouldn't
want to live in those conditions why
can't we bring those people over here
especially if they already lived here
for a long time I don't see have any
problem with that because I'm a normal
well-adjusted human and here is what
it's like when a normal well-adjusted
human sentiment comes across on Fox News
it's very weird obviously there's a
humanitarian crisis taking place in
Central America and yet this issue gets
turned into a complete political
football there's very little honest
discussion about what's actually
happening it gets turned into talking
points and everything you know treating
treating this as an invasion is is a bad
idea and it's gonna end horribly if it
is treated such as that way so I think
people have to realize yeah these are
human beings coming here and there needs
to be a real solution
for food in in dealing with sure but the
backdrop is the midterms and so it all
becomes political let's see what happens
sure but were immoral sociopaths here
and I'm concerned that maybe a few
members of our viewing audience might
have actually had their conscience
aroused for a second so what this about
our Republicans we need a losing yeah
yeah please human beings could you cite
a poll number please do you want plays
last one yeah okay let's just finish the
trifecta this is how the prime
Republican Network is spinning this and
this is this is how specific a bit it
gets and you know of course this is
funny because it's wrong and this is non
woke this is back to belligerent stupid
Brian Kilmeade
I understand this New Mexican government
is trying to do more in the president
praised them however can you imagine
scenario there isn't a new Mexican
government imagine a scenario where they
walked right through America to Canada
we would never allow that that wouldn't
be possible but right now what they're
doing is on route to coming here
claiming asylum then thanks to the
Flores amendment they got to get their
twenty days in it in entertainment only
and then we got to give them ankle
bracelets and let them loose ninety
cut the bracelets off we never see him
again what does it say to everybody
waiting in line paying the fees through
our normal processes it says they are
there being played as fools for doing it
the right way
well it says two people that were
waiting in line was that they could have
their children kidnapped from them and
be separated from their families that
actually happened to people that were
waiting in line and his claim about the
90% of them cut the ankle bracelets off
is exactly the inverse of the truth
which is that the ankle bracelets lead
to about a 99 percent compliance rate so
it's even more than an inverse of the
truth it's like it's like 90 percent
wrong plus 9 so a kilmeade you're short
and get son by Jimmy Kimmel again please
right and like step on a jellyfish some
 well you're in the beach
contemplating your next history book
 idiot uh let's see
Nome Noma dent Nome de nent
hello mr' crew greetings from the
hustings just a quick reminder - today
is the day of municipal elections in
Ontario Canada voting is from 10:00 to
9:00 please remember to bring a piece of
ID including a bank or water statement
with your address same day registration
is allowed great all right we are taking
one final call of the day sorry I can't
get to all of you but this is the final
call today you're calling from an 8 for
8 area code who are you where you coming
from 8 for 8 are you there you're
calling from a 907 area code are you
there hello yeah hello yes this is Ryan
from New York I feel like I look tax I
stayed on after you called the 840 and
everyone else hung up so the reason I'm
what the reason I'm calling is uh so
about will payer health care I'm not
really a question I actually wanted to
share it in said I had a wire go about
it and just sort of see what you think
so people are it's kind of a good one
it's it's I haven't even seen it and
it's just a good way to frame it so
instead of that you have just like
single-payer health care sort of
premiere single-payer criminal justice
system which is kinda like what we have
so and it's not just like on one layer
we'd like multiple layers of it so we
have like state local police federal
agencies in please you know we have like
100 something federal police forces on
top of that we have DA's we have defense
attorneys we have judges we have
probation we have parole we have state
local county jails
you know just layered and layered and
layered and layered and you know if you
if you have a criminal justice need you
will be like we broke establishment and
they'll hold you for 30 years and you
have to pay a bill and we're totally
cool with that so like why don't why
well here's what here's what I'd say
because we do have to jump yep one I
don't totally follow you to be honest
and I think you could just say hey
everybody gets health care no
but I will say this there's a political
anecdote from I think 1993 which guy
named Harris Wofford got elected or no
it was like 91 he got elected to the
Senate in Pennsylvania and his campaign
actually was built around single North
single payer but universal health care
and I think he came from a family of
doctors and one of his political
consultants said you know if the
founding fathers weren't all lawyers if
they were all doctors America would have
had health care written into the
Constitution just like legal protections
and that's what she should say so maybe
there's something to it it was a good ad
campaign for Harris Wofford thanks
brother yeah all right um let's see few
more Iams and then we got to go attorney
Andrew what we kind of talked about we
talked about the Friday debate if any
you need to if you have further
questions do it tomorrow
scrumpy style glad you had a good time
in Boise it's a really great town I
spent the weekend in Eastern Oregon was
very happy to see a lot of saying signs
for Jamie
McLaughlin Skinner running against Greg
Walden architect of Obamacare repeal not
sure if she can win but it's the most
challenge I've seen against entrench
republicanism in Oregon to Waltons
having to spend a lot of TV ads
that's a big race right there um okay
and the final I'm sorry not getting to
all Iams the final I am of the day from
themes Darwin Carlson is definitely
working up his right-wing populist cred
all that rod rhetoric about the elites
as a big tell it's pretty hilarious when
you consider his decidedly elite origins
it's like the monopoly guy delivering
the message thanks everybody we're back
tomorrow in that take us to get to
[Music]
I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
rub
brakes peel off switch right
[Music]
teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
