[Music]
um I want to talk a little bit about
Bernie Sanders and I don't know if we
had a chance I don't think on this show
to play the best ad of the cycle so far
which was done in a grassroots fashion
for Bernie Sanders Bernie Sanders again
I I pointed this out yesterday when he
talks about slowing his schedule down a
little bit
that would mean he's going at about the
same pace as Camille Harris or bado um
he is doing four or five rallies a day
he has been a bigger leader on I mean
look no one has achieved more than
Bernie Sanders in the last several years
he's remade American politics to left he
has done more to put Yemen I mean look
the Yemen war the Yemen genocide the
u.s. participates in every day with the
Saudis would have stopped if it was not
for a trump veto that's his work Amazon
has raised their workers wages that's
his work he's been in solidarity
everything from the Walmart board to
assembling a campaign of over a million
volunteers the largest grassroots
fundraising effort in history and four
or five rallies a day so if he says he's
gonna do two rally today that does not
mean that he is not a main presidential
contender and not of course the obvious
choice if you're on the actual left and
you have some seriousness about labor
power about a green new deal if you care
a whit about foreign policy you will be
supporting this guy and you know and he
came out today and he said and I'll
quote now from NBC News senator Bernie
Sanders on Wednesday tamp down rekha
speculation that he would slow his
presidential campaign after he suffered
a heart attack last week saying he plans
to compete as vigorously as ever for the
2020 nomination the Vermont independent
told NBC in an exclusive interview
airing Wednesday night on nightly news
and a Thursday today that his health
care has only strengthened his resolved
I misspoke the other day I said a word I
should not have said and the media
drives me a little bit nuts
to make a big deal about it saturda said
an interview along with his wife Jane
we're going to get back in the groove a
very vigorous campaign I love doing the
rallies and I love doing town meetings I
want to start off slower and build up
and build up and build up this also his
son his daughter-in-law has died in the
last couple of days she was only 46
years old of cancer the media coverage
of him during this period has been
absolutely ghoulish and disgusting if
you look at Cindy embers just atrocious
reporting in the New York Times it's a
great example of course it makes sense
she's glass enemy she's a rich kid
that's it
there's no mystery here and this is why
we can pretend that there is an equal
fear with Warren and all of that and I'm
not saying that there might look Warren
Warren would certainly be an
inconvenience but this is a fundamental
structural threat and through a
democratic means and that's not an
opportunity to around with if
you're serious and I think what also
gets my passion about this is between
the equivocating and the lies and some
of the anti-semitism and just the
general weirdness and grotesqueness
around Sanders relative to what they are
actually trying to do and what they have
put on the table from medical debt
cancellation Medicare for all
Green New Deal pulling troops out of the
Middle East peace you know some actual
steps for recognizing Palestinian
humanity full student debt cancellation
and the list just goes on and on and on
if you had any moral seriousness on the
foreign policy alone which they have the
most power out of out of the gate the
decision would already be made but I
think it's also this dynamic that was
captured in this guy what's his name
Matt met or folia just the disjuncture
look you can choose not to vote for
Bernie Sanders you're not obligated to
like anybody but really like this is the
most decent person in decades of us
politics and it's not I disagree because
I don't want to change things so much or
I have more of a belief in markets or
whatever you know it's a
pathological and grotesque hatred for
him which is a representation of hatred
for America's working class as a whole
yeah and if you have what if you send
one bit of frankly campaign propaganda
to somebody you're trying to sway to the
Burney side I think it should be this
video watch this and then get on the
phone bank is back getting into the
presidential race Democrats like
somebody new and that is not gonna be
Bernie Sanders system it's really hard
to imagine who the Bernie Sanders voter
is at this point Bernie Sanders fall
back please get away from us thank you
for doing this
he has a you know a kind of gruff
curmudgeon II side that is of course
well known he doesn't actually smile
that much it's almost like Bernie can
tell the difference between kids and
adults sorry I think you're dumb
I think you dump if you don't sit down
and learn how to read head right no you
were not once to come here
the only way I think you're dumb I think
when you think you're dumb because
you're not um he also I think are
disheveled you're unlikable and you're
pushy and I don't think you should be
leading anybody positive I have no idea
that person is I mean my guess would be
is she's some trust-fund kid who's like
you know doing like horrifyingly bad
open mikes and the real question is is
like why is she on television who the
hell is she and God just what what uh
what is what it just sort of disgusting
despicable display their bad likable and
you're pushy and I don't think you
should be leading anybody
[Music]
[Applause]
how old is too old if the issue is do
you seem like you're in the contemporary
world he's a socialist from the 1950s
yelling at people in the same screechy
voice without smiling without any kind
of personal connection
[Applause]
he looked like the angry man in the
center of the stage and get off my lawn
[Music]
and I don't think that's a good look for
the Democratic Party watch it make calls
knock on doors this is an unparalleled
opportunity stop messing around let's do
it folks
