[Music]
here's lou dobbs going to further
provide you know that you know like
everybody all the people in the
right-wing echoes fear they all have
sort of their bailiwick right that they
use to to justify the way that we're
treating these children and treating
immigrants and you know trump it's the
murder murder in the mayhem and m13
whatever happened to those guys took
care of them
m13 done m13 in the rapist and the
murder and then with someone like lou
dobbs it's because of the corruption of
our political process because you have
millions of undocumented immigrants
going in there and saying heck with it i
like being in this country it's great
only if I get to the opportunity to
dictate who will be the County
comptroller I'm gonna vote in this
election I'm gonna make sure I can have
my kids live in safety and work a to
actually let's be real probably two
full-time jobs look if I don't have a
stay over town selectman forget it
forget going back to Guatemala right I
don't care if they have a contract in my
life a cleaner election across the
country and the president talking about
voter fraud and and the left-wing
national media you know absolutely
mocking him for doing so and it turns
out time after time after time as we
learn more and in part because of your
organization's judicial watch's efforts
and those of other groups we're seeing
real results here the president again
proved right yeah you know and it's tied
to the border crisis we've got tens of
millions of aliens both legally and
unlawfully present and the idea that
they they don't register the vote and
then be vote is just ludicrous so
there's a large number of aliens who are
illegal
voting it's pretty clear numbers in
Texas have borne that out numbers in
Pennsylvania borne that out and you know
frankly Lou the left wants to be able to
steal elections when necessary I think
from the point of view of most Americans
every stolen vote is a civil rights
violation yeah and I don't know about
you but one stolen vote is too many in
my book well I mean all unnecessary one
stolen vote might be the only one that
you can come up with and so it better be
too many if the left is trying to steal
elections they're doing a terrible job
well that's the thing too this just goes
to show the undocumented not only are
they illegally voting but they're also
lazy wouldn't be funny if they know the
undocumented and us in general we are as
egoic and as short-sighted and stupid as
the Clinton campaign because what we do
is we just want to run up the national
totals through fraud we don't pay
attention to actually winning it's a
it's a poor use of our manpower though
because we're trying to take senate
seats in texas Texas is a massive state
we could take our thousands and hundreds
of thousands temple yeah I was like why
are we taking all these undocumented
immigrants in Texas and having them vote
in Massachusetts it doesn't make any
sense that all the illegals were like I
like bade oh man I'm not gonna go
somewhere else to vote he's got charisma
and then once again you're gonna get
lost in the celebrity culture yeah you
get leftist infighting among yeah yeah
it's really think anything coordinator
tell the undocumented people that voted
for Jill Stein and Wisconsin I just I
just find it amazing when you see these
guys they both dress up in suits lou
dobbs have been going down to the office
for a hundred million years and this
other dude coming down there written a
whole book the based completely on a
total lie but he surely must know is a
lie because he there's an absence of
data and he could say like one is far
too many as far as I'm concerned and the
reason why he says that again is because
there may be only one there may be
literally
only one case of this happening when
someone thought they could vote and
didn't realize they couldn't like they
had a green card and they thought oh I'm
allowed to vote well wait if we work
including that I mean isn't there
actually is that totally obscene story
in Texas of a woman who what did she
vote in the wrong district or some well
she was on parole well I don't know the
specifics but the point is is she's in
prison for voting yes so there's no
doubt in my mind that there is one or
two and it's conceivable that it's
conceivable there has been a small-town
Supervisor position that has gone to
someone else
because of that one or two vote that has
ever taken place but I doubt it but
these guys know they're lying and they
dress up to go on television and put to
have frickin makeup on there just to lie
I don't want to go to Michigan and land
it for Hillary let's run out the total
the california lou dobbs is maybe the
most shameless liar of those hosts to
invoke civil rights in this is
disgusting Vanessa tea it's amazing
