[Music]
here let me get you I'm sorry let me see
your your okay Julian noise cat also
from data for progress Julie I was just
saying that this is why the data for
progress screen new deal also has a
public option for bike shares oh is that
right programming yes
okay prominent now all right as is that
serious
yeah oh all right I'm sure sir part of
the greeny deal okay
okay you know me emissions we create
with our cars you know what else is my
deal I mean eating fake meat to own
conservatives that's right every every
beyond burger or impossible burger you
bite your teeth into you are owning
Donald Trump but do they hate that they
do look it's we turn me into a culture
war it benefits us more conservatives
can't eat any more meat humanely and
progresses we could eat a ton more fake
mate
alright let's do it no this is I'm
serious no I know you're being serious
yeah let me just properly introduce you
okay Jesus God are you having Eric
Levites on - I don't know you always
have him on it's like constant man it's
like Shawn you know Sam has me on so
much more than more than you well I mean
he's he's he certainly follows all the
protocols Shawn McElwee of data for
progress and Julian noise cat data for
progress just for folks who don't know
before we get into the green New Deal
stuff sure etc etc just tell us what
data for progress is data for progress
is a think tank for the next generation
of the Democratic Party fair enough and
you guys do a lot of data yeah for
progress for progress and you showing up
in all sorts of different places these
notes so good few so what is this whole
green New Deal thing I'll let Julian
take that Julian so the green New Deal
is a progressive climate policy that
aims to take on the twin crises of
climate and in a
quality that's the elevator pitch it's
about fighting climate change and
creating millions of green jobs in the
process we just go down some of the
bullet points of the green new deal for
people yeah sure I mean so the the broad
stroke is that the green new deal is a
policy framework that aims to take on a
lot it's sort of a policy built for this
maximalist era of politics that we find
ourselves in it addresses issues of
economic and racial injustice so for
example there's a long history of
pipelines power plants toxic waste dumps
being sited in communities of color the
green New Deal aims to take that on we
also live obviously in an in an era
where unions are at one of their weakest
points in American history that last
time I checked it's about 6% of the
private sector is unionized the green
New Deal is a climate policy that aims
to empower unions and revive the labor
movement as a central part of our
functioning democracy it addresses of
course carbon pollution and greenhouse
gases but it also talks about Co
pollutants so not just the the things
that are heating the planet but also the
things that are giving our our children
asthma you know polluting water all
these sorts of things and it also sort
of aims to create a more holistic vision
for what climate legislation and policy
might look like you know it includes
things like vision for for health care a
vision for job provisions it understands
that the way in which people experience
climate change is not by the amount of
carbon or parts per million in the
atmosphere or even the share of
renewables on the grid but in the
quality of their neighborhoods the jobs
that they're able to you know apply for
you know the schools that their kids go
to
you know the sort of services that
they're able to you know get in in in
their communities it's all those sorts
of things so the the the legislation is
a recognition of the totality of our
life that is impacted by climate change
and it is also implicitly or I guess
explicitly saying that to address
climate change is going to take a lot
more than just cutting our emissions
because the amount that we have to cut
in terms of our emissions and what we're
gonna have to do to adapt to the
problems that were already baked into
the cake as it were are gonna require
like a reform across the board of our
existence
it requires direct government
intervention in the economy you know we
have to fundamentally reekin sexualize
where we live how we live how we're
building buildings how are building
apartments how we're building
transportation like all that is
fundamentally has to change if we want
to address climate change and we also
have to ensure that people aren't left
behind when we build this new economy
and that's why green jobs and making
sure everyone has a job is such a
central part of climate change and
something we haven't talked enough about
and progressives haven't talked enough
about and Democrats haven't talked
enough about so when you go out what is
data for progress do in terms of like
bringing this about me do you go out and
do polling that shows are you out there
trying to drive support for it I mean
what what what businesses of yours sure
so we do a lot of polling on the green
New Deal
and we've done a lot of polling sort of
explaining sort of where the green new
deal is face having most support and we
found union members really supportive
but also the struggles the Green Deal is
having we found in our polling that most
people hear negative things from the
media about the green New Deal and this
is not just Fox people listening to any
news source are hearing more negative
messaging about the renew deal and
they're hearing positive messaging so
we're identifying those problems and
then we're also working for solutions we
want to start we have a lot of reports
out there if like what a green new deal
can look like
and how do we have a green new deal that
includes racial justice and how does a
green new deal address transportation
and housing and we also work with
candidates to urge them to have more
ambitious platforms on the green New
Deal we talk with candidates like Inslee
and Warren and Sanders and push them to
have the most ambitious policies that
they can and show them polling and data
that having a more ambitious policy will
not hurt them but it'll actually benefit
them in the in the elections when you
say that it's not just Fox like how does
is it the hosts at MSNBC or CNN that are
saying you know like Tripoli saying
green new deal with some measure
derision or is it simply that like
they're repeating the fact that Nancy
pollute Pelosi says the green new deal
is whatever some type of Twitter
festival we've identified as our core
struggle is the Sam cedar majority
report that is really where people are
getting the most negative messaging no I
think it is absolutely the fact that
Schumer and Pelosi and large swaths of
the Democratic establishment have
decided to treat this with disdain and
so Republicans know they're supposed to
hate it
but Democrats are being told by
leadership that this is something that
they should look into and see if they
support I would say also though that the
I mean there's a lot of studies on the
lack of coverage of climate change
particularly from cable news so Media
Matters for example did a study a few
months back of climate coverage on all
of the nightly sort of cable programming
and the Sunday Sunday shows and they
found that in 2018 actually coverage of
climate change like decreased so I think
it's both the sort of disparaging
comments you know Pelosi going and
calling the green new deal of the green
dream but also sort of an inbuilt bias
against climate change coverage from a
lot of the major media networks so the
way you deal with that is just get the
major players who are amenable in the
Democratic Party to talk about it to
talk about it more
do you try and find marginally you know
marginal people who may adopt it may
like who who you targeting in particular
it's just like when you say Warren plus
Warren Inslee and and Sanders or is it
are you we've talked with Harris as well
we'd like to see written in Harris
actually mentioned the green new deal on
the debates I mean first off we'd like
to see more candidates specifically to
mention the green new deal we'd also
like to see more candidates adopting a
economic and inequality frame when
they're talking about climate change and
that is a victory for the green new deal
if we're sort of starting to talk about
racial justice we're trying to talk
about economic inequality when we talk
about climate change and we'd like to
see this discussed in Democratic
primaries we have many members dan
Lipinski of the house is notable who do
not support the green new deal and they
are facing challengers like we renew
them in who do support the green you do
and we are gonna have you know the green
new deals on the ballot in these
Democratic primaries and I'm confident
that members of Congress who are not
square the green new deal will either
get on board or they will lose their
seats do you have a list of primary
challengers that you're looking at that
you think that my audience should be
looking at horse
I think Newman absolutely front of mine
I think Ritchie Neil what he's been
doing in terms of slow rolling
investigations into Trump's tax cuts and
making deals with the shady turbo tax
industry I think he should absolutely
face a primary I did he have a
challenger yeah he will soon that's when
I would hit my breaking news story but I
don't have it I think at a mocha deco in
New York is is going to run a stellar
race I think Henry Cuellar he's facing a
challenger for the Justice Democrats I
think absolutely he's one of the worst
Democrats in the country he endorsed
George Bush and I think that le Dingell
who represents a
an incredibly diverse district he's a
support of the Iraq war he constantly
attacks AOC in Ilhan Omar he opposes the
Iran deal and he has just been
incredibly hawkish on all aspects of
foreign policy he's slow rolled attempts
to get the u.s. out of out of war with
Yemen and I think that I think he's
already facing a primary challenger also
for the Justice Democrats Jamal Doman
let me ask you this when when you see
what's going on with Nancy Pelosi and I
should also say I want to make it clear
Richard Neal's in the first District of
Massachusetts I am NOT eligible even if
I was to go back to Worcester
now Richard Neal was born in Worcester
so I don't why a rumor started I'm
all-in against Schumer in 2022 or so
people are hope but is there a number
that when you look at let's say what
Nancy Pelosi is doing right now and the
best I'd be like the most generous
perspective I can have on Nancy Pelosi
right now is that that she's trying to
protect you know these purple districts
even though Katie Porter you know came
out for impeachment and she's doing
great it seems she's trying to protect
these these districts and they have more
of a sway over her her caucus right like
the the problem solvers have too much
leverage whatever it is somehow it feels
like no matter how many members of the
progressive caucus there are sure the
four who are not have more power is
there a number that we need to get to in
terms of like progressive strength in
the caucus or is it if you have one can
they hold the the thing I'd like to see
us have the same number of progressive
Democrats that are members of the squad
as the tea party has members and I think
that you know we should be open to
primaries against any Democrat because
they shouldn't be afraid to come back to
the district and tell voters what
they've done I mean I think Jerry Nadler
is a great guy
at ease
great Democrat for a long time but you
know he could today send a letter to
national archives demanding that they
release all the documentation from Brett
Kavanaugh his time in the White House
and he hasn't done that and so you know
I think the fact that he's facing a
primary challenger who's putting out
$300,000 in the first quarter of the
race is a good thing I think that it's
you got to put the screws to these
incumbents you have to put pressure on
them and if they are not afraid of
primaries then they will only look to
the front line Dems they're only gonna
look to those districts and you know
Josh got heimer is gonna rule the day
but if we have real progressive energy
coming out of these cities and coming
out of these progressive districts I
think that there's no question that we
can start winning more of these fights
within the caucus okay so if I hear you
correctly and this is interesting
because I had not ever heard anybody
articulate it this way by putting
pressure even on your allies you are
giving them an excuse to get tougher and
I mean this is the squeaky wheel gets
the the oil and the problem is the
squeaky wheel has just been those
so-called front line damage the ones who
are in the purple districts but if
everybody needs some oil essentially
because they've all got to start to
squeak a little bit if Jerry Nadler has
to go back to Nancy Pelosi and say if I
don't do this I'm gonna lose ya and so
if you you know like why is my seat any
less valuable to you then so and so see
now that may not work be quite as
effective if Jerry Nadler x' challenger
is a guaranteed democratic seat on some
level right but Gerald now but Jerry
Nadler is gonna be like I don't care if
I'm as important to you Nancy Pelosi I
gotta make myself as important to my
voters so I gotta start to bring them
stuff then this is gonna be one of those
stuff and that's the theory there
absolutely and you know it's not that
Jerry Nadler is of no use to Nancy
Pelosi I mean one of the under-told
stories of this cycle so far is that
these freshmen Democrats like AOC are
putting up huge
numbers and fundraising because they're
exciting the base their exciting
small-dollar donors to give at a time
when fewer and fewer people are
interested in supporting you know these
these Blue Dogs people are excited about
candidates like AFC and that that
provides money to the party that's
interesting do you think that that
message is getting out I mean the
d-triple-c still blacklisting anyone who
works with the primary challenger but
you know the same time it's not working
Murray Newman raised 150 thousand in the
same quarter last year this year she put
up three hundred and thirty she's
raising twice as much as she did last
cycle and that is in spite of the fact
that the d-triple-c is trying to kneecap
anyone who helps her Shirl Bustos may be
out of a job soon I do think that she
will I think that this will look very
bad for her I think that she is putting
a Herculean effort to protect homophobes
bigots and anti choices of all stripes
and she is not gonna just lose her soul
she's gonna lose her career along with
it I love it I love that kind of talk to
Sean McElwee yeah you know if it wasn't
for the fact that Eric Levitz delivers
those lines that much better
you'd be on more come on what is he
giving you that I cannot provide just
take it easy take it easy
Sean McCauley Julien thank you so much
for joining us you coming to my happy
hour I will come to your happy hour
absolutely great well that star appeal
will you uh where is it tonight if
tonight yeah Frankie Bradley's okay one
o'clock
sunrise is going to be there text me
doesn't know the the lovely listeners
your show can come as well I assume no
fascists are listening
no no fastest listening but I won't
remember where it's at so it's me with
the info where can people get more
information and data from progress in
support the think tank like did it have
like you can get do you have like having
a like an annotated version of the
Congress to Shifu datable do you can see
of all of our wonderful
on Twitter at data progress you can go
to data for progress.org and you can
follow Julian noise Scott J noise cat on
Twitter hey but I mean don't you have
like some type of program where people
can become like it's like the Heritage
Foundation like you can buy our
supporters are sort of pay pigs we give
them nothing they just give us the money
alright and that allows the operation
well think about the whole Constitution
thing I don't think about it and it's a
the Constitution I like it will you will
you submit some annotations absolutely
alright let's do it just write in the
margin like you gotta be kidding me
about this alright folks thank you
again guys absolutely
