[Music]
so I mean the question now remains is
like you know will Muller show up and
they're apparently the judiciary's
talking to him I mean this is how
obvious the bill bars sort of I guess
sort of obstruction himself in terms of
of hiding the report from the country
and allowing it to be interpreted
because everybody knows like I mean III
don't even know if anybody in this
office has read the full report yet and
and if that hasn't happened yet then I'm
quite sure the percentage of Americans
who have actually read the full report
is rather small but here is Chris
Wallace basically chastising people on
Fox News his own Network saying like
seriously guys I mean come on Muller is
clearly not happy with bar you know I
know there are some people who don't
think that this March 27th letter is a
big deal and you know some opinion
people some opinion people who appear on
this network who may be pushing a a
political agenda but you know we have to
deal in facts and and the fact is that
this letter from the special counsel and
it was one of at least three contacts
with the Attorney General
between March 25th and March 27th was a
clear indication that the Attorney
General was upset very upset with the
letter that Benton sent out by the
Attorney General and wanted to change or
wanted at least added to and the
Attorney General refused to do so he
felt the Attorney General's letter was
inaccurate he says in the conversation
he was talking about media coverage
that's not what he said in a letter what
he says in the letter is you didn't
reflect what we found in the report and
there are a lot of people having read
now the full report or as much as it has
been not redacted you know agree that he
didn't reveal what was fully in the
report again those aren't opinions
that's not a political agenda those are
the facts
so I mean that's it Chris well and so a
bar has shown this sort of expertise at
this stuff both from a lawyer ring
standpoint but also from he understands
the power he has as the Attorney General
with particularly with a party now you
know we're thirty years out from when he
did this with with the HW Bush but the
Republican Party has absolutely zero
shame I don't know how much they had
back then maybe it was five percent I
don't know maybe it was ten percent but
it's we're down at zero now and the real
question is is like what are the
Democrats going to do about it right
because I mean this is the this is the
problem we have Nancy Pelosi getting up
there saying he lied he lied he lied but
we're not going to impeach we're not
gonna peach Trump we're not gonna
impeach I don't know if he said it she
said it about bar but and in fact not
only do we think these with impeachment
is actually too good for Donald Trump
but what's not too good is we're gonna
sit down and we're going to negotiate a
attempt to negotiate a infrastructure
bill like I the the messaging here is so
muddled I just don't understand like
what is the theory here I don't think
there is one
honestly I don't I mean they have this
this reflective sort of response that we
have to do the you know the nation's
business we can't be seen to be you know
overreaching and and doing all these
things I just you know this is just it's
a it's a holdover from a different time
and this is one of those situations
where you can really see the the
generational problem here people who
fought too many wars in the past and
learning the wrong lessons from it and I
say I honestly don't think there is a
plan I part of it is and let's get lets
you know acknowledge when you say that
they have no shame shamelessness is very
very powerful it means that you you
can't use anything like that you can't
actually you know humiliation shame you
know any of those those kinds of tools
which normally in politics are very
powerful tools they don't have it so
that you know you're kind of left with
just purely using brute power right you
can't use it by you know trying to get
people to turn on them because let's
face back it's not just the politicians
who have no shame it's their voters
exactly they don't care I mean look it's
the evangelical support Trump more than
any other president in their lifetime I
mean they they love him so now this is a
shameless sort of faction in our culture
and at least political culture and you
know this is that they don't have that
tool in their toolbox which to me means
you have to use the brute power that you
have and and you know I'm for
impeachment I think they should do it
based upon the Muller report I don't
think they have to wait any longer there
are dozens of other things they can
bring into it but once they get
impeachment on the table then the fight
is clarified it's real it's not you know
I mean putting up you know eating fried
chicken as they did at the Judiciary
Committee and putting up an empty chair
and those kind of stunts forget it I
mean that's not gonna that means nothing
to Republicans they think it's stupid
and so did Democrats who are watching
what is this you know we have somebody
who we think is that threat to the
nation who actually you know colluded
with a foreign government and is a
criminal by by all you know normal
standards if you look at that Muller
report in the White House and you're you
know pulling stones to try and get
somebody to come up and testify it's
ridiculous and I would say like this the
the refusal to show up the ignoring
subpoenas the failure to provide
information for oversight this is all
equally in some respects if not more so
damaging right because now you're not
just attacking the now you're not just
doing bad things you're attacking the
mechanisms in which bad things are
supposed to be accounted for and I don't
care who it's gonna be is the next
president or the president after that or
the president after that or the
president after that if this notion that
subpoenas from Congress are meaningless
takes hold if it's allowed to stand
there you know to the extent that you
know that we've seen anything that is
authoritarian ish in the context of the
Trump administration this is it right
this is like this is like this is this
is you know we're we're almost like in
Star Wars territory here where it's like
the Senate just says like alright well
what can we do you know I mean that you
know it's it's that type of like this is
this is how it would happen we're
essentially the legislative branch loses
all its powers by giving it up by a
central crisis what it is I mean that is
the reason you know we say that all the
time but that's the real thing I mean
this is a challenge and assault on the
separation of powers and and and Trump
taking it even one step further than
that he's saying he tells people openly
that he has the Supreme Court of the
United States in his pocket now I don't
know if that's true
but I wouldn't surprise me I mean look
what happened in 2000 when it came down
to it you saw what a partisan Supreme
Court majority would do right I mean
they installed George W Bush into the
White House and that was that was a
totally partisan decision they even said
it does you can't ever use this decision
again in any in any other case so would
they do it um yeah I mean I think that
that's absolutely a possibility it is
not my hopes on the court to bail us out
of it I don't think that we're in a
constitutional crisis I think the
Democrats are afraid this is a game of
chicken and I think they are afraid of
doing what they have to do because
they're afraid of a constitutional
crisis and because because the
constitutional crisis comes when they
send the sergeant-at-arms to go arrest
bill bar by end bill bar locks his door
and has his you know the the capital
police that are protecting him or
whatnot stop the sergeant-at-arms that's
where the constitutional crisis happens
and I think like the Democrats do not
have the stomach for that and so what's
happening is they're seeing their you
know the crisis is over and the
Constitution is lost
that's basically what like like they're
seeding
and stuff and I think it's extremely
dangerous and I'm not convinced to the
political efficacy of it like you know
oh I'm not either I think it's the
opposite don't you I mean look wait I
mean they look weak they look like well
I mean look you know I hate you
psychological but here but you know if
you're a voter I mean we know that the
Democrats is you know the base of the
Democratic Party is not going to vote
for Donald Trump and they're not going
to vote for the Republicans who
participate in this but there's you know
there are a whole bunch of people I mean
that may not be a majority it could vary
oh not to mention the fact that the
Republicans cheat and here you have this
group of you know basic weak sisters
sitting there they've got a report in
their hands that says the president is a
criminal it says it right there they
don't need to actually investigate it's
been investigated they have the bill of
indictment right in front of them they
could impeach the president tomorrow on
obstruction of justice it's right there
now would it would they convict him but
I'd be probably not the Senate you know
is full of a bunch of you know partisan
you know miscreants who probably would
not vote to convict him so what they
would have shown that they were willing
to take out and use the power that they
have and who knows maybe there'd be some
people in the country who would see this
for what it is which is you know at
least the Congress standing up for its
own prerogatives and the Democrats
having you know as you put it the guts
to actually fight back I mean it looks
like right now that they're just sort of
flailing around you know waving papers
in the air and doing this I mean there's
been some moments that have been
effective
I thought calmly Harris's right you know
right for interrogation but that has to
lead to something it has to lead to
something that's lead to something
here's the thing is that that is and you
know this is we have a presidential
election the the the the candidates can
go out and offer alternative visions of
what the Democrats will do in the future
but there are Democrats who are in power
right now who have some measure of power
they must exercise that power the
candidates can go out and make their
arguments and say you know this is for
the houses dealing I mean it's sort of
perfectly situated because we don't have
many house candidates now anyhow you
know serious candidates running who are
from the house so all the Senators can
this is what's happening in the house
when it comes to us will you know make
that determination right now I'm looking
towards the future I mean there's it's
so easy to do this now and my only
hesitation about actually voting on the
impeachment is is that like I don't know
if you get a second bite of the Apple if
God forever you know god help us Donald
Trump wins again in 2020 I don't know
what the Democrats do in 2021 but you
know if they don't have the Senate then
maybe it doesn't make that much of a
difference but regardless you know
what's fascinating to me is that and and
running out of time here we're going
wait long but and we had other things to
talk about but I noticed you know Josh
Marshall got into a chance noticed it
because it was with a buddy of mine and
got into just a brief you know one or
two tweet exchange about about like
there's no point in impeaching them if
they know that it's not gonna pass in
the Senate which i think is the absolute
you know I think maybe you have an
argument again like I say like you're
using that arrow and you don't have it
in your quiver in twenty twenty one is
like sort of the full-on double double
triple break the glass emergency thing
but but that put that aside for a moment
Josh Marshall is the one who used to
espouse and I think even coined the
phrase the bitch-slap theory all right
and we're we're literally this is the
bitch-slap theory and and Bill Bar is up
there slapping the the Democrats
and they've got to push back because you
know in in not just by not answering his
question but by not showing up because
you know there's a whole other slew of
other things that they should bring into
this bill bar is not gonna show up we
want to know how he where he gets off
attacking the ACA we want to know where
he gets off basically you know shipping
immigrants a migrants would be asylum
seekers who have you know medical
conditions or you know issues back to
Mexico I mean there's a whole host of
things they should be talking about and
at the very least they should be going
after these people for attacking not the
norms but the the constitutional
seizures alright alright I mean that's
the very basic thing that we can expect
from them and you know I don't know if
it's going to happen Sam I really don't
but it I'm getting starting to get a
little depressed about it because I kind
of assumed that with this kind of
bitch-slap politics happening that the
Democrats would just they'd have too
much you know they'd have some pride and
they wouldn't allow it to just go on but
I am really not sure I mean watching the
performance it seems like a lot of hand
waving and not a lot of action they have
to use the crude political
constitutional power that they have
shaming and stunts are not going to get
the job done this feels so much like
2003 to me it's making me nauseous
