AOC was on Colbert show the other night
and you know we alluded to this
yesterday but it is stunning that for
certainly at the very least I mean I
have been paying attention to politics
every day in a way that I think would
make most people physically ill for
almost but for 15 years and I cannot
recall anyone on cable television
certainly not network television making
the point that the typical top marginal
tax rates from the fifties through
really until Reagan we're anywhere from
90 some odd percent
- I think 70 75 percent and and that's
on the the top margin if you're making
what would be equivalent to about three
million dollars a year now and yet it is
all over the place now and here is a
network television show granted not a
new show it's on a on a talk show where
you hear it again
I got I got to get into one policy issue
with you here is that you have proposed
a 70 percent tax on rich folks no I have
no dog in this
fight I'm just curious what how would
that work some of the money's in the
Cayman Islands yes how would that work I
so I think this is something that we
often see too with Fox News it's like
they want to take all your money and
when we talk about a 70% marginal tax
rate it's not on all of your income it's
on your 10 millionth and $1 so after you
make 10 million dollars in one year your
dollars after that start to get
progressively taxed at a much higher
rate and really what that is is that
it's the tax interpretation of one
answer to the question of how much is at
how at what level are we really just
living in excess and what kind of
society do we want to live in and do we
want to live in a city for example do we
want to live in a city where
billionaires have their own personal
Oubre lap ads when people so do we want
these kind of you know folks with
helipads
in the same city in the same society as
people who are working 80-hour weeks and
can't feed their kids and these this
this kind of tax rate was the norm up
until the early eighties and why is it
was this is not a new idea in fact you
know people are yelling you know she's a
socialist she wants 70% marginal tax
rates under Republican President Dwight
Eisenhower we had 90 percent marginal
tax rate well I want to point out that
she's a socialist she wants to
understand tax rates those are both
accurate right
there you go
I mean that's I don't think if you six
weeks ago had lined up every news anchor
in television and asked them to explain
marginal top marginal tax rates that
they could explain it to you and now
people who watch late-night TV get it
well it also has a viral component too
like you could maybe have tried to
crowbar it into an interview but no
they're gonna be like we're gonna cut
this from the show obviously right I
mean the yeah the interesting thing was
like you never had conversations where
it would be appropriate to mention that
more often than not I mean certainly you
know maybe back when you're having
arguments about about you know tax cuts
but yeah it's super healthy for the
country this is something that the right
has done for a really long time when
they're trying to push the Overton
Window to the right right like they talk
about things that sound crazy first and
they just keep talking about them on
whatever platforms they have access to
until finally it becomes like a
mainstream acceptable position and
that's what she's doing on the left and
I think it's great
i-i've told the story before but Janeane
Garofalo and I I I think I was like
hosting and she was aghast sensibly and
we were doing like a comedy show like a
talk it was supposed to be a light thing
at the Aspen ideas festival and one of
the guests was a New York Times reporter
I can't remember who it was the other
guests was Grover Norquist Club for
Growth and this was in babe this is
before I was doing this version of the
show so it was probably a 2010 2009 and
I swear to you it was supposed to be a
light thing wasn't videotaped there's no
video of it was it just going there with
maybe I don't know 200 people 300 people
in the room and it was supposed to be
light
as much as I loathe a grover norquist I
was sort of interested to see you know
just like what this guy's like and he I
would ask him any question literally any
question and his response was public
sector workers are doing really well
with their pensions and it's unfair to
the rest of us
so he's workshopping his public sector
pensions material he was workshopping
and ice and and if you go back to 2009
started listening to Rush Limbaugh in
2010 they're pushing on this and then of
course it ultimately ends up with like
attacks on these pensions and we saw
public sector workers I mean part of
that thrust was ended in the Janis case
frankly but yeah it's nice it's nice to
see this stuff being mainstream and
while we're talking about aoc explaining
to viewers of late-night TV on CBS what
marginal tax rates mean and probably
explaining that to the vast majority of
of Americans probably maybe even in the
news department here she is with Donna
hasty coats and what was this function
I'm not exactly sure what this but this
is uh at a MLK Day event MLK now this
was at the venue where MLK gave his
oversell Riverside shirt okay yeah it's
up at the Riverside shirt Church uptown
in in New York City and when we talk
about the and you don't hear this too
much just the idea of one person
hoarding the world's wealth and the
other day I think we reported 26 people
26 people it's the new Oxfam have more
wealth than 3.8 billion people in this
in the contemplate this for a moment 26
people we could fit 26 people in here
without and
a problem we could I don't think we
could fit three thousand on the floor of
this building and to contemplate what
3.8 billion people is it's just absurd
there is no way that if you have any and
I generally don't talk in terms of
morals you know because I'm but there's
just no way that you can hold on to any
type of moral system and says and say
that makes sense that that's right no
it's like the Grand Canyon of inequality
it's yes but yeah but you here by the
way I mean they don't release that
report each year Oxfam does to
illustrate this dynamic and it's like
each year it's unbelievably obscene and
each year gets worse and actually what
this represents - it represents a
tremendous amount of suffering that any
one of those 26 people could alleviate
and or that society could alleviate by
not allowing those 26 people to own that
type of wealth every billionaire as a
policy failure and that's without even
addressing the political implications of
that because I Got News for you those 26
bill and 26 people have far more
political power than those 3.8 billion
at this point because of the way that we
have structured things here is Donahey
see Coates speaking with AOC do you
think it is moral for individuals to for
instance do we live in a more world that
allows for billionaires is that a moral
outcome it's not it's not it's not
and I think it's important to say that
III don't think it's not it that
necessarily means that all billionaires
are amoral it is not to say that someone
like Bill Gates for example or Warren
Buffett or immoral people I do not
believe that but I believe kicks his dog
right yeah I don't I don't I'm not
saying that but I do think a system that
allows billionaires to exist when there
are parts of Alabama or where people are
still getting ringworm because they
don't have access to public health is
wrong and I think it's it's wrong
that I think that it's wrong that that a
vast majority of the country does not
make a living rate wage I think it's
wrong that you can work a hundred hours
and not feed your kids I think it's
wrong that that corporations like
Walmart can and an Amazon can get paid
they can get paid for the five guck by
the government essentially experience a
wealth transfer from the public for
paying people less than a minimum wage
it not only doesn't make economic sense
but it doesn't make moral sense and it
doesn't make societal sense what's
stunning about like like these two clips
right with AOC on Colbert and and
sitting there with Tana hazy coats in
what looks like a has done like almost
like wasn't a Broadway drop you know
drop back is that these ideas which were
considered so radical that you could not
you could not access them except for
like on a YouTube show are now in like
being released in the most mainstream of
contexts and that's what's so stunning
about all this is that not that
anybody's saying these things that's
great that's she saying them but it's
what's amazing is that it's being said
in calm tones on highly produced sets
broadcast out to millions of people as
if we were talking about you know you
know the way that on a Sunday morning
talk show like we must go in and attack
this nation or whatever it is all right
like it's all getting like the idea that
this has equal billing to some of the
worst ideas ever is I think is
extraordinary
and you know there's good had to be
somebody it was inevitable I think to a
certain extent with the context that was
going on I mean Bernie opened the door
to a lot of these conversations I mean
frankly occupy open the door to the to
the conversations about wealth and
equality in a way that we hadn't seen I
mean it was out there this show started
in in November of 2010 and I think the
first guests that we had on
we start having guests in November was
winner-take-all about that very dynamic
of wealth inequality but it wasn't in
the mainstream conversation until a year
later would occupy and you know one
thing builds on another so it had to be
somebody but certainly in terms of like
you know AOC is I think sort of busted
through just because she's incredibly
well spoken in telegenic and and then
coming this stuff is it's nuts
it's nuts yeah it's the combination of
her amazing personality and poise and
her good ideas ideas that people really
like
