when we were talking in the last hour
that Nancy Pelosi has really put Donald
Trump in a box and a bit of a bind here
in terms of the State of the Union
address
but there's other signs too that the
Democrats are you know just the fact
that they control the house is is is
forcing the Republicans to sort of I
guess you know change their course to
some degree and and want to talk about
the the the Russian sanctions a little
bit later that took place in the Senate
this week and it was pretty stunning in
many respects but the I'm talking about
Steve King and it was a really
interesting dynamic to see him become
all of a sudden persona non grata in the
Republican Party I don't know if there's
some rule like the 50th time you
explicitly express white supremacy or
overt racism that's when they take
actions in the Republican Party but I
mean give me your take on what happened
with Steve King because this is a guy
who I think is gonna have a tough time
if he if he isn't forced to resign it's
gonna have a tough time with re-election
because he's just lost basically the big
goodie bag for the state of Iowa that is
a seat on the Agriculture Committee but
what's your take on how this went down
well you know I'm I'm actually a little
confused because I don't know as you
point out Steve King has been saying
this stuff for years there is nothing
new in what he said he gave an interview
to the New York Times II and it was it
was a good piece you know it was one of
those that's kind of honed in on his
racism in a way that you don't normally
see in the big mainstream media I mean
that's maybe one of the shifts that sort
of precipitated this is that media is at
this point sort of you know trying to be
a little bit more explicit in their in
the way that they describe people like
Steve King and that's that's a helpful
thing in terms of disseminating
you know the information about what he
is nationally but you know I think that
the biggest to me what this seems like
is that that on some level I mean first
of all of course the Democrats now have
the house so there's a lot more you know
sort of tension there and reasons for
Republicans to think maybe they should
throw a few bones that direction every
once in a while just to kind of keep the
peace than they did before but I really
think it's something else
I think it's that there is and there is
a growing acknowledgement that Trump's
you know Republican Party also known as
the Republican Party has a big big
problem with with racism and it needs
specifics especially have a big problem
in the white house I mean that's pretty
obvious they can't do that with him
they're scared of him he's got this
following or whatever so they're kind of
throwing out Steve King as the
sacrificial you know the said that the
human sacrifice to say look you know
this is our our apology you know for
being what we are and kind of trying to
sort of cleanse themselves a little bit
by sacrificing Steve King and there's
also another more cynical part of this
which is that they also need an excuse
to be able to say which they are doing
that Democrats are refusing to police
their own for instance Rashida clay who
they are claiming as an anti-semite of
course you know she's a Palestinian
American and you know they've decided
that her support for the Palestinian
cause is anti-semitism which it isn't
but that's you know this is their way of
sort of saying look at us we're just
we're so great right you know we're
policing our own and look at all these
people and they're going to point
fingers at all the the younger more you
know I don't know more lively kind of
members of the House who are you know
kind of challenging some of the sacred
cows and they're going to be doing that
so I mean that that's my take on it I
came as a toxic person and he has been
for many years in this environment he's
even more toxic than usual going to that
you know giving an interview to the New
York Times and saying you don't
understand why white supremacy has got
such a bad thing
I mean maybe you know just shows maybe
there's even some little limit that the
Republicans are you know are going to
reach on some of this stuff it was it's
fascinating because Tim Scott is what is
the is the guy who broke the dam here
Tim Scott of course is the a senator
from South Carolina the other one I
guess aside from Lindsey Graham and he
is he is african-american he was
initially appointed to that seat and
then won re-election and when Tim Scott
came out it really it seemed to me to
raise the alarms because you know it
made them super uncomfortable because
Tim Scott is you know sort of one of
their firewalls right like we're not
racist we have Tim Scott is the senator
from South Carolina
indeed and there's and there's some like
you know there's some grumblings in
South Carolina it's interesting from
South Carolinian of conservatives and
it's unclear to me whether it sensibly
it's about some of his judicial votes
but I wonder if it's not like hey wait a
second you're not supposed to be this is
not why we have you on the team you know
you're freelancing a little bit too much
but I you know I wonder if if this is an
indication that the Republicans are a
little bit nervous or if it was just a
one-off because I mean everyone ever was
like there they're reacting to
externalities as much as they're
reacting to what Tim Scott did and I
don't know if there's a way for us to to
get that sense but there's definitely
seems to be some measure of panic on the
right these days and I mean look look at
the picture that that that was you know
widely disseminated when when the new
house was sworn in it was all white I
mean you know this is nothing because
all white guys I mean they had they they
have lost
females I mean there
fewer women on the in the Republican
caucus than there used to be at some
point or another they've got to look at
that and go look at this we can't you
know we will not ever regain power if we
do this and you know if we could not
sustain about it's not it just done just
by the numbers it's just not sustainable
it's also you know it's fascinating too
and we can touch on this tucker carlson
gave a monologue in it you know and it's
not I don't want to get too deep into
this but it was and in he was doing it I
think in in service of a more
authoritarian patriarchal society I mean
that he was explicitly calling for but
his it was a critique of of market
capitalism which was a fascinating thing
to see from the premier leading talker
on Fox News to have a full-throated
critique of market capitalism there is
definitely a sense that the right is
nervous and they are on the defensive in
in many respects now that I don't want
to overstate this case but there there
is a sense that rhetorically they are
losing in in some serious ways and they
feel like they're being set up like
bowling pins at a bowling alley all
right we've got to take a quick break
when we come back Heather I will let you
knock those pins down I'm Sam cedar this
is ring of fire radio
