[Music]
all right so Joe Biden is out there he
who is he issuing an apology I guess is
that what that what is this one that
they would probably call it a cleric
this isn't his apology this is he's
asked by a woman what he plans to do
about the Horde after kavanah yeah so
here is Joe Biden apparently Joe Biden
doesn't need any plans for anything at
least that's their that's the idea that
they have so here's a Joe Biden being
asked by a voter what's the plan to deal
with the fact that Mitch McConnell had
kept open a seat
basically robbed Joe Biden suppose
administration of a seat on the Supreme
Court he wasn't aware of this here we go
a friend I'm not going to attack the
courts and/or d-terminal together
that's the plan
there's a lot of vacancies so he's not
even going to start with a plan to put
term limits on he's not even going to
start with as a negotiating point to
pack the court I also don't think that
we should pack the court but term limits
I think are preferable I mean there's
other ways in which you could do that D
with rotation ID but two-thirds of the
Senate could do this in the house and a
president I don't know if we're gonna
get that but what's the back-up plan
there is none Joe Biden just wants to
talk about how he wrote all this crap
with his own hands
why is he talk about the bankruptcy bill
if he's that excited about it or the
full bill the entire criminal justice
bill of 1994 it's unclear I mean I I
don't know if you'd need an amendment to
term limit on the Supreme Court if you
were to allow the justices to return to
another federal court and that is that
suggestion by Matt for do we add on the
other day
if they rotate through if their term
limits to the judiciary is lifetime
versus where in the federal judiciary
they serve I I don't I don't know but it
would be an interesting test here is Joe
Biden suggesting that his there's
nothing to come out about his background
because he was vetted as Obama's vice
president except for things like his
role in busing or maybe that was a plus
for an african-american the first
african-american president to have a guy
who had no just a little bit of smell
around him of a guy who would be
sympathetic to segregationist let's say
maybe that was a plus somehow was
something to do with before 2008 as if
my opponents want to believe I served
from 1972 to 2008 and then took itis the
next eight years they don't want to talk
much about my time as vice president
nine states it was the honor of my
lifetime to serve with the man who I
believe was a great president an
historic figure and most important to me
a close friend
I was vetted I was vetted by he and ten
serious lawyers he appointed to go back
and to look at every single thing in my
background from finances to anything I
had done everything and he selected me
I'll take his judgment about my record
my character my ability to handle a job
over anyone elses
I bet you he would get back to the brand
brother that's exactly what he should be
doing he got some rest
he got some new talking points or like
you know we're gonna do Joe is we're
gonna modify praising segregationists
I'm gonna talk about your buddy Barack
still waiting on that an endorsement
though right well I mean I think this
ounce is an endorsement enough if he
keeps letting me invoke him like this I
would not be surprised if Obama supports
Joe Biden that shouldn't really shot a
surprise anybody how could he not yeah I
know yeah I mean precisely I mean you
know it's part of like the complexity of
discussing Obama and disaggregating
between just the historical importance
of Obama even his just like personal
appeal as a candidate and politician but
his politics if you're on the left or
not your politics but even if you put
aside his politics well like how could
you have Arlene yes how could he force
his vice presidential candidate sure and
I'm and I and my point about the
politics is that he would feel perfectly
fine in doing so I mean sure I mean of
anything in fact if you read some of the
accounts of the Obama administration
Biden is at least stylistically on the
on the on a more populist end of certain
conversations
