[Music]
speaking of which you know this is hard
to parse but there could be an
increasingly interesting story behind
this the relationship between Fox News
and the Trump White House is I think on
one level fairly obvious right I mean
you have the the guy who oversaw the all
of the sexual harassment that took place
at Fox News he is now working in the
White House bill shine you have Sean
Hannity as a direct adviser to Donald
Trump but nobody calls Sean Hannity but
and so maybe it's not terribly
surprising that there is a deeper
relationship according to a Gabriel
Sherman who was on on Chris Hayes
program last night I mean the funniest
part about this on some level is just to
watch Hayes is like sort of complete
shock at the possibility that there was
this deep of a relationship between
Rupert Murdoch and Donald Trump
the point I want to make is this is not
just about politics this is about big
business right Rupert Murdoch the media
mogul who controls Fox News has a
personal relationship with the president
the Democratic Congress might want to
find out what favors potentially did the
Murdoch family get because of this
access I've reported in the past that
Trump asks Rupert Murdoch to submit
names for the FCC Chairman close Murdoch
associate told me that in fact Murdoch
Rupert Murdoch reached out to Donald
Trump and asked if his ex-wife Wendi
Murdoch was a Chinese spy and the
allegations that murder that Trump
talked the intelligence agencies about
her connections to the Chinese
government so - so is that you reported
that yes I mean that's what sources are
telling me so wait but have that been in
print yet no wait say that again just I
want to make sure I understand this the
allegation is what that sources close to
Murdoch told me that in a conversation
with the president he asked him if the
intelligence agencies could look into
whether his ex-wife was a Chinese asset
and this is in the context of a divorce
between the personal baby but yeah
they've already been wrong divorced but
this was just you know hit yeah I saying
hey this is
ex-wife could you look into that that's
a crazy thing yeah now I don't know if
Trump actually did follow through on
that and as Jane Mayer reported Trump
also you know vented about we should get
the Justice Department to stop the CNN
merger nothing was followed up on that
but the fact that these conversations
and these these mutual relationships are
happening is something that crosses the
line from just access journalism to
whether there is an abuse of power yeah
and the there you go good at time as any
to remind people that it's very likely a
Tony Blair slept with weren't Wendi
Murdoch at the same time that Rupert
Murdoch was giving him millions of
dollars for his Institute she's full
just props the Tony Blair it is pretty
cool we need to find a third way to get
donations to my Institute yes your wife
wants to see but you are God she wants
she spies on who she wants she's cool
how do you ever you've not lived to
you've slept with a Chinese spy who's
married to one of your main patrons
