[Music]
you know how you're not supposed to
politicize things you know so close so
you're not supposed to talk about guns
control after have a little bit of taste
what the matter the funerals first
here's a guest on Fox News Ted Williams
who is this guy and on Fox News we're
not supposed to this is back when they
there's only 15 killed in an El Paso
shooting so it's they didn't get the
full mount so it was quite early in the
day on Saturday and we know we never
want to politicize this stuff talk about
banning guns are you talking about that
now let's let's not let's just mourn
these folks and ban video games you know
I I wonder if if these guys who very
often are raised on a diet
of violent video games if they if they
actually start pulling the trigger of a
real weapon and they see real death and
they find that it's not as satisfying as
as maybe it was when they're playing it
on a television screen have you ever
encountered that and and could that be
the reason that that this guy just
finally stopped
well I've encountered video game players
and and their activity but it's rare
that individuals act out like this that
are video gamers I think it's a little
too early to speculate at this stage
about the motives but what we do know is
that this guy got ahold to a gun or
probably a semi-automatic gun I would
have to believe because of all of the
people that were injured or killed as a
result of all this shooting and he
specifically targeted this mall and he
pacifically targeted because clearly it
was a soft target
it was a soft target but we 12 hours
later had disproved that theory where we
saw a hard target where a target that
was so hard that they had the guy killed
in 30 seconds he was still able to kill
nine people that guy's not the only
person who is blaming videogames Kevin
McCarthy who is the Senate majority or
minority leader house excuse me House
Minority Leader was on with Maria
Bartiromo and now here's this is a
fascinating clip one it's fascinating
just because can't talk about banning
gay guns you know which we're actually
used in these killings but you can talk
about banning video games look I have no
porch particular portfolio for video
games that's my job that's Matt's job
but the absurdity that a video games can
be held responsible for this stuff but
be that you can ban video games but not
the actual weapons that does the killing
is bizarre
it's bizarre what's also fascinating
about this clip is if you listen to
Maria Bartiromo
very carefully and you have in your head
because you've watched her with the
president a million times that she is
desperate not to criticize the president
but you also have in your head that she
hasn't again though this is all
speculation conjecture that she's also
aware that the president used almost the
identical rhetoric no no no the
identical rhetoric that the president
has used showed up in that screed that
the killer used I mean full sentences
somebody did like you know you could
almost like it full sentences the Hulk
all the concepts the ideas
have all come if not out of Donald
Trump's mouth Kevin McCarthy's mouth or
any other Republican frankly and she
knows this but you can't quite say it so
she started dancing around it a little
bit and it's almost like she's relieved
when Kevin McCarthy lands on video games
because that way she could sort of
change the topic you know we heard from
the deputy governor of Texas earlier and
he was talking it was very impassioned
conversation really and he was talking
about the tone that the public uses on
on social media he was talking about
video games all of these things that
could have triggered certainly the video
game situation he was saying may have
triggered the the shooter there in ain
el paso but what are your thoughts on
that in terms of understanding that
words matter and that when we're talking
to each other on social media or looking
at video games where they're using you
know like who do you think she's talking
about we're talking to each other on
social media like who's the most famous
Twitter er in the world who's using this
exact rhetoric that shows up there now
the guy doesn't mention anything about
video games in his screed not a thing
about it he does mention like invasion
and all the other things immigrants are
coming to take my games yeah but she's
like sort of like trying to open the
door
you know like he's getting that sense
like she's trying to open the door but
she's not sure where she should tread so
she's gonna keep the like the emergency
hatch open and let's see which one
McCarthy goes for games where they're
using you know videos of characters with
these weapons is there a conversation to
be had about that about the tone that
that this country is using it's become
commonplace to say whatever you want to
anybody on social media I think we
should and you want to see from these
individuals what what they
and others but I mean this may be a
place that we could find this ahead of
time there may be a place of what what's
being written can be changed could be an
indication that an individual needs help
and others that we can posit if you saw
an indication that somebody felt there
was an invasion and that the politicians
weren't gonna do anything about it how
would you know if this was a red flag
screed from some potential killer or
just the script tonight for Tucker's you
know now I'm making my point how would
you know the difference range could be
an indication that an individual needs
help and others that we can stop but the
idea of these video games to dehumanize
individuals to have a game of shooting
individuals and others I've always felt
that is a problem for future generations
and others we've watched from studies
it's shown before of what it does to
individuals when you look at these
photos of how it took place you can see
the actions within video games and
others but what I'd like to do is make
sure just get all the facts were there
indications and there's times before
that we have found this and there's
times before that we proven we could
come together just in the last Congress
oh yeah you know what I love about these
things and I pardon me for going here
maybe I'm just being way too cynical not
only are they not talking about guns
I always now interpret these clips not
only as a distraction but as like the
Republican leadership's way of saying
like video games are actually a really
major industry and you are not spreading
your donations around fairly enough at
all right it is amazing that in that
conversation the word guns does not come
up not once you you see the you see the
he talks about idea of the weapons the
he sees the he sees the impact of the
weapons but he doesn't say guns what are
we gonna do about the guns that I mean
that that and they just are ignoring you
know their results at once cellphone
people are so rude on Twitter they're
alienated from each other and they can
just say things on Twitter it's really
out there yeah exactly I agree with that
that's also reflected in the
dehumanizing
of videogames I mean I don't want to
agree that first-person shooters are
worse but I would say Twitter and
first-person shooters are different
things let's say there's different
things I also I mean literally when
what's gonna happen if the video game
industry starts you know properly
distributing their donations where are
they gonna go next
however the Republicans they know that
may be saying video games or is not
gonna be enough to justify why this
happens that may not have any salience
because they tried that back in the
early aughts and they try I mean they
try it all the time and it didn't it
doesn't work out for a long time it was
the music remember it was I don't know
if you guys knew this but like when it
was when Columbine and other shootings
like this it was a heavy metal Marilyn
Manson yep it was heavy metal they they
were convinced it was the most like God
and he's dropping a new album some
things are only gonna get worse yep
turns out ice turns out it wasn't the
music heavy metal you know it's still
around not not so popular as it was at
that time well that's why but maybe it's
the tone of nameless people on Twitter
you know that or maybe the governor of
Texas has another idea lieutenant Kasim
a lieutenant governor of Texas has maybe
another idea of what could be
responsible for it here he is delivering
it to the somewhat concerned looking
folks on Fox and Friends weekend Sunday
morning one most of your viewers right
now half of the country are getting
ready to go to church and and yet
tomorrow we won't let our kids even pray
in our schools we have to look at
ourselves as a nation that's many
factors that go into the shooting many
factors and it's not in time to
politicize it it's not a time to
politicize it's a time to call for more
religion in the schools first of all I
got I have some bad news for the
lieutenant governor
half the country's not headed
Church yeah it looks like about 37% on
Sunday he's higher than I would think
and I would imagine that's also
self-reported yeah that could be like
how many people go to church once every
couple stir yeah the big ones but the
idea that this guy's answer to this
20-some odd year old individuals killing
of all these people is prayer in schools
leads me to believe that he doesn't have
like the nimbleness that one would want
and a and the thinking of a public
official well this is what I was talking
about earlier right like these old
institutions were incredibly oppressive
to a lot of people but they did serve a
social function of community and
cohesion and just keeping people in line
right yeah but I mean let's also be
clear that they were keeping people in
line but the church was out there also
saying like Oh incidentally the savages
that that we're living here before we
are where we're I mean you can say that
they were creating a certain cohesion
but it wasn't necessarily it was just a
cohesion that was directed at other
people sure and it was incredibly
oppressive to people including you know
the ones who were in out group the ones
who were colonized but if we want to
really solve this problem in the long
term we need a new multicultural and
secular form of community that can keep
us all connected to each other I mean
yeah I think that's that I think that's
a good goal to strive for but I think if
we had less guns and even if we didn't
have the you know the the cohesion that
we would want et cetera et cetera
there'd be less mass killings absolutely
and less suicides
I wonder percent agree with you about
that yeah I would start really coming
forces of the market mediating every
human relationship it's not surprising
that people are going to be alienated
particularly the one where they can sell
guns sure yeah I would just say I mean
yeah start with getting like taking on
the gun industry because it's ridiculous
that is an industry in my opinion but
then you also just expand public
education in my opinion and shorten the
workweek if you have more time to go
make friends frankly and you know how
else people make friends unions
what's union density right now ten
percent I think that we have quite a bit
of room to grow there and it is if you
want to talk about a multicultural form
of community unions are some of the most
diverse community bodies that exist
