[Music]
lastly one of the other sort of I guess
prominent features of Republican
politics is to make it harder for people
to vote particularly people who are
black or brown to vote and in Tennessee
they've come up with a really new
innovative way of inhibiting new voters
from voting and that is to introduce
severe penalties not just civil but
criminal penalties if you go out and
you're a an organization that goes out
and gets you know registers people you
submit these registrations to the to the
Secretary of State through you know
local election boards and whatnot and
they vet them they vet these
registrations and in this instance if
they find that you that if you have
deficient signatures or dresses right
anywhere from a hundred to five hundred
deficient voter registration applicants
so there may be they're incomplete hey
you didn't put your full address here or
maybe it's incorrect information you
don't live here anymore
there are times I'm sure when you hire
people they go out and they say oh yeah
I got look at all these vote you know
voters I registered and they filled it
in themselves or maybe people come up
and they lie to you or maybe you just
messed up you could be hit with fines
from one hundred and fifty to two
thousand dollars if you submit more than
five hundred deficient forms a fine of
up to ten thousand and violating a those
rules intentionally and knowingly would
constitute a class
misdemeanor which is this most serious
misdemeanor and if you listen we had
that trustee McMillan cotton I think was
in the week of January January 23rd 23rd
around that time we also had a interview
with a professor about misdemeanors
misdemeanors does not mean what you
think it means you can go to jail for up
to almost 12 months and get a fine of
2,500 criminal charges and this
legislation just passed the Tennessee
House Tennessee House Republicans passed
HB 1079 which is six months after the
Tennessee black voter project registered
ninety thousand new voters and so there
was some protests let's hear some
[Music]
they are tempted
[Music]
[Music]
you know the party has a lot of pressure
to vote for voter suppression we should
always keep the traces to be clear what
that woman was saying is that when you
get these forms some of these entities
will go through them and find like oh
we've left the address blank here or oh
there's no phone number or oh this is
not the right zip code or this looks
suspicious the Secretary of State told
them to hand in all the forms despite
any flaws that they saw on the forms so
that they could come in and say look at
how many forms are flawed that they
submitted so this was a complete setup
in that regard but this is perfectly
consistent with what we know of the
Republican Party from lawmakers in
states to lawmakers on a federal level
to the federal judiciary in the Supreme
Court
