[Music]
let's go to the phones you're calling
from a 385 area code
I think it's who I mean I think you
called yesterday is this is it the guy
who called yesterday great he's already
the most charming rich Aryan caller
what's your what's your name where you
calling from
yeah so it's Josh I'm from Salt Lake
City Utah I just got to say real quick
Michael he said he was gonna have a
migraine but I just you love
libertarians so much that he's
miraculously did get over it before I
called it in setup not to get your hands
are any better than most so far all
right so what uh what was the what was
the point you want to do to make yeah
and so basically use of the word and the
word on the privatized street is that
you you like the minimum wage Sam and
and I've watched her show a little bit
and yeah I think that she makes a decent
point my whole thing with the minimum
wage and the question that I asked you
originally yesterday was why do you want
businesses to subsidize an individual's
bad decisions with a minimum wage and so
that's exactly what it is like when you
have okay wait let me just see anyway
let me let me just ask you okay this
notion of subsidize I'm not a hundred
percent sure I understand your use of it
that way but let's put that aside for a
moment what bad decision is it that
someone made that they're in a job that
what is the bad decision they made that
a jitter paying it there they took a job
that pays less than minimum wage oh yeah
well so so here's a I can't remember
exactly the name of the study you're
gonna have to forgive me on that but we
can take it take it from my work but
there's a study that basically says that
in order to have success in America you
have to do three things you
to graduate high school you have to have
a child out of wedlock and I'm having a
Rick Perry poem and I can't remember the
third one there's another thing it's
like graduate high school don't have a
child out of wedlock and get it talked
about yeah so the third one is just get
a job so these are the men these are no
no my these are they let me just be
clear those are the minimum things you
need to do what in America to not be in
poverty okay so these are these study
shows and it's not necessarily let me
just be clear on what the study the
unnamed study is you're saying this
correlates it's not necessarily well in
that case here I think we here it's the
the Sawhill and Haskins success sequence
this is an AE I paper okay so that you
need these five rules as a minimum right
I mean not everybody who graduates high
school or gets a full-time job
or gets married before having children
and waits at least till I get to age 21
to get married and wait until at least
age 21 to have children it turns out
there was actually five of them okay but
I guess maybe there's there's another AE
pay paper a different group that's a
graduate high school get a full-time job
get married before having children and
that will those were those are the
success sequences I'm not quite sure
what that means if that guarantees it
minimum does he Sam Santis you do those
three things you're not going to be in
permanent poverty and so what you want
unfortunately is you want businesses to
step in when people haven't done those
three things and you want them to say
alright well you've made bad choices you
haven't you have kids out of wedlock you
didn't graduate high school but hey
we're just gonna pay you $15 anyway even
though the market doesn't that's not
exactly what the market would value
their labor at maybe you have value that
a laborer at Tanner
and actually we can talk about how there
are very low skilled jobs that pay way
more than that even $15 an hour that the
markets dictated but but what you want
to Sanders you want businesses and and
in particular who would hurt the most
are the small businesses to subsidize
people's bad choices and bad decisions
and that is something I cannot abide by
that well okay first off let's
distinguish between what if what if they
have you're saying that there's no one
who graduates high school who has a
full-time job and who is maybe it has no
children or hasn't gotten married yet
that they they don't so you'd have no
problem if someone made all those
decisions you'd have no problem with
them with a minimum wage in that
instance is that your point at first I
mean you know everybody has to start
somewhere and then what happens is you
gain skill no but I'm asking you would
you have a problem with the minimum wage
if it was only for people that that that
fulfilled the wilcoxon wings success
sequence
no okay so we don't get sued okay okay
wait wait so I'm just trying to get you
a point here it's not just it's not just
that you think that these people aren't
morally deserving of $15 a minimum or
any minimum wage it's that you don't you
have a problem with the government
imposing the minimum wage on a business
okay all right so so let's just say that
because I think the other stuff I mean
look the idea that you don't think that
they are morally worthy I mean I may not
subscribe to your sense of morals and so
you know then it's really just like
right you don't need a straw man to get
your point across come on it's not about
more worthy well that's what I'm putting
that aside I mean that that success
sequence you're saying that why should
they be subsidized from making bad
choices
that's just your assessment of bad
choices I mean well do you have a
problem basic gosh you have a problem a
bankruptcy do you have a problem with
bankruptcy you have a problem with the
concept of bankruptcy
a problem with the concept of it yeah do
you know what bankruptcy is bankruptcy
is when you have as an individual or as
a business made poor decisions that have
led your business to go out to to be
cash poor you can't pay your bills so
you get protection and you you don't
know well I don't understand why because
because the lenders don't because of the
private lenders that gave you the loan
for the business shouldn't have I mean
that's what happens sometimes not just
language it's also vendors therefore
it's also vendors don't get protection
from vendors somebody sells you you
never you have a you know I don't know
you have a you know a TV a store
business retail and people sell you the
TVs and you don't pay the bill and then
you go into bankruptcy you get
protection from from the vendors as well
okay so it's not just lenders it's just
people who sell you stuff and you don't
you don't have the money to pay them
back and so you declare bankruptcy
it's not just lenders yeah yeah okay but
so why do you think that that's okay
why do you think that bad decision that
a business person makes and uses
bankruptcy is okay I mean I'm willing to
dispense with this but don't pretend
you're not making a moral decision about
these individuals when you don't apply
the same thing to bankruptcy to
discharging debts in bankruptcy but no I
I don't know where your well you're
saying to me that if someone makes the
mistake if someone makes the mistake by
not graduating high school or not
getting a full-time job or having
children before they get married that
mistake makes them unworthy any type of
relief from government and I'm telling
you bankruptcy does the same thing
here's the difference though Sam so when
you're starting a business there's no
ABC step to have a successful business
of course there is of course there's no
thanks man you don't think I can find a
pay
/ that says here are the five things
that you need to do to be a success in
business you probably could find that
paper but it's not the K it's not
pragmatic it's not Sam you can't let's
just move on because I think yeah okay
Josh I think it's quite clear that that
that I was not spelling my straw Manning
you on that but I'm willing to move past
that because it's clear that you have a
different set of standards for people
who would get the minimum wage and
people who do use bankruptcy that's fine
but you have a problem with the
government imposing on businesses what
the minimum wage would be right yeah
yeah I do have a problem with that why
because you're again that goes back to
the my question you know you're
basically subsidizing people's bad
decisions so what happens what you need
to do would you have a problem with the
government doing it would you have a
government would you have a problem with
the government doing it if the workers
met your three special requirements from
the American Enterprise Institute yes I
would because okay so you don't have a
problem it's not because they made a bad
decision you have a problem with
government just in general imposing a
minimum wage on a lot of reasons for
that it's not just what we were talking
about heretofore it's also it those
minimum wage laws end up hurting the
people they're intended to help the most
well that's not true you don't have data
for that but why don't we stay with one
point at a time do you think the
government has a right to tell a
business you must have a minimum wage do
I like the gut does the government have
the right no no do you think the
government has a right to say to a
business you must have safe working
conditions for workers yes well how do
you square those two things if they're
completely separate issues because the
minimum wage is a consensual agreement
between two parties a business
and in independent contractor or person
I guess and they're saying hey I'm gonna
do X amount of work even if it's under
$15 an hour I'm going to complete that
labor for this price now when you have
safety in the workplace issues the
person might not have known that that
was there was safety issues in the
warden what if the person knows that
it's dangerous
to work in a in a like on a construction
site yeah anybody can tell you that it's
dangerous to work on a construction site
so if he agrees then we don't need to
have any safety regulations so are you
saying you're making a classic freedom
of contract argument to me and I'm
asking why you decide that one part of
the compensation package is you can
enter freely but the other you can do
you think overtime laws should exist do
you think Josh do you think overtime
laws should exist no okay and do you
think the child labor laws should exist
yes I do
why can't a parent say to their kids
you're going to work because when before
you're a kid before you're an adult you
know your prefrontal cortex is not fully
developed you can't make informed
rational decisions at that point kids
I'm making the decision for them
well you can't hit they're not your
property you're not your parents can't
make decisions for you as a kid in that
sense because you're not you're your own
human being you can do whatever you want
to do is that right yeah I know buddy
nobody's arguing that nobody's arguing
that that kids are slaves they don't
have to do it I need anything their
parents want no it should be illegal
because it like I said when super
forward the age of like 20 years old
let's say I don't not a scientist well
let's say before the years of 20 your
prefrontal cortex is not developed you
can't make informed decisions so no you
shouldn't have you shouldn't be able to
sign contracts and
to do labor based on based on that and
so but back to the the back to the root
of the issue hmm
are you not are you not subsidizing an
individual's you haven't answered the
question because are you not subsidizing
bad individual choices by saying hey no
matter what you do you're going to get
$15 an hour how about this Sam do you
think that somebody should be able to
live in Malibu and and foot burgers as a
career do I think someone should be able
to live in Malibu I mean I don't know
are there any burger stores and milk
do they maybe eat burgers I don't
understand I'll be at the Home Builders
Association a first day flip some
patties and not be able to live in
Malibu I agree with that also when you
hang seng don't you okay okay well my
point with that was yeah so there are
burger places in malleable obviously but
the cost of living in Malibu is pretty
dang high or he's been to San Francisco
or a lot of probably where you're at in
Brooklyn so they're gonna pay more money
if there's no minimum if there's a
minimum wage they're going to pay $15 an
hour if there's no minimum wage then
there's going to be a bunch of people
that say hey I can't afford to live in
Malibu flipping burgers I'm going to
move to Texas or something like that and
so since people wouldn't could be but I
wouldn't be employed by those burger
joints there has to increase their wages
that's why the market is so fantastic
because when it turns out that people
are gonna make good rational choices for
themselves right and so but the
government coming in and saying dunno
it's going to be the minimum wage is
going to be $15 an hour right even if
even you know in in Malibu what's gonna
happen is the business is gonna you know
I gotta be honest with you I gotta be
honest with you Josh I think it should
be higher
I I think I think I think I think I I
think it should be higher in Malibu I
think 15 as a national wage because that
would put it you know at least somewhere
in line as to where it was relative to
productivity and inflation you know 35
40 years ago and I would say that in
places like Malibu the minimum wage
should be higher and I think we should
allow a place like Malibu to raise I
mean we do see states in fact raise the
minimum wage above the federal standards
I don't know if you have a problem with
that with with state governments doing
it I would imagine you do but in the
subsidizing bad decisions that's just
silliness to me because you can't we you
and I don't know what the situation of
those minimum wage workers are or aren't
and certainly you wouldn't want a law
that just says only people who do the
Wang Wilcox you know success sequence
are eligible for a minimum wage no I
think that the government has a right to
do it in the same way they have a right
to regulate other commerce other aspects
of Commerce and I don't know what it
means to be if I I I don't I don't
really spend too much time thinking
about whether burger flippers should be
allowed to live in Malibu or not I'm not
sure you know it Sam I just want to know
what it is about the private sector that
gives them more authority than the state
which is at least hypothetically
governed by democracy like why should
they get to the spot that got the loan
to start a business so of course they
have more more authority on what on who
they can hire and what ways they but on
who they can hire because guess what you
know newsflashes the government isn't
the one that took the risk the
government how do people get to that
restaurant with the burger-flipping how
do they get to the restaurant with the
burger flipping they got there on a road
really on a road private road you know
was it a private road excuse me where
where
where did what is the infrastructure how
the infrastructure get there and that's
actually I'm glad I'm glad you guys are
so interested in my tax plan because
what I would do if I was president in
the United States I would I mean so I'm
not the problem with libertarians I'll
say this is a quick caveat I know you'd
ever guest on the show but yeah quit
college yeah the problem with
libertarians is that yeah there's no
really blunt consensus thing about what
a libertarian is so for me personally I
do think that there should be some
income tax what I and an interesting
what I would do if I were President of
the United States I would lower the
income tax but I would hike the death
tax way up because III just think that
what in this life what we should get and
what we should do is a fruit we should
give the fruits of our labor and so I
don't think that that you know when if
you're even if you're a billionaire 100
generations down the line you should
your you know your great great great
great great grandkids should be set for
life I don't think that that's fair so I
think that we should increase the debt
tax we should decrease the income tax
and other taxes and then that we could
definitely fund roads and we could fund
the the necessary functions of
government because there are there is a
proper rule of government for sure right
it sets up businesses to succeed
grantees think you fell the will CAC
swaying success manual I mean the bottom
the point is the point is is that you
you the the government has the authority
to do this because these businesses
can't exist without the government in
society and we as a society make a
decision and it's a political decision
do we want people to be able if they are
working full-time job part-time job
obviously you know to get paid per hour
if there's a minimum wage situation do
we want them to be able to make a basic
subsistence
salary on this and the answer is they
can already do yes about a minimum wage
they could already do that well then we
don't need a minimum wage and it's
irrelevant then in practice it would be
completely irrelevant so why would you
call in about something that's not gonna
have any implications
you're misunderstanding me no in some
places you can't know like I said in
Malibu you couldn't live on 725 or
whatever the minimum I don't know what
the minimum wage in California is no
yeah you're right about that but that's
why you move like you can Luque so for
example I was Josh giant you're talking
about someone always an hour - Josh
flirt Josh - why can't they Josh how
much money do you think your mind this
guy this hamburger flipper how much
money do you think this guy has in
reserve so he moves to Texas is it know
anybody in Texas what happens he gets
into his car hold on for a sec hold on
for a second Josh I want you to walk
through this with me yeah how much money
does that guy I'm the bank he can
definitely say that's seven dollars he's
living in Malibu now you know the
statistics that over half of the country
can't raise four hundred dollars in an
emergency right thank you for proving my
points because they make bad decisions
with their money all right Josh you for
proving my point
Josh what you're talking about is a
fantasy it is you you cite Bank Shapiro
you're basically talking about Ben
Shapiro's like notion of like if they
live on the coastlines and their place
is gonna be get flooded they could just
flip their house I mean you know the
different different dude you're not in
reality and it's and what's you know
it's depressing you know what's
depressing though legitimately you know
what's hold up you can go back and we
can do this another ten minutes but I
have to just editorialize I you are not
in reality if somebody's making 750 hour
know your literature
not if somebody does not have the
capacity to save because their actual
wages do not cover any of their
immediate expect where all of their
immediate expenses then they cannot save
in fact that's math and what I find
really disturbing is that if you're in a
fantasy life why don't you at least have
a constructive and positive fantasy life
for people actually having a better a
better scenario because you're literally
in a fantasy no dude you gotta explain
how you're not in the fantasy is these
are tires for us versus reality come on
let me talk let me talk so basically
what you guys are saying is that they
can't buy plan or whatever ever you want
to phrase it now isn't gonna work
because they can't drive to Texas they
can't afford driving to Texas well they
don't have a car I don't know if they
have money for a car they don't have
money to put down for an apartment I
don't know where you know what and if
you're so nauseous about let me just say
if you are so anxious about somebody
living in Malibu making a poverty wage
you can totally let it go because
nobody's living in Malibu with a poverty
way so dumb exactly it's a stupid
ridiculous example like a moral claim I
think it's wrong that people should have
to move on a whim every couple of months
just so they can survive there's no
reason we need to malodors no source is
that way so you use Texas as an example
I'm looking at a map right now there's
nowhere in Texas where you can afford a
one-bedroom apartment on working forty
hours a week at minimum wage and there's
almost nowhere in the question wait what
about no that's not true that is not
true at all all right well listen I I
don't want to get into the arguments
about what the cost of living is in
Malibu versus Texas and whether whether
this fantasy hamburger you can get you
can get into a car but Josh
dude listen if I went through Josh and
start to pick apart your life to see
what decisions you have made that are
bad and decided that because of that you
should not be worthy of whatever you get
do you have a home do you have a
mortgage interest deduction do you own
your own home not right now I don't
think you should be able to eat after
noon this car I mean honestly likely
like I I have a feeling that if I was to
come through there I would find a moral
reason to deny you if I wanted to some
basic subsistence boy you don't have a
house and you have time volatile but
yeah okay I think well I think maybe
I've done a bad job like I I'm
sympathetic to people like I definitely
think that you shouldn't like obviously
we don't want to be living off of $9 an
hour nobody would argue that but it's
your mom's what I'm saying is you're not
helping people by by having these
minimum wage quote-unquote living wage
situations where they can they can just
get by you want people to thrive not
just survive right now you're making
first of all anybody anybody who has had
any success would never say that the
that I'm in a better position to have
success if I'm making $9 an hour than I
am making $15 an hour because $15 an
hour gives you a breathing space to take
more risk you know in your fantasy world
where it all it takes is just some
gumption and you can succeed in order to
buy this in order to buy a copy you more
more more opportunity to take risk
everybody knows this that's why Josh
you're you know like an I don't know I I
mean maybe this is a guess but I imagine
that you came from a decent family
that has a decent amount of money and
opportunity I'm sure you've worked your
way up the ladder but it was always nice
to have that that safety net of your
family oh yeah right there's other
people who don't have that there's right
there
other people don't have that whoo there
are other people who don't have that
even if your folks have not given you an
extra block the fact that you had that
safety net meant that you could take
more risks than someone who if they
stumbled end up having no safety net
and you need to start appreciating that
Josh because when you do when you start
to reflect on what your advantages even
if they aren't direct even if they're
just in the back of your mind have to
have contributed to your success you
need to contemplate what if I didn't
have that what if my family did not
exist and if I was on the street or a
field
yeah I'm appealing to emotion from
nothing yeah I'm appealing to emotion
because we're human beings and the fact
of the matter is that you would not make
the same set of decisions if you didn't
know that if you faltered you had a
back-up plan that had nothing to do with
you but had to do with your family also
know he's when he's doing is he's
articulating rahl which is the most
basic moral liberal feel there's nothing
radical about it if you spent less time
like reading silly internet threads and
read some intro to moral political
philosophy no I'm serious this is
Rawls's thought experiment that and you
should love it it's a thought experiment
how would you design a society from
scratch if you didn't know where you
were in it that's the opening question
that's it
appreciate the call you've ever
supported yourself on a minimum-wage job
we all know the answer to that I think
we've gotten good enough jobs I mean I
have worked minimum-wage jobs before I'm
not gonna lie to you and say you had
back yeah I just like to point out that
the AEI is backed off of the success
sequence non slice you wait a second let
me appeal to the American enterprising
we got some late-breaking facts we got
some lay down facts on your success
sequence what happens so they've backed
off the correlation and causation
thing of like you can just do this as a
get out so here's a choice phrase looked
at this way the elements of the success
weakens are less the cause of a good
life than markers of such life already
underway so structural things like being
able to finish high school
for instance means that you already have
a life that can get you through high
school and there are certain things like
and talk about like moving across the
country financially speaking if you're
like like family becomes much more
important when you're poor also like
just be having to move across the
country get this is why we were saying
you are not in reality pal john rawls
instead of the secret final word the
final word josh go final word yeah let
me call back again sometime of course
anytime josh appreciate the car anytime
when sam voting for vermin vermin
supreme coming election if there's
anything that has to do with the
Libertarian candidate it'll be for me a
shake if your mother had a minimum wage
I would oppose it for you John I do love
firm and supreme though met him a few
times he's pretty cool you're delusional
