[Music]
Matt put put this up on the screen here
cuz I haven't had a chance to watch it
all right sighs you just tell you that
um we got a couple of emails I did
saying that this guy Caleb Kane I
interviewed him for Ring of Fire and I
think we're gonna have him on this
program I'm gonna do a pre tape I think
of the next couple of days he is a guy
we should just say this so about two
what was it two months ago
two months ago this guy Caleb Cain
reached out to us on on Twitter er to
Matt or I can't remember exactly yeah it
was it was when I was in Phoenix
actually i retweeted his he did like a
48 minute thing about how he fell into
the alt-right on YouTube right and I saw
a part of this and I was like you know
what I'm not sure I don't know I mean I
need to feel very confident when we
present stuff regardless of what it is
but particularly the stuff like this
that it's real and I didn't want you
know some you know all trite guide it is
like we we've owned the libs you know on
this and so and I forgot about it but
then it turned out he was the subject of
that New York Times article which talked
about how people basically get funneled
into the alt-right and and literally
funneled right you start watching stuff
that is just sort of like whatever you
want to call it all light or like its
intellectual but it's in the dark web
that type of thing and it funnels you'd
ideas and and so The Times wrote this
and so I interviewed him on on ring a
fire and he said that one of the the the
what happened was that destiny the guy
from twitch would debate some of these
people and got into the algorithm and he
said and that's how it then I found your
show the majority report I was like oh
that's great and it's also I mean I had
a big impact on me in terms of like what
we do here I mean part of the reason Oh
we've got away went at Dave Rubin for so
hard for so long was that a couple years
ago he announced that he had a book
coming out and I literally said at that
point when they start to review his book
and they searched for him online I want
to make sure that people understand who
he really is and so I thought it was
because it was fun and well then it
turned out to be super fun I mean but
pretty fun but the idea was I wanted to
get into
broadly speaking his algorithm if
anybody looked for him so that people
would hear the other side of this and
but every Kaine interview interview
really sort of put that in perspective
and so someone emailed me and said that
Kane was on Jimmy doors program and he
had mentioned me I think in that same
context with destiny not sure and but
that Jimmy had cut it out literally cut
it out in the clips but not just cut
around that but like head really dropped
it out which is exactly what I said no
effing way so I tweeted about it because
I wanted to just respond to everybody
but apparently it may actually have
happened let's put it but go back and
just see this I I haven't seen this now
if it's not no know what happens yes I
will play the audio Sam's tweet will
play the audio before we play the video
how about that okay
what is what is well just play the whole
thing because I don't know what they
even know what this is it's a
compilation comparing the video to the
both oh you kidding this is yeah the
video to the audio so we'll play the
audio first and then go to the video
yeah yeah your show Sam show or the
Young Turks that's usually who I go to
for news your show or oh my god here's
the full clip now I mean I usually if
I'm gonna watch the news I either turn
on your show or the Young Turks that's
usually who I go to for news
I mean I usually if I'm gonna watch the
news I either turn on your show Sam show
or the Young Turks that's usually who I
go to for news your show or the Young
Turk and that's not even the one that
they talked about yeah yes holy cow this
is it so we don't have an unedited
version of this one but you can you can
notice the same I stand corrected I
definitely did not think that that I
thought that people were just bullying
and trying to start drama I am honestly
shocked
one more my solution is for the bread
tubers and all the left tubers people
like you to go and debate with these
people and to get into their algorithm
so that people see the other side of
bread tubers and all the left tubers
people like you to go and debate with
these people and to get into their
algorithms you can see the flesh that's
helpful if they could have their jump
cut that they themselves that's what
they put in me so but somebody said that
that was in the context of I think there
could have been another one I think that
might've been the one he mentions
destiny after bread tube somebody else
somebody had said it was in the context
of what took him out of it I'm sorry
when I heard this I definitely again
what the Jimmy you know what make
me look good around here that I mean
even you were dubious about that
happening I was like that possible how
we'll be clear that people are just
trying to score estimation of Jimmy's
integrity is pretty low I will concede
that I will concede that and in fact I
think it's to my credit that I was aware
that I was predisposed to thinking that
and so therefore maybe I erred on the
other side by saying no way Sam
emotionally you
you think you could believe that that he
would do this but intellectually you
have to know that that is such a sad
pathetic move that that's impossible
and I was wrong I mean when you think I
was definitely this is not helping for
me this is not healthy for me it's not
I'm hoping that they did this as a joke
I mean I want to make it get this
respond to make the larger response I
mean we're talking about D radicalizing
kids and we've heard all over the place
that our libertarian debates have pulled
a lot of people from that spectrum and
to remit Sam like that maybe he doesn't
care
well it's maybe leaving some kids to the
alt-right pipeline the the other thing
says and now I've got to watch the whole
interview that I was told that he spent
the whole time trying to convince Caleb
that the New York that the the New York
Times article completely maligned him
and was completely wrong and every time
a Caleb said there were some problems
apparently with the and New York Times
article is there is with every but that
the gist of it seemed to be right and
Jimmy is so adamant about maintaining
his YouTube whatever it is cred or money
or I don't know what that he uses as an
excuse to bash the New York Times rather
than in any way to indict the fact that
YouTube only is algorithmic doesn't have
moderated content that need to be D
monopolized Wow that is well it's weird
because if you look at how do you watch
let me s is how do you this is a
reference this is just a random person
tweeting out Jimmy doors previous video
on the Caleb Kane New York Times story
oh but where Jimmy just was pissed off
about the New York Times and how this is
gonna be bad for his money basically I
just understands just what the woman's
tweeting though yeah I watched the video
it was a fair representation of what
Jimmy was saying I just don't understand
how there are people who watch him who
like yes I get it I don't like Jimmy
Jimmy doesn't like me
Jimmy has an open invitation to come on
the show again anytime he wants he could
call in now he could text me he could
text anybody here just like he did that
one time that we had him on cuz I gave
him a heads up we're gonna be talking to
this tomorrow do you want to address it
this is two years ago
no go ahead rip me a new one and then as
soon as we started he called in and I
was like sure come on uh - baby I do
hang the idea that somebody would bring
up Jimmy doors name in a positive way
and my response would be not to push
back nothing just to try to erase it
nothing to be fair there's like either a
jog off comedian there's not a person
even if you're a self-professed jaggoff
comedian don't you need to put like
another adjective in there at one point
to describe a jaggoff comedian whose ego
is so frail that I am going to jump cut
around someone mentioning Sam's name no
one in this studio would do the extra
work though that's true of us work
that's true give us Freddie no we're
gonna stop it honestly if I said that I
mean can you imagine just the reverse
actually on we have Caleb said that we
would be like dude you you okay like
over the next three days - I think you
need to take a vacation if we wouldn't
we would have the space here to say you
absolutely don't want to do that that's
demented and embarrassing so I can stop
editing references to Arab erm and out
of the show I hear a baby honestly I
feel like if I said that to you guys
your first reaction would be like haha
you're joking right
it's are you serious please god no I
mean honestly that is wow that is so
proud of myself about that
what it realized and if I'm if I'm one
of Jimmy's fans like I got a wonder like
what else does he cut out is that it he
just cuts out my name when it's
mentioned positively is that it really
deserves I don't know which is worse
this is a regular practice of his or he
just took out all the references to Sam
Wow all right
lava Jack DOE and the thing is maybe he
made a good time maybe look look just
the just may be a good time for a little
follow-up segment on that in light of
the intercept reporting just saying well
we could do that too
alright we're gonna take a break head
into the fun
