[Music]
ladies and gentlemen for the past couple
of years one of the things that I spent
my time on sat down with a team seeder
we do this every six to ten weeks we do
a valuation of what I should be doing
with my time what projects would be the
best use of both my time my skillset and
best for society and some time in I
think was late 2015 maybe early 2016 a
team gathered round was a couple of
folks on the team who presented a
PowerPoint presentation suggesting that
one of the things I should be focusing
on is Dave Rubin pretending to be of the
left to pretend you know branding
himself as the last liberal and
therefore was in a perfect position to
critique the left because as a liberal
the party had left him the the ideology
had left him and his bona fides at that
time were impeccable he was someone who
was against identity politics but also
made it very clear that he was gay and
married he was against the death penalty
at the time he was for single-payer
health care though it subsequently
became clear that he didn't know what
that meant and was also for limited
limited government which if you know
anything about single-payer health care
you know is probably the greatest
expansion of government that we could
have what else was he for he was he was
for marriage equality and probably one
or two other things Oh sick gun control
sir visually saying what's the point
right right exactly
he's made some transitions he was
pro-choice now
he's very reluctantly pro-choice in fact
now these blocked me I can't tell when
he's gonna actually make this pivot
recently he signed on with the blaze
this is after signing on with talking
turning points USA last year for funding
and the libertarian funding that he got
the Durand Institute iron Rand Institute
which of course funded by the Koch
brothers by you know maybe one or two
contributions downstream or upstream I
should say so and all this time I asked
Dave to come on show or I would go on
his show or we could meet somewhere and
have a conversation now we're gonna go
back and sort of I don't know maybe play
a little bit of a slideshow as you can
see Dave Rubin is blocking and we go
through this slide show some tweets
this duh bring some people's hey Reuben
report sincere question a viewer you
show ever received funding directly from
the Mercer's or from a Mercer fan the
funded for entity they never responded I
[Music]
asked that day back in October of 2017
how do you square your desire for
limited government with your support of
single-payer health care seems to be at
odds elaborate and never heard never
heard about this
now his book at that time was in the
works and sound like he was teeing up
his book tour and I really wanted to
make sure that if anybody ever wrote
about his book they'd have to search and
see the tweets that we had in between
each other people can use this one go
ahead at one point he did oh this of
course was when someone pranked Dave and
I thought that was really wrong with a
hundred dollar super chat question
asking him to debate me and he mumbled
jumbled he wouldn't do it and and then I
asked him you know I understood why I
didn't want to mention my name but
please give him back his money and
YouTube did yeah you two did I'll work
out and then Dave asked me at one point
Dave claims that so judge Harlan said
why won't you debate me or Sam cedar and
so he replied to heart Parkinson and now
you guys to be clear he called harken he
said that Hawkinson called him some bad
things like all right or whatnot and
defamed him I think at one point and
then he invited him on and then
apparently Harkins had said no as he
wrote so I invited you declined you're
embarrassing yourself supporting the
free speech has nothing to do with with
which guests I choose and then I wrote
the question seems to be why won't you
invite me and Dave responded to me back
then this is June of 2017 got your email
request for an interview you just posted
a video titled Dave Rubin professionally
stupid I'll past and not interacting
further now want to make it clear it's
not a video he said you posted a video
because the the video was posted it was
Michael
being rude and somebody I just said
titled yeah yes I just wanted to be
clear we were rude in the video and you
know the great Kelly was rude in the
title right okay so there was a lot of
rude people around here and I just gotta
be fair I suggested that title to
Kelly's okay so there was a pipeline
from the content I said to Matt
suggestion to Kelly's execution so there
was a lot of people questioning Paves
intelligence and then I wrote I admit to
not viewing the video but the title was
rude I think because I was responsive
Ruben report will accept my apology and
have me on because I I apologized not
look not only apologized have you
literally sent Island stand violated my
free speech I pulled down the video you
assaulted the marketplace of ideas
behalf of devar but it surprised me I
thought he'd immediately demand it be
put back up and I asked him I think this
was earlier why won't you have me on in
the spirit of genuine exchange of ideas
and because all I really know about you
is from the dickish tweets you've been
sending me maybe you should have tried
email and that's I guess when I did try
why did he go at home and then I went
down and I said I think most have been
quite polite you made a trick or request
for suggestions from the left I
responded happy to email though and I
did email and then he found that video
that Michael did and even though I took
that down and publicly apologized for
the rudeness displayed by my rude people
here and believe me I I doct everybody
here a lot of people didn't get dessert
that day at the commissary yep and then
then coming up this year hey Ruben
report condolences it seems the IDW is
calling the herd this is of course from
a quail at peace hang in there brother
seems like nobody on the rights open to
ideas want to come on the show to
discuss solidarity I tried to reach out
to Dave we go backwards right there
where's that retraction retraction
yeah this is uh Dave I asked him to you
know refund the money and I go and I
said I said congratulations if true that
you've refunded the money and then I
retracted it because I was informed that
Dave did not refund the payment for the
super chatty censored you tube refunded
so I wanted to retract my claim that
report had some integrity in doing so no
excuses this on me my apologies I will
double my efforts to do better I wanted
to just straight shooter folks straight
shooter that's why I mean trying to do
and well that's our little walk down
memory lane we're back stuck here with
Rubin report we also have the first time
you ever mentioned Rubin report on
Twitter if you want oh yeah this is the
first time okay so I was responding to a
PBS news hour is attempting a had a
tweet that said no labels is attempting
to bridge the divide between left and
right John Huntsman and Joe Lieberman on
Newshour and then I put lol which was a
thing that the kids used at that time
meaning laugh out loud and and then
someone called me regressive yeah
Persian atheist culture oh yeah Persian
atheist and I wrote that I don't know
who dies with me
I believe if it's the same person this
is somebody who had a lot of like
Michael what you should do is slow down
Sam Harris's podcasts you can hear each
individual word he's saying
and then you won't take him out of
context so he called me intellectually
coherent regressive and I responded
silly and then he said ask Sir Dave
Rubin about the regressives and TYT
and e-tags Rubin report and I wrote no
thanks sound silly but not fun and that
was back in a time how little you knew
how fun it would be to say that was not
good forecasting that no heart no well I
mean look it sounded silly but not fun
but it turned out to be a lot of fun and
it's not extremely silly yeah would you
let that be a lesson for you if there's
any moral that I want you to take from
my relationship with Dave which seems to
have come to an end not by my choice
it's not the first time I've been jilted
it'll take a little while
I'll probably you know spy on him by
going through another account or hopping
on Instagram and seeing what he's up to
and you know maybe even joined Facebook
just to follow and see if I want to hear
about AI well just I want to know what
you become pro-life the hardest the
hardest part the hardest part
now these moved on to the blaze and this
and that the hardest part to sort of get
past is and I will cop to this the idea
that I know at one point Dave's gonna
find another nemesis and they're gonna
go back and forth on Twitter and Dave's
gonna pretend like he's ignoring him em
and then and it's just it's hard for me
to contemplate that being somebody but
me and but I do want to say this to Dave
listen if you change your mind just
simply flick that switch man and unblock
me and we can just start over and maybe
trying to recapture a little bit of what
we had if there was something specific I
could change to allow us to start anew I
will do it
you have my Twitter feed so perhaps I
could have poked or prodded in another
way but I felt trying to figure out why
he thinks as he does is what my job is
goodbye Dave all right folks I'm
probably gonna need a little minute as
we go to the fun half just collect
myself but just a reminder that your
support
