so Deena let's just talk about the
importance of of digital advertising I
don't know if people really fully grasp
how big a part of our economy it is but
how important it is in many respects to
the social fabric in a way that I think
might surprise people sure you know
digital advertising is an incredibly
important industry because it's how our
news industry and our content producers
are largely able to offer content online
to consumers for free or at low cost so
you know we want to make sure that that
industry is functioning properly so that
more and more content producers and news
journalists can offer content for free
at a low cost and in terms of how large
it is you know the two largest players
in the digital advertising industry are
Google and Facebook Google makes over a
hundred billion dollars a year selling
digital advertising and Facebook makes
over fifty billion a year selling
digital advertising and digital
advertising is the primary revenue
source for almost the entirety of our
news industry in America and it we
should also say that when we talk about
Google and we talk about Facebook we are
talking about ultimately digital
advertising selling companies I mean
Google gets 86 percent of their revenue
as you write Facebook almost entirely
99% so that's what these that's the
business they're in ultimately that's
correct yeah it's really important to
remember that because when we think of
Google we might think of search or we
might think of other Google search
Google products we think of Facebook we
think of this free social network but
actually almost the entirety of their
revenues comes from selling one you know
very narrow product and that's digital
advertising
and when we talk about the growth in
this market this was fascinating you
wrote that the online ad market as a
whole is growing expected year-over-year
growth is 20% which is that's big that's
a mean that's that's a pretty steep
curve but outside of Google and Facebook
and a couple others the rest of the
market which includes thousands of
thousands independent news publishers
will shrink by 11% so the to the extent
that the the revenues and the size of
this market is growing it really isn't
it's it's really just Facebook and
Google that is growing that's right
okay so you write that it's super
important for us to understand this
dynamic and why why does knowing how
digital advertising is sold why is that
important in our understanding of these
companies relative to the question of
antitrust well the company is currently
are under investigation either by US
Congress the Federal Trade Commission or
the Department of Justice for violations
of antitrust laws and we're going to
need to regulators are going to need to
and the press is going to need to start
covering these topics and deeper fashion
to get to the the heart of what the
competition issues are in the industry
but as we do that we'll also notice a
couple of other intersections with other
conversations we're having nationally
and and one of those is the intersection
with with with how consumers are
demanding more privacy right so we're
considering federal privacy legislation
for consumers were passing at the state
level various state laws that protect
consumers privacy online and when I say
protect consumers privacy online I'm
really referring to one narrow thing
which is consumers desire to stop being
tracked right so back in the early 2000s
we should get lots of telemarketing
calls at home
we passed federal legislation we allowed
consumers to opt out of that nonsense
and we were reverted sort of time and
peace in the household back to Americans
and we have a similar structural problem
right now where you have these online
advertising companies that are tracking
you not just on their own site like
Facebook is not just tracking you on
Facebook calm and on the Facebook app
but actually it's tracking you and
recording your behavior on millions and
millions and millions of independent
sites and apps that have nothing to do
with Facebook and this feels very
invasive from just a surveillance
perspective right and so consumers are
increasingly demanding the right to opt
out of this privacy intrusion and the
the the reason why the companies do this
and what they are doing is part of the
antitrust conversation at the same time
and well I want to talk about that that
that link in just a second but if I
don't care about the tracking like you
know like I don't care if Facebook knows
that I want to get a new couch or
something like that there's still
another whole set of issues from an
antitrust perspective and how it impacts
me as both a consumer and as a a citizen
and in a multitude of ways but let's
let's address that that question of like
how does the privacy how is that
implicated by the antitrust question
sure so we can answer this question and
from two different perspectives from the
consumers perspective whenever you have
a company that has a lot of market power
in the market they might they might take
advantage of that power by increasing
price or decreasing quality and those
two concepts are really flip sides of
the same coin now in facebook and
Google's case the price is free and that
has stayed constant but the the level
and the amount of surveillance that they
are conducting on you as a condition for
using their services
is continuing to increase and has
progressively increased drastically over
time now you may not mind it but that's
really a question that you know for
example it gets litigated because even
when you have the prices of products
increase in a market you're always going
to have some people say well I don't
really mind that the price went up
because they kind of tweaked the color
and I like this color better right so
it's a fact question that can still get
litigated and is not a moot issue just
because a subset of the population
doesn't mind it and the reason why I
mention that is because we do notice
some interesting trends nationally we
see a huge uptick in the number of
consumers that are adopting privacy
based browsers that stop tracking we see
or try to stop tracking we see a huge
uptick in the number of users that are
adopting ad blockers and script blockers
because they're trying to escape this
tracking so we have a lot of empirical
evidence that suggests that many
American consumers and a large chunk of
American consumers don't like this but
they really just don't have any other
choice right now but even if you don't
care about that from that perspective
you might still care about the price
that you're paying for a new york time
subscription or wall street journal
subscription or whether you can read
your local new site locally for free or
whether they're even still in business
right so whether you even have access to
local news because we also have a
problem nationally with a decline of the
sustainability of independent and local
news journalism and the market needs to
work for them too so that you as a
consumer can access their services at
low cost and this might get kind of
confusing well we'd like it before we
get to this part let's let's take a
quick break here and we will stop here
at the with the premise that the lack of
privacy that we are subject to at the
hands of Google and Facebook is not just
a question of
privacy I may be perfectly comfortable
with Google and Facebook knowing what
kind of dog food I want to buy or
whether I'm in the market for a couch
but the problem is it fundamentally
undercuts a whole host of other services
that I may want in the future and makes
them less viable we will explain that
when we return
I'm Sam cedar this will bring a fire
radio we'll be right back after this
