[Music]
folks the war with Iran is not the only
war we are waging how do I know because
I listened to a sub Gorka clip today
here is a sub Gorka man this guy a tight
shot and I love how they do their ad is
that the NAD relief factor is that a an
ad right on the microphone interesting
brilliant I'm ready for my closer super
close them from the Dennis Prager School
of just put that baby
he's right arm I've he's got a painting
of the Twin Towers in the background oh
yeah he's got an old reel-to-reel which
signifies they're doing a radio show
there is a presidential seal presumably
there had one a facsimile made up or he
may you know he he stole that here he is
sub Korca what is old is new folks I
remember doing a prank phone call to the
American Family Association on there a
breakthrough report on how Lenny the
squid Lenny the shark in gosh what what
movie was it shark tales was actually
promoting trangender a transgenderism I
think yes well guess what folks SEP cork
has found his reason to continue to be a
person that's been the left from
Robespierre to Trotsky to mark user to
Alinsky to Clinton to Obama to today so
can we go back over if we start that
over again cuz that's quite a lineage
that's been the left from Robespierre to
Trotsky to mark user to Alinsky to
Clinton to Obama to today civil society
doesn't exist
friendship doesn't exist family doesn't
exist only permanent revolution have you
seen what I posted on my Twitter feed
with regards to family Arthur is a
children's cartoon I think it's actually
made with your money
PBS my children used to watch Arthur
15 years ago about a rodent-like
creature that lived and had fun in his
cartoon world the new season of Arthur
will have one of Arthur's teachers at
school a male teacher married to a
fellow male rodent did you have any
questions about there being a culture
war ladies and gentlemen did you have
any doubt in your mind this is a war for
our culture and that's why we exist
that's a little borderline medic what
mmm I rode it like figure berry dozen
rode it like a simple research would
have revealed that it was an odd walk
but I'll go with vague rodent-like
figure a culture wars on folks they have
Arthur no dad did it like wrote it like
figures either neither did his buddies
at the certain secret society that
shower Dave Davis because of immigration
papers if anyone asks steven crowder how
he feels about this because i know he
has a past connection to arthur right
all right true on the show he's gonna
have to association with this disgusting
work of cultural Marxism well yes indeed
boo
yes indeed yes look I love Rhodes beer
as much as the next permanent
revolutionary it doesn't believe in
friendship and spits family in the face
but where are the Muslim
names Muhammad ever heard of him trying
to replace the the legal code with
Sharia
all I hear about is goddamn you know
Eurocentric BuzzFeed top ten reasons
