so Heather it's the second hour of the
program it is 2019 we finished the third
hour well I mean I should say the first
hour when we were talking on a bit of a
cliffhanger and there was actually two
cliffhangers one was why if we both and
I think we're in agreement on this we
both think that the only way that we're
going to see the Republicans that the
Republicans have to get out of this Jam
there in which is that the pressure of
the shutdown is working on them and in
you know they're afraid particularly
senators who are up for re-election in
2020 are getting nervous about this I
would include Mitch McConnell I think
he's more afraid of a primary challenge
frankly then he would be the general but
who knows he's not going to to tell
Donald Trump that his fantasy wall can't
happen meanwhile there are more
Republican defectors it seems to me the
only option for Donald Trump is to
declare a fake state of an emergency so
he can claim that he is building his
fake wall and and the real government
shutdown but what strikes me and then
the second question we have which was
also the cliffhanger is what is the
Democrats position on immigration but
before we get to that one I thought uh
this week on Tuesday night that Donald
Trump it certainly felt this way Monday
afternoon when he tweeted this that he
was going to declare a some type of
national emergency which of course is
couldn't be more fraudulent and of
course the fact that it was completely
fraudulent would be in no way a
deterrent for Donald Trump to go out
there and make that claim and wouldn't
suggest any accountability I don't know
that there would be but he would have
gone and claimed a state of an emergency
that he could reappropriation Lee set
aside for the military and use it to get
the military to build a wall or to start
to construct it or you know design it or
you
pretend that it was going to be there do
a paper mache replica of it or or
whatever it was and so he had this five
ten minutes of national air time and he
didn't do it and I was under the
impression I got the distinct impression
that they got pushback from somewhere in
the government maybe it was from the
military maybe it was from members of
the Senate who are like don't take money
from the military or maybe somebody said
hey you're setting a precedent like uh
could Bernie Sanders declare a state of
national emergency about global warming
I mean who knows right like but I get
the distinct impression that they there
that was their original plan and then
they backed off it and I just don't
understand why they did that because
even if they come out later in the week
and say it's a national emergency and I
as skeptical as people would have been
on Tuesday they're gonna be that much
more skeptical on a Friday because if it
was really an emergency why don't you do
something about three days ago right or
two weeks ago when the Republicans
controlled the Senate I mean what do you
think was behind that you know I have
exactly the same question you do and I
had exactly the same sort of you know I
the idea that this was what that this
was his first oval office address now
why would you use that to just give your
you know a sort of warmed over tepid
boilerplate version of what you've been
saying for three years there was no
point to it there was nothing there that
was any different or new or newsworthy
about it if they had it seems obvious to
me that they originally planned to do it
to announce the national emergency and
somehow or another I think that like you
that somebody got to them and said no I
have no idea what that was it could have
been any of the things you mentioned but
if I were to guess I would think that
somebody said you the Republican Senate
is about to blow they are lousier losing
them in droves and the national
emergency
has them a little spooked and so what
you need to do before you declare your
national emergency you've got to go out
and make a good-faith effort to persuade
you know to react like you're trying to
persuade the American people and the
Democrats to come around to your idea
and only then once you've done that
you've gone the extra mile can you say
that well I have to take matters into my
own hands because the Democrats are
obstructing us in the Senate we need 60
votes I'm guessing that that's what it
is but like you pointed out it could
have been anything could have been a
military could have been some other
saying that somebody said you know I
don't know but he certainly didn't seem
you know he told the media and I don't
think there's real this is really
there's no point to this and going to
the borders just a photo op so I mean
clearly he didn't think there was
anything to it and I don't know why he
would have done it unless there had
originally been another plan that this
was going to be a big newsworthy splashy
thing because it's you know it's an oval
office address it's the first one he
knew he could get the entire you know
everybody all the networks would cover
it and it would be a big deal so you
know and he loves the state right and
they're not going to come and cover a
second one right line up to carry it
again after are they gonna say oh no
this time it's really going to be an
emergency I mean unless he declares war
on Mexico and even then I'm not sure
anybody yeah right okay done you know
whatever I mean I don't you know it's I
think it's absolutely true now I do
think that the Senate has to be coming
to the conclusion that there's no way
out for them unless you know I mean I
guess if twenty or thirty of them how
many would it take for Mitch McConnell
say I have to bring this thing to the
floor mr. president I have to do it I
mean it would take a lot and I cannot I
just cannot see it happening I mean
there are quite a few maybe ten they
could get but would that be enough for
McConnell to say he has no choice I
don't think so
I mean it's going to be fascinating
because there there's a lot of people
who are going to pay for this in the
Republican Party I mean I did you know
my god I don't I think voters you know
this isn't one of those things in
general I think government shutdowns do
you know people forget right we're two
years away but this is going to start a
narrative that to the extent that it
hasn't already with the voters of these
senators that there there's a real
problem with Donald Trump and with their
allegiance to Donald Trump like I don't
know that people can find the nuance
here and and you know Donald Trump you
know one of the things I've been struck
by over just isn't even the course of
this is a we had Donald Trump announcing
like literally saying the shutdown will
be my fault the shutdown is mine I own
the shutdown and yet we still see at
some vestige of the media ap fact-check
later in the week that takes two to
tango and you know and others saying
well well I mentioned Emma Kratz you
know meet them halfway type of thing I
mean how much more explicit could it
have been
I own this shutdown basically you can
call it the Trump shutdown and and yet
the the media is trying to make this
false equivalency i I just don't think
this is going to stick if they try and
blame this on the Democrats and I think
that's gonna put that's what's putting
so much pressure on these Republicans
and it's gonna be fascinating I don't
see any other way out but again now he's
gonna just have to declare national
emergency you know on a Friday afternoon
nobody's gonna cover it and and and
we're all supposed to believe it alright
well listen we got to take quick break
when we come back let's talk about we've
talked about his failure in that five
minute address to the American public
but let's talk about what followed it
which was a response by Nancy Pelosi and
Chuck Schumer and how that failed to
create a distinction that I think might
be okay in the context of the government
shutdown but the Democrats have some
reckoning to do and they seem to be
avoiding it
we got to take a quick break
we'll be right back with Digby after
this ring of fire radio
