[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday July 23rd 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority reporting we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Anthony Abram jack on the privileged
poor how elite colleges are failing
disadvantaged students also on the
program today kabul seeks clarification
on Trump's comment about wiping
Afghanistan off the map
the DOJ tells Muller to limit his
testimony tomorrow new report 15,000
people dead because 14 states refused to
expand Medicaid between 2014 and 2017
budget deal struck will increase
spending by 320 billion meanwhile Trump
wants to cut food stamps to kick
millions off of food stamps and save
not even 1% of the increase in our
budget two thousand migrants targeted by
ice manhunt meanwhile an
eighteen-year-old dowse born citizen
held by ice for nearly four weeks this
is a rogue agency Boris Johnson to
become Britain's next prime minister as
the Sun sets on the empire again EPA
website purged of climate change
references and asked to quit by his own
staff John Hickenlooper asked Ivanka
Trump for some support bill de blasio
floats a coned takeover following New
York City blackouts second choice second
choice and Donald Trump is mad at
Guatemala because his third safe country
deal fell apart all this and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen
just a programming note we may have to
turn down that fan I don't know it's
pretty pretty hot in here actually two
programming notes yes this is no shave
Tuesday I've just gotten a text in that
regard
that's right Michael's not shaven and
Matt I don't know if we can cut to Matt
that is changing his look dramatically
he came into the office they did not
recognize him he looks like he's in
disguise he's in disguise I am in
disgust and it's a no shave Tuesday
partly because I woke up late and had to
get Saul to the bus and I hate to say
this but it's also no shower Tuesday so
yeah I have not shaved my legs there you
go good thing it's not as hot as
yesterday and Brendan of course does not
yet need to shave so
programming that check tomorrow
yesterday tomorrow we will start live
streaming coverage of the Muller
testimony in front of the Judiciary
Committee at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time all
being around nine ish just to be clear
about the whoa I had no idea you'd make
it that early fan you don't from make
from the right time to say more around
10:15
as you know our understanding is that at
that testimony will last for three hours
then at 12:30 Muller will be testifying
in front of the Intelligence Committee I
have a feeling we're gonna livestream
that too but we're gonna make the call
tomorrow there will be no regularly
scheduled show that will what will be
what we will be doing tomorrow my my
sense is the only thing that we're gonna
hear is stuff that is from the report
it's not inconceivable to me that Muller
will sit there get a question look up
the relevant passage and read it but
even if that's the case based upon all
the crap that we have to ingest over the
course of this administration and just
more broadly speaking people should know
what's in the report and so we're going
to force-feed it to you and if you don't
like it then you can go I don't know do
something else so that's what we're
going to do tomorrow and we may try to
assemble for the podcast essentially
clips that would give you a Reader's
Digest version however that's for your
family you got to do you got to watch
the whole one with us and then the
podcast is to give to your your
reluctant family members because I can't
guarantee you we're going to do
that so don't like well I'm gonna skip
it wait for the cliff notes I go through
this every day with my daughter so read
the book try to force her to read the
molar report every day don't I support
believe me I the mole the report young
lady I get texts now I try to get her to
read a book and she said to me and it
was very interesting and also look up
Felix ADA at the Felix aiders barely in
that report it's really upsetting
milah day at the end of last year she
came to me she had friends over she's
like have you read dumb
have you read Animal Farm like yeah of
course are you supposed to be aren't you
supposed to be reading that yeah no no I
am I was just curious if you knew what
it was about and I was like yeah I know
that little blinka stacks was exactly
and I said have you read it she goes no
I've read it I said you read it I was
just trying to unwind the Obsidian I
said where is the book and she says oh
it's in that box and and I took the box
out I opened it up it was dog-eared at
page four and I'm like you gotta read
this goddamned book but I got a reading
that she wouldn't but I got a reading a
john green book right now and she's like
now texting me with every page I
definitely read 19 of these foods when I
discuss the 80s yeah it's the ideas Oh
incidentally check out our Instagram
account I don't know if we posted this
yet but we have if you go to our
Instagram it's out there I'm not gonna
tell you what it is but it is one of the
proudest moments about here's a hint
Dave Rubin did a video and then we did a
video about Dave Reubens video that's
the hint and you can check our Instagram
account our Instagram is what the
majority report on Instagram so the
Democratic House passed a minimum wage
bill was it last week was it two days
ago I can't remember
I think it was the end of last week and
raised it to $15 an hour now there are
calls from Rasheeda Talib to raise it to
$20 an hour the politics around this are
fascinating only because we have seen
the Democrats pass 50 some-odd bills
maybe close to 60 now they're not all
incredibly substantive but many of them
are extremely significant bills they're
not going to be implemented because
they're all died in the Senate but
they're they're important markers to put
down where the party stands like what is
the baseline for this party going
forward and they have got no traction
with the public whatsoever
understandable on some level because of
the nature of our politics these days
understandable because they're not going
anywhere they're just baselines they're
sort of internal baseball but the $15
minimum wage in part because it was such
a major plank of the last campaign you
remember this was Bernie Sanders plank
that was controversial at the time we
are now three years out and just like
governor Nixon has radically changed the
dynamics of New York state politics
without ever having taken the oath of
office because of what she forced Andrew
Cuomo to do and the light that she's
shown on the dynamic with the IDW a
wayward group of Democrats will caucus I
DC who were caucusing with the with the
Republicans IDW whatever that's an idea
we don't want medicare-for-all Bernie
Sanders in just in his running for
president has now able would a was able
to get the Democratic Party to accept
and vote on in favor of a $15 minimum
wage and the problem the Wright has with
this is that I don't believe
they can get their voters or frankly
anyone to care about it in the way that
their donor base does and their way that
they're wealthy the wealthy element of
their party just hates the idea of it
and so it's fascinating to see them
attempt to undercut the $15 minimum wage
and we're going to talk more about this
minimum wage in the fun half but this is
it's always fun to watch what Fox and
Friends does because this is the softest
version that they're trying to sell to
people and it's pretty hilarious to
watch them try and do this we were all
in high school we were in college when
we had these waiting wait when I was
waiting tables unless you're a very fine
restaurant most of those people at the
fine restaurants that is their career
they make tons of money if you're
awesome you know I should also tell you
that look the that the dynamic that they
experienced that they were teenagers and
had access to these jobs is not the same
dynamic that exists today because the 25
year olds or the 30 year olds that now
have these jobs we're working in
manufacturing or were working higher
paid jobs so first of all teenagers are
less likely than they were when these
folks were teenagers to have
minimum-wage jobs at restaurants and
nevertheless a vast I don't know what
the numbers were in New York something
like 50% of the people working at at
fast-food restaurants had families yeah
like who works at the restaurants when
the teenagers are in school or trots
that is their career they make tons of
money if you're working at a McDonald's
or a small little restaurant where
you're making tips you're right if
you're nice to the people you make a lot
of money solutely so worried about the
restaurants key here about me was it now
I don't know if things have changed I
want to go backwards because I want to
get kill Meade's comment too
but you know it doesn't matter how nice
you are to McDonald's you're not gonna
get a dollars worth of a tip oh you
don't tip in the calls III tip yes I
leave it outside on the speaker on the
drive-through or I leave it on my table
exam and I get up just a ten yeah I
leave a ten on the table ten for some
good nuggets exactly so I get exported
out but it's little bit suspicious as to
whether they were ever teenagers or if
they've ever been to a fast-food
restaurant
but here's Brian Kilmeade expressing a
dynamic having worked you know and I was
I was an actor and a comedian and so I
worked in restaurants as a as a day job
I never experienced the dynamic and I
knew a lot of waiters I was in that sort
of culture for a couple years I never
explained heard of the dynamic that
Brian Kilmeade is about to describe that
apparently happens amongst waitstaff
ahnold's are a small little restaurant
where you're making tips you're right if
you're nice to the people you make a lot
of money
solutely so what are the restaurants key
here about you really wide right so what
do you think other any challenge scouts
here today because I would love to make
the lateral move up from the Jade round
exactly I mean every year and the
restaurant table before I think it's a
fried cedar traded to Dunkin Donuts for
a drink I think that's the
brother-in-law of the manager from the
Burger King down in Central Square make
sure you give him really good service
and we'll all be over there Central
Square Burger King picks up cedar gothic
trade
[Laughter]
unbelievable so like just one option it
for two first round waiter picks in the
next quarter is helping a no-trade flow
yeah here's the thing is that this
rhetoric you know it works on their bass
you know the wealthy people who like
their tax cuts who are afraid of just
like the insanity that's going on but
it's not gonna bring out another single
voter that they haven't already
motivated for them it's just gonna be
the racism the other stuff is just
filler but I do think that the fact that
they're promoting that the Democrats
have passed this is actually helpful and
it's it's the only piece of legislation
the Democrats have been able to pass
that they've gotten any credit for so
it's a fascinating
I think cell phone but they need to
address it and they're not doing a great
job of it we will cover more of this in
the fun half because there's some
interesting fun dynamics that are taking
place with them also I want to ride you
I want to correct myself it's majority
report dot F M is our Instagram account
we gonna say I don't know who set that
one up I think it was probably me did I
do it
you changed my original one was which
was just majority F M well majority
report dot F M is better than majority F
M I don't know what it should be a
Geordie report I don't know what
happened can we buy that from somebody I
don't know folks whether you're trying
to get a sweet deal on something or find
the best happy hour in town generally
good idea to get reviews first let's say
you're going to hire a you know
waitstaff you want to get find out what
the reviews they're getting in yellow
you want to figure out right views you
want to read the talent scouting reports
well I'm sorry
that's not the case but when you're
looking for software for your business
it shouldn't be any different you can
read thousands of real software reviews
find the right software for your
business at kaptara comm slash majority
now I don't use it for software adoption
because we don't really use that much
software although I won
and noodling around we want to do
something with the debates and I was
noodling around at some of their survey
software but inevitably what happens
with me is I look at the enormous amount
of categories that they have for
software business for software's for
different businesses and I get sort of
enthralled at the idea of all the
different businesses I could be in
instead of this one and how much fun it
would be they have over 850,000 reviews
of products from real software users
more than 700 specific categories of
software you can join millions of people
use kaptara each month to find right
tools for their business so you can find
let's see I last time I read from the
seas let's just look at the h's heat map
software hedge fund software all the
people who run hedge funds listen to the
show higher education software home
builder software which I'm going to be
checking out home care software home
inspection software I've always thought
I would like to be a home inspector
you know pre buying it go around that
seems like a cool job I could do that
hotel channel management software you
know HR analytics software we're running
that on you guys I get some bad news for
yourself
HVAC software idea management software
identity management software inside
sales software I mean it's not solve the
different companies you could like I had
no idea these were even businesses K
through 12 software Kanban tools I don't
even know what that means kennel
software this is the sound of
opportunity kicking in exactly visit
kaptara
dot-com slash majority for free it's
free to check this out today to find the
tools to make an informed software
decision for your business or just
noodle around and think of all the
different jobs you could have businesses
you could start kaptara
dot-com / majority kaptara that CA p te
RR a.com slash majority kaptara software
selection simplified alright we're going
to take quick break when we come back
we will be talking about the privileged
poor how elite colleges are failing
disadvantaged students with Anthony
Abraham Jack we'll be right back
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program junior fellow at
the Harvard Society of fellows an
assistant professor of education at the
Harvard Graduate School of Education
Anthony Abraham Jack the author of the
privileged poor how elite colleges are
failing disadvantaged students Anthony
welcome to the program I thank you for
having me so let's just start with your
experience that led you to write this
book what just came to tell us how you
came to write on this specific topic
yeah well I'm a first-generation college
student myself and you know I in plying
the college I went to I was a public
school kid all the way throughout
growing up but then I went to Gulliver
prep my senior high school because I had
a coach at my public school that liked
athletes - it's not student athletes and
then amarus calling me they found me at
Gulliver and then something happened my
first day of school I was like where are
the other poor black people everyone
kept talking about private jets or
private islands or sitting on courtside
seats watching the Bulls I'm like I'm
only poor black person here but it
turned out that half my classmates were
who were poor like me just happen to
also go to prep schools like Andover
Exeter and Deerfield and through
programs like prep for prep or a better
chance at different places and we just
made up the the half of the half of the
students and when I got to graduate
school no one was talking about the
experience of poor students who wants a
time of school before coming to college
and so I wanted to add that conversation
and that's how I came up with the term
privileged poor like lower-income
students who although come from economic
incidence backgrounds we went to
boarding schools like Andover and st.
Paul so we were educated and socialized
right next to the students when the top
1% and no one was talking about that and
no one was talking about what our
experiences were in college because they
treated us like one big group of
students who did not know how to
navigate this place I mean it's a
fascinating dynamic and I want to get to
sort of like you know the the
application of this dynamic
outside of of higher education but you
you've described this dynamic between
the privileged poor in the the EE you
call it the EE disadvantaged I mean just
EE insofar as as what they're there
there is just walk us through that yeah
so double disadvantage our low-income
students who enter college from
traditionally Tucson distress public
high schools and I say EE because the
economically disadvantaged but their
real hurdle is the fact that the growth
inequality in America is not between a
good public in a bad public it's the
public's in the privates and so the way
in which they go to schools that are
underfunded distress overcrowded that's
been a real stumbling block it's not
their drive whether intellect is the
structural inequalities in America that
keeps certain people in secondary
positions so I mean imagine the culture
shock of going from an inner-city school
or a or a school that's very rural but
with no resources and going to an Ivy
League school and that was the story
that's what I wanted to capture it
wasn't about individual differences it
was the fact that certain people were
exposed to poverty inequality not this
in their homes but in their schools and
then made the jump through Herculean
effort to get to college and I want to
bring that attention but also to show
that colleges are really prepared to
educate those who either come from money
or who have educational experiences them
that they're only money can buy like
studying abroad at high school that's
not something that everybody can do
that's not something that most schools
even have on their radar but that's the
kind of experiences that colleges
especially like Harvard Yale and
Princeton value in their students they
that they can cultivate they even more
in college I mean they're almost looking
for people who have been socialized
regardless of where the the what their
economic status is they want to make
sure that the their students and maybe
maybe I don't know how conscious of a
decision it is but they're looking for
the cues of socialization amongst
wealthy people
yeah I mean thing is colleges hedge
their bets but even as they diversify
and corporations do it to enhance their
best well they tried that versified they
don't go to the vast majority school
they go to schools that they know
produced students who are similar enough
to them that those students are not
going to be surprised or experienced
culture shock there's a reason why when
I did my study it was the first to show
that 50 percent one-half of the lower
income black student and one-third of
the lower income Latin text students at
elite colleges are the alumni of
boarding day and preparatory schools
when you think about boarding schools
preparatory schools that cost fifty
sixty thousand dollars a year you don't
think about a poor black or brown person
you think about a wealthy white
predominantly male student who's
probably the second or third or fourth
in their family of the same name but
that's kind of image that you get but
the reality is colleges are going to the
same schools that they get their top 1%
students from to that bottom 10%
students as far as well being on
economic distribution they're going to
those places because they know that
after four years of navigating spence
Hockaday middlesex you are as socially
prepared for an amorous a Williams a
Dartmouth as the people who are paying
to go to those schools I mean it's a
fascinating dynamic and I you know I I
had a good buddy at my school I went to
a Connecticut College which was not
terribly dissimilar from Amherst small
liberal arts school that had a lot of
people from prep schools and I had a
buddy who was first in his family from
Spanish Harlem and I just remembered
that sort of the the the the cultural
cues that were completely mystifying to
him and I mean I you know I had come
from public school but I had you know
was was not I was not as adrift I think
as he was in many respects it took a
long time it was fascinating it's also
fascinating when he would go home he
noticed the change that was imposed upon
him by school when he was walking around
at home and so that this cultural divide
is is huge just explain to people how it
manifests itself both in terms of like
the the the various things that you need
to succeed at these schools so minute I
mean to the various building to the very
structure I mean my favorite example is
office hours right who knows what office
hours are going into college right
professors always say you know on the
first day of class when their office
hours are but I never say what they are
and office hours are just a time that
faculty members are supposed to be in an
office to ask to answer questions or to
meet with to meet with students but it
means so much more than that because
those are the people who could be your
mentors who can write you less
recommendation but students who come
from more affluent backgrounds or who
have been socialized in these prep
schools they know these terms already
they know what they should do in them if
these are some of these things are not
new and so students are there are some
students who come in you know
fluent in this language of what college
of college life they know what office
hours are they know that fellowship
means more than just going to church it
means Boehner Kiros and Marshall they
know the hidden curriculum those that
unsaid rules and hidden expectations
that permeate college lower income
students who do not go off of these prep
schools encounter the experienced
culture shock because everything that
they come to see in college is very
different from home the way you are
expected to interact with people the way
in which you are expected to speak in
class and make friendships with faculty
members not treat them as authority
figures and all of these things called
especially in a doubly disadvantaged
this sense of of being torn because you
have your friends and family at home
that are telling you one thing about how
to get ahead like keep your head down
don't bother people
but then the college is telling you no
bother us come to our office talk to us
we want to know what's on your mind we
want to get to know you as a full person
and so they feel this internal this
internal divide happening between them
and it's like they're applying for a
citizenship in this new place if they
don't know how to navigate but they're
losing a little bit of
home with every day they spend away from
it and so these internal dynamics that
come to manifest itself and it's not
about internal like individual things
you know this is how poverty works this
is this is as I say the pernicious power
of poverty the way in which it the way
in which it isolates it and separates
and what you actually see on the college
campus is the way in which it manifests
itself on the individual person folks
are socialized for deference not
entitlement I think you've right among
the W disadvantage but the privileged
poor and their affluent peers of all
races are much more entitled to a
faculty members times resources energy I
mean I had students who told me that
they had no qualms you know going to the
calling professor on their cell phone
when they were away from campus with
prearranged office hours they from L
felt perfectly comfortable um being
extended also like I'll call myself
overtime in New York and they called you
know that is the kind of comfort and
level of ease that they have with
working with adults by the time they
enter college and it helps I mean you
need eight letters of recommendation to
apply for the Rhodes how many people in
this world can say I have eight people
who can write confidently on my behalf
and who know me as a whole person for me
to get this promotion or this you know
this position at work or this fellowship
at school a lot of the lwt's advantage
no maybe one to faculty members by the
time they get to their senior year and
that person may not know them as well as
other people to what extent is is is
race and culture versus I mean I guess
to what extent I guess is race also sort
of like a a double layer on this right
maybe cuz I noticed on one of the
reviews of your thing there was a there
was a comment from somebody that was
something to the effect of I went to
Harvard from a good suburban high school
graduating first in my class and then
this guy goes on to talk about how he
scraped and paid for the tuition room
and board spending money was on me he
dorm crew yearned a little money I was
intimidated by my peers who had traveled
to Europe and came much better prepared
for college welcome to the real world
and he goes uh he comments on what you
had written we need to make a concerted
effort to teach students about each
other
what a silly idea this guy writes
students can and will naturally learn
about each other what I mean to me this
is somebody who does not is not aware
that there are that he is part of a
dominant culture where the cues come
more easily is that I mean to what
extent does this you know is there a
deficit or I should not rather not a
deficit but a gulf that exists even even
despite the the acclamation that might
come from like a prep school yeah the
thing is race amplifies class
differences given the history of given
the history of exclusion and racism in
this country race amplifies class
differences the fact that a white family
that makes $30,000 a year lives and as
disadvantaged of a neighborhood as a
black family that makes $100,000 a year
that just shows you how again race can
suffice class differences in America
when you get to a college campus the
road you take is very very different
even among between black middle class
and white middle class students because
even black middle class students have
not had the access to the same kind of
resources in their neighborhoods and
their schools as their peers from saying
from similar from similar backgrounds so
the question of just like this whole
bootstrap metaphor that you can just
like work your way through or just keep
your head down and you want to work
ignores a lot of the history but that's
the nature of America we ignore history
like it's our tradition right and so
like the way in was we have to
understand these processes but then even
as I say that talking about seeing
something that again is not talked about
over everyone's dinner table because
it's like kinda like what's right in
front of you the thing about the thing
about a perfect example that when the
way in which I raise to amplify these
differences I song about a program where
students get a scholarship tickets to go
to events
good thing right because college can be
expensive and not everybody can spend
$25 every weekend going to a dance right
it did be social but the difference is
the group gave the school gave out the
scholarship tickets on one side of the
room and everybody who was paying on the
other it looks like reminisce of Jim
Crow South because there really was a
color poor door policy that was in place
not intentionally but in application
because the students who were on
financial aid were visibly identified as
those who had to go to the other side of
the room to do so and you saw literally
physically the black and brown bodies
along with some white and Asian students
on one line but the other line was
almost like a mirror opposite so
understanding how these subtle
differences between individuals play out
in this and the everyday experience of
the students it's something we must
understand because it's not just that we
do the diversity work that we do the
inclusion workplace also how we do it
let's because I want to sort of broad
this out even even more beyond the
university but within the context of the
university what why is this important I
mean that may sound a little bit
remedial but I think it's important to
remind people like the the value of this
because the thing is what happens on the
college campus everything citizenry is a
better citizenry right we are better
prepare for today's troubles and
tomorrow's problems the more educated we
all are right the more innovative we can
be like that versity innovation
exploration and different ideas is
driven by the diverse minds that we have
in front of us I mean think about
reactive think of examples about how we
you only have like a certain group on a
real thing about all the facial
recognition software when when snapchat
used to do the filters where they always
they only picked up light faces because
even like people an understanding of
tone didn't taking a consideration
different thing but corporations are
better for it too right we have better
ideas we become better
the more people we have around the table
the more instead more educators that's
just a fact and we should pay attention
to that and the way in which inequality
is completely shaping who gets to go to
college and especially like you see that
even more not just one gets to go but
what's here they go into the fact that
students in the top 1% are 77 times more
likely to attend an Ivy League
institution than those in the bottom
sixty right we are hurting ourselves we
are curtailing our efforts in science
and technology
think about the gender imbalance and and
stem and all these and all these
different worlds we become a better
citizenry
the more educated we are but we become
even stronger when everyone is educated
not just one race or one particular
segment of the income distribution
that's just a fact it also raises the
interesting idea of some of those 1%
actually going to a free public option
in each of their states it would be nice
to sort of filter it both ways
what is the talking a little bit about
use this term hidden curriculum
what is that hidden curriculum yeah but
hidden curriculum I describe it it's a
term that a sociologist Jean Ann yin
came up with
it's the unwritten rules and unset
expectations that permeate higher
education but it's not just higher
higher education it's any institution
that that we have I mean think about
again I use office hours because the
language and understanding that students
not only should know what office hours
are but though but think about a
corporation's right office hours in
college become open-door policies at
work right and so the same process can
continue if recommendation letters in
college are built are built upon
relationships with faculty in school
just as promotion and promotion and
selection for certain projects at work
are dependent upon relationship with
mentors right so the Siena curriculum is
understanding how what is one of the
hidden ways one of the unseen ways that
this happens how does it how does this
how do you get that mentor it's usually
some way it's usually some way that
everyone takes for granted oh you just
go and knock them they're doing just ask
some questions or
some implicit system of connecting with
people or or showcasing your skill that
many people don't have access to either
because of their gender racial
background age or some kind of way that
keeps them on the outside you know it
also occurs to me that this this concept
of a hidden curriculum also sort of
exists even outside of institutions on
some level like I you know the gist you
know at one point back in the day I
bought a house and my ability to sort of
navigate that process was a function of
I had a buddy who went to law school and
you know my folks had bought a house and
I had another friend who had bought like
I had resources around me because of
just where I was positioned in life and
so I went through this but I'm literally
giving advice on buying a house to a guy
who's working at a coffee stand down the
street because he has access to no one
else on how to do this and and that to
me seems like almost like the the hidden
curriculum of life is that the exposure
that people have to all sorts of like
financial dynamics or just you know sort
of broader dynamics of what I perceive
as being an adult but it's not just
being an adult it's being an adult who
has access to people who have done this
stuff absolutely what am i you're you
hit the nail on the head and in fact I
actually started using this in my
teaching one of my favorite commercials
is the is the the loan commercial with
keegan-michael key
right the rocket you know deriving the
rocket Marcus what I love that rocket
motors for Quicken Loans one because the
person says something in such a
convoluted way that only those within
the industry know especially the
home-buying or the woman who's swiping
on an entrepreneur that means he's
unemployed likes long walks I mean he
doesn't have a car like he's being that
translator
part of the like you absolutely right
there are so many aspects of the henna
curriculum of life especially as it
pertains to finance that only certain
people really have access to or have a
mastery of it and that kind of control
that kind of control over that knowledge
or those resources the only way you
access it is if you know how to play the
game and playing the game you only know
how one if you feel comfortable doing so
and to you have the skills to do so
because it's a two part thing it's not
just wanting to buy the home if I also
have the skills to know who you should
access about should I do
FHA and my first-time homeowner if I did
this you know I I could take out a
second mortgage immediately for the x
y&z purposes all of those things rob
have insurance like all of those things
people can serve as gatekeeper to that
information how do you access those
gatekeepers whether within an
institution or out of it it's incredibly
important right and you need people in
every community who have access to who
have experience in access to this type
of information so they can spread it to
their peers essentially but we know
through the forces of historical legacy
of redlining and blockbusting and and
FHA loans the historical legacy of
exclusion prevents that from happening
we know how segregation works in America
it's not just who your neighbor is but
it's also what information that you have
we know that that's the reality
so some communities get no access to
these kind of gives no access to this
kind of information
let alone the institutions that serve
those communities the elementary middle
and high schools and also the colleges
that do the recruiting from from certain
places because quite frankly some
colleges have never stepped foot and
will never step foot in certain
districts because they don't see them as
places where they can get students from
well that students can or vice-versa
students don't believe that they are
part of the institution think about what
Michelle Obama said about Chicago she
felt that Princeton was more of a place
for her
despite Chicago University Chicago being
in her own backyard being about that for
a second and understanding how place
matters so much in students
understanding of themselves and their
mobility
what so what can be done you know to to
deal with this I mean one of the things
that occurred to me is the work that's
done by Richard kallenberg are you
familiar with the stuff that he's done I
mean to characterize it for people
because I think it in some respects what
you've written about reminded me of his
approach which is in part born out of
the Supreme Court contracting the
ability of higher education institutions
to to engage in affirmative action
racial based permit of action and he
basically proposes various ideas on how
to achieve a similar outcome but a
better version of that outcome by doing
it based on class yeah I so the class
based measures are a good under a good a
good a good step in the right direction
but the fact that it does not take into
consider racial inequalities it it falls
short this focus specifically on social
class especially this when you think
about the like what I said earlier that
a white family that makes one-third of
what a black family makes lives and as
equally of a disadvantaged neighborhood
that's the lasting history of the legacy
of racism and exclusion in America I
actually thought that the College
Board's environments of context
dashboard there's a better job at not
just looking at how social class
inequality affects student uh effects
but it puts it in context of their score
and takes into consideration is more
it's more more intentional about taking
taking into consideration how place
matters in your own performance
especially on a standardized test like
that taking into consideration both the
family the neighborhood and the high
school context looking at measures like
vacancy neighborhood disadvantage and
violence because we know that those
things affect score so this just gives a
more robust understanding of class
equality in America so if I understand
what you're saying is that there's uh
the the test gives essentially a numeric
value let's say to various challenges
that might that that are you know
measurable in the context of a
neighborhood whether it's a income and
like you say vacancies and you know
other disparities I guess and and and
uses that in to create a score isn't
kallenberg work to my understanding and
I want to get too far afield here but is
that there that his proposal was
something to the effect of take the top
ten percent at every school in the city
for instance so that you are you are
necessarily taking the top ten percent
of schools that are typically overlooked
where maybe they'll take the top one
percent from a school that is supposedly
underperforming but rather you got to
take the you know the full ten percent I
mean I guess this was done if I'm not
mistaken or was modeled out in Texas to
see what kind of of a student body you
would get if you were to do that and
measured it against race-based attempts
to diversify
but using class as a surrogate and found
that you would get a similar outcome in
terms of race but you would get more of
those doubly disadvantaged kids than you
would under a strictly race based system
so the play space the play space
measures have gotten mixed results even
in Texas I mean there's been a study
that actually showed that the the Texas
really did have mixed results in all
defendants okay the thing is what I what
I want to say about this is also this
access is not inclusion the focus on
access sometimes hurts any efforts to
work to understand what happens when
students get to campus right I believe
that we focus so much on accidents who
gets in and where that we forgot to
think about in more in very critical
ways what happens when they do because
colleges serve as mobility springboard
for for students
how much of a mobility springboard
depends on what happens between
Convocation and commencement and I'm
glad that you mentioned that you went to
Khan because it's Khan is one school
that I think has after this after
engaging with the research that I that I
put out has actually made some of the
most significant changes to how they
work with students on campus yeah
for example Spring Break we haven't
talked about like some of the other
things but food and security is a major
issue that's getting a lot of attention
right now for senators just introduced
the makalah camryn but they exactly the
college hunger at 2019 to address food
insecurity as a national issue it is
national issues because roughly two out
of every five students in college are
actually food insecure not knowing where
their next meal is coming from for a
certain amount of days out of the week
con college actually changes policy from
shutting down during spring break which
it does happen that even the more
selective private wealthy wealthy
schools to actually say let me think
it's out back they didn't only shut down
during spring break they used to charge
students a daily rate to stay on campus
they completely reversed that decision -
now they don't only they only provide
they not only provide for students but
they have other social programming to
help students navigate that particular
time this is for kids who don't have the
opportunity to go to Bahamas on spring
break or whatever it is there are some
students who don't care about where
their friends are going they are worried
about their were their next meal is
coming from for a week or two because
students who can't afford to go home or
who don't have a home to go to one for
those students who know that hurt and
harm are synonymous think about students
in the foster care system thinking about
students who for their their their their
gender or their sexual identity are not
I no longer feel safe at home or they
have to go back into the closet during
these periods of time just so they can
have a place to sleep over their heads
you know sorry roof over the hair as
they sleep these are real questions that
students talking about and these are
students at residential colleges right
what about those students who are at
community colleges are those students
who are
community colleges where food and
security is the highest again we focused
when we focus own so specifically on who
gets in who goes where we kind of forget
about as we diversify our campuses how
do our old ways of being become new
obstacles for our new students and
Spring Break because I study residential
colleges was a major hurdle that even at
a school with a multi-billion dollar
endowment one out of every seven
students face some form of food
insecurity because they shut down during
break say so I chronicles this for the
entire nation of colleges that have
adopted the most progressive financial
aid policies only one out of five kept
this kept their schools open during
elective breaks in fact students how
does that level of ignorance and I don't
you know I mean I'm trying to be gentle
with that term but that's I mean that is
because on one hand there there's a
there's a I would say probably an
explicit understanding of like the value
of having a diverse student body here
but then they stop thinking about it and
don't even understand the implications
of we're having a diverse I mean like
you know it's fairly obvious like okay
we we're gonna do an international
program so we're gonna have non-english
speakers on campus we better address
that but there's no there seems to be a
total you're describing what seems to me
to be like a total ignorance of the sort
of the deficit of experience or the
experience gap or the cultural gap I
think is what you call it of these
students that they're bringing in so
there's an awareness that we need to go
out and find these students in some way
and we need to to create diversity but
then there's a lack of awareness that to
the extent that we're bringing people in
to diversify our student body we're not
we're not even conscious of how little
our structures here reflect that
diversity you know you know I was hoping
that it was ignorance to be honest
but the more I dug the the the more the
more the more I think is not ignorance
because there are some colleges who
literally have on their website only if
you are working on campus can you stay
on campus and not pay a fee or only if
you are international students many
colleges have protected groups and they
began to have a conversation that I
would that in my mind came Harvard on
who's deserving and undeserving of this
additional support because I did hear
feedback and say what happened we given
them enough financial aid like why why
don't they just go home during spring
break I've heard that time and time
again to the point that I that that that
to engage those people I don't make an
argument about basic needs to them I
have to make an argument about how is
it's hurting your retention and
graduation rates and how is it hurting
you in the rankings because food and
security undercut academic ability and
social functioning so if you're not if
your students are going hungry then you
need to think about this not as a moral
issue or a safety issue if you are so
callous enough to that think about this
as a how is it hurting your bottom line
right and so I had to adjust this but me
a number of a number of school officials
around the country had some push back
and say why should we spend its
additional money to open during breaks
or to open food pantries and food banks
or partner with different organizations
what having these students been given
enough or like how much pampering are we
going to do of these entitled kids but
the interesting thing is they made
provisions for some schools made
provisions for international students or
students who are working on campus so
it's not a pure ignorance the schools
are not ignorant of the facts even the
school that I study I gave their
athletes per diems during breaks so
athletes literally got a dollar amount
every single day plus catered breakfast
during during these breaks while their
peers went to food banks went to food
pantries ate one meal a day for whatever
they can find on campus one student I
one student I engage with at a
conference she stood up in a room with
200 people and she said what tell me I
increased my online dating activity in
the week leading up to spring break to
secure dates the following week you know
based on
on gender norms of older men pain for
the first meal she treated OkCupid or -
these are the these are the strategies
that students are adopting to literally
make ends meet during be shutdowns that
their peers at other schools are facing
even more frequently we're putting many
of our students in harm's way even as
they strive and bust their butts to
achieve the American dream of walking
across that stage or just simply
receiving that bachelor's degree Wow
and has their own lastly has there been
I mean do you how helpful are you are
there their progress I mean it sounds
like you're going around and consulting
with with schools and and sort of
helping them on this do you have a sense
that there's an increased awareness or
at the very least I mean I guess
awareness is not so much the issue have
you been able to successfully shame or
and/or you know show them that it's
better for their bottom line to to be to
treat to have some humanity in this
regard it's been a color I would have to
say it's been a it's been more of a
collaborative effort and I am very proud
of schools like Khan college that are
not as rich as Harvard and Yale but have
taken steps to put what money they what
- they do have on the table and support
their students through different
initiatives and and in the Dean like
Jefferson Center and Smith College has
reversed their decision and a number of
Lafayette have reversed it so it's been
a lot of collaborative effort and I
haven't had to just go - look how this
is increasing this how this could
increase in tension I am optimistic that
colleges will continue to do the right
do the right thing on certain issues not
just because it's gonna look good but
because the right thing to do I'm
optimistic that like Civil War and
others are taking full and security as a
major issue but I hope it doesn't just
stop there I think that this needs to be
written into the the renew of the higher
it Act and make it as part
something that will be long-standing and
help generations of students I think
colleges hopefully I can push them to
also take a national voice in this and
this national conversation about why
food and security and housing security
other phone inequality should be
addressed not only on campus but at the
state at the local state and federal
level
Anthony Abraham Jack the book is the
privilege poor how elite colleges are
failing disadvantaged students thanks so
much your time today really appreciate
it ah thanks so much all right folks
I'm glad to hear that about my college
no Brenda did not tell him to say that I
certainly I did not there was we had a
long time coming
there was a takeover of our
administration building by a coalition
of people who were looking for the
college to be more sensitive to the
needs to diversify the college and the
needs of those students of color who are
on campus at the time but I guess the
wheels of change
they move forward it may be a little bit
slow because that was a while ago but
that's encouraging folks you can support
this program by becoming a member at
join the majority report com
don't make me play I play for everybody
else the the the ad that I found come a
member immediately become a member
immediately found an ad that we played
back in the day I wonder like when we
produced that that must have been old
Dorsey who's new again new yeah second
time new right prodigal dorsey returns
but the ad was yeah don't make me do
that don't make me do it
join the majority report com become a
member we say thank you by giving you
extra content every day
in the fun half of the program also just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate using coupon code majority get
10% off check out our AM quickie check
out our a.m. quickie it's already in the
majority report audio feed head over
there check it out and if you have any
comments send us an email
majority reporters at gmail.com
ultimately it's going to be in its own
feed I'm not sure when that's gonna
happen maybe several weeks maybe five or
six weeks not sure when we're going to
launch it out for the public at large
but good way to just stay on top of what
some of the main stories you're gonna
want to pay attention to over the course
of the day also don't forget kaptara
is the leading free online resource to
help you find the best software solution
for your business it's got over 850,000
reviews of products from real software
users and more than 700 specific
categories of software I bet you didn't
even realize there were over 700
specific categories of business software
there are I didn't even know there were
700 businesses I thought it was
basically you're either a lawyer or a
pod Coast a podcast host or you own a
store or you're involved with banks okay
what about waitering
talked about that earlier well you're
involved with a food store food store
alright fair enough a retail business i
thought literally in the beginning
you're gonna say this dish talk show
hosts and lawyers that's all i see
that's it
those are the two opposites on my topic
but i like two genders that's it i just
had to buy an Arri anyways visit kaptara
comm slash majority for free it's
totally free and you get to read all of
these reviews it's nuts and you can make
an informed decision for your business
today that's kaptara CA p te r ra CA p
te r r a.com slash majority kaptara
software selection simplified
today is Tuesday indeed and tonight
tonight will be Tuesday night we are
talking about the with little fanfare
serezha was just totally crushed in
Greece's elections a couple of weeks ago
so we're gonna be talking about the
lessons of syriza how that might apply
moving forward or not apply for Sanders
Corbin and left movements around
electoral politics then crystal ball
joins us to talk about how to deal with
the media bias against Bernie what does
that actually look like in practice
she's not in studio she no she doesn't
she lives in like DC yeah I think she's
DC and then Joshua Khan returns last
time he was on he gave us really great
practical lessons on organizing as an
example he gave us the Simpsons lesson
on organizing coalition so we're gonna
do more of that and talk about what's
happening in Hawaii and we'll also touch
on Puerto Rico okay
yeah let's go yeah hey well I mean I
second yeah and you saw the graphic yeah
that's pretty good
exactly that type of stuff excited to
have him back in studio joining us from
the west coast and a whole bunch more
including of course Iran the UK it's a
jam-packed full show I just want to say
really briefly I'll just mention one
today on feel the Bern with Brianna Joy
gray
I'm featured talking about Bernie Lula
and Brazil so give that a listen and
subscribe folks this just in the Senate
has voted 90 to 8:00 on Tuesday to
confirm mark Esper as the new Secretary
of Defense this guy was I think it was a
Boeing executive was it Raytheon
Raytheon excuse me Raytheon he also
refused to take a pledge to not work for
a defense contractor more than what is
it like eighteen months after he left
office or something less yeah just just
they refused to take the pledge cuz you
know what basically it's like what are
you gonna do not have the defense
secretary yeah that's basically what it
came down to
so the corruption has become sort of
endemic right like there's not even like
worthwhile pretending you're not going
to be corrupt any
that's this is gonna be the legacy of
this era folks you don't you don't get
this back it doesn't this is the one
area where I sort of feel like
incremental reform is is not possible I
just you don't get a creeping back of
ethics it's not the way it works so it's
going to take something dramatic to get
us back to a place where you have
nominees who are basically like yeah I'm
going to throw some bones to my friends
at Raytheon now and then I'm gonna go
get paid for it in about 18 to 20 months
maybe if we're lucky I'll be out of here
in 16 months after Trump gets booted and
I'll go back in I'm gonna make a ton of
cash when that becomes the testimony
that you give to get the nomination job
you know we've got a problem that's
basically it I mean I'm being a little
bit flippant but no no no I won't Jamie
this week on the anti Fattah so Andy and
Sean recorded an episode with Frank
Stallone aka Chris James the guy who
prank called Sebastian Gorka would see
the guy was coming down this week yeah
Friday won him on Friday so say yeah
maybe yeah could be too close guess we
beat you to the punch on that I guess
sorry about that um a little quieter
about who we're planning to have a guest
on
I actually did I had nothing to do with
this episode so it has I know Andy and
Shawn probably have listening devices in
his room but go ahead
I mean you might want to sweep the sweep
the ground for bugs yeah so yeah they
talked with him about you know the art
of the prank and some other stuff they
also talked about bike protests memories
of the 2004 RNC the continuing Jeffrey
Epstein affair and the escalating
insanity of the migrant crisis and what
we can do to fight against ice and state
violence also dropping tomorrow is an
episode the
I recorded with TV and Cinzia two
authors of feminism for the 99% a
manifesto and it's a topic near and dear
to my heart and I hope everybody listens
Matt coming up this weekend on the
literary hangover we're doing james
fenimore cooper's the pioneers which is
the first and the leather stocking tales
it's interesting book because it's James
Fenimore Cooper writes about basically
he fictionalized as his dad's legacy
which is that he founded Cooperstown New
York basically at a time during the
Revolution in Europe so grain and potash
commodities were very valuable so it was
easy to settle a land and make it pay
but he thought it was mainly because he
was such a great founder and settler and
eventually in late eighteen teens all of
his speculations
he was type of guy who would measure or
lease property out to freehold without
measuring it first and that ended up in
problems and made his kids go at deeply
into debt and to get out of debt James
Fenimore Cooper started written books
and that's the pioneer so check that on
Saturday all right quick break fun half
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is the number four all right
folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
who sent us this alpha males are back
and the alpha males are back back just
alpha males are back back back back back
back and the alpha males are back back
back just wanna degrade the white man
alpha males are back back I take on a
big backlog alpha males are back back
back
almost as you
and the alpha males are back back
I am a total can we bring back the
eg the intercom yeah or a couple put
them in rotation DZ damn well the
problem with those is they're like 45
seconds long so I don't know if they're
enough of a break that's
I do not have more concerns and the
alpha males are like
Oh
[Music]
on the back
on the back
on the back
all lives matter
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
locked back afternoon
that's right
out there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100 for the
bigger game plan
it's my birthday
[Music]
happy birthday to me I have a
thought expended to foil and the alpha
males of alpha males
to pay the price of class we around here
I am a total
all right let's go to the phones come
from a 509 area code also called James -
yeah yeah yeah Raygun well Ronald Reagan
how are you good I wanted to get your
thoughts on the specific ways in which
you think the Democrats are gonna
up the hearing tomorrow
like how specifically how specifically
will it implode III think there is a
very good chance that the Democrats will
drop the ball on this I you know cuz all
they need to do is say can you reach
read page two paragraph 3 of the report
we've we've handed you a copy of that
could you read it for us that would be
what I would do and then I would say I
think I would the way I would ask
questions is I would say I would
specifically say if Donald Trump wasn't
president would you have indited him as
as a you know for perjury if Donald
Trump if if collusion if if there was a
legal definition of collusion that said
if I know you want me to do this thing
and I do it and then you go ahead and do
something else because I did that and
then I do something else that you want
me to do and I know you want me to do it
and then you do something because you
know I want you to do it is that it with
that what could you charge if if that
was the legal definition of collusion
would you charge for that like those are
the questions I would ask and then I
would just ask him to read the report I
don't know you know we'll see hopefully
they've prepared for this because
there's a lot of stakes on it I think at
least five members will
and four and a half of their five
minutes telling him what a patriot he is
and then by the way clip this guy come
true this is a prediction time so yes
yet and then another five or six members
will rehash the same question needlessly
for no reason and then also call him a
patriot and and then the Republicans are
going to talk about emails and that that
is just gonna sort of like hoop into
that the ether but I wanted last
question I'll let you go I want to see
like I feel like the ball has really
been dropped on this whole thing that
the report is actually quite important
and there's a two-week window where Barr
was like this is nothing and then
everyone will just like okay yep and I
first of all I think people deserve some
criticism for that but people who went
on there sort of like endzone dance
tours but before we even knew what the
report said but I'm wondering like are
the Democrats capable of Benghazi
anything without Fox News that it seems
like Fox News is a necessary element of
that I'll take your answer out here okay
I think your your guess about them
praising Muller as opposed to asking
questions is probably spot on and that's
going to be effing annoying if we have
to watch three hours of that tomorrow
it's going to be super annoying okay but
that would involve such a high level of
competence because the question at this
point is not is this a credible witness
its what does the witness have to say
they're Democrats them I understand
do I think it's possible to do a
Benghazi without a Fox News I don't
think you can do a Benghazi but here's
the thing you
don't have to do a Benghazi cuz there
was nothing to Benghazi or to the extent
there was it wasn't even nearly nearly
close to it
I the question is you know it's not even
just that you don't have to do a
Benghazi there's no way for the left to
do what the right does there's no way
for even the center-left to do what the
center-right does it's we're dealing
with different structures the only thing
I can tell you to give an analogy of
this is that air America was radio Rush
Limbaugh's radio we talk into the mic
the same
we may even present narratives you know
just counter narratives and narratives
in the same way we may tell stories in
the same way the medium may be the same
the the actual content may be more or
less the same just sort of mirror images
of itself maybe one is more truthful
than the other whatever it doesn't
doesn't quite matter that there's
differences in terms of what's going to
appeal to what audience without a doubt
but the audience was different and so
the business became different so that
when we hired people who worked in
right-wing radio they couldn't monetize
left-wing radio because there was
fundamentally a different audience and
so if the question isn't can we do
Benghazi it's can the Democrats do a
version of Benghazi and/or their version
of Benghazi and yes of course it's it's
capable they're capable of doing it
without Fox if they would maintain a
narrative if they had a plan because it
doesn't even appear to be a plan except
for to ignore this stuff I mean that's
the thing is that it's not even a
question of ability there's no will here
there is a fear of being tagged I guess
like the Republicans for Benghazi
because that worked out so poorly
them except for the part of where it
probably helped Donald Trump win the
election up to the point where we win
exactly honestly yeah the New York Times
editorial board was super disappointed
in us I think that that's another nobody
nobody punished the Republicans for
Benghazi in 2016 I would wager there was
not a single human being of the what was
it a hundred million people or so that
voted in 2018 who voted who even
contemplated the word Benghazi when they
cast their vote I would wager not a
single human being did that yeah but I
mean it's such a
I'm sure it's it's not quite as bad now
but again going back to reading about
the 2000 election in Florida and that
nightmare which we're still living out
the fact that I'm one hand you had Joe
Lieberman obviously playing to the right
and undermining the whole effort because
of his own personal ambitions but even
gore and people around him like the bush
campaign is literally sending paid
operatives to physically disrupt
recounts and the gore people yeah the
Brooks Brothers riot and the gore people
are is it daily basis like black people
get to some franchise votes all the time
so you should just not try and win I
mean honestly what's the logic behind
that well a part of it from what I've
been reading is has really to do with
like yet see they don't like us like the
editorial pages of the Washington Post
the New York Times saying that they're
being uncivil or disruptive yeah they're
more concerned with elite brand
perception than actually winning that
battle yep well I mean it's the iron law
of institutions right don't want to lose
your authority an institution even if it
comes at the cost of the power of that
institution we should just say because
this was like a cliffhanger from
yesterday we were looking for we tuned
it to what
his face again I can't remember his
Jesse Lee Peters Jesse Lee Peterson to
see Cole James Cash we were so excited
about this and I think we're watching it
Michael goes to the bathroom by the time
he get out it was already over because
the guy got booted front to be clear
this was like a like a 1 minute trip
right it was the number one not a hey
yeah this is a 1 and a hand wash unlike
everybody else in this office
speaking about everybody in the office
and hand washing Larry Kudlow was on Fox
& Friends this morning arguing why I
don't know if this is funny if we got to
do this bit to make it as funny
first we do but uh arguing that you know
talking about the again praising the
Democrats for raising the minimum wage
to $15 an hour and trying to come up
with reasons why that's a bad thing a
congresswoman Rasheeda Talib we've heard
$15 minimum wage now she's saying how
about $20 an hour one of my best friends
and some restaurants down in Florida and
I wrote her and I said what do you think
about this would you be able to survive
she said quote that would kill us I
don't know that we could survive having
to pay that actually I'm quite sure we
wouldn't then they would not have any
jobs well ok interesting point really
wants that she's like so what was he do
with all the alcohol sir so that it does
75 cents to the dollar cuz if that's
possible you can just ship it up to me
okay God mark up and then you get ship
it other thing you can pick it up rush
to work hours so full bar right people
weren't there they black is we got more
black employer but they're all Trump ah
I'm drunk the thing that I did not think
that I did not catch the first time her
friend owns multiple restaurants we
attended their yeah or maybe maybe
you've been able to build your entire
business on exploiting people who are
working for him it's like
if you got one restaurant you're
struggling and it's like I hire two
people and I'm there every day I'm
kicking ass and like Dracula looking at
a newspaper saying like sucking blood to
be outlawed it's gonna kill me right
exactly it's going to completely put me
out of business
no sympathy for the small business
tyrants well that's the thing is that
this III don't even wonder like how
small business it is like you've got
multiple rogue just roll it back on that
because Applebee's honestly that will be
entirely eliminated
honestly like like you know this is not
a situation where it's like it's just me
and my family we'd work the restaurant
we have two people here now we feed them
every day and this and that this is a
situation like you know saying small
business right this w foot a few people
because you're a little enterprise wage
now she's saying how about $20 an hour
now one of my best friends and some
restaurants down in Florida and I wrote
her and I said what do you think about
this was remember survive she said quote
that would kill us I don't know that we
could survive having to pay that
actually I'm quite sure we would it then
they would not have any jobs okay
interesting point look actually a recent
study by the Congressional Budget Office
when you have these big increases in the
national federal minimum wage yes some
jobs some wages go up for you know some
set number of millions of workers but we
also lose millions of jobs all right
pause well let me just again just
because every time this lie is gonna be
put out there I want to say there's two
sets of numbers he's talking about one
set a number is the some set of people
millions of people will get raises the
CBO was 100% sure that would happen that
millions of people will get raises then
on the other end of the ledger how many
people will lose their jobs
the CBO basically said we don't know we
have taken 11 surveys on this or Studies
on this they didn't do the most recent
one which
actually that there would be no job loss
but they had other surveys that showed
there would be no job loss and so when
we aggregate these eleven surveys we
have a range of job loss that goes from
0 to 3.1 million and it could fall
anywhere in there
we just don't know so we're just gonna
call it 1.3 million because that's the
average of those two things see the
others guard you still read so they've
tried it in a few different places
they've tried it in Seattle the job loss
did not happen that's right that's right
in those and there are other sort of
modeling's that show but in terms of
like real-world data there is no
real-world data that you could predict
job loss at 15 bucks an hour now it's
difficult because there are places in
the country where you would anticipate
maybe there would be some job loss
because simply the the cost of living is
so much lower and the way that the the
the revenue generated by businesses is
lower but 15 bucks an hour I think based
upon all of these reports is probably
around the safe area where you could do
for a federal minimum wage $20 an hour
don't know there's a question but here's
the best thing that we should do let's
let's do the $15 an hour across the
country see where it's at if there's a
problem we'll adjust it boom bang go
boom Bo there you go very easy to do go
point look actually a recent study by
the Congressional Budget on ilysm when
you have these big increases in the
national federal minimum wage yes some
jobs some wages go up for you know some
set number of millions of workers but we
also lose millions of jobs because a lot
of these businesses small businesses
can't afford it look here's the Kudlow
remedy for minimum wage you ready I'm
ready let me take you need to take notes
here pull the pencils out please this is
very important we have tremendous
prosperity
we are growing down wages are up
consumers are booming it's across the
board every conceivable subgroup African
Americans Hispanic Asians and so forth
less educated less skilled are doing the
witness go up naturally so we can have
an unlimited minimum wage through
private sector prosperity cream you look
at some of the losses aren't there
anymore because let's just say there
could be three Drake's but what about I
open bar here's the problem here's the
problem this quarry to Larry Kudlow
consumers of booming everybody even the
dumb people are working it's all great
except for we have millions of people
millions millions as he said
definitively who are not only not making
the minimum wage not making a living
wage that is the reality right now we're
booming everybody's booming so larry
cudlow theory has one element that is
that disproves it and that is it's not
working
it's not the case wage growth is anemic
still people are not getting a minimum
wage if your remedy for getting rid of
the minimum wage was working there would
not be a desire for a minimum wage but
it's not and the minimum wage has not
risen in pace with productivity or the
cost of living for decades for decades
so sorry very they give you the coupons
you know they say you
three free beers of the GU pods yeah
okay baby that's nice but what if you
went to a place in it just said I love
it
you just drink that's the free market of
 and by the way they say stuff
about us send them back whatever what
not were racist you could be easier to
drink as much as you want you could be
uneducated or druggies what you want to
be black is bad jobs just everybody's
drinking all right it's not just
fanciful economics remember Larry Kudlow
was the guy who was talking about if you
go back and look at the footage of Larry
Kudlow on Kudlow and Kramer or whatever
program he had on CNBC in the summer of
2008 talk about how we are smooth
sailing for the economy you could not
have been more wrong
or incorrect or completely wrong on what
was happening with the economy then
larry cudlow but let's move from the
full fallacious economic arguments and
data arguments about the minimum wage to
the moral ones let us find the most
moral amongst us to tell us why people
don't need a minimum wage who do we have
that is the most moral amongst us yet
also has the ability to sound like the
oldest junior high student in the
country why of course it's Matt Walsh on
The Daily wire I I do support a minimum
wage but the minimum wage that I support
is zero
I think zero is the baseline zero should
be the minimum wage I definitely don't
think the minimum wage it shouldn't go
below that okay so there shouldn't be a
negative
pause nobody should
making news where is my breaking news
thing
[Music]
daily wire podcast host denounces
slavery there you go that's pretty big
good be charged money to work so I'll
say that but zero is the cutoff zero is
the base line should be the base line
wage for work because that's the
baseline amount of effort you can put in
it's possible for someone to do zero
work which means that they have earned
zero dollars do some work it dear I
would offer this this that we're
watching assuming he's paid is
disproving his very Theory there because
I feel like we're watching someone who's
put in zero effort or minimal effort but
getting paid far more for it I mean I
feel like he should be paying us to
watch him on some level we're getting
paid to watch him so it's actually
happening dollars I think that makes a
lot of sense but when you skip from zero
and you go all the way up to say $8 an
hour minimum wage $10 now or $15 an hour
20 to 25 I mean there's there's no limit
to it once you do that it doesn't really
make any sense because what you're what
you're suggesting is it's basically
impossible for someone to do less than
that amount of work in an hour you're
saying that if the minimum wage is 15
hours now you're saying that it's
impossible that anyone in America could
do work for an hour and the work they
perform could be worth less than $15
you're saying that's impossible
posit the guy just found out what the
minimum wage means but he doesn't
understand it's the minimum wage so it
means the least amount of money that you
can get for working for an hour for
having your labor reserved for that hour
right exactly because you can still fire
people I mean I wonder what I mean
Matt wash thinks about wage theft this
is the opposite of the dynamic he's
talking about Leslie
to this because this is fascinating it
really is like I feel like I understand
my mic my teenage daughter a little bit
better when I watched this guy work
through you have to warn her against
guys like listen Oh died believe me she
knows she knows that I'm just watching
like them like work through sort of
concepts that they don't seem to be
terribly familiar with that's
interesting to me all the work that's
being done across the country in any
given hour all of it is worth at least
fifteen dollars now I I just I don't
think that's true I'll give one example
we could all point out examples but just
one example I went to McDonald's the
other day as I have the unfortunate
habit of doing on occasion and
McDonald's now most of McDonald's I go
and now have those automated things
where you can order the touchscreen
things but I usually avoid those because
they're touchscreen and so you can see
the finger smudges on them and it's I
don't want to touch that thing I mean
how often are those things washed it
looks like they're never washed I don't
want to pause the hand I think I wonder
how much it would be worth it to him to
have that washed hmm question okay avoid
those because they're touchscreen and so
you can see the finger smudges on them
and it's I don't want to touch that
thing I mean how often are those things
washed it looks like they're never
washed I don't want to put my hand I
think up a hundred other people have
touched
yeah we're getting about to eat it's
gross when I can see their gross greasy
disgusting hand marks on it so then I
went to the to the cashier and so here's
how that interaction work that
interaction went verbatim and as I said
we've all had interactions like this so
I walk up the cashier he goes can I help
you yes I'll have the large number one
please thank you Big Mac that it yes
that's 657 actually sorry can you could
you change that to a medium okay posit I
want to remind you he's being paid for
this it's being paid money for this
isn't this a good but here's an
now now let's just stop here because
this this would also blow his mind that
that meal number one for 657 that means
that that meal according to Matt Walsh
you can't find that meal at a different
price anywhere else in the country right
because prices are fixed there has to be
let there has to be more or less value
on that it's just this concept that he's
saying that his service is not worth $15
an hour or is not worth the person who
gave him service the one who treated him
nicely it's at McDonald's I mean give me
a break the idea that this guy could
make $1 more than zero or any more than
like half the people that we watch this
stuff even stuff that we disagree with
this is bad they're just from an
entertainment perspective it's bad it's
bad it's I know I'm making money mocking
it and it's still painful blows my mind
that he would think that he doesn't come
off like the worst person in the world
in this the the point is is that he is
proving maybe maybe it's some type of
art project but he's proving that the
value of labor is completely subjective
and sometimes you get super lucky and
sometimes you don't get lucky and
setting a minimum so that people can eat
and not be exploited is the same theory
behind why we say children cannot work
we have child labor laws or why we have
40-hour work weeks because we don't want
people to be exploited simply because as
a human being you need to eat and need
to have a place to sleep you need food
and shelter maybe you want to provide
some other amenities for your kids or
your
family and so that's what we've decided
as a society the more they talk about
how people don't deserve a living wage
the more they insulate themselves they
will gain no new voters from this and
they will just remind people that the
Democratic Party is the one who is
ensuring that at the very least there is
a minimum wage that the idea that you
set aside an hour to work and go work
and create value beyond your wages for
other people and it's true we there will
be some job loss because of this in some
it has to be some but the revenue
generated will create other jobs
velocity of money exactly well look all
labor under capitalism is technically
exploitation that's not a value judgment
that's just Oh
our business would go out of bias yes
exactly that's how it functions but you
know there are certainly matters of
degree there's exploitation and then
there's the kind of hyper exploitation
that we see with these kinds of jobs
that don't pay enough for people to keep
on living or reproduce themselves as a
class you know and that that's one of
the contradictions that we talked about
this week with um with T Thea Cinzia the
the tendency of capitalism to on the one
hand in order to keep functioning it
needs human beings right it needs
workers to continue being alive so they
can work and on the other hand its
tendency to try to squeeze the
conditions for social reproduction so so
much that people cannot reproduce
themselves or stay alive anymore right
limited their bargaining power much less
serious point but there's I'm I'm not
the biggest Jerry Seinfeld fan in the
world but he is an actual comedian who
did actual structure to his jokes and
all of these idiots have grown up
watching it and they think that somehow
like just complaining about the smudges
or the fingerprints on the computer on
the terminal that you use the fast they
like bit
and kvetching about that is sufficient
for a bit without any structure around
it and also undercuts it also undercuts
his entire point which shows that you
need human beings I would argue I
actually worked in McDonald's in high
school I'd argue that that worker is
probably put in as much effort relative
to the amount that he's compensated for
the cost of that number one meal that he
got there he's probably doing his part
um
I mean honestly really interest I I
would be it would be fascinating to find
out like if so what the rate of pay that
Matt Walsh is getting for this relative
to the quality listen to a little
interesting to see if this reaction to
him was different than anybody else he
interacts with them exactly yes what
else wonder why it is all the clerks I
go to all seem to be really annoyed why
does my mom eat me know and that's how
one now let me ask you somebody like
that
someone who that's all they do that is
the amount they can't even be troubled
to nca their words that they can barely
even put in the effort to speak they are
these American sentient there you go
you're almost watching them melt in
front of you into this just lump of
matter they think they they're barely
even there deserves just how dis how
early disinterested they are and it not
only disinterested I'll just skip a
little bit ahead cuz he does this for
another minute just like how much can I
argue that this person's not worthy of
$15 an hour they can do this is what
they're getting paid to do you might as
well they don't want to put any effort
in so with someone like that
are they worth are they worth fifty
automatically worth is doing that
sighing rolling your eyes because is
that automatically worth $15 an hour you
know you know what I noticed
this guy couldn't even be bothered to
put his frickin his microphone on his
shirt properly look at the way it's
pinched there's a proper way to put on
your lavel ear mic instead of thrown
away there's discuss why does he have a
love mic end of that mic in front of him
I have one is that's a good
question sometimes you do that they get
both I don't know that's stupid though
I'd also ask Matt who determines whether
work has been done or not because if I
wasn't sauce I'd be like you're gonna go
back and rerecord that but it look
you're going to you're gonna put on a
show how about doing some with your
backdrop that doesn't look like you're
just sitting in the band you know you're
sloppy ass corner I mean are those what
kind of what kind of braces does he have
on that shelfing bruh it's embarrassing
those are outdoor braces god it's
disgusting I would like to personally
shake the hand of whichever fast-food
worker was rude to Matt Walsh because
you're doing the Lord's work that's
unbelievable
can I make a recommendation as well this
week on the trill Billy workers party
podcast which is super super excellent
they had Emily gondolas burger on who
wrote a book called on the clock what
low-wage work did to me and how it
drives America insane I heard about that
I think if she's in our list to Sue's
last assault
I mean nickeled and dimed yeah it
definitely is in that lineage really
brutal book really important I mean
that's it that's the I guess the clear
point about this is the amount of wage
theft that these two companies do have
on their poised by making new extra work
and not fully compensating them and the
way that people treat you like you're
less than human like Matt Walsh like
you're their sleeve like you're just
gonna melt away and like yeah like like
the psychological toll that that takes
on people I think is very apparent from
watching that clip just now and I can
tell you this too the the there's such a
tremendous amount of emotional myopia
involved in that because I I spent I
don't know probably three years waiting
tables and there is no doubt that my
disposition in perspective on what I was
doing was much easier to deal with the
work itself was much easier to deal with
because I knew like this is not what I'm
going to be doing for the rest of my
life
I have like I have I am I've been given
you know sort of an elite education I
have access to I have access I have
access to just about every possible
resource and you know I'm not I'm not
you know it was in a Rockefeller but
certainly I have access to resource and
I know people who sell cars and I know
people who are electricians and I just I
know a lot of different I have access to
a lot of different resources I know
people who are you know mortgage brokers
or whatever it is and and I knew this
was a way station for me but the idea
that you could say like well I don't
have an education there's not a lot of
jobs around I can either wait tables
here or I can go and I don't know dig
ditches or whatever it is the I'm not
saying that people should be so on on
every job that they should have but at
the very least their job should provide
them enough resources so that they can
live a decent life and you know maybe
explore other avenues but have the
resources to be able to do that to some
extent I'm able to take a day off or I
don't have to go for that time and a
half so that I can pay my rent if I want
if I'm super ambitious
I can afford to not pick up the extra
weekend hours and go investigate
something else
I mean resources beget resources and to
not be aware of that I think is both an
intellectual and emotional deficit
particularly by someone like
you know I don't know what Matt Walsh
his background is maybe he maybe he was
just working at a McDonald's and every
time he would come up you know he would
get someone to come up at the counter he
would be so effervescent that somebody
said hey you seem like a great guy I'm
gonna tell this other restaurant about
you and you're gonna work your way up
through the restaurants and then he got
a job at like a you know more of like an
Outback Steakhouse type of situation and
he was there and he was serving somebody
and someone said hey we've got an
opening at The Daily Caller
he was bringing up would you share her
Ben would you like to do a podcast for
us and that's the way I got discovered
by just being outgoing at my restaurant
job give me a break
Donald Trump hit the international stage
this week who is he with when he was
emraan Khan the prime minister of
Pakistan he is with the prime minister
of Pakistan and as you know Khan College
folks did I give my list of things to
say and things not to say as you know
well this is another one actually many
go to each other over twitter the
borders between Afghanistan and Pakistan
are a little bit porous we funded a lot
of money back in the 80s to create
madrasahs so that we could help build a
basically an army of zealots who would
fight off the Russians and you know
unintended consequences all that type of
thing sometimes you thing about zealots
is very hard to turn them off once
you've turned them on and back
definitely has a I think a vested
interest in keeping Afghanistan in
somewhat disarray and weakened and
Donald Trump I think maybe felt a little
challenged by that and needed to show
off some of his uh his muscle when you
make this kind of same personality you
are those very gentle full include all
your promises and it's a like Imran Khan
he thought fun so how do you think this
really glad same kind of person straight
to the point
well I think we're gonna have a great
meeting today I know it's an important
meeting I consider this a very important
meeting because I think we haven't met
the potential of either country I think
the potential with Pakistan and likewise
the opposite way I think we have not
even come close to meeting it there is
tremendous potential between our country
and Pakistan I think Pakistan's going to
help us out
to extricate ourselves we're like
policemen we're not fighting oh well we
wanted to fight a war in Afghanistan and
win it I could win that war and a week I
just don't want to kill ten million
people
does that make sense to you I don't want
to kill ten million people I have plans
on Afghanistan that if I wanted to win
that war Afghanistan would be wiped off
the face of the earth it would be gone
it would be over in literally in ten
days and I don't want to do that I don't
want to go that route so we're working
with Pakistan and others to extricate
ourselves nor did we want to be
policemen because basically what
policemen right now imagine you're in
Afghanistan and Donald Trump is
announced we have plans to wipe out
Afghanistan kill ten million people well
because I'm such a nice guy we decided
not to do it not in the mood I mean it's
so bizarre because they actually this is
an area where they actually are having
pretty successful negotiations with the
Taliban apparently and there is progress
and getting out of there so it's an area
where at the very least he's not hurting
relative to the disaster that
it's been since the invasion but he just
that musing and of course combined with
the fact that that's one of the first
things he did when he was president was
dropped the mother of all bombs on
Afghan right and it's always in the
context of unshackling the military each
year he's been president civilian
casualties have gone up significantly
because it's just not part of the
calculation process I know that I mean
several they've been sort of going back
and forth on Twitter and you know Khan's
point when he first got into office was
a lot of Pakistanis are dying too as
your sort of security subcontractors
here and Trump's point is yeah but you
guys are playing a double game with us
and like both thing both of those things
are totally true and then Khan ordered
an arrest of one of the masterminds of
that Oberoi hotel attack that happened
in 2008 so this is another weird one
where like Trump gets a win well he
because of this sort of like but but
also because you know Khan is in a
really tough position and and there I
feel like that's always been the
relationship with with it's a different
variation of what the relationship has
always been it's just now you have like
these two celebrity figures doing it and
it's also funny because they're just a
flash here but I have a feeling this is
going back and forth I have a very sick
bin Laden was a function was a gift
relative to various you know I think the
Obama administration signed off on some
nuclear technology or something to that
effect I mean I think there was all
sorts of if you go back to the 80s
another legacy another legacy of Reagan
it's not just that we were funding
aggressively the Mujahideen they were
actively undermining even you talk about
objective research the arms control
community was aggressively fought
against by the CIA and the Reagan
administration from establishing the
Pakistani nuclear program in the 80s so
that's another limb establishing that it
exists that it existed yes you get into
serious career trouble if you noted the
obvious let's go to the phones come from
a 478 re/code who's this where he come
from
folks we're not going to get to
everybody on the call so if you've been
hanging on for a little bit of time 4 7
8 4 7 8
nothing let's go to 7 6 5 7 6 5 yes
hello Sam yes hey my name is Jeremy I'm
from the great hellhole known as Muncie
Indiana
oh hello Montse auntie Anna great yep
david letterman's alma mater very nice
but yeah hey I just my congressman is an
unknown guy by the name of Greg pence
his name might sound familiar he's the
older brother of Mike Pence our vice
president Maya
oh yeah he's God she has an idea for
reparations apparently I've never heard
this guy speak until a couple weeks ago
and he's been my congressman now for
about seven eight months Wow okay and
yeah he has an idea for reparations but
for the victims of the 1983 Beirut
bombing okay what just came totally out
of left field I wonder what that's about
I mean I don't know really what this is
part of instigating for the war against
Iran okay I wrote down a route Hezbollah
yes it's war mongering yeah it's just a
way to bring up another issue of what
Iran has supposedly done
right well this is also concerning
because with mr. pence being our
congressman where I live that is a
heavily Democrat stronghold one of their
very very small ones here in Indiana
Democratic stronghold and we are right
so we've been having some scandals
lately
last week the FBI marched out to members
of our city government out in handcuffs
and they raided City Hall this has been
a second raid like in the past two years
you know we're high you know basic
run-of-the-mill corruption pay-for-play
stuff like that Wow but my concern is
with this all going on how's this my
concern is for Democrats voting in this
part of the state obviously there's a
lot of Trump who's here and I've gotten
death threats I've gotten threats of
violence to get me because I'm a
die-hard Bernie supporter and and I'm
also still an Iraq veteran which I guess
is the NASA mo here in this part of the
country right but but yeah I'm just
concerned with you know apparently
there's a lot of optics going on with
this Democrat corruption here in Muncie
of how it's going to affect this part of
Indiana because of you know you know
rest of this district being a red
district well I don't know what the
answer is to that I I mean I I don't
know enough about it to know why if it
would impact the dynamic there but man
you know my suggestion to you might be
move yeah I think I talked my wife into
debt but she wants to go to South
Carolina okay so out of the frying pan
into the fire at least the weather would
be nicer yep well thanks thanks for the
call go to South Carolina and then just
move up to like Asheville I fit I'm
saying go to South Carolina
just a wonderful place full of hippies
in the mountains I've never been there
but I've heard very good things about it
really good vegan food I'll say that
is hard to control this phone thing here
wait a second I'm a little bit lost
where is this oh here we go
okay called from a 3-1 this overseas two
to seven yes this is you hello hello oh
yeah I sorry I'm making ice cream in a
moment of course yeah
I wanted to yeah I I wanted to talk
about Andrew Young and ubi for a moment
all right where are you calling from
oh sorry I'm David I'm coming from the
Netherlands okay yeah so as I understand
it you you are okay with qvi sorry I'm
nervous you are okay with ubi but you
want the good ubi being that it's an
addition to our or your current welfare
system right and it doesn't like right
right
my biggest fear about ubi for the most
part okay I mean I think like there's
there's an argument that it's it's not
really Universal because it's you you
could take it back in terms of taxes etc
etc but my biggest problem with the ubi
and also the VAT yes I get that if
you're paying you know an extra $100 a
month on some type of VAT tax but you're
getting nine hundred back yes that's
fine but the VAT itself is still a
regressive way to pay for it but that
aside my biggest concern about the ubi
is not from necessarily a policy
perspective but rather from a political
perspective that it opens the door to
cutting a whole raft of of programs that
some need improvement some I think
function quite well is economic stable
like food stamps for instance and I
think that's problematic from the Andrew
yang perspective I've when I've seen him
questioned on it he doesn't seem to have
a problem with a lot of those programs
going away I had that makes me nervous
but good yeah well I wouldn't be like I
can't call myself an Andrew Young
supportive because I'm not American but
I wouldn't be an Andrew Young supporter
my first choice would be Bernie Sanders
but the thing with like those welfare
programs is that they like they don't
give people a lot of freedom right so if
you have food stamps for example like
you can only spend it on food and it's
like and you have like an administration
that's like or I do just deserve food
stamps who doesn't deserve food stamps
and if you get a job maybe of the song
you don't deserve welfare anymore so you
you you are limited in your freedom well
it's for the UVI you can well what you
can ask a question so caller if you had
and I agree that there are certain
problems that with certain welfare
programs that are too restrictive right
but let's say you could have the option
of taking one thousand dollars in yang
bucks or you can take $1,000 in good ubi
bucks plus two hundred dollars in the
food stamps that you've already had you
just keep getting those and you get your
additional one thousand dollars which
would you rather have well I would go
for the $1,200 with extra welfare bucks
right right but so are you familiar with
by the way you guys like I don't know
what your name is the person who just
spoke but I listened to your podcast
where you talked about utopia for
realists oh yeah yeah yeah
and you made so he made a distinction
between good you be I am that you be I
bet you be are being Andrew
and I'm good ubi supposedly on the camp
of record breckman right but yeah well I
have this day like yeah whisker Bregman
they say yeah of course when we install
ubi
yeah I got the trick here bro I got the
tweet here I can just read it
Bregman Torey tweeted out a Scott satins
link that said this is a really
important article by Scott sentence
about Andrew Yang's freedom dividend yes
there are better versions of ubi but
there is no policy proposal by any 2020
presidential candidate more progressive
and my problem with that is that the
reasons it's not it's not it's not the
best version of ubi is even Rutger
admits there is because it's making
these trade-offs that we're all talking
about with these welfare cuts and if and
it's going on this based on the idea
that they're going to pass this with
Republican like bipartisan support and
if you're going to do that it's going to
get worse and worse on this welfare
front then it's it is in this campaign
mode let's have a dollar a month ubi
funded by a well but here's but here's
here's the thing that that I think that
people misunderstand - they're also like
looking at this these things in a vacuum
and it's not like there is some type of
situation where we have a choice ubi
and Scott sentence I think has said
certainly said on the interview I did
with him a couple years ago that he
would get rid of food stamps and as
opposed to the freedom that would come
in my mind from a single-payer health
care program that would relieve
Americans of of that burden of things
like a free public option on higher
education expanded universal pre-k and
frankly just more generosity in existing
programs because once you cut away would
you excuse me once you cut away or food
stamps
and we go through another recession and
people's economic situations get
demonstrably worse
right because no one contemplates the
idea that on $12,000 a year in the
United States that anti number of
significant percentage of people are
going to be able to live their lives
they're gonna off you obviously have to
get a job and there are times like we
had eight years ago I guess ten years
ago now where we lost millions upon
millions of jobs and when that happened
millions of maan millions of people then
suddenly became eligible for food stamps
or as I guess you would put it they lost
their freedom to not get food supplement
but that's what happened it's an
economic stabilizer many of our programs
deal with kick in for people when they
suffer some type of economic hardship
and if you were to tell me that people
are going to get $12,000 a year and
still we're gonna have these programs
I'd be fine with that but it's not like
I'm pulling it out of my arse in saying
that it has been a long-standing
programmatic agenda of the libertarian
right to use a ubi of some sort to cut
away at these social safety net programs
I'm not making that up and when Andrew
yang goes on and apparently Scott sands
who was voice if ur Asst about cutting
things like Social I mean food stamps
when he goes on to a program and says
this is the way that we get rid of this
six hundred billion dollar boondoggle
that is the social safety net that's
what I worry about so you don't need to
argue the policy I'm talking about the
politics yeah
like there's a lot to go into and of
course I don't have enough time but what
I did want to one of the most important
things I wanted to say was that I've in
Utopia for realists Rutger Bregman
actually strongly this criticizes like
welfare programs food stamps that those
kinds of welfare
I guess policies not not Medicare for
all or a minimum wage or whatever but
specifically those you know those
programs that have a lot of control and
and etc and I noticed that in the
podcast of your colleague I didn't I
didn't I didn't - Matt I didn't listen
to Matt's a podcast but in him and you
can send him an email and maybe he'll
read it but but here's the point what I
wanted to say is that I think Kurt
Beckman disagrees with you
and since you you had him on a show but
you didn't really talk about ubi well we
did so but but well Sam hates freedom so
you kind of talked about like Andrew
Yanks personally is we're not gonna do
you understand here I'm gonna hang up on
you now because I'm gonna say this one
more time I get his version of ubi it is
everyone gets a freedom buck a thousand
freedom bucks a month I get that this is
not a hard thing to understand and call
me when we have single-payer health care
and everybody gets it doesn't have to
pay for it and when we have these other
things that Walter Bregman and I agree
upon and then if you want to talk about
cutting food stamps for people to
replace it with $1,000 uh no no I'm down
for that
but do you understand what I'm saying
here the sequencing matters the
sequencing matters when I watched a
video of Andrew yang I'm not assessing
anything I'm watching him say
though because it's not politically
palatable to cut these programs we will
entice people off these programs by
offering them in some instances two
hundred and fifty dollars extra a month
some instances five hundred dollars
extra a month right because even though
they're giving a thousand they're giving
up five hundred or 750 or whatever
programs that are not generous enough I
agree with that and that's the way that
will end these programs and then we'll
just have the one payment that we give
to everybody and then I can I can tell
you what will happen okay Democrat gets
into office the Republicans say we've
got to cut the budget and there is no
reason excuse me there's no reason why
because I've seen a Democrats say this
why we should be giving $1,000 to people
who don't need it and they will start to
cut the program they're getting
everybody in one barrel and they'll cut
the program and that's the way that
works Sam appreciate the call Sam Oh Sam
let him go I'd let him go okay
Sam Sam yeah uh you have discussed
you'll be I on this program several
times but you have not addressed a drag
specific version of it
I interviewed Scott since I've
interviewed I've interviewed well if you
attributed why don't you release the
interview addresses because he's talking
about me he's not talking about Sam but
I guess what I don't disagree with a lot
of what record Bregman says about
means-tested welfare programs you're
gonna find have a lot of agreement about
what that sama I listen to your
colleagues podcast
I disagree politics on his podcast he
said he wanted to blow the cup this is
and hates yeah drew yay Casey people
going like I hear the reason why you
disagree with me but I want you to agree
with me so I'm going to keep saying
agree with me well I mean it's also like
literally if you get these people going
you know obsessing with you first it was
I was hiding podcast yeah I was on I
couldn't
remember what it was it turned out I did
it and we put it out on Ring of Fire cuz
I do I don't know on any given year four
hundred five hundred six hundred
interviews and I think we even put on
the best of of rough why are you hiding
things there is a left
I don't well know it and the other
problem here is that he always says
basically that you can't actually
achieve anything that is necessary to
democratize society so you can't have a
wealth tax you can't break up monopolies
we're gonna have a thousand bucks which
we've already outlined all the ways it
might jeopardize necessary programs and
then that's gonna be funded through a
vit and honestly I
I personally can't move past that
because that's conceding so much
demented fun foundational ground like
somehow we're gonna have a VAT but it's
not gonna be regressive exactly it's
gonna well it's not gonna regress it
because the idea is this no I you're
gonna pay more with the VAT but you're
gonna get more back on the other no no
the other on the other point is those
that somehow it's only gonna apply to
certain like quote unquote like higher
end transactions well right and that by
the way then that's the flip where
that's all of a sudden that's gonna hurt
Amazon so the rest of the time that we
can't even hope to deal with the
political power of Amazon we can't even
hope to deal with monopolies we can't
even hope to deal with any of these
things which by the way if that's your
perspective the ship has already sailed
we're done and maybe by the way that is
the most honest representation which is
that we're going to have a tech
feudalist system right we're not gonna
achieve anything we're not gonna have a
robust democracy and Mark Zuckerberg
will give you a little bit of money so
you can like play video games and a tiny
little pod and that is incredibly
depressing and bleak and not a utopia
yeah that's not quite utopia but I'm not
gonna concede foundational grounds that
have not been worked out other than he's
a good person take our word for it and
then having emotional meltdowns if you
don't agree yeah yanking is really
something else I've never seen anything
quite like it because there's this some
notion of like there's a secret there's
a secret silver bullet and you're
completely ignoring it because
you disagree with how it's going to be
implemented get Rand Paul to vote for it
let's see you really get to the hyams
who got a lot of oh here we go the king
of all I immerse Sam one summer during
middle school my dad concerned with my
education and interest in reading forced
me to read various books and write an
essay on each one of the books was
animal farm my assignment upon claiming
I had finished reading it was to compare
the story to the lyrics of won't get
fooled again by the who I had no idea
how to reply because I hadn't read it
and it was obvious anyway consider this
a parenting suggestion of my dad through
me to you I will do that rave fro Mia
hey Sam big fan specially loved that
Michael Brooks guy the other day I was
watching the show and excellent clicked
on a Dave Rubin video it was terrible
and I don't think you should even bother
with that guy if I was you I would stop
trying to debate him doing videos or
impressions of him or even saying his
name on the show just like an idea to
think about know how a tits rave from LA
oh even well you could waste you
tithe yeah totally you've got much
better things to do Sam I hope to see
you again on haze to discuss this
deconstruction of the administrators say
a state preside ly promise kept this and
the courts it's so critical and why
mobilization versus focus on persuasion
it's the key strategy only bright light
last week was the Omar clip and the
Borah kiss protest giving me life
interview today was great reminds me of
that cultural capital brie quests bull
requests but equal
boricua or a quiz protest ah but it's
really socio-economic capital in the
Congressional baseball fan Sam just
wanted to let you know I'm enjoying the
new daily morning content but the other
day I was talking to my Wi-Fi TV and
said Alexa give me an a.m. quickie and
Alexa responded I have a headache so I
spent the night on the couch waiting
watching a bunch of a gold Godzilla
we're gonna work we're working on the
Alexa thing new human I can completely
vow to the idea management software on
kaptara I used the program to create a
perfect playlist of low to high level
ideas evenly spacing my
dear refractory period so I could spend
less time in recovery mode teacher Harry
hey Sam that was a fantastic interview
food insecurity and housing problems are
a huge issue in our elementary middle
and high schools as well so the idea
that those issues go away the moment
these students go to college and we can
stop thinking about our expect the
students offend themselves while they're
more well-to-do counterparts relax and
study is absurd and deeply unfair the
OKCupid story was a little sickening not
to mention frightening shifting topics
what are your thoughts on a socialized
version of auto insurance peaches I
think that could work
Maryann's centrally dominate Dave dot
Pegg I really want to know what that is
Mary Ann's essentially dumb Dave
dot-mpeg good mental image hey Sam have
you have your glasses ever fogged up
while your shoes fell off simultaneously
thanks bullfrog depending on how the
says ah scienter trial good did you
think it could lead to legal precedent
for cases against scholastic terrorism
versus spreading false and misleading
information it's disheartening to see
the outbreak of brain worms we
desperately need a cure and future
prevention his lawyers are arguing Trump
and Fox News you're sighs yeah I don't
know I don't you think I'm gonna go free
speech up so you're gonna really want to
trust the intelligence apparatus of
different countries to start defining
content as acts of terrorism dude that
is absolutely a form of liberal Trump
derangement syndrome 0:44 back to first
principles buddy larry cudlow is more of
a coke guy well yeah you know people
evolve pajama boy hey crew need your
take on a Bernie staffer story I don't
trust a lot of the sources reporting on
it you guys gonna do a reaction to
Molly's testimony with Michael Tracy
tomorrow I commit major wage theft every
day listening to Mr at work hell yeah
that's praxis that is awesome
I don't know I need to dig more into the
the staffer story
oh it's it's they and
they've already resolved it they've
actually the deal is that they've
created is that they're they're
basically not working above forty hours
a week so when they don't do extra hours
they are at fifteen a day and they do
get benefits and there was upset inside
the labor union of the campaign because
they were like we're in the middle of
negotiations and figuring this out and
somebody leaked it and created a traffic
they screwed they screwed over their own
union to air sign cowboy Sam Michael
live in the great state of Jefferson in
Northern California bit south of Oregon
my specific city has a real problem with
a very profitable church trying to pray
the LGBTQ community out and running
church elders for city councilor and
winning sadly they're buying about the
city painting over our cool murals
please son send Harris Sam Harris JK
don't do that to us
yes I would love to send you a more
information about this and would like to
hear like to state that the plan is to
run against her I'm not sure I follow
any of that but send us an email at
majority reporters at gmail.com Smoot
court I like how Dave was channeling his
past guests in an interview with Mary
Ann larry elder debunking structural
racism jordan Peterson's anti
collectivism Peter teal libertarianism
only Dave doesn't have their chops and
is so his experiences culminated in a
disaster it was like Slumdog Millionaire
except for he's incompetent feels like a
dinosaur Sam's very young son takes time
crafting a joke to bond with his former
comedian father Sam what the hell do you
want from me a laugh all you did was
misdirect there's no Direction no
purpose well that's true dog DNA testers
puts bark and company name Sam stifling
giggles that's what doggies down pretty
good western mass whole went to Alex
Morris campaign kickoff rally in Holyoke
last night pretty good turnout a lot of
energy in the room looking forward to
phone banking for him I think he has a
real chance keep us updated on that I've
to admit I liked I really like the woman
who challenged Neil last time I'm not
recalling her name I I wonder why that
didn't that might have gotten more
traction this time but we'll see about
Morse anything would be an improvement
it would be good that would be a nice
win let's see let's take a good time for
one more call
3:21 re/code who's this hey Sam it's
Marcus the Brazilian man how's it going
Marcus the Brazilian what's on your mind
not much I just want you guys okay with
all the flooding going on right now
I mean are we like I'm not sure what you
mean by okay like a we okay as in safe
or are we okay like this is cool yes
yeah no we're yes we are okay but we are
not okay with it
right exactly okay the reason I'm
calling I was wondering if you guys saw
this story I it came up on my food last
Friday about Jorge Nader being convicted
or I guess he pled not guilty to
essentially trying to traffic 14 year
old boy and like child pornography he's
this Trump official he was representing
the crown prince of UAE
on that the seychelles meetings between
Eric trump or sorry Erik Prince and a
Russian oh I didn't realize that he was
here there it's connected with the
Emiratis yeah huh interesting
yeah I mean he's a official and he
certainly is it Trump Easter yeah as a
Trump pista
gotcha yeah I was I mean it just kind of
hit me like the kind of people that
Trump surround themselves with aren't
just oligarchs and war mongers and white
nationalists but it seems to be serial
pedophiles as well I mean you have sorry
it was the billionaires hostess car with
I'm forgetting it fun that's nice
Epstein yeah
you got Epstein and then you have this
Jorge Nader guys like both I mean this
Jorge Neri guy he was caught in the 80s
with I think child pornography but I
think back and he's been caught several
times but this time he was caught
actually transporting a 14 year old boy
from Europe and got caught in jewels
Airport someone I someone someone told
me that when we saw the release of the
some of the the the stuff in the the
filing dealing with Epstein I should say
one of one I know somebody who saw there
was a handwritten note apparently to his
assistant and one of the magician's who
was de birkoff field or somebody was on
the list and he called the number and he
reached David Copperfield but that aside
there was one thing that said there were
tapes that said young blank with blank
and it was suggested that part of the
scandal that has not come out is that
there weren't just girls
there was also boys which may be more
about blackmailing I mean it's look I
don't know if we're ever going to know
the truth behind all this stuff it's
very very strange and the one of the way
you know like it's unclear to me I just
want to just kind of just say just
really quickly I mean I'd appreciate
your I hate her as someone people should
be you know be very attentive to and
he's an adviser to the crown prince of
the UAE and he is a consultant
specifically to Erik Prince of
Blackwater and he linked up with I think
a Donald Trump jr. in 2016 but his
record goes back to the 80s and I think
also not Bannen but I believe
Bannen was briefly involved in a some
type of video game currency company in
Hong Kong or Thailand and one of the
founders might have had
history like that as well so alright I
get a couple of Clips here I want to
make sure we get to and then we'll get
out of here so folks we don't have time
for any more calls I'm sorry don't want
to keep you holding longer than we can
this is this is worth watching as we
look at what's going on with the courts
as we look at you know the attempts by
the Democrats in 2020 to take over the
Senate there is one person who I think
like their usefulness as a senator has
reached an impossible all-time low Susan
Collins preens and has pretended that
she is some type of moderate I'm just
speaking you know within the context of
American politics she pretends that she
is a moderate and she must do so because
that's important to Maine voters if
Susan Collins portrayed herself as what
she is and what she enables because the
Republican Party has made it impossible
for its members to pretend to be
moderate within the context of what the
American political spectrum is and
therefore if you're going to try and
sell that pretense it becomes
increasingly hard and you have to get
more and more performative without
actually performing the one thing that
would make you a moderate which is
voting against the radical agenda of
your party speaking out against when
they don't allow for the most basic
functionings of the senate in terms of
meeting and deciding upon judge or
voting for the most reprehensible judges
who would turn the clock back on
everything that you pretend to support
and so this ad has been released that I
think it could be one of the best ads
I've seen in a long time about a
politician who
literally does not in fact walk the talk
that she has I'm disappointed I'm very
disappointed I was really disappointed
and that really troubles me well I'm
very disappointed I'm disappointed right
I was really disappointed and dismayed
but I disagree strongly I'm disappointed
[Music]
disappointing Susan Collins voter out of
the Senate that thing is gene it's a
total bummer she's constantly saying she
feels bad about having to support an
agenda she totally disagrees with if
only there was something she could do
about that
it's so disappointing in a way during
the bushes there was lincoln Chafee who
was a Republican who voted against all
the bush he voted against bushes
initiatives more than a lot of Democrats
yep there so you are able to do that you
are allowed to do that in a Republican
to vote against the invasion of Iraq as
an example there's a story and we won't
have time to get to it today but of a
sixteen-year-old boy born in Dallas
Texas apparently made the sorry eighteen
year old boy made the bad choice of
having a the name Francisco Irwin
Galatia and apparently having a
complexion that was not white he was of
course 18 year old traveling only with
the school ID because you're not allowed
to do that in America his brother was
carrying only a Texas ID which can only
be obtained with a social security
number and
apparently they were going to see a
soccer scouting event they got into a
CBP checkpoint and this kid got a
basically held in to CBB custody for
weeks for weeks the CBP and ice
attempted to basically round up a couple
thousand immigrants over the past couple
of days and they were stopped in some
instances they failed in others they
ended up arresting 35 people but here is
a clip of folks in erotic Tennessee and
a ice official tried to get a man into
custody and neighbors found formed a
human chain to allow the man and his son
to get home and defend the Ender stuff
Amelia Alice I can tell is almost a
Collado the second to cisterna yeah
and when I came in it that bear that I
may not para ser no sabemos is the
common enemy in Vienna Cornejo his ice
agents in the van una cadena para
proteger esta familia
they get into mr. Brando mr. sheean can
you spare is does he mention so las
palabras de esta de esposa esta madre
que esta taniya's miedo de que ya no see
you at this pose so they were able to
protect this father and son I'm not sure
what their status were of course we're
all much worse off because these two
people are in this country I'm sure
everybody's feeling the pain right now
show us if feel less safe the idea that
a father and son would still be with
their mother or wife is horrific concept
and we should we should be spending
millions of dollars billions of dollars
to make sure this can't happen and that
seems to be the agenda of a huge swath
of Americans but good for that life
there has to be more of this that's why
it was important to play this video to
to give people to broaden people's
imagination and courage as to what they
can do when they see these type of
situations you do not have to give ice
your papers show them your documents and
for every person who is a citizen who
does not comply with Isis requests
because they do not have authority over
you
the more gums up there works
hice is acting director complained it's
unfortunate that our honorable law
enforcement agencies subject to such a
protest this is a memo that ice went
into lockdown during Tuesday's protests
I think that took place outside of this
Kent clip in Stein TYT reporting this is
Anna July 17th and it it helps this is
one of those agencies where you can
really gum up the works and so if you
have the opportunity to do so do so I
mean they're on a bus and they come on
and start acting for asking for papers
start questioning them under what
authority are you doing this is the bus
company allowing you to do this what are
the names of the bus company I want to
talk to the bus manager just be a pain
and they but if you hold them up for
twenty minutes half an hour who knows
maybe you're helping some family that
you'll never meet yeah you're using
their resources of time exactly that's
really important and also please in
addition to that everyone needs to be
getting involved in long term immigrant
justice organizing because that's the
only thing that's really going to help
in the long run let's preview the Mahler
testimony tomorrow Jerrold Nadler as you
know the DOJ is told Robert Muller to
remain within the boundaries of the the
Muller Report now Muller is no longer
working for the Justice Department he
doesn't need to listen to them any more
than I do about the lawful testimony
that he's going to give here is Jerry
Nadler expressing that Muller does not
need to listen to the DOJ I think they
have any authority to instruct him in
that way must he comply with that letter
no he must no he does not have to comply
with that letter he doesn't work for
and that letter asks things that are
that are beyond the the power of the of
the agency to ask even if he still
worked for them there you go he's
supposed to testify in front of Congress
they want to know how he developed his
report he should be speaking outside of
the bounds of the report that's the
whole point there were these literary
historians called the new critics that
came out of the south and one of the
things they want to do is keep you
really focused on the text and nothing
extraneous to the text like historical
or social surrounding of the text a
little bit of a flashback there yeah you
know this this posture by Muller that's
all well and good in your role as a
prosecutor it is perfectly appropriate
for you to offer the report and then
offer nothing else but you are not a
prosecutor you are a witness in this
instance and you are giving Congress
information that it wants that is your
job as a citizen so he has a
responsibility to do this responsibility
that trumps the role that he did have
because he no longer has that role if he
thinks it's out of bounds for Congress
to ask these questions that's on
Congress he's not God he's not King he
has a responsibility to answer these
questions we may not like the answers
but he has a responsibility to answer
the questions and I guess we'll find out
tomorrow if he does so but I don't buy
this you know he's a good guy with a
sense of honor and that's why he won't
go outside the bounds of a prosecutor
not a prosecutor anymore what if he had
done this report 30 years ago he's not a
prosecutor anymore American public has
the right to know if the president was
involved
in activities that don't necessarily
reach the level of criminality as
defined by our statutes but ones that
people might find reprehensible for a
president to be involved in Ken Starr
certainly let us know stuff that did not
involve criminality we know a lot of
details still to this day about Bill
Clinton hell yeah what dips blue dress
is not quite a criminal so wrong but not
criminal it's so right um why do you
keep wrist representing a jury gang so
you'd be out all right lastly as you
know you get a net increase he says that
himself as you know they say that
Republicans fall in line Democrats want
to fall in love and as you know Michael
Falls in and out of love with a lot of
different number two numbers running for
presidential election Marianne Marianne
Williamson the next day it's this guy
and I have a feeling that on this
Tuesday Michaels heart has been given
mooning to Bill DeBlasio as you know as
you heard we had some flash flooding but
we've obviously had some power outages
because well the thing is we don't know
why we've had power outages I can tell
you something that's very predictable
there will always be three or four days
sometimes it's a week or two where New
York City will hit 90 degrees plus and
it's super hot and everybody doesn't
want to do anything that's going to
their apartments and they turn on their
air conditioning now you do not have to
be an expert to know that when everybody
turns on their air conditioning it's
going to put strain on the grid this is
not a new phenomenon
theoretically the company that has a
monopoly on providing power for people
should be set up to address this but one
thing that we know for sure in every
circumstance when you talk about private
enterprise sometimes they'll do horrific
things if they think that it will make
them profits and they only have to pay
back a little bit of that money I see
this every time I go to Las Vegas and
talk to tort lawyers pharmaceutical
companies yeah we knew it caused this
problem we knew it caused that problem
or we knew the manufacturer of this
active ingredient was letting jet fuel
in it however we had already expended a
lot of money and we made a lot of money
from it and then we know down the road
we got a it's always cheaper to say
you're sorry than to ask for permission
and we don't know why we have these
blackouts we don't know for sure why Con
Ed decided to shut down the power in
areas that may have people with less
incomes or not as much political power
because maybe they're not white but we
do know that we should get answers and
if we don't get those answers there's a
problem and it would be nice to have
things like power be something that we
never have to think hmm but they just
like put on a fewer people or not
upgrade their infrastructure as much
because they want to save money because
some of this money has to go to
shareholders what if all that money that
didn't go to shareholders went into
rebuilding the grid or maintaining the
grid or improving the grid what if all
that extra cash just actually went to
providing the service to people that
everybody knows they're gonna need going
forward Bill DeBlasio is sort of toying
with that idea to tell us what happened
why it happened how they are taking
steps to make sure it won't happen again
they have not given me a good answer
this situation in Brooklyn came at the
very tail end of the heat emergency so
obviously Con Ed knew they were dealing
with the extraordinary situation once
again I spoke to the Con Ed president
last night I spoke to him this morning
no answers whatsoever as to why this
happened and what is being done to
ensure it will not happen again this was
obviously a predictable situation and
therefore preventable what we're getting
continually is no clarity no answers no
real-time lines from Con Ed so at this
point you know I said earlier in the
week that I was having trouble trusting
them I can't trust them at this point
because I'm not getting any real answers
and they have let New Yorkers down once
again it's very clear that needs to be a
full investigation into what happened
not only last Saturday but what happened
last night it's very clear we have to
question whether Con Ed as it's
structured now can do the job going
forward or whether we need to go to an
entirely different approach so I'm
calling for a full investigation and
further that we examine whether we need
a new entity to handle this situation
going forward because at this point I do
not have faith in con Edison questions
on this immediate situation yes
[Music]
look Con Ed is a private company that is
heavily regulated but there's still a
private company they're not accountable
to the public and the way a public
agency would be you know the Department
of Environmental Protection provides
water to the people in New York City if
at some point the water was shut off we
the city government would have to
provide immediate answers we'd have to
show people that it was being fixed and
we knew exactly why it happened exactly
how it would not happen again Con Ed is
very haughty about this they don't give
real answers and they don't feel they
have to so I think it begs the question
whether a private company should
continue to provide a service if they
are not accountable to the public
thank you second choice data although it
is easier you know in the Marianne
Williamson case it's like hey you know
Marian when you're not dunking on Dave
like you shouldn't you be like writing
another book or developing another
seminar and bills case you could say
like that's great bill
don't con bado but you know fix the
subways but you know what this is good
he doesn't I mean the subway no he
doesn't the problem I it's true but this
is actually but honestly though this is
actually a perfect fusion because he
should be doing more of this both by the
way just tactically talking about
universal pre-k and actually bragging
about his record and then taking other
examples to do something like this where
he's dealing with a city crisis that he
still is made of also as a trial balloon
to show that he's got an agenda but
putting all the politics aside in the
electoral politics aside the idea of the
countries of the the mayor of the
largest city in the country who you know
being mayor of this city is from an
executive perspective an extremely
challenging job the idea of the mayor of
this city coming out and calling for
what would be you know equivalent to the
nationalization of our energy supply
our energy producers and delivers I
think is quite significant and this is
important and if for nothing else
de Blasio needs to be sort of I think
elevated on some level just because to
my mind he's the most prominent national
figure who has even floated this idea I
don't even know if I've even heard
anybody float the idea and it's
absolutely the case there is absolutely
no reason why our energy is provided by
private companies there's absolutely no
reason we heavily regulate them to the
point where it's obvious that the market
cannot handle it and so the only reason
why we don't nationalize this at this
point is like tradition and some type of
like weird superstition fealty to the
private sector yeah I mean there's
obviously money you know interests that
are involved in this but in terms of the
amount of the yeah and but in terms of
like the public I don't think the public
contemplates it as an ideological thing
I think it's just sort of tradition and
had it always been the case but there's
no reason why we have private entities
doing you know owning the pipelines for
our cable and there's no reason why we
have private entities delivering us
energy with these should be government
services there's no there's no
difference North Dakota's North Dakota
is suing the federal government to
recompensate themselves for the
policeman of the protests for Dakota
access pipeline so it makes no but make
energy transfer Partners pay forget or
nationalize them right anyone who thinks
that utilities would be less efficient
as a public enterprise has clearly never
tried to deal with Time Warner Cable
right of course I mean of course and you
could still have Time Warner Cable wants
to still delivering of services
them do it let them do it you can have
Time Warner you can subscribe to Time
Warner or Verizon or whoever
municipal broadband that both of those
will try to sue out of existence exactly
let us have we're gonna take over your
cables we're gonna put it in there I
mean Verizon is a perfect example of
like we're not getting any innovation
out of that they put down a fiber they
realize like oh we can't make enough
money off the fiber so we're not going
to offer it in the places that we
pretended we were going to offer it well
here's my plan will take over your fiber
business we'll put it in there with
union workers all across the country
we're gonna put fiber in every single
person's home the last mile or two maybe
a little bit different you want to do
the last mile maybe we could talk about
that but we're gonna run fibre across
this country it's going to be accessible
to everybody you want to offer the DVR
service great you want to offer you know
your your TV service your on-demand
service great go ahead you guys get the
we'll give the private companies the
content but we're putting this service
into everybody's home same with the
electricity the electricity that I get
is no different from the electricity
that people across the country get
number two bill number two number three
it's also easier to make it a site of
struggle when something becomes a
nationalized public utility right what
do you mean a site of struggle like you
can go protest for energy justice
outside of coned or you can do it
outside of you know a government agency
and I feel like the latter will be a
little more effective well if it's a
government agency's theoretically
theoretically the idea would be that it
is it is some form of economic justice
by making to take your job will not make
a difference whether you're putting this
in a wealthy community or not a wealthy
community there's still arrogance that
could happen as we know the court date
is not always fair to everyone
historically
quite I think you're gonna get more bang
for your buck trying to protest and
struggle against the state then you will
a private company people talk about the
DMV not being good my experience of the
DMV is usually pretty good my experience
with the post office is also usually
pretty good yeah I had imagined us for
office imagine if we funded the post
office I was impressed at how efficient
it is when I go to the passport office I
mean these are pretty good services I
don't know have anybody tried to I
waited on on hold for Verizon to get my
cable fixed for over an hour the other
day for over an hour that's longer than
I've ever waited at DMV now you know how
the listeners on that competition guess
what competition did it did not kick in
all right that's it folks we will see
you tomorrow in that
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I was late I just got caught you see the
truth
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option will you tell get paid for
the rubber bands before
breaks me I guess fell off switch right
between the one
[Music]
the teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
they play
it's faded
