[Music]
the majority report it says yes ladies
and gentlemen it's Tuesday August 27th
2019 my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live to tape steps
from the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA why do I sound so
energetic I'll tell you why I'm a
vacation and I am bringing you this
brand-new interview via a recording
technology we have traversed through
time and space to bring you this
interview even though no one's in the
studio today on the program
investigative journalist Todd Miller's
empire of borders how the US is
exporting its border around the world
it's a fascinating look at the concept
of a border and how we project it
outward also on the program for members
you're gonna get a deep archive pick
from Brendan that means something from
the show the first iteration of the
majority port on Air America back with
Jeanine and I I don't know maybe I'm not
even included in some of his picks he
says they're a very entertainment
oriented so little light break from
politics so if you remember check that
out stay tuned it'll come up after the
interview if you're not a member what
are you doing
what are you doing freeloading I think
is the answer oh my gosh I didn't say
that but I'm thinking it go to join the
majority report comm join the majority
report calm you'll support the free show
you'll get extra content you will love
it meanwhile I know you're desperate for
some update on on The Daily News well
then you should be subscribed to our
majority report feed
on iTunes or stitcher or Spotify
wherever you get your podcast feeds and
listen to the AM quickie we're doing a
five-minute news brief every day it's
either hosted by myself or Lucy Steiner
who I know you'll love and every morning
we do it even when we're on vacation
even when I'm on vacation what kind of
idiot does that idiot
stupid well that's what it is folks
can't help it trying to launch a new
show good take a quick break we come
back Empire of borders with Todd Miller
the expansion of the US border around
the world be right back
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program Todd Miller is
the author of Empire of borders the
expansion of the US border around the
world he is a winner of the 2018 is the
award for Investigative Journalism he
may have seen his writing in The New
York Times Mother Jones the nation
al-jazeera English salon Tom dispatch
Todd welcome to the program
thanks a lot for having me so there's
there's sort of there's two sort of most
fundamental questions that I want to ask
you I'm trying to figure out which one
is the the better one to ask first but
well let's do it this way what do we
mean when we talk about because you
write about essentially border
imperialism what do we mean by by border
in this context in how has the concept
of the border changed yeah that's the
that's that's a big maybe somewhat
complicated question but I'll try to
answer as best as I can on when so one
of the one of the things that happen
especially post 9/11 was a shift of of
what the strategy the the strategizing
of Customs and Border Protection and
Department and then with the formation
of the Department of Homeland Security
and if you go to one of the strategist
Alan bersin he was borders are under the
Clinton administration he was also
worked for DHS under the Obama
administration he called it he said we
started looking less at lines or both at
lines I want to I want to stress and
then flows of people in other words the
as another there are as many CBP
commissioners have put it since then and
and it's also in the strategy papers the
border no longer is the first nor last
line of defense meaning that the border
the actual you I wouldn't you think of
the border if you think of the us-mexico
border
is only one layer a prominent layer of
what the burger is but the border
actually ripples out internationally and
acts and also there's an interior
portion of it and that's um when you
when you begin to grapple the question
of what the border is that's one way to
look at it and I could give you some
concrete examples of what that actually
looks like if you'd like yeah yeah do
and and and I wonder well why don't you
give us those concrete examples and then
we'll talk about how much this was like
how much of a philosophical change does
it represent or simply I mean I am
reminded of that era in the wake of 9/11
where the the the cry was fight them
over there so we don't have to fight
them over here on some level it sort of
feels like it's that same theory which
was being employed yeah I think I think
you're absolutely right it is it is
coming from that same basic theory if
you look at the 9/11 Commission report
that came out I believe it was in 2003
it one of the things that it says is
that the quote-unquote the American
homeland is the planet so the idea of
bringing the border out a way pushing it
out away from the United States to to
stop people or items or weapons of mass
destruction if you will from from coming
to the United States long before they
even get close to our borders that's the
official justification when you let when
you look at this kind of shift over to
this internationalization and I remember
oh go ahead well I just want to ask you
like a was there a change I mean I you
know obviously we have a long history in
this country of vilifying at different
times immigrants and exploiting them
also I mean obviously in in many ways
structurally we were set up to to
welcome them was there a fundamental
change in the sort of fill
Safa chol perspective of immigrants that
needed to take place I mean just as I
say like fight them over there as
opposed to over here well they're
immigrants they're no they're not
terrorists they're not you know an
invading army they're their potential
immigrants I mean was there was there a
I guess a concurrent change in the
philosophical perspective of immigrants
yeah I would I would say that that's
correct especially when you look at the
post 9/11 shifts and actually one person
called it a massive paradigm shift as
far as CBP is concerned but in that
comes this this viewing of immigrants it
through the lens of the you know of the
post 9/11 reality for example when you
know CBP or Customs and Border
Protection didn't even exist on when
2011 2001 and September 11th 2001 it was
formed after that and when it was formed
its priority mission was stopping
terrorists quote-unquote arason weapons
of mass destruction from crossing US
borders so you have you have the set up
of CBP if you look at the budgets going
out of 2011 to present the budget
started increasing and historically is
unprecedented ways and the justification
was a terrorism justification what and
and so you get all these budgets coming
in you have all these resources going
into the to the building of a border
apparatus a border and immigration
apparatus my do ice or Immigration and
Customs Enforcement was created also in
2003 so all these resources going going
into this long under a counter terror
justification but yet as you say what we
have what the what their what these
sorts of new this this apparatus is
impacting who this impression is
impacting are in fact mostly immigrants
immigrants coming for
from particularly Latin America the
Americas but even all over all around
the world but under a kind of terrorism
justification so if like following
border policy in the 2000s for example
you see this kind of you know what is
what is coming you know are there
terrorists coming across the border you
know all this sort of rhetoric of
terrorism that sort of thing the budgets
growing up but yet there's not one
incident ever of a person at least that
we know about of a person that's
affiliated with a terrorist organization
has known by the US government from
cross crossing the US border and so you
have this buildup under the certain post
9/11 rubric but it's it's mainly the
arsenal is aimed at the immigrant and so
the immigrant so basically you know you
have the kind of anti-immigrant
sentiment that's that's kind of behind
the veil of that it's interesting
because it ostensibly right it's like a
hidden threat that exists in this group
of people that we weren't aware of
before that ultimately doesn't exist and
the the fallout from creating that
threat almost supersedes now the
original proposition that existed in
that regard and and and we should say
that the southern border right you're
talking about the southern border I mean
I remember there was the Millennium
bombing the Millennial or I think that's
what I can't remember coming who came in
through Canada or there was an attempt
like in Seattle or somewhere around
there I think yeah up in that list I
can't remember exactly the details but
that is correct
that's 1999 so is pre pre DHS and that's
the one incident that is brought up if
you if you about it terrorists coming
across the u.s. border the Millennium
bomber and I go ahead okay well no and
and that was right and that was that was
done prior to the apparatus that we have
now okay okay so you were going to
mention some so we have this situation
now where we have pretty
did the border and really in some ways
sort of vaporized it as a geographic
distinction and almost created like some
form of I guess repellent or just sort
of like a force field that we project
out based upon where we see flows of
people coming can you give us like some
of those tangible examples you were
talking about yeah sure um one one
example and this might have been I
worked at the story that really prompted
me to look into writing this book it
happened in 2010 when the big earthquake
hit Haiti and um I did a an article for
Nakhla on on what hat will you know what
was happening as far as immigration was
concerned and what what I found out
almost immediately was that the United
States sent 16 Coast Guard cutters
basically ships right up to the Haitian
Shores and they also sent a supply plane
over Haiti which was flying low and with
the on the voice of the ambassador of of
Haiti to the United States he was
talking in Creole saying asking people
not to leave the country not to leave
Haiti and your in mind you there's over
300,000 people who were killed within
that earthquake there are a million
there's a over a million people
displaced and so this idea of the border
kind of expanding the elastic border
going right up to the shores of Haiti
was really was was actually quite
surprising to me and I and I've been
studying you know borders particularly
us-mexico border for quite a while and
on so that that was a prominent example
how quickly a border could be and it's
not in a static position it could be
mobilized to move and also to add there
was detention bed set up in in
Guantanamo Bay by the company geo group
that was anticipating the this this
displacement upheaval and then migration
of Haitians so that's that's one example
on and then after that
that's I I did go to Puerto Rico maybe
two years later in 2012 on and of course
quarter because US territory and I was
studying the Border Patrol in Puerto
Rico which is again it's a thousand
miles from the mainland and I was
surprised to see on the west coast of
Puerto Rico all the green stripe
vehicles that I normally see where I
live in Arizona I live in Tucson Arizona
and um and uh and I was wow you know I
didn't I knew that there was border
patrol there but I didn't realize how
extensive there the patrolling of the
west coast of Puerto Rico and mind you
the west coast is looking out on the
Moniz Strait and across the monist rate
is the Dominican Republic so I find out
later that the Border Patrol can go as
far as the Mona Island which is about 32
miles from the Dominican Republic and
literally be you know pretty much
patrolling the the coast of the
Dominican Republic almost as close to
San Diego as a Tijuana okay so I have
two questions regarding that the first
is is the sovereignty question like how
what what allows a foreign government in
this case the United States government
to enter into Haiti airspace I guess I
don't know I mean I know maybe there's
no provisions for this at all and and
basically announced to the Haitian
people like stay here
what what what allows for in
international I mean maybe they're in
international waters when we send all
these cutters there to presumably
intercept refugees at that basis I guess
if we're in international waters we're
in international waters but certainly
flying over the country and saying you
know stay where you are
how do do I mean can countries just do
that can Canada send military planes
over the United States and just start
announcing like hey we want you guys to
I don't know buy more maple syrup or
something I mean like what what's
involved in terms of do we have a
treaties for this how do we get away
with that yeah every interesting this
the Canadian you know if Canadian of the
Canadian Air Force service of their
planes over the United States I bet you
can you imagine what kind of media
coverage that would get yeah I mean that
seems like it'd be sort of problematic I
mean do we have permission from the
haiti government the the haitian
government to to cross the the the the
country and say stay where you are
i mean that's that seems problematic to
me yet it's i do believe you're correct
on the the the plane was a supply plane
so technically it was part of the united
states aid mission to haiti
post-earthquake
so but obviously it was being used as an
for another reason a homeschooler
unquote homeland security reason and the
coast and I believe the Coast Guard
cutters were able to get a they're
allowed to patrol quote-unquote allowed
to patrol in international water so they
I believe they were able to get up right
up into where the the technical
international boundary is coming off the
Haitian Coast which I might I think it's
about ten miles so they were kind of
prowling around around the the Haitian
Coast in the international waters
expecting people to leave um and then
quite frankly you know like is there
Canadian example on the cake the Canada
example really underscores I mean what
other country could possibly do that
I mean you know that's there's a certain
kind of bravado or I guess
aggressiveness in policy that the United
States you know has shown over many many
years and continues to show like that
that the United States has long
considered Latin America the Americas
the Caribbean to be its quote/unquote
backyard that it can do you know pretty
much whatever it pleases in those places
and this seems to be another example of
that so the kind of border extension you
see is
is is an example of that I mean and and
I mean at one point right that has to
infringe upon sovereignty unless we have
some type of I guess treaty or something
to that effect and and maybe that
there's examples of that in other other
places let me ask you this that when
when there's a situation like the the
Haitian earthquake and and we had I'm
not sure how many tens of thousands of
Haitians that we allowed into the
country under a temporary protected
status status program that I don't know
how many of those people now have been
sent back to Haiti under the Trump
administration I would imagine
significant numbers if not all but the
the is the idea that we want to
intercept people before they can
actually reach the u.s. territory
therefore we don't need to put them into
the asylum system is that the theory or
is that the the idea oh that's
definitely a theory that's that's out
there and the idea or even the state
admission as far as the pushing out of
the borders and that's how often
officials speak about this is to
intercept people long before they reach
us Shores so that's so so the idea of
stopping people away before they get
there if they and then in the Haiti case
well they would be detained in an arm in
Guantanamo Bay right in Cuba technically
and you know and the same and you can
make the same case right now for what's
going on the southern on the Mexico's
border with Guatemala where you know
many many people from Guatemala El
Salvador Honduras are are crossing that
more and more fortified border and that
that border has been fortified help with
with plenty of help from the United
States and along this including doing
trainings of Mexican immigration agents
of Mexican police of Mexican army
sending resources to Mexico from
biometrics biometrics like
fingerprint digital fingerprinting
machines and facial recognition - motion
sensors they have blackhawk helicopters
down there from the United States and
and this kind of fortification of the
Mexican southern border which on which
has been happening actually for quite a
while but really really ramped up in
2014 when Mexico announced what they
called a southern border program and
then it's been ramped up even more under
this kind of cooperation between the
Donald Trump administration and the
Andres Manuel opposed over door
administration so you see you see this
this this this ramping up the stopping
of people long before they get to the
u.s. southern border many as we know
from Central America are asylum seekers
so there's a lot of theories out there
well this is stopping people who are
asking for asylum long before they get
to the US borders to be able to do that
and we should make it clear when they
get to the US border if they touch US
soil they are then statutorily qualify
if they're seeking asylum they
statutorily qualify for some type of
adjudication process right and that's
the that's the idea we were hearing
stories that you had custom border
officials who were preventing people
entering from the southern border to
actually go to appropriate border
control border I guess like crossings
with the hopes of like preventing them
from from from qualifying for
essentially that that that status that
you get when you're seeking asylum right
and that's that - as Islam involves this
kind of cooperation that the United
States has with Mexico so Mexico is
agreeing you know this kind of remain in
Mexico program I guess you call it that
we see on the border right now and as
you say right it's the legal process is
if people step on US soil then they have
to you know then there has to be a
credible fear examinee
and a Asylum process initiated and so it
does seem like this pushing out of the
border whether it be on the even on the
northern border of from with the United
States of Mexico our way in the southern
border or even further because you could
go down to Guatemala go to Honduras and
you see this kind of building up this
these ripples of borders or these layers
of borders that go further and further
to the south although you can you can
definitely look at it through the lens
of stopping people from getting to the
US border for that purpose of of asking
for asylum and it's not just we're not
just doing this in the Western
Hemisphere right I mean we are there is
a an analogous mechanisms for places
that are in no way contiguous with the
with the United States that is correct
I like in the empire of borders I went
all over the world I went to the border
between Jordan and Syria for example and
investigated you know millions and
millions tens three hundred million
dollars the United States was giving to
Jordan to build up its border with Syria
and Iraq and through and they gave a
contract to the Raytheon Corporation so
there's a important point that private
companies are often involved in all of
this as well I went to the ta'kenya on
where the Kenya like Jordan well I don't
I'm not sure shorted well Kenya is one
of the 23 countries around the world
where there's a Customs and Border
Protection attache and the embassy
so that goes to show you like how it is
supposed to be happening what is
happening between the Syrian and Jordan
the Jordanian border that implicates us
u.s. immigration so as as this so
there's been a massive amount of
immigration coming from from Syria
uh this this art you know the refugee
crisis that probably right were the
worst in the world perhaps and the under
the the the Jordan really stresses the
idea first of all of terrorism so they
are really stressing stressing the
anti-terrorism the counterterrorism
there was a there was an incident and I
believe was 2014 at one of the parts of
entry in Jordan that involved Isis I
believe and and they pretty much shut
down the border from there but already
the United States was really helping
Jordan build up its its border with
Syria the even though Jordan Jordan
itself that has taken in many many
refugees about 1.5 million in different
camps but when you talk to when you
talked to I was able to talk to some
pretty high up officials who in Jordan
or who who told me of what the purpose
of the strategy is and this is its
Jordan serves as a kind of geopolitical
it's a strategic geopolitical location
in the Middle East as far as maintaining
I guess what would be a status quo and a
status quo of in a place where you know
the United States has has many interests
as everyone knows especially with its
excursions in Iraq and other places so
we said so if I understand you correctly
the the calculus is not a national
security one or at least not a direct
one insofar as that we anticipate some
of those refugees may be terrorists or
people who are you know interested in
doing us harm or whatever the the
construction is it's more that we are
invested in halting the flow of various
I guess immigrants who are political
entities entering into a country because
it will
destabilize a country in some way or
destabilize the relationship with the
United States that it has with that
country yeah I would like I guess
there's a couple of ways to look at it
there's um when you look at the Americas
and the and the border and the pushing
out of the borders and you have lots of
examples of stopping people before they
get to the United States actual
important but but when you start going
overseas and thinking about um you know
situations like Jordan um another places
many other places then it's I think it's
imperative to start looking at what are
US interests in those areas or what are
is does the border is abort as our
border around US territory but is there
also a border around US interests and I
think that was a lot along the lines of
what you're saying like oh it's in the
US interest that Jordan is not too
stabilized for whatever reason right or
for whatever one reasons that the United
States wants its footprint or its foot
in the Middle East and that sort of
thing so so it immigration our
immigration policy is used as a a - its
I mean it's at times and end in and of
itself and at other times it seems a
means to some other end yeah that's
that's I mean yeah you almost have to
have a you know there's there's the
strict exam you know the strict
definition of what immigration control
or immigration enforcement would be but
then there's this more loose almost I
would say Imperial structure under which
it falls and it can be used in many
different ways including for US
interests abroad well let's talk about
that notion because the my sense is your
book describes an imperialism that is I
guess I mean you know we hear different
sort of variants on imperialism right
like this is a softer imperialism or
it's more surgical or straight you know
but give me your sense of how our
immigration policy mean so our
immigration policy has obviously de mess
the implications but it also has these
these broader international ones
basically define and describe for it's
this notion of a border imperialism or
imperialism via an extension of almost a
malleability of borders not so much in
giving up territory but in some ways in
taking territory right was a so yeah arm
so the idea of if Porter imperialism if
you will on the eye when you look around
the world in different places um if you
follow you know US policy for example
anywhere really around the world too you
know Iraq is a good example for the
Middle East or you know the Israel
Palestine as well but also if you look
in Central America the central you know
the long you know processes of u.s.
militarism the economic models that have
been shaped economic policy in in places
like Guatemala El Salvador and Honduras
I really have privileged US corporations
going way back to and the United Fruit
Company
you know ruled in in Guatemala and
Honduras those sorts of things that have
marginalized many many many people and
then if people are to you know stand up
to those sorts of situations well then
the Iron Fist comes down in Central
America you the the Wars of the the
conflicts of the 1970s and 1980s really
show show that the dictatorships that
were sponsored by the United States or
even you know the coos that were
instigated by the United States so one
of the things that you see you know when
you have a policies you know throughout
the world that that can cause upheavals
that can really marginalize people that
create goods could you know could create
a lot of people in dire situations of
poverty
or creating a lots you know help at
least impact different situations of
violence that people are in and then
there's going to be a certain amount of
blowback or even a lot of blowback in a
were in that sort of world of dramatic
inequality right when you look at you
know when to go back to the kind of 1%
versus the 99% sort of paradigm the the
in order for a status quo where you know
the wealthy keep getting richer the the
poorer maintain you know their status to
keep a status quo like that intact well
there has to be a whole kind of system
of control and I think that's where you
know the kind of analysis or the
contextualization of the the global
border apparatus has to be seen and then
on top of that you have to look at the
ecological situations that are happening
especially as the globe heats up and
different places are getting more and
more impacted by droughts and sea level
rise and extreme weather and that sort
of thing that exacerbate situations of
you know if you're poor and you're in
Guatemala and a drought happens and you
don't you can't you know your crops wilt
then you're then you're screwed
really you have to you have to think of
something I mean there's there's
obviously like a huge parallel here with
the way that some people describe our
carceral state as our police force is
basically mopping up the problems
created by the inequality and perhaps
racism that we have in society that
creates a segment of the population that
will need to be controlled because
they've been exploited and left out of
the upside to our society exactly I
think you hit the nail on the head there
well and I go ahead go ahead no please
alright just yeah I think there's that's
exactly what this kind of apparatus is
doing and it's important you know like
to mention that it's
only like the lines of division and and
halting the movement of people from one
place to the other but if they do do
that like if somebody does cross a line
of division then their illegalized and
then maybe you throw it in a carceral
state as well right there they're in the
they're in prison they're detained you
know like the the examples of the prison
camps that we've been seeing or the
indefinite detention by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement or the full sticks
force explosions of people from one
place to the other that enforced family
separations that it all that involves so
yeah I think that's all you know in this
this whole like to keep the system the
status quo of a system that we have in
place intact
that's what's going to happen that's how
you control it empire of borders the
expansion of US border around the world
Todd Miller we'll put a link to your
book at majority dot F M thanks so much
for your time today I really appreciate
it yeah thanks for having me on I
appreciate it too in Matt's it goes back
to get sue
no son
I'm gonna get there I wasn't when I just
got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
they'll kick
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
breaks till I get some air laughs with
Drive
[Music]
the teacher takes you
[Music]
and
[Music]
[Music]
they played
[Music]
[Music]
