[Music]
so apparently the latest in in Virginia
is that we have credible increasing
reports that the Lieutenant Governor
Fairfax was involved in sexual assault
in 2004 the DNC committed I should say
sexual assault there's another report
that claims that he sexually assaulted
and I think the allegedly raped a woman
in college the reports are are out there
we'll see what that stands there's
mounting pressure on Fairfax to resign
there are some people who are talking
about impeachment obviously these type
of charges are I want to say far more
but but I think are significantly more
serious than the idea of a guy wearing
blackface or a hood in his picture in
you know medical school that's certainly
Northam Scallon he is seems determined
to stay in office and to rededicate
rededicate his office to anti racism and
he has picked up Donahey cease coats
book and i'm not joking
and I think TD also he did the case for
reparations that magazine piece and then
roots ungawa black but yet you know the
roots is not good you should have
watched the roots in the 70s right
that's a little I get Tana he see Coates
is pretty Kurd but roots it well maybe
the book is a little bit more
sophisticated than the miniseries it is
what a book is he read but I believe it
was also released in the 70s yes that's
just part of he's just covering the you
know all the bases but here he is
apparently didn't get to the part yet
where we refer to what
what position we put people coming over
from Africa well I should not say coming
over people being being taken from
Africa and brought here nobody gave him
he hasn't got that part in roots yet
where they refer to them as slaves I
know this has been a very difficult week
for you in the state of Virginia so
where would you like to begin what has
been a difficult weekend
and you know if you look at Virginia's
history we're now at the 400 year
anniversary just 90 miles from here in
1619 the first indentured servants from
Africa landed on our shores and Old
Point Comfort what we call now Fort
Monroe and Wow also known as slavery yes
and no no now now listen
oh yes yes laws to be fair in colonial
Virginia okay they were women were
brought over to to be indentured
servants in colonial Virginia this is
back I guess you know I think it's like
getting a little hair splitting he
wanted to I think show well so I think
he might have got a lesson that he
didn't entirely take incorrectly so
before in 1619 the first 19 or so
African slaves did come to the United
States to Jamestown Virginia now there
was about a thousand indentured servant
servants already there the reason that
those slaves were called indentured
servants was because that they let's see
I have this right here the first 19 are
so Africans to reach the English
colonies arrived in Jamestown Virginia
in 1619 brought by Dutch traders who had
seized them from a captured Spanish
slave ship so they were slaves and then
because those Spanish ships baptized
them in English law you couldn't have
slaves that were baptized so they call
them indentured servants Oh
so there you have
I mean I think we are maybe missing the
forest for the trees when we when we
bring we call them indentured servants I
mean you could you know the fact is is
that Virginia could have basically
called them whatever they wanted which i
think is indicative of why we really
should refer to them as slaves
anyways that's manish common-law if you
like I could do the moonwalk for you but
if there's nothing else to cover I gotta
go listen to Afrika Bambaataa and the
Zulu nation up on hold a track up on the
governor's mansion I'm right now it's
actually really interesting time in
myself education right now because I'm
listening to hip-hop from exactly the
same era I was in blackface so if you'll
excuse me got more education to do
that's also why they like to imagine
that black people from an entirely
different line of creature than white
people were because it made it easier to
enslave them and I not mess with the
Bible so my he walks out whistling Dixie
[Music]
