[Music]
on the phone it is a pleasure to welcome
back to this program are you the
Washington bureau chief of the intercept
that that's right the Washington bureau
the Washington bureau chief of the
intercept and the author of many books
his most recent is from Jesse Jackson to
Alexandria Accord Cascio cortez the end
of big money and the rise of a movement
we've got people it just occurs to me
that you're like--you're you the book
that you wrote on drugs was has almost
like you've that projects almost over
well this is a nice sequel to that in
some ways but you're right you know
and the that book was magic in a way
that it managed to completely transform
the conversation without anybody
actually having bought it sometimes the
cover can just do that boom yeah that's
right that's right best cover in the
last hundred years in book literary
history this I was just telling you off
air that I'm really enjoying this I mean
it is because a lot of this not all of
it
but but a significant amount of it was
contemporaneous from when I basically
entered into politics and began to you
know sort of have some access to some of
the players in this book and and
certainly people who were talking and
stuff that I just had no idea was going
on you know and it's interesting I mean
it's it's super interesting and and and
and we'll go through it just let's just
start with we've got people is it's a
specific quote isn't it right yeah it's
ripped off from the kind of climactic
line in Alexandria Ocasio Cortez's viral
campaign ad in her she said something
like you know in her campaign against
Joe Crowley this is a contest about
money versus people they've got money
we've got
people and like so much what she does
she's great at like just filling things
down and I heard that phrase we've got
Pete they've got money we've got people
like that basically you know what's
about to find a point on the coverage
that I've been doing of the Democratic
Party and and the resistance within it
for the last like 12 years or so
and so yeah I just so I lifted three
words of it for the title when you look
at the these twelve years that you did
the coverage and you start the book
during Jesse Jackson's campaign
I mean his first one I guess was in 84
but you know 88 he comes pretty close
and and and then I want to go back but
just to keep it just a little general
like is this a story of me because it
seems to me there's two sort of parallel
tracks that are more or less aligned but
not completely aligned of of ideology
within the party or with like sort of a
disposition within the party do you know
what I'm saying by that yeah yeah yeah I
think that's right
and I think by disposition you kind of
mean the fighting spirit yes the
willingness to take risks to say what
you really believe to put it out before
the American people and trust and trust
in their judgment versus the parallel
generation of people like Nancy Pelosi
and Steny Hoyer and Chuck Schumer who
lived through the Reagan years and
internalized the idea that we live in
this irredeemable conservative
center-right country and that the only
way for Democrats to cling to some
modicum of power is to pretend that
there are somewhat conservatives as well
and so it creates a different
disposition and it's been interesting
going out on this book tour and talking
to people who actually read the book
which
very flattering and so many of them just
say why won't these Democrats fight it's
not even that they are pining for them
to win even necessarily just one
there's want them to fight for something
if you if you put up a fight and you
lose you know at least at least you went
for it there's some dignity in that but
that's but that I think this position is
is a good way of putting it it and and
well I mean I want to I want to circle
back but let's have part of this
conversation now I mean because you know
during the Netroots years right when you
basically started reporting and more or
less when I entered into you know doing
whatever it is I do here the you didn't
and part of it was because it was during
the Bush years right and and and sort of
flattened out any differences amongst
Democrats from an ideological
perspective right like III right I mean
I just remember like this sort of this
like donning on me like oh my god when I
was talking with Jonathan alter in a
green room at MSNBC and he's saying like
I don't understand why people are being
so chaste about Social Security and I
was like what you wrote you wrote a
biography about FDR are you kidding me
like I had no idea that you were that
open to cutting you know but but we
didn't talk much about ideological
differences you know 15 years ago 12
years ago it was you know you'd say good
Democrat bad Democrat you would say
fighting Democrat non fighting Democrat
like how much of that disposition is it
and then I want to go back to the the
Reagan years but how much of that
disposition was is or how much of that
disposition is just simply disposition
I'm cowed and I just you know and now I
have a tenure I learned some lessons you
know as a as a newbie and those lessons
of stock versus ideologically I'm
actually sort of this way and I used the
disposition as a way of not having to
deal with that yeah I think it's
entirely related to
ideology and the way that you can kind
of prove that in a way is to take a look
at somebody like rahm emanuel you know
he's known as a fighting democrat and
you might have been that off-the-record
private bloggers meeting in 2005 was
Bill Clinton or he said I don't
understand why you bloggers are so tough
on Rahm he's really a fighter but who he
was a fighter against was the left right
so he got so that they do know how to
fight Democrat Democratic Party knows to
this day knows how to fight look at the
nipple see and the lengths that it's
willing to go to you know to crush
insurgent primary challenges before
they've even been launched and so the
when when the opportunity to go after
the left services then all of a sudden
their disposition changes and they do
become these these fighting liberals and
so that leads me to conclude that the
disposition is really just a piece of
ideology that they could they do know
how to fight but they're just accustomed
to not fighting for the less than rather
rather against the left right and and it
but I I I don't know if that still fully
answers my question as much as like
they're afraid to fight the right
because that your argument is during the
Reagan years and and it's it's
interesting to peg it at the Reagan
years because I think a lot of times you
know like 10 or 15 years ago we would
have pegged it to McGovern maybe even
more recently right like this was a
lesson that people are living out from
McGovern era and that's why we called it
hippie punching instead of like you know
punching to the left it was hippie
punching at that time 10 15 years ago we
referred to that you know beating up on
the left you know and ostensibly like
the way that they did it but why why is
it the Reagan era I mean I remember
going into college and having my
government professor the government
professors address us on day one saying
there's been a realignment it was 1984
is the second election there's been a
realignment in this country and there's
been a monumental shift in the eye
identification political identification
of the American public it was that
basically what scarred a lot of these
people yes and I think it's totally fair
to link McGovern to that like that was a
precipitating event and and certainly
you still hear them today like talk
about McGovern like literally to this
day they will mention you know if if we
do X is just gonna be McGovern all over
again but Mondale lost you know
extraordinarily badly as well and the
reason I on the Reagan era is because
not just you know wasn't Justin McGovern
lost you know but you still had a kind
of Rockefeller II and kind of Republican
party at that time so they they
everything they stood for wasn't being
you know thoroughly rejected whereas in
the 1980s this was the rise of the new
right you know this like insurgent
Republican class comes in in the 1978
midterms that's when Newt Gingrich was
first elected then followed by Ronald
Reagan who's a new kind of Republican
and at the same time Democrats are
rethinking what their posture is toward
their own coalition and toward
particularly big money and corporate
money and so it's in that it's in that
era that they have to kind of reinvent
themselves as this what becomes this
Clintonian party so that's why I thought
it was more more interesting to focus on
the on the 80s and and also because yes
like Pelosi and where are these others
they did live through McGovern but they
were they were more in it when when
Reagan was stomping them you know they
were you know Boyer was I think elected
in 1981 in a special election Pelosi was
already a major fundraiser Chuck Schumer
think was elected to the house in 1980
dick Durbin in 1982 Barney Frank and 80
so these people are all kind of coming
into their own and and their
professional Prime at that at that time
what were their watching everything
changed underneath them and I think it
was like Tony Coelho
I can't wait quello he gets he becomes
d-triple-c chair after the 1980 election
on the very explicit argument that the
problem Democrats had wasn't political
or ideological well it was wasn't
ideological it wasn't structural it was
just that they got out they got
outgunned by Republicans who figured out
how to raise more money and they figured
out how to pump that money into negative
campaigning and 30-second ads and dirty
tricks and so what Democrats needed to
do he argued was developed what he
called a PAC strategy which just means
fundraising today and go to corporate
America get a ton of money hire our
consultants like Republicans did and run
the same types of you know dirty tricks
campaigns with 30-second negative ads
and just match them dollar for dollar
and just kind of keep keep filling the
keep putting your fingers in the dike
that way and that was almost like the
the seed that ended up creating the
Democratic Leadership Council and this
whole wing now how conscious do they one
remember they won an eighty-two huge
midterm wave after Reagan so they're
like oh this is it we got it we figured
it out figure this out I thought let me
ask you this how much was that
how much awareness was there and how
much debate was there around that time
as to the implications of getting
Democratic money that way right like
because it could be you know an
awareness of like I want to get us in
bed with corporate America or it could
be like oh I'm just gonna go you know
and hang out with corporate America but
I won't get in bed with them I'm just
gonna take their money right but but
inevitably what happens is one thing
leads to another you take their money
and then you have a couple of drinks and
then things lead one thing leads to
another and then you're in bed with them
and then you're in bed with them yeah
and the argument they made was you're
was along those lines they quello said
look yes we lost the house I mean we
lost the Senate we lost the White House
but we still control the house and they
thought they had basically permanent
control of it because of the structure
of
the popularity of a lot of these
longtime Democrats and so their argument
was we're not doing we're not
compromising ourselves here we're not
giving anything to corporate America but
we control the House of Representatives
and so they need to pay up like that's
how this new system works like if if
they want their legislation considered
if they want to meet with us if they
want to be part of the tax reform that
we're going to do you know all the other
work that we're going to do with the
public and Senate and Reagan
administration then they need to ante up
and that's how they sold it as not being
corrupting it's just exploiting the
power that you already have a force a
weaker entity to to pony up but there
was what would I have gathered in my
reporting there was a lot of pushback
internally but the people who were doing
the pushback didn't have either they
didn't have an alternative idea right or
they didn't have the power to implement
an alternative idea uh what does quello
say today about that he says he has this
great quote where he says we didn't we
weren't we didn't necessarily sell out
there was more that we were bought in as
was his phrase and it's actually that as
he kind of parses it it's an interesting
way of thinking about it that's a more
time lying right he's saying that like
we wouldn't take a pile of cash and do
something for it but all of our
strategic legislative thinking was
constrained and guided by the the tax
strategy that we were taking that you're
doing a housing bill and you know this
particular company or industry doesn't
really like it going in this direction
and you then you don't you don't even
need to talk to them you just kind of
don't go in that direction
you you you pursue the path of least
corporate resistance wherever you can
and so that ends up just corrupting the
process but without a direct
quid pro quo you know cash for a
particular line of legislation did did
he did he express regret I mean I only
ask you only focusing on something this
is heard of the small because I think
that dynamic that you've just described
is really the the hinge that all of this
turns on mm-hmm right I know it easily
right he's a lobbyist now so no like he
he and a lot of the others feel and it's
not a not an obvious question but so he
and the other others feel like there was
nothing else that they could do right
they feel like they were chasing the the
fascists like they were at the gates
they're inside the gate and the the New
Deal coalition had broken apart and that
you know without a new coalition to put
together this was their only choice and
that they did this and they made some
you know difficult compromises to save
the Republic from complete collapse
although that no there there is not much
regret now people who people who say
that people will will acknowledge the
people that talk to you from that arrow
the only knowledge yes if it was a lot
more corrupting or it was as corrupting
as people predicted that it would be and
more corrupting than its defenders said
it would be but many of them will still
say but there wasn't necessarily another
option now I the only other option would
be to get thrashed and then come back
from the ashes reconfigured in a
different way right I mean because that
was right and then I got thrashed anyway
right
all right well then so all right so go
forward to to to Jesse Jackson because I
mean one can only imagine like if the
internet had existed in 1986 right like
what right we are history might be very
very different in innovative ways but go
ahead right let me just tell us what
happens I just Jackson there
and Jarrett and to that point Jerry
Brown in remember in 1992 ran kind of an
insurgent campaign against Clinton and
he used to give his 800 number yeah you
know he would he would take more than a
hundred dollars from anybody and there
was a problem during a debate or if I
remember correctly - right like they
tried to get him like you can't say your
800 number he goes I can't say my 800
number Jerry Brown you know whatever was
I can't remember what he's and they were
like you do you can't do that I just did
it you know I like the way that you know
Bernie said go to berniesanders.com was
it was you know very reminiscent of that
but Jesse didn't have that and to your
point so Jesse Jesse Jackson and I would
have called the book from how Washington
to AOC if more people had heard of
Harold Washington yes he was the yeah I
tell that story he was mayor mayor of
Chicago yeah he so he he runs as an
insurgent he's a member of Congress get
the backing of Democratic socialists of
America the young young Lords like a ton
of radical and insurgent elements of
Chicago politics they they run to take
on the machine you know with Jesse
Jackson as it's like lead campaigner and
during and I interviewed Jackson about
this and and he said that I think he got
wind that Ted Kennedy and Walter Mondale
were going to come in and endorse Daley
and Jackson begged them he said just
stay out like you have no idea that the
the vibrancy of this movement that we're
running like we don't need your
endorsement but just you know just don't
come in and bring the two most well
known Democrats that country and and
endorse our opponent and and Kennedy
said look we're old family friends we
don't have a choice and we've got it
we've got to do it and Jackson said he
talked to himself this this needs to
change Ricky he's closed something like
this this liberalism is not liberating
and so they started he started seeing
himself and seeing that movement in
direct conflict with with the party
establishment even the kind of liberal
heavyweights of the party they wind
winning the primary and then the entire
Chicago Democratic machine flips and
literally campaigns for the Republican
in the general election and Washington
manages to win the general election but
only by like four points in a city
that's a 92 percent Democratic and then
they and then they spend the next
several years going to war with the
machine that still controlled the
council for a little while but out so
out of that campaign Jackson and other
black leaders around the country get
together and and say you know we need to
we need to do the same thing at the
presidential level because there's just
no other way that we're going to get
people to pay attention to our interests
and so he runs in a very late campaign
in 1984 that does surprisingly well even
though he got in you know I think after
some of the caucuses had already started
and so then he runs in 88 as a serious
contender you know that goes of Bernie
starting at the protest candidate and
then getting serious and more than 35
primaries and caucuses into the race he
dishes this stunning upset out to
Dukakis and Dick Gephardt in Michigan
and all of a sudden the Dick Gephardt
drops out and it's just Jackson and
Dukakis you know basically a delegate
tie and the Democratic establishment in
Washington has a complete and utter
meltdown at the prospect that Jesse
Jackson might actually become the
Democratic nominee at this point and
then what happens
okay they the whole fury of the party
comes down on him and and it getting me
and they are very explicit that the
country is not ready to elect a black
man a B's - he's too liberal and see
it's not not only would he lose the the
presidential election basically be the
end of the Democratic Party know if he's
the he's the nominee that the the were
the the phrase is coming out of
Washington
just absolutely apocalyptic and he was
pulling ahead coming out of Michigan
he's now surging into Wisconsin and
polling significantly ahead if he wins
Wisconsin that then then he's on a roll
with momentum heading into the
convention and and despite that the big
polling lead he winds up losing pretty
badly in Wisconsin one of the one of the
first examples of pollsters telling
people that they're going to vote for
the black candidate and then and then
not doing so when they get into the
polling place and so from there he fades
but for about about a week and a half if
the country was you know facing the real
possibility that Jackson would would
have win the nomination and he was doing
it on the back of this argument that
kind of neoliberalism was inflicting
economic violence on the working classes
for white black and brown and that's the
only way to fight back was to was to
unite no farming like farmers who are
suffering from farm prices and factory
workers and everybody else against the
growing power of capital and Ronald
Reagan so all right so let's want to
sort of like disaggregate a couple of
things because there's there's a sort of
an almost an analogous to track type of
fight that's going on here that's sort
of similar to the one that we talked
about you know at the top of this
interview which is you know in the case
of Washington and on some level in the
case of Jesse Jackson but it's it gets a
little bit a muddled because you know
the idea that I mean I think there were
probably people who and I'm not I'm not
being an apologist for this but I think
there were people who probably sincerely
felt like the country's not ready to
elect a black man to be President in
1988 and we've got to get rid of you
know hi I mean I remember quite
distinctly this election we've got to
get rid of Reagan even though it's
George Herbert Walker Bush who's running
it's still the Reagan era people
perceived it that way
and there was a sort of like immediacy
but there's two things they're going on
here other Oh God
well in the in the Washington case makes
it a little bit more explicit like how
much of that was this guy's not part of
our network and so therefore we don't
like him versus this guy's so you know
his politics because this also that the
Harold Washington thing reminds me a
little bit of Martha Coakley when she
ran for Senate in in Massachusetts now
she came from the West and you know
Massachusetts there is a very much of an
old boy network in Massachusetts
politics and my understanding is that
they basically just said we're not going
to give her support in the general
election against brown like we just
we're walking away and and that I don't
think was a question of as much as like
as much as politics because I don't
think her politics were particularly you
know ideologically different from these
sort of these these establishment
politicians in Massachusetts but it's
just like hey wait a second we're not
going to be the ones to get the largesse
we're not gonna get the job right we're
not gonna have the ability to call
people and say hey I want that low
license-plate number whatever it is like
that's like how much of it is just a
machine that is distinct from you know
ideology and how much of it is ideology
when you see this dynamic at play so he
had all three things going for him or
going against him
depending on how you see it you know
part of its race it's deeply racist City
um you know all American cities are
racist Chicago's especially so you know
particularly in that in that in that era
ideologically but he had the support of
the DSA because he because they
recognizes he kind of aligned with a lot
of there was a lot of their politics and
he was talking about he ran on firing
the police chief
I ran against police brutality you know
and he
ran against the the kind of economic
interests that that ran the city and and
so there definitely was an ideological
gap between him and and the machine and
then thirdly he had the thing that you
talked about could this just he wasn't
one of them
like he was yeah in a city that is run
on spoils like there were going to be no
spoils to hand out no you know and it's
one of the most old-school machines out
there you know right you know how you
vote determines whether or not you get
your trash picked up and so that so that
was a huge part of it too but it wasn't
just that like with Martha Coakley I
think you're right it's more like it's
just faith it's basically just that
there's real they've you know so the
rest is nihilism right we care but in
this case it was you know all of he has
all of it
