[Music]
in February of 2017
there was a myriad of media profiles of
Glenn Beck saying I'm sorry it was in
The New Yorker magazine it was in the
New York Times it was on Samantha bee it
was in the Atlantic on it on and on
Glenn Beck is sorry we need to come
together to fight against Donald Trump
and then a couple weeks ago he's on Sean
Hannity's program saying we need to come
together to real act Donald Trump two
years it took 24 months it took for this
guy to do his another 180 and here he is
back in the saddle again Glenn Beck
George Soros lives and again is up to no
good very nefarious stuff let's hear
what is happening you know that I feel
bad for the president because he is
trying to fight something at the border
but that's not where the problem is the
problem in as I lay this out in a
chalkboard we've done about a year's
worth of research on this the problem is
naturally coming from Chicago there is a
group as family that has a United
Methodist Church they're preachers
they're the ones that started the
sanctuary city they are directly getting
money from George Soros and others and
they are the ones that are if I make
quote they are the ones that help
charter the routes arrange bus
transportations and negotiate with
Mexican officials to provide protection
that's from the AP but when you find out
who these people are let me let me quote
another this I think is from UC San
Diego they said these latest members a
zealous group of college student
community organizational x' strove to
lead and build national immigrant rights
movement visa vie casa informed by far
left politics Marxist Leninist thought a
communist ideology based on the theories
of karl marx and vladimir lenin with an
international worldview they're calling
for collective mobilization i lay this
all out on a chalkboard so where you can
really follow it and see what's going on
let me mr. president please you're not
going to solve the problem at the border
i know that seems rational but when you
look at the evidence we can't fight the
enemy if we won't call them by name and
these are communists american communists
in chicago that are taking loads of
money from george soros and others they
are orchestrating this and what they're
doing now is a human wave it was a
tactic used in china or by china against
us in the korean war where they just
throw wave after wave after wave until
you just could fight it anymore well the
ones happily and chuck schumer and all
of the others they know about it and
they are covering and encouraging this
this is an assault on the republic Wow
he wants to get back on fox man Wow Matt
we turned down that that that is first
off the my first reaction to that is
that does not sound like a year's worth
of research
sounds like decade's worth of research
right I mean it took you a year to find
two articles about a ragtag group of
like of basically you know North
Brooklyn types jamming in Chicago yeah
it was like we found it there he friends
with something called the anti fought
they use a company called patreon
there's a communist front I think
he's like so funny because there was
that New York Times piece that came out
the other day kind of be like hey you
know like not all of your like woke
Twitter opinions have like anything to
do with the electorate and I think Len
Beck is just like that is the Communist
conspiracy that runs the country at
least the difference now is at least
there is like a sub like a cultural
subgroup that actually exists like
versus pretending that Obama's a
communist the idea of Chuck Schumer
protecting these like far-left
operatives in America trying to get it
more no Chuck Schumer is like you have
to do the wave strategy it's what mouth
why does nobody remember the red book
behead see Nancy hold off on the
impeachment until we mobilize the
Chicago if Chicago is a doctor vated
impeachment will actually be a counter
revolutionary move we're gonna watch
what a mother's at the border the way
that that Chuck Schumer activates the
sleeper cell
I hope the Yankees beat the White Sox
this weekend the White Sox the Chicago
White Sox the Cubs are looking pretty
impressive in spring training I think
it's time for the White Sox to go to the
bullpen I have to wall up the Cuban
prospects
I hope it's time the White Sox look to
their double a team to activate the
Cubans and the Dominicans that are on
that team now bring your best one that's
when the the Dothraki hordes that are
hiding in Mexico stormed the border
if only where are the retractions
where are the retractions like where are
the pieces written by these same people
like just like even just like it's a
short opinion piece sorry I don't know
why we thought that Glenn Beck was
actually a apologizing a good faith
there is nothing to look in his past
that would indicate that we should have
trusted a single word he said
I don't know Samantha bee he's probably
working on some dynamite Burnie drives
material but I always want to say that
honorable mention to Bob Garfield from
on the media right
very true now it's great show and Glenn
Beck was on that during his tour and
doing his schtick and Garfield basically
got him to throw a tantrum in five
minutes just by minding him like hey
you're actually an incredible demagogue
and and Glenn Beck had a tantrum and ran
off and I told Garfield that when I went
in for when I got fired from MSNBC
before we started the interview I was uh
I gave him a personal kudos yeah it
doesn't look like at least Samantha bees
had anything the most recent thing was
from May 31st 2018 where Glenn Beck
warned Samantha bee your regret
insulting Ivanka so there you go
