[Music]
meanwhile Fox & Friends has come up with
another idea on how to fund this wall
the you know the obsession with the wall
it's fascinating because at this point
it might as well be like a concrete tire
around the necks of the Republican Party
because for whatever reason Donald Trump
feels like he can't motivate his base
unless he delivers on the wall and I
don't know if they actually care or not
that the wall is delivered but even if
it does like it just seems to be like
it's clearly not enough people and every
time they talk about the wall they seem
to dig a deeper and deeper hole for
themselves here is Michael Goodwin a New
York Post columnist already so you don't
hold this guy in particularly high
esteem but he has an alternative idea
about the wall that's gonna make it all
go away oh there was no real funding for
the wall I mean this is a Republican
issue as well as a Democrat issue
so clearly the the public supports
strong border security I think many
people I'm not sure the majority of the
public thinks a wall is absolutely
essential but most people understand
that a wall has to be part of the
solution to border problems that we have
so is there an ting I don't think that's
true actually I think the polling shows
that most people don't think a wall
needs to be part of that I'm not even
sure that most people like the broader
idea that he's talking about in terms of
what so-called border security but
nevertheless continued problems that we
have so is there a private way to do
this there is you can you can create a
gofundme operation others suggest other
ways there is an existing effort called
I think fund the wall comm run by
sheriffs Association that's raised some
money but nowhere near what is needed
and
according to to my mail a lot of people
are willing to chip in one one reader
writes to me and says if the 63 million
dollar sixty three million people who
voted for Donald Trump each contributed
eighty dollars that would get you near
the five billion market and I think
that's the kind of thing that needs to
happen it could be a people's wall I
don't really care about the mechanism do
you do a tax check off of your
retirement account there are a number of
ideas that I include in the column but
the important thing is the public could
step in and effectively do this the
thing that the president wants and there
is a there are ways for the government
to accept private donations right and
this could be done yeah it could be done
so we just got to get those 63 million
people who voted for Trump to give $80
each now I will say I just went to fund
the wall comm and they have already
raised a hundred and fifty two thousand
dollars towards the four hundred and
fifty million that they are trying to
raise and what's awesome about this they
have like one of those you know a bars
that go across like this to to measure
their progress scroll down you'll see it
here and you can't even tell what color
that they're using to get to their they
because it has it even theirs can you
zoom it wait a second I think I see it
zoom in zoom in a little bit more keep
zooming come down go down I think you
can see yes see oh he's gonna zoom in
and yeah you can see it almost the
curvature of the Meredith there it is
that's if you ever want to know what a
hundred and fifty two thousand dollars
of four hundred and fifty million looks
like that's what it looks like now of
course four hundred fifty million that's
one tenth of the wall so really how
committed is Trump's base yeah it's
really I want to see I want to see
profile after probe
while on Trump voters who refuse to help
fund the wall right uh like where are
all the private market people who are
always talking about you want government
to do this you want government to do
that this is very strange body the
change you seek in the world here
exactly I also think that I am then we
should be working on a project to
support this democratized version of the
wall and let's get on it guys well look
folks
this is what we're gonna do we're gonna
start fundraising not from any of you
who are here our voices but maybe we
should just set up a build the wall
right now dot-com I bet you that like
that's the only one that might be
available the wall right now or some
options I honestly I honestly think that
like we should contemplate that we
should have the end of the year
executive meeting at the majority report
and see if we started build the wall
right now campaign go advertise and and
raise some money you better hope they
don't crowd fund that wall because if it
somehow comes to pass that they build it
and nothing happens
cuz it's stupid like he's not gonna have
that as a campaign thing anymore
it's true that's a good point but he
seems to really think it needs to happen
alright let's talk a little bit I want
to talk about the
