[Music]
in Wisconsin and obviously a state court
doesn't necessarily deal with what
doesn't deal with the u.s.
constitutional issues but it has but the
import of our courts completely
understated I think by far too many on
the on the Left we're starting to see
people discuss it now in the context of
some of the proposals that Bernie and
Elizabeth Warren are proposing insofar
as do you think the courts are going to
let you do that now that's battle that I
think we should have and make it more
explicit but it's a real shame that it's
going to take another 15-20 years before
people have go through the process of
realizing how important the courts are
and then actually starting acting upon
it
maybe AOC will be able to implement
those policies that sander proposes in
2021 ten years later after she adds two
more people to the court but we'll see
but last night there was uh elections
across the country well not a cross
country but I guess sort of spanning the
country there was an important one in
Pennsylvania there was some obviously
some important local races in in Chicago
and there was a hugely important one in
Wisconsin last April 2018 there was a
statewide race for the state Supreme
Court where and I don't know if they
actually register as partisan Democrat
or Republican but the Democrats
supported one candidate Republicans
supported and other Democrats crushed
them and I think if you'll recall that
when a Scott Walker said you know was
that is ring the alarm bells there's a
real problem here we're gonna have a
real problem in the midterms in 2018 and
he was right there was a huge win for
Democrats in the fall
now of course Wisconsin is famous for
having where Democrats can win 54% of
the vote and only get 36% or literally
36 seats out of a hundred in the state
Senate
the problem is redistricting and
gerrymandering and really the only way
to deal with that now that the Supreme
Court is all but said like yeah we don't
care and not only have they said they're
on the verge of saying we don't care
they're also on the verge of saying and
these independent Commission's that you
set up these nonpartisan that this
vehicle you have to make sure that
they're somewhat fair so you don't have
a situation where 54% of the people vote
for a specific party and only 36 out of
a hundred of their representatives win
those independent commissions those may
not be constitutional either because the
role the authority to to draw these
districts is given specifically to the
state legislators and they cannot
outsource that even to an independent
commission so winning the Supreme Court
in Wisconsin in a state specifically not
just like Wisconsin but specifically
Wisconsin is huge because once you own
the state legislature you also then can
start to disenfranchise a lot of voters
this is the way it works and that's what
they've done a million people voted last
night one point one actually million
people more 1.2 million I think and the
Democratic backed candidate
trails the republican-backed candidate
by more than 5,000 votes so you're going
to see a recount but 5,000 votes hard to
imagine where that's going to be made up
unclear if it's going to head to a
runoff or a recount but apparently there
just was not the kind of turnout from
the Milwaukee area that we hope now I
don't know if this a failure of not
enough money being poured into that race
whether it's an institutional failure
institutions and the big money don't
appreciate the importance of this or
frankly your average voter 7/8 of your
1/8 of your average voter just does not
appreciate the importance of this stuff
this was a democratic leaning a liberal
however you want to describe it a
liberal vote on the court she had to
step down because she has cancer so this
is now the Democrats the Liberals
however you want to call it are they
were I think it's like 4-3 and now it's
going to be 5 2 so the idea was they
wanted a 4-3 and then they wanted the
presidential election where voters come
out in lot bigger numbers to carry the
day and then take the the state Supreme
Court Milwaukee County not performing as
well for the liberal side as it did in
2018 2018 liberal candidate won by 41
thousand votes thirty one point five
points this time 97 percent precincts in
margin is thirty thousand votes and
twenty four points so you just have a
you know 10 11 12 thousand people again
that that number sounds familiar to you
when it comes to Wisconsin it should
because that's 2016
just sitting it out and I get the I get
the argument you need to have better
candidates but I'm sorry out of that 1
million to 1.2 million people who voted
if there are 10,000 people in there who
can articulate the difference between a
left-leaning judge and a right-leaning
judge in any sophisticated way in terms
of the state Supreme Court and I would
include myself as being not part of that
percentage that could then I'd be
shocked this is basically broadly
speaking because people don't have the
time to dig in to the intricacies of
state law and determine the voting
patterns or the decisions and read the
decisions of potential state Supreme
Court candidates this is good guy bad
guy this is not a persuasion situation
it is a mobilization and part of that
mobilization has to be to make people
understand the stakes of a state Supreme
Court and Ave federal Supreme Court well
it's kind of a catch-22 right because I
want everyone to vote for progressives
in every election and progressives can't
do anything if they're not in office I
also understand that a lot of people
have heard it all before and they don't
make a connection with how this is going
to help their lives so it's a little
column a little column B the problem is
like these people will come out to vote
in 2020 but it's going to be too late in
2020 to save the state Supreme Court the
you know like I don't know who's in
charge of making people understand the
relevance of the state Supreme Court
it's a failure of our civics the failure
of our education it's a failure of of
left-leaning groups
frankly to articulate the importance of
these seats to the voters and
[Music]
you know it's there I don't even think
they're affiliated with the party per se
and I don't think you can be partisan to
sit on there and but certainly the
Democratic Party had a vested interest
in getting people out to vote it's just
they've got to figure it out they've got
to figure it out
meanwhile in in Pennsylvania in a
suburban seat and this I think is
indicative of you know when we talk
about the the surge in voting right that
we saw in 2018 we talk about the
resistance as it were I know that's bad
word and it's associated with with you
know bad people but whatever you want to
call it a Navy veteran who served in
george w bush's Department of Veteran
Affairs won a special election to fill a
state Senate seat in suburban Pittsburgh
this is a district president Trump won
in 2016
Pam Iovino will represent the state
Senate District that covers parts of
Allegheny and Washington counties after
she beat out D Raja businessman who
chairs the Allegheny County Republican
Party he took 51 percent of the vote in
that suburban district the fact is is
that white suburban women many respects
are driving a lot of the the the pick
ups that we saw in in 20 I mean you know
we talked about that leading up to the
election there's a lot of data to
support that but this is more here it is
this is Democrats fit a flip this
Pennsylvania Senate District SD 37 was
last up in 2016 when then-senator guy
Russians Vettel are won by 22%
as Trump carried it by 6% that is a big
flip Bigfoot so earlier this year though
Republicans won a democratic held seats
in Minnesota Connecticut in Kentucky so
this is the first seat of the year
flipped from Republican control to
democratic hands so there's been some
demobilization in specific areas of the
Democratic coalition and so people got
to get to work still going on in the
suburbs apparently though which is
interesting
well can I offer a potential
counterpoint not necessarily
counterpoint but something that we need
to worry about it might be slightly out
of keeping what to blame the electorate
theme what is that so and I do think of
Malaika jabal II stuff probably nobody
knows more about african-american voters
in Milwaukee than her right and so you
know sure all of the things you said are
true people in general need to know
about the importance of these races I'm
also curious about how did races get
scheduled like this timewise to begin
with you know like an obscure off
election in April is obviously not
favorable 1.2 million people yes and
that's true that's true but I mean it
should but regardless it's cancer it's
right okay
fair enough that's true but it's it
should always be a pivot point to talk
about Universal registration and things
like that which I know you agree with
but I think a difference though in
mobilization between you know people in
the suburbs and people in a place like
Milwaukee is that if you are in the
suburbs you can and you're very
comfortable financially your politics
can be an expression primarily of just
cultural disgust with a certain party as
contrasted with a group of people that
have felt correctly that a party has
steadily not delivered for them now
again I'm not mitigating the importance
of the vote so I don't want to get down
that rabbit hole but I do think
does attest to some bigger problems and
structural challenges they need to take
on how do you account for the drop off
between 2018 and now well how do you
account for the drop off between 2012
and 2016 oh I mean I think I think I
think that explanation goes goes and
goes well I think there was a sense that
and I think there was I mean I think
there's multiple things I think it was
multiple people that there wasn't that
important people thought that what the
the maybe the differences weren't so
dramatic and maybe people some people
thought Trump was going to lose but when
you talk about the difference of like
six or seven months it to me it just
resonates that they just don't see the
importance of the state Supreme Court
and so I think there has to be a there
has to be an attempt to educate people
to the importance of such thing
