[Music]
Fox & Friends got in on the yang trang
is that what they call it the yang train
gang gang gang gang
it's the Trump train and the yang gang
and here are one of the policies that
that Andrew yang is promoting oddly
enough very Milton Friedman asked his
policy of a universal basic income has a
way of replacing the welfare state
highly problematic from my perspective
it's been one of the big reasons why you
know when we had debates about universal
basic income three or four years ago we
brought some people on to talk about it
my biggest concern was less from a
policy standpoint more from a political
standpoint that it would be a means in
which to to undercut the welfare state
and then it's just easier to just draw
you know slowly roll it back but here he
is on Fox and Friends let's see if they
can get a grip on this and we came to
yours people in the audience were
laughing it sounds great twelve thousand
dollars a year for every adult but how
are you gonna pay for that yeah so you
have to look up who are gonna be the
biggest winners from artificial
intelligence and self-driving cars and
trucks and new technologies it's going
to be Amazon Google Facebook ooh BRR
which just filed its documents to go
public and the American people are gonna
see very very little of the gains of
that innovation we all saw that Amazon
paid literally zero in federal well of
course some people won't work there but
most of us are not gonna work there and
the truth is if you're in Amazon like
you said Steve if you go to an Amazon
Fulfillment Center it's more robots than
people and if you talk to anyone on
Amazon that is very much the plan so
your book the war on normal people talks
about how people are being replaced by
automation and changing technologies and
things like that but people are still
going to need money and so you're
suggesting a universal basic income but
and ER you know there have been
experiments in other parts of the United
States and in other parts of the world
we're just hasn't worked well you don't
even need to
across the globe all you have to do is
look at Alaska which has had a petroleum
dividend for almost 40 years and it's
wildly popular has created thousands of
jobs because a children's health and
this was passed by a Republican governor
he said look who would you rather get
the money the government who's just
gonna mess it up somehow or you the
Alaskan people and the Alaskan people
said us and now everyone's very very
thrilled about the dividend works posit
that that is a tip-off right there right
like I got a knock government but I you
know when I was in Las Vegas I had I
spent a lot of time sort of arguing not
in a very polite nice way with a couple
guys who are Republican trying to sort
of I think there's a couple of openings
and they the the the line like you're
gonna trust the government with this
stuff they both both work as financial
advisors as fiduciaries to their credit
and the one thing they kept saying to me
over and over he was like people love
their Medicare that is the one thing I
will tell you I will give you that
people love their Medicare and their
Social Security and I'm like dude when
we talk about government if you take
away the military Social Security
Medicare is ninety percent of government
that's what governments that you know
the Social Security and Medicare that's
what government is to the vast majority
of of people in this country and so when
you tell me that you don't trust
government to do that but at the same
time you say every person who walks
through my door and I'll reluctantly
admit they love their Social Security
and they love their Medicare it's saved
I've seen I've seen Medicare and Social
Security saved the life of a bunch of my
clients and I'm like that's government
that is government by any measure when
you talk about the US government you are
talking about the administration of
Medicare Medicaid Social Security that's
it continue at us and now everyone's
very very thrilled about the dividend
works yeah so the way the petroleum
dividend works is they put aside the oil
money and they said look whatever
profits come out from the pipeline then
it goes to Alaskan people so everyone in
Alaska is getting between one and two
thousand dollars a year
no questions asked we need to do the
same thing with technology and the new
innovations in our economy we can create
a lot of wealth but the question is
right now who's gonna see that wealth
it's not going to be most Americans it's
going to be people who happen to be
shareholders in these companies Andrew
who gave you something in life who gave
you something for free in life are you a
self-made success story well are you
robbing other people their ability to
make be a self-made success story the
first people I thought it was my parents
I'm the son of immigrants my parents
came to this country to create a better
life for me and my family and about my
father generated 69 US patents 4G and
IBM I love this country I believe this
country's been the the exemplar of
innovation and success over the last
number of decades but we have to face
facts about the fact that our economy is
evolving in ways that's pushing more and
more Americans to the sidelines and then
telling those Americans I didn't push
the sidelines like hey like you can be a
multi-millionaire success story too
while Amazon is making 30% of the
stories in their town clothes does not
seem to me to be an honest heart your
hearts in the right place
James Wow way he just faced Brian kill
me well not only that right I love the
idea that he's like dude who gave it to
you aren't you a success story he
basically said well actually I got it
for my parents actually those were too
big no credit required to do those are
two big reality doses I grew up with a
huge amount of privilege which is
relative I mean even actually not huge
relative to other people because his
family were immigrants and obviously I'm
sure he's very smart and has worked hard
and then the second part of like hey
that whole like subtext like motivation
horatio alger scam you run in this
channel every day completely
incompatible it's a modern economy yeah
I'm not gonna lie to people about it
either that's awesome I mean I don't
happen to like his prescription and I
have a lot of skepticism but if he's on
Fox debunking that that's awesome
credible words do that's great work yeah
the problem with the ubi
as it's currently being batted around is
not that it robs poor people of the
chance to like do some kind of Horatio
Alger nerrit
all by themselves in a magic world where
people don't rely on other people it's
that it doesn't go far enough
and it's being used as an excuse by the
right to shrink the welfare state and
it's not actually Universal like you
have to decide if you want for instance
social or disability rights instead of
well that's the region also
that's why it sucks but the vision that
talking about bringing a vit tax is
hugely regressive this whole you know
the the the idea of robbing people of
their ability to become makers and not
takers is eerily reminiscent of the
apocryphal and Mis related story that
Paul Ryan would tell about the boy who
had the who wanted anything he didn't
want a free lunch at school he wanted a
paper bag lunch and that somehow there
it's a moral failing for you to not have
money in this country when we dropped in
the eddie murphy a bit that really
solidified though the ice cream it's
just torturing some kid who it's too
poor to get ice cream from ice cream
trucks i think you ain't got no the
amazing thing is is that while he will
tell this made-up story and it was it
turned out to be a made-up story it
turned out to be a story that someone
else had related to him he had never
actually talked to the boy somebody else
had told the story and it was a it was a
relating of a story i think it was
someone from wisconsin i have a feeling
it could have been scott walker was
talking about a bureaucrat in his
administration who had talked to
somebody but that turned out to be a
hypothetical story and it said there was
no actual story which makes it much
easier to to express if you're a
republican because then you can just
make it up
