[Music]
let's let's do one more one more
Donald Trump video he's out in Minnesota
not having many people attend his yeah
let's do this you know I never say this
I don't think I've ever said into the
speech but maybe they'll find out if I
did then they'll give me Pinocchio's he
said it before but I don't know if I
ever said this year but you know I make
as president about four hundred and
fifty thousand dollars so I give it away
no wait
[Applause]
I never hear anything can you imagine if
I didn't I give it away too oh you can
only give it you can't keep it you can't
actually make a gift you can give it to
your different agencies so I can give it
to health I can give it to
transportation I can give it to military
but I give it away all the time every
now and if I ever did but it's 450 if
somebody stays from let's say a Middle
East country in one of my hotels and we
charge him three hundred and ninety two
dollars and fifty three cents for
staying and I never heard of the guy and
I don't want to hear about him they say
Trump is getting rich off our nation I
lose billions being president I don't
care it's nice to be rich I guess but I
lose billions if somebody read sir room
someplace and they pay me two months in
rent or hotel fees I never heard of the
people they never know they are they say
he monuments nobody ever heard of the
word he monument people emoluments
it's the craziest thing I've ever seen
you know what Trump is doing there right
he's getting Emmy I mean that's what
he's doing
well it's nice to see that he's back on
his seemingly having refilled
his adderall at least no that's but
that's an interesting it's funny because
all this other stuff they just come up
with their own counter narratives and
conspiracies and everything this is like
super specific this is I do not know who
is checking into my hotel like like you
can actually super simplify that one
that is like they come from the Middle
East I don't know who they are
I don't know he's saying in his weird
way that there is a wall between his
business and the White House which is a
just great comedy but that's just
interesting there's no one remember when
I had the table full of fake papers
right exactly yeah exactly one empty
notebooks exactly I made a whole show
but you noticed how it's like it isn't
like I want to know what they were doing
he knew
because other people were flying there
this was just like people check-in my
hotels I don't know there that's like a
little bit more weight four hundred
fifty thousand dollars and make three
hundred dollars um possibly a bit of a
tell possibly yeah I mean I think they
they are very very concerned about the
impeachment they are very concerned
about losing these people he's
delivering this to his audience and
because they're afraid now they're on
their heels and they're being they're on
the defensive and that is a good place
for them to be and of course when you're
Donald Trump
it wouldn't be a Donald Trump rally
without reminding your supporters that
there are women out there who are not
white and they are very very uppity
we're far more than 3,000 people died
saying some people did something big
deal some people picked up posit this is
he's talking about Ilhan Omar people
were anticipating him going to
Minneapolis and attacking her and areas
and what Ilhan was doing just to clarify
is she was D identifying with the
attackers as a Muslim woman because
everyone thinks she should own it she
pleaded for compassion for Isis recruits
right here in Minnesota
Omar left
that Americans speak of al Qaeda
remember that tape speak of al Qaeda but
when we say
[Music]
but when we say something about the
United States you just don't say America
with any intensity remember that
representative Omar has a history of
launching virulent anti-semitic screens
whether you like it or not whether you
like it or not she said some of you be
like it is all about the Benjamins
she said that pro-israel lawmakers have
an allegiance to a foreign country Omar
wrote that Israel has hypnotized the
world may Allah awaken the people and
help them to see the evil doings of
Israel and the United States
she write that I don't think so such a
person representing you in Minnesota I'm
very angry at you people right now
[Applause]
she is a disgrace to our country and she
is one of the big reasons that I'm gonna
win and the Republican Party is going to
win Minnesota in 13 months he is quite
convinced that or at least they are
convinced in the White House or in the
campaign that Minnesota is one of their
biggest pickup opportunities in fact I
think it would probably put it on the
top of the list of states that they did
not get in 2016 that they think they can
get now because it has been trending a
little bit red and that's been happening
for a while and because he has his
favorite leverage point which is to
stimulate the racism the anti-immigrant
backlash in this state that's what he's
thinking he may be right he may be right
time will tell but there was good news
in 2018 with the governor's race where a
trump-like guy tried to run there so
hopefully you know we'll see all right
