this is not gonna be fun this Christian
Nielsen she is the head of the
Department of Homeland Security you know
and like look she's a bad person and we
were told John Kelly was going to be was
the adult who's gonna take care of
Donald Trump and this and that and the
same thing with Madison whatnot and like
I say the jury is still out as to
whether mattis was preventing us from
getting into a nuclear winter and if we
we end up if Donald Trump ends up
dropping a nuke or you know accidentally
drops one on us then I'm gonna say you
know
madis good for you you did a good job
for those first two years but maybe you
shouldn't quit but the bottom line is
really if you take a job in this
administration it is a very significant
piece of evidence toward the assertion
that you are a horrible human being
should never be employable again Oh
without a diamond TV job without a doubt
employable but I mean as we have
multiple positions major positions in
this administration of Phil just keep in
mind that the people who will say yes to
serving in this administration the there
is really no benefit of doubt that you
should be giving them they are probably
horrible human beings but if you had any
question as to the horror that someone
like Christian Nielsen represents let us
dispel that notion that you have there
here is congressman David Cicilline from
from Rhode Island and just this is
coming she's going in front of Congress
days after a seven-year-old died in
their custody
the the customs and border patrol died
in their custody we still don't know the
real story because the parents are
telling a different story than what we
heard from customs I'm quite convinced
that this story is going to get worse
it's already pretty bad you take a
seven-year-old into custody you should
check them out to make sure that they're
healthy they shouldn't seven hours later
having a hundred and five degree
temperature and going into basically
into shock
here is the congressman talking to Kris
Nielsen thank you did I understand you
correctly to say that as you sit here
today you do not know how many human
beings have died while in the custody of
the department that you lead and you in
preparation for today's hearing you
didn't ascertain that number but you
don't know it today I don't have an
exact figure for you do you have a rough
idea sir what I can tell you talking
about people who have died in your
custody you don't have the number I will
get back to you with the number you've
also said in talking about the Flores
decision that's a loophole and in your
written testimony you called it positive
one second I just want to make sure
everyone understands what Flores
decision is in the agreement it was an
agreement that the United States
fashioned based upon a lawsuit that was
brought on behalf of immigrants who are
being held by the US government and it
is an agreement essentially that you
cannot hold children beyond a certain
period of time even with their parents
and that you cannot separate children
from their parents continue pull and in
your written testimony you called it
burdensome court opinions you do
recognize that those opinions are based
on constitutional protections do you not
the reference in the testimony was to a
whole variety of course I'm talking
about your written testimony where you
spoke about Flores as a burdensome court
opinion those may impose some burdens on
you because the Constitution protects
Liberty and puts limitations on where
the government can detain people sir
that Constitution does not say that
families can only pertain for 20 day
that's what the Flores decision said
he's done the Constitution is it not in
its law that you're required to posit
the Constitution does not say a lot of
things doesn't say anything about a
border doesn't say anything about a
Border Patrol doesn't say anything about
Department of Homeland Security doesn't
say a whole host of things but it does
say cruel and inhuman punishment now
allowed it does say you need to you
cannot hold people indefinitely without
some type of specific charges it does
say equal protection there's a whole
host of things that the Constitution
says that as the congressman says the
Flores decision was developed based upon
go back just a little bit Asians on
where the government can detain people
sir that Constitution does not say that
families can only pertain for 20 day
that's what the Flores decision says
that stays done the Constitution is it
not in its law that you're required to
follow correct you took an oath the
floor is settlement are you required to
follow like me to answer the question
I'm asking and I'm trying to answer is
it would you like to hear it that you
respect and honor in the work at the
department that's a yes or no the Flores
settlement requires us to write a
regulation which we have and it's out
for public comment we are following the
law to the letter
thank you madam sector you there you go
the idea that people would get offended
that she doesn't have the ability to eat
at fancy restaurants without being you
know without without worrying about
being criticized it's just ridiculous
wherever this woman goes she should you
know people should you know you know
totally legal respecting of her physical
space way totally legal totally cool way
tell her what they think of her yes is
that she's a disgusting despicable
grotesque evil inhumane disgrace to
humanity I'm thinking like a go fund me
that pays for a guy with the tuba just
to follow her around
play Oompa music just to announce
horrible human being coming through the
town square
just go and you said it's perfectly cool
perfectly legal you're a horrible
disgusting person you should go live in
a monastery and repent for decades
this was also and you know what's gonna
be interesting about this is this is the
Democrats in the minority when they
become the the chairs of these
committees and can start compelling a
subpoenas and whatnot this is gonna get
even more interesting that alone another
one we always look for these like little
margins that show you like worth it yeah
worth it
here's ted Lieu congressman ted Lieu
from california explaining to Kristen
Neilson that she is full of crap and the
entire argument that somehow we are in a
this nation is is is experiencing a
crisis of immigration is completely
false
I would just appreciate if you started
telling the truth the American people
about the policy of family separation
again sir I was not a question that was
justice you can ask after I'm done no
problem if you'd like to just give a
speech I'll just let me know when you're
done I'm gonna ask you some questions
now wonderful so during your opening
statement you sort of painted this dark
picture of this crisis at the border and
do is crime and so on are you aware that
in 2017 violent crime rates dropped
across the country or in a particular
other country or FBI report have you
read it it says violent crime rates drop
in 2017 are you where of that I have no
reason to dispute the FBI Sam report
also says property crime rates drought
in 2017 according to that same report
are you aware of that I have no reason
to dispute the FBI are you're aware of
numerous reports that say immigrants
both documented and undocumented commit
less crimes than native-born Americans
are you aware of those studies I have
not seen this particular study so I like
you go or have your staff show you the
Cato Institute study from 2014 that
showed all immigrants
or less likely to be incarcerated than
native-born Americans relative to their
share of the population there's been a
Public Policy Institute of California
study that also showed that the
foreign-born who make about 35 percent
of the adult population in California
constantin percent of adult prison
population so just be helpful if you
start putting in some basic facts about
the actual facts related to immigrants
and crime and then I'm just gonna
conclude by quoting from congressman
will heard who said essentially in a
Washington Post op-ed that building a
wall will be the most expensive and
least effective way to secure the border
there you go Kristen Nielsen having a
little Learning Annex class on the fact
that these are really bad lately oh I
got all these other people she's she is
there the the indignant quality of these
people is fascinating look if you just
want a grandstand about our reckless
leak and negligence leading to the death
of a seven-year-old go right ahead
she's Steven Miller with better hair the
best defense is a good offense offense
is soul and racism and self-pity
