majority rum or with Sam
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam Sita
[Laughter]
it is Friday September 6 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today it's
casual Friday folks but we are we
breaking format a little bit maybe a
little bit not a huge week in the news
beyond of course hurricane durian and
sharpey gate but there was also a really
important eight hours worth of climate
forum two nights ago and Dave Roberts a
Vaux formerly of Grist will be on the
program to break down that climate Town
Hall and in the wake of durian the
Bahamas are shattered along with it
appears Donald Trump's sanity New York
AG is investigating Facebook for
antitrust violations Jerry Nadler and
the Judiciary Committee subpoena
Homeland Security for documents related
to Trump's offering pardons to custom
officials who break the law
meanwhile Andrew Cuomo has a plan to
screw all of us
Biden's New York fundraiser with a
natural gas executive protested by
climate activists Howard Schultz
ladies and gentlemen sadly is no longer
running for president also I should tell
you Howard Schultz was running for
president farm loan delinquencies rise
nationally in surge in the battleground
state of Wisconsin and never again
protesters slam Amazon for its services
to ice and Palantir this time in
Massachusetts 12 arrested in Cambridge
and Republicans protect Trump by
actually canceling multiple primaries
across the country it's Rick Fox total
rig job lastly Jacob wall conservative
slash grifter or maybe do I really is
that my being redundant it might be beat
well and he also might be next level
charged with a felony in California all
this and more on today's program ladies
and gentlemen we will get to all of it
everyone is in the house jamie is back
in in the fold as it were here I am
returned from my desert journey down the
hallways of always you definitely have
like there's a quality to your voice
that sounds like you have been on
extended vacation just a reminder it's
your support that makes this show
possible you can become a member by
going to join the majority report com it
came to our attention that the Hannity
clip that we have been talking about
somehow we didn't get it in there and
ended up being what was sy Hersh
I don't know what what yeah exactly yeah
at least you have the good sense to give
yourself though so we should just play
that every time Sam asked for anything
for four members we will we will post
that this weekend so you wouldn't you
don't have to do anything it'll be in
your members feed I will just title it
the deep deep archive clip of the week
which I think we may start doing for
members we're just gonna pick a deep
archive clip randomly we would just do
it randomly or could do it
chronologically just pick this is the
best one from the first couple of months
sir yeah we could do that too I just
don't know if we have it broken down I
don't know if we have it written out in
the in the documents but we will we will
start doing that on a week a bit just
drop one I don't know 20 minute clip or
something like that just for you to walk
down memory lane and you can participate
in that by becoming a member at join the
majority report dot-com so let's talk I
know that Michael did some clips from
the Town Hall yesterday but still have a
couple more by all accounts this was a
really good 7 hours 8 hours of policy
discussion and we'll talk more with Dave
Roberts about it who's been crying for
something like this for a long time and
there was a lot of things that came out
of it not the least of which is that I
mean it would be impossible to imagine
that you could find two or three
Republicans to have a policy discussion
on just about anything that lasts this
long never mind you know eight or ten
solid contributions however what has
come out of this whether you read The
Washington Post or the New York Times or
Huffington Post or whatever it is is
that Joe Biden really was the only one
who seemed to show up with
any depth apparently Kamala Harris and I
didn't see hers but from what I've read
wasn't particularly impressive on this
not work depth full but Cory Booker
apparently was quite good
Buddha judge was quite good and of
course Sanders in Warren also got I
think the the biggest plot it's as it
were and jay inslee who wasn't even
there
got a big you know a lot of people
tipped his hat but like I say Joe Biden
seemed to have basically approached this
like he's approached everything in terms
of issues which is I don't really need
to talk about the issues I can talk
around them and of them and about how
important they are but I don't really
need to address anything and sometimes
when you do that it sounds like jibber
jabber first of all we have to do is go
back and turn back all the changes that
in fact the president has made from cafe
standards to moving in the direction
that we in fact deal with providing
people who get displaced opportunities
to have jobs Potter sending them so
first of all the cafe standards that
he's tried to roll back that Trump has
from the Obama era it looks like that
may be a non-starter because California
is basically creating its own cafe
standards and the car makers themselves
don't want to roll it back but yes of
course first thing you should do is try
and undo the damage but he can't even go
through any of the proposals that Donald
Trump has implemented whether it's like
pulling off the the restrictions and
regulations on how much methane can leak
through fracking how much coal-fired
power plants can can put co2 I mean
things off the top my head that I can
list and I'm not running for president
but here we go
have jobs by sending them back to school
by doing continuing education whole
range of things I would see to it the
fur immediately moving toward you know
we we are in fact in a position now that
if in fact we dealt with mitigation
across-the-board
guess what we did in the last in the
last administration and before leading
to a standard that we provide efficiency
for appliances
so apparently infused by that apparently
well no I actually understood everything
he was saying but it was nothing I mean
all environmental problems have been
generated post 2016 what I'm saying
no he's just simply saying we can go
with general he is saying the biggest
amount of pablum MIT we should we got to
get involved in mitigation now he knows
that we got to mitigate something he's
just not sure exactly what it is
specifically we're supposed to mitigate
so of course the thing to do is
efficient appliances which has been
something that you have said for anyone
would have said for the past thirty
years the idea of Energy Star appliances
came out decades ago this is a guy who
said I've got this climate forum the
adviser said hey Joe we got to go over
this I got it I got it I don't need to
know the details good right now these
people right here look it's a little bit
like a whole lot of things that people
didn't know before this guy became
president until he started to take it
away and they started to take it away
and he said whoa wait a minute man look
what that's done he's changed the cafe
standards that we're not gonna meet
those standing well that means boom he's
done this it means bang everybody knows
now knows what he has done and it's
raised the ante so this is where he's
saying that like oh the stakes are
higher now because we see that Donald
Trump hasn't done you know has reversed
and again the cafe standards have not
been changed that when he's proposed it
and hopefully it won't go through but
there's this sense in Joe Biden's mind
that climate change was not a problem
three years ago and that people are
aware of it now because of Donald Trump
has reversed this stuff because Joe
Biden didn't pay attention to this three
years ago and he didn't pay attention to
it five years ago and he said it doesn't
appear that he paid attention to it in
the hours leading up to this a forum
it's
honey it's stunning it's it's I mean it
in its scary as it really cringey is
like nice almost feel bad for him but I
think I'm gonna save that for when he's
not doing so well in the polls yeah oh
yeah I would say definitely save that oh
my god Joe's bleeding on stage right
he's bleeding
his eyes are bleeding it's disgusting
it's not disgusting so so gross so
disrespectful elzar irrelevant should
worry about your own emissions yeah I
mean this should be a real I I just
don't understand how anybody who is
serious about politics looks at this guy
and says a that he is up to a camp paint
I mean it's scary from the perspective
of you want your candidates to realize
what's the most urgent issue that exists
or even the top three if you're if
you're somehow like well we'll figure it
out and even if you're someone who
believes that like okay he'll find
people who will deal with it he'll
appoint a VP
you know jay Inslee will be his VPS
people the problem is is that he doesn't
feel like he has to prepare for stuff he
doesn't know what he doesn't know and
this is an important election and you
know but the details are irrelevant X I
mean hey this is an important election
and you don't want somebody whose
estimation of themselves is so out of
line with what their ability to deliver
is dark thought though it works for
Trump it certainly did work for Trump I
don't think he has Donald Trump's the
same base support yeah really has my
swag please yeah the best people please
I'll make a head I actually think it was
the opposite with Trump - I think Trump
thought I'm not gonna win I'm in this
for something else but fine guys you
don't know that by trying to create an
alternative MSNBC
about that the whole plan Byzantine yes
NBC Biden T perfect synthesis a new scam
brother yes the latest as late as Biden
family ski folks support for today's
show comes from The New Yorker The New
Yorker represents the best writing in
America today it's literally one of
those ads when we got when The New
Yorker said they were gonna advertise
with us that I was that was excited
about that and why because I've
obviously been reading The New Yorker
for well decades many of you have I'm
sure have been reading The New Yorker
for decades there's all sorts of writing
in there Doreen st. Felix she's staff
right at The New Yorker covers the highs
and lows of today's culture 2019 she won
an Ellie Award for columns and
commentary John Cassidy who covers
politics and economics for The New
Yorker
he's written on articles that range from
intelligence failures before the Iraq
war to the economics of of Keynes
we have writers from The New Yorker on
this program very often of very often
stories in The New Yorker our sources
for stories that we talk about you head
over there right now and you can check
out stuff that will explain to you like
what's going on in Britain I can't
but they've written about it there's
multiple stuff letters from the UK
stories about you know the Walmarts
decision and the other big box the
stories decision not to sell guns and
what that means stories by jeffrey
toobin about the implications for the
emoluments clause with trump's offered a
post the g7 and now you can get 12 weeks
of a subscription to The New Yorker for
just six bucks
you get the New Yorker tote bag weekly
home delivery of the print edition and
unlimited access to New Yorker calm
which has 10 to 15 exclusive site only
stories every day when you go to New
Yorker calm slash majority enter the
code majority you'll also have access to
the apps the online archive crossword
puzzle more check it out it's New Yorker
dot-com / majority enter the code
majority save 50% on a 12 week
subscription and get the exclusive tote
do it now great opportunity honestly and
folks nobody knows the hassle of doing a
small business more than I do
well I'm sure there are people who do
but I certainly am aware of the hassles
of it you've got payroll you've got
we've all got to do the we've got to do
like HR stuff we got to do that that
online sexual harassment thing too we
have to do have you gotten those emails
for my sister but it's difficult because
you have one system for accounting you
have another one for sales you have
another one for inventory it's just a
big inefficient mess that takes too much
time and too many resources and that
hurts the bottom line and well folks for
those of you who have small businesses
or big businesses NetSuite by Oracle
it's the business management software
that handles every aspect of your
business and an easy to use cloud
platform gives you the visibility and
control you need to grow with NetSuite
you save time you save money and perhaps
most importantly to someone like myself
unneeded headaches you manage your sales
your finance and you're counting your
orders and your Human Resources
instantly right from your desktop or
your phone so if I play golf I can go do
all that stuff from there
that's why NetSuite is the world's
number one cloud business system and
right now NetSuite is offering you
valuable insights with a free guide
seven key strategies to grow your
profits at NetSuite dot-com slash
majority that
netsuite dot-com / majority to download
your free guide seven key strategies to
grow your profits
NetSuite dot-com / majority alright
we're gonna take a quick break when we
come back
Dave Roberts
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report joining us again and welcome back
to the show he writes for climate
politics and for Vox which is of course
basically where we are this week dave
roberts and welcome to the program
all right let's I want to start with
this you know as we review this because
this is it's been a relatively slow news
week except for a massive disaster
essentially to hit the Bahamas one where
when you listen to what people are
saying there they you know the Bahamas
had very good building codes they were
built to withstand hurricanes and they
basically just said like this is
something that we couldn't have imagined
you know and it's it's this seems to me
to be the first hurricane that has been
more or less at least in the circles
that one could imagine unequivocally
reported as a function of climate change
is that your observation as well well
that's not you know it depends on the
media you're looking at I wouldn't call
it Universal yet but I would say that
yeah it's been a rapid sort of a rapid
pace shift in in media coverage of these
things and and yeah I'd say the durian
is is one of the first that's you know
there's more like this is what climate
change looks like unless you know let's
have a 800 word thumbsucker on whether
we're allowed to say this is this is
about climate change or not you know
what I mean like right more competence
and why I mean what if part of that too
is a function of like that because it
was the Bahamas right as opposed to say
like I don't know you know Alabama yeah
I mean I wonder if it's because that
there is like you know well there's a
lot of money that is involved in the
Bahamas there's a lot of like I feel
like
you know East Coast media people all
went to the Bahamas at one point in
their lives you know what I mean it just
seems like you know I would watch TV and
people saying like I know this island or
something to that effect but the tenor
of it really really struck me this week
yeah and I think we're seeing this not
just with this hurricane but in general
we're seeing more and more of these sort
of disasters and you know he waves and
fluttering strike places that are
relatively wealthy so that when the type
of people who watch you know cable news
see it they're like oh those look like
me those are people who look like me and
it you know and I don't have to tell you
any problem in our society once it
reaches you know wealthy upper
middle-class white people and they
realize that they can't stop it and that
they're helpless before it then I think
you're going to see politics start to
shift pretty rapidly in the wake of them
so you back I think it was in July had
written a piece about anticipating the
climate town halls that it were going to
happen you had a bunch of questions and
I want to I want to talk to you about
that and maybe use that as a guide as to
assess you know what we heard I guess
two days ago now but you you basically
broke it down to two premises which I
thought were really interesting I mean
particularly ii mean the first one is
you know the candidates we should be
talking about like you know what can
they actually do as president given the
fact that republicans will still exist
soon but let's talk about the second one
first because you right the second
premise to some of your questions was
that climate science is peripheral not
central to climate politics what do you
mean by that yeah what i mean by that is
is sort of climate change kind of was
discovered or grew out of science it
came directly out of the science
community and it was always scientists
who were way earlier than than other
people
and you know raising these warnings and
communicating about it so the whole the
whole issue has just been shaped from
the very beginning by the kind of
instincts and preferences in rhetorical
styles and sort of assumptions about
cognition and rationality that that that
are common among the scientific
community and and you know god bless
climate scientists truly but but in my
experience at least people in the hard
sciences are not necessarily the most
adept at communication and what they
want to believe what they think and
believe way down deep in their hearts
beneath beneath reason is that people
come to their views by gathering
evidence and assessing it and drawing
conclusions and they just have this
faith that that if you can convince
people of the scientific truth of this
thing that the rest will follow that
they will sort of update their political
assumptions and update their political
preferences accordingly based on this
new information and of course like
anyone who's studied political
communication or social sciences or or
spoken with a lot of human beings no
that's not really how people operate
that's not how people come to their
views definitely not how people come to
their their views in politics so my
whole point is just what people are
concerned about average people out in
the country about climate changes how's
it going to affect me and how are the
solutions going to affect me like I am I
gonna have to pay more money am I going
to face a heatwave and who's who who's
for this and who's against it what does
it mean like what does it mean
culturally about our way of life and
about America like how do i process how
do I fit this into my worldview and this
just not add that's just not a
scientific process they're not building
you know they're not starting in physics
and building up that's just that's just
not how people think so the whole
discussion has just been kind of stuck
mired in science which just puts a lot
of people off for years and years and
years and I think it's just time for
Democrats this
are talking about the the the social
aspects of this and the you know the
policy and the kind of a economic ripple
effect and sort of transformation of the
country like these are not abstract
scientific things are very much tangible
on the ground shifts in the way we live
and that's what people need to hear
about and be comforted about them and
and be given a way to think about and
like science just doesn't really help
with that and so in other words it's
like the the the scientific issues are
you know the sort of the the O's and
ones under the matrix but how it
implicates how it affects us as human
beings is a very different way and at
one point you said basically the
questions should focus on how to shift
the balance of power because its power
not science that's primarily it yes
it's its power at issue and especially I
mean one of the ways this scientism kind
of reflects is is this obsession among
climate people to this day with deniers
you know you hear about this all the
time like how do we how do we convince
the deniers how do we persuade the
deniers and my whole point is just that
none of those people none zero percent
of those people came to that conclusion
by assessing the scientific results
right that's what their tribe believes
so that's what they believe and then
they go out and find arguments to
justify that so it's not the arguments
are sort of beside the point
shift the balance of power the balance
of interests make it in Republican
interests to act on this and then but
working leaders will change and you'll
see Republican media start to change and
then you'll see the Republican base as
they tend to like a school of fish just
switch you know switch direction and
accept the science and take some other
stands like they don't you know it
didn't come out of a science so they're
not gonna have any trouble changing
their views about the science the
science basically peripheral as I'd like
it like I said we just need to figure
out how to make the idea of climate
change like the idea of the deficit for
Republicans
watch.watch the the problems melt away
well so let's let's go through some of
these questions that you wanted to
present and and give me a sense of like
who you thought well while we start with
this because I read your piece about who
the winners and losers were in the in
this this this forum give me your sense
give me your overall sense and then
we'll go through some of the more
specific questions
sure sure well I mean obviously as we've
discovered this morning it's not going
to be a ratings extravaganza to have
seven hours of of of sort of calm and
relatively detailed policy discussion
but but I I went into this you know Sam
I'm a little cynical and I'm especially
believe it or not a little cynical about
cable news so I just expected the worst
I expected non-stop kind of shallow
gimmicky gotcha questions the kind that
cable moderators tend to ask and then I
expected just a sort of fusillade of
cliches from the candidates about you
know the existential problem and
Congress must act in just that for seven
hours I fully expected to be bored to
tears but I was I gotta say like I gotta
give CNN credit for this that's why we
put CNN on our list of winners like
there were some goofy moderator
questions here and there but by and
large they maintained an incredible
level of seriousness and substance for
seven hours which is MIT was small no
small thing like the audience questions
were just amazing like I absolutely
could not have done better what like
time and again I was just set back by
the how sort of articulate and well
phrased the questions from the audience
were and and phrased in such a way and
this is something that cable moderators
cute seem to ever do but phrase in such
a way as to be substantive enough that
they couldn't be dodged you know what I
mean like specific like what is your
policy about this particularly just
really good tough questions it was sort
of an interesting contrast like you know
Wolf Blitzer would ask some goofball
right Wolf Blitzer question and then he
would cut to the audience was it really
would be laser hyper articulate amazing
questions Blitzer at one point asked I
think was pressing Pete Buddha judge
well everyone have to have electric cars
it was Andrew Yang and yang of course
had the normal response which is what do
you even have to there awesome what this
there's so much better but most which is
like has to do we have to like like this
in wolf blitzer's T brain is a tough
question like respond to this Republican
framing right respond to this GOP
framing that's what Keeble moderators
think is is a tough question in the
contrast with the audience that was
asking like legitimately substantively
tough questions was so glaring at one
point it almost seemed to me like CNN
was like making fun of itself almost
like clowning so like with a wink almost
could you cut back and forth between
Wolf Blitzer in the audience and you
start to think like why is wolf bear
like these people are so much better at
this job than he is like get him off the
stage all right well so seen it but
overall it was great my point is overall
it was a thousand times better than I
expected
alright well so let's let's start with
your first the first question that you
had you know talked about in terms of in
this one I mean this is a pretty this is
a pretty broad I always say it's a
question that basically addresses sort
of a very fundamental point that has
nothing to do per se with the policies
but rather how they're going to get done
your first question back that you had
sort of talked about back in July was
its conventional wisdom says that only a
president has only 100 days or so in
which to pass a few cue priorities
before backlash in the next round of
elections take over and O it Democrats
decided to put health care first and
climate never got done where does
climate change following your list of
priorities when you step into office
give me your sense of how who and if you
want to just focus on some of the top
tier candidates that's fine
in terms of like whose response was the
most convincing to you or resonated or
problematic well you know there's only
there's only so much you can really tell
from what they say and they're
responding questions like that like this
is a good question but there's no way to
force them to give good answers so of
course of course all of them said the
right thing which is this is the next
essential problem it's a top priority
I'm going to focus on it the minute I
walk into office the two people whose
answer sort of well this there were
three answers that jumped out I mean one
is Booker Booker was the last candidate
to go and he went he was up an hour
seven so I was like at that point fried
and expecting very little but Booker put
in one of the strongest performances
I've seen from him in the campaign yet
like by the time he was done I was just
thinking like where the hell of this guy
damn like this is you know why do we see
this guy before anyway he was he was
fantastic but what he said was and I
think this is the correct answers it's
not just that I'm gonna put climate on a
list of priorities it's that everything
I do in office is going to be done
through this lens right so like climate
is going to be part of foreign policy
it's going to be part of economic policy
you know it's part of it's part of all
policy it's not one item among many it's
a it's a it's an overriding concern and
I thought that got at the substance
better than anybody else I think that's
sort of like the correct answer not it's
not an item on a list it's a background
condition for all other things so that
was good Warren I think I believed her
because she sort of was I guess brave
enough to say no it will not be my
number one focus my number one focus and
she said there's a million times on the
trail can very consistently my number
one focus is corruption right the minute
I get in we need to address you know
voting rights and money and politics and
and you know all these sort of these
things are stand in the way of getting
ins when we else done
so and so she feel like that will be a
climate policy it will be in all kinds
of policy policy right oh look it'll
enable any other policy to happen but
but you know I thought saying that to
this crowd was I thought at least
somewhat brave and then the other one
which was interesting to me was someone
directly asked speaking of power you
know on how to use power I went directly
asked Bernie whether he would support
getting rid of the filibuster which is
of course a huge question that looms
around this and any other you know in
health care or anything else like if it
takes 60 votes to pass not gonna pass
and if Mitch McConnell has the power to
block it I'm gonna block it we all know
this by now I hope everyone knows lists
by now so it's really hard to see how
any of this happens without the
filibuster and Bernie gamed this sort of
I mean for the most part Bernie was
really good in this forum he was also as
good as I've ever seen him but in this
answer it was just kind of some sort of
mumbly half-hearted defense of the
filibuster he'd say he doesn't want the
Senate to become the house but then he
claimed he would pass his entire climate
package through Budget Reconciliation
and I don't know like how nerdy you've
gotten on that subject but it's just I
mean I think people know here that a
bunch of reconciliation is sort of like
an omnibus thing where you can pass
legislation it's a it's an exception to
the rules of the house in the Senate
where you can pass legislation that
directly impacts the amount of money the
budget the money that either comes in or
goes out and certainly some of I would
imagine some or maybe a large whoa right
it's a pretty small sliver it's a pretty
small sliver like these but these
climate plans these standards are
putting forward including Bernie are
sweeping and they have lots of
regulatory people that would not
traditionally sit in Budget
Reconciliation rules so Bernie's theory
of the case is you know the
vice-president oversees the Senate he's
just going to have his vice president
say huh screw that we can pass anything
to reconciliation which would be just
just a grotesque what affliction of
Senate procedures
really flagrant violation of Senate
procedure with no real justification and
my whole point is just that if you're
willing to do that like that seems like
 on a scale even beyond just
getting rid of the filibuster so why
don't you just get rid of the filibuster
so I either either bernie has a weird
and sort of self contradictory theory of
change or what I suspect is just that he
doesn't want to say what he really
thinks about the filibuster until and
unless he wins yeah III that that that
has been a vexing question for me for a
long time and I I tend to lean towards
the the second the the second theory
that he's thinking well if you know
probably best to wait to that bridge
till we come to it because you know one
time you know you don't know first of
all you don't know if the Democrats are
going to take the Senate and probably
and also I've heard nothing not to get
too far off on it I've heard some people
on the hill that there are a few
Democratic constituencies most notably I
think planted the sort of abortion
movement that basically believes without
the filibuster abortion is doomed in the
u.s. over some time period and so
they're very much against that whole
notion so I think you're here you're
hearing more and more talk about a
single exception to the filibuster like
you said I think Bennett I think floated
this I've seen a couple people float
it's sort of like you know I think the
filibuster is important but for some
issues you know when it comes to climate
change you know we'll have the we'll
have the Senate duo sort of one-time
exception I think that's trying to kind
of address just laying Parenthood and
try to find a find a way through this
dilemma okay and so your first two
questions dealt with actually the second
one dealt with the filibuster that you
this is obviously from back in July and
that is a big issue so let's then Harris
we're
weirdly Harris just adjust as a side
note here Harris of all people just sort
of blurred it out opposition to the
filibuster kind of in the middle of her
pie manson as far as I know she has not
been out front about that she had kind
of one of the strongest anti filibuster
statements of the whole evening I found
that kind of odd interesting well I mean
this is you know that there's two parts
of this right and that is like what are
your plans and how ambitious they are
and I want to get to that in a moment
but your first three questions deal with
basically the or four three questions
deal with this sort of notion of like
okay let's take just a baseline
assumption of what your plans are how
you can actually implement these the
third question you had after after that
filibuster question was assuming there's
no way for you to pass this legislation
with or without the filibuster because
Republicans control one of the houses of
Congress what executive actions are you
prepared to take to reduce carbon
emissions did you have a sense that I
mean I we played a clip Abidin and I I
must admit I didn't see much of Biden's
stuff at all but we played a couple of
clips Abidin where it just was not good
well it just struck me as a guy who's
like his you know his policy people said
hey Joe let's sit down and crunch this
stuff and he just says like I got this
I've been talking about this stuff for
30 years we need better refrigerators
you know and and it sort of Celt like
felt like he went out there and did this
but was there any other of the
candidates who basically said here's
what you know here's what my legislative
agenda would be here is my backup
executive order agenda or here's what
we've determined by executive oil it was
anybody that granular yeah yeah I mean
almost all of them have that stuff in
their plans right almost all of them
have have you know extensive sort of
list of executive actions they're going
to take in their climate plans it's a
little bit tricky
the politics of are a little bit tricky
because if you
are talking about the things these are
you know what you can do with the
executive branch is fairly incremental
and sort of like you know it's what
Obama was doing basically it's a return
to what Obama's doing which is sort of
like not nothing but fiddling on the
margins relative to what's needed so
when candidates are talking about it it
sounds I think to primary voters into
climate activists like they're being
weenies like they're talking about
incremental ISM they're talking about
centrism they're talking about going
back to Obama so they you know people I
don't think boaters really like to hear
about it very much but but but I think
all the candidates are extremely
cognizant of the fact that it's a very
likely outcome right that they're that
that's all they're able to do so like
Klobuchar as has a you know went through
a chapter and verse of what she would do
she has a good section on that and
Inslee had a great you know had tons of
stuff on that in his plan and you know
he's he's open sourced his plan and all
the other candidates now are rating from
it so I think they're going to get some
of that stuff from the two so so I would
say that all the candidates are
extremely aware that that they may be
restricted to the to those measures and
they have a menu of such measures
they're willing to take when they when
they take office but I don't think any
of them really want to put that at the
center of their of their messaging right
you know this is the this is the season
of grand promises you are right that
there are some communities more
vulnerable to climate change than others
and some that depend on fossil fuel
industries more than others you write
some communities have been left behind
in previous national economic
transitions including the New Deal we've
talked about that on this program
multiple times a lot of jobs that black
people had and that women had were
basically left out of the Social
Security system as part of a compromise
with bunch of bigots and who controlled
a lot of power at that time and so you
know when we hear about home health care
here about home you know our home
workers domestic workers or you know
agricultural workers they were not
involved in the Social Security program
your question is what will you ensure
that vulnerable communities are
protected during the transition to clean
energy
who do you from your sense who were the
most sensitive to that question uh well
you know it's interesting this is I feel
in one area where there's a real clear
real clear sense that the party has been
effectively pushed to the left by
activists like on this issue in
particular if the evidence is is glaring
and this is one of this is one of those
areas so this this sort of question of
you know on the one side how do you deal
with communities that are vulnerable to
the effects of climate change and the
effects of pollution which tend to be
you know communities of color and so and
low-income communities and then also how
do you deal with these communities that
are going to be disrupted by the
transition to clean energy right so
communities that are tied to the fossil
fuel economy and there are many in the
US and so these sort of 20 shoes are
have have are known under the rubric of
just transition and this is used to be
kind of an obscure you know like fifth
item on the list thing that not many
national politicians talked about it was
just sort of like the environmental
justice community beating the drum but
now it has really moved to the center of
the discussion like like left activists
have very effectively pushed this to the
center of the discussion such that every
single plan put out by candidate has is
has to have a big explicit section on
this so all of them are aware of it and
all of them had really good answers all
of them were eager to answer it right
because of course this is a this is the
question that comes up all the time like
are we going to get hurt like our
community's going to get hurt so they
want to put these fears to rest a couple
of candidates have sort of made it their
their signature in their climate plans
like Castro has has a just transition
really high
on his list Booker has really put this
at the fore you know at the forefront
but but all of them have just transition
you know elements and all of them are
talking about you know worker retraining
and and and ensuring the pensions and
health care of retired fossil fuel
workers and like Bernie Sanders had a
great I thought it was his best moment
at the at the Forum is someone asked him
specifically like what about fossil fuel
workers and he and he you know got as
sort of like as emotional as I've ever
you're not my enemy let's play that clip
we have that one right here here's that
clip this is uh Bernie Sanders being
asked a question by a guy named grinnin
Milliken who is a student at Columbia
University very much for that important
question I consider myself to be perhaps
the most Pro worker member of the United
States Congress I think of a hundred
percent Pro Union afl-cio voting record
and I've spent my entire life fighting
for workers so let me be very clear is
that the coal miners in this country the
men and women who work on the oil rigs
they are not my enemy what is my enemy
is climate change and what we have done
is built into our plan I was sixteen
trillion dollar plan tens in tens of
billions of dollars for what we call a
just transition and that says that if
some worker through no fault of his own
or her own loses their job because we're
moving away from fossil fuel we're gonna
guarantee them an income for five years
we're gonna guarantee them the education
that they need because those workers are
not our enemies they should not be
punished because we're trying to save
the planet I mean that that that's
pretty comprehensive commitment at the
very least to that end of the of the the
just transition formula it seems yeah
it's you know it's really interesting
because it's always been the the
right-wing the number one right wing
attacks on almost any progressive policy
especially environmental policy that
it's going to a it's gonna raise your
taxes
and take things away from you that you
love and it's going to hurt ordinary
working people in the heartland right
the the Heartland workers who work with
their hands out on the out on the rig's
you know and drive the Chevy pickup
trucks all this this is always the main
attack it's kind of an elite thing
that's going to save critters but hurt
ordinary Americans right it's a same
attack on every environmental policy
ever and and we're finally seeing the
candidates and the Democratic Party
really organized a concerted counter
message to that around this just
transition in really attempting to
squarely address that and it's and it's
interesting to me who of them you know
because the media the media narratives
are so deep that you know lots of media
people just sort of assume then without
even knowing they're assuming them so
I'm sort of wondering like who among the
Democrats might have the skill or the
credibility or whatever it is to sort of
cut through that traditional narrative
and try to reach those workers and try
to make this message of a just
transition stick and it's intended you
know it's interesting to think it could
be Sanders great because if anybody has
credibility about being devoted to you
know the the the welfare of workers it's
that guy so maybe like the media maybe
when he says that the media will be able
to hear it or at least like convey it in
a reasonably fair way so it's an
interesting dynamic that's sort of
unfolding right now I mean I was just
reading a piece about the Kentucky coal
miners who got screwed out of their pen
and there they continue as far as I know
they're continuing to block the last
coal train out of there because they
want they want their back pay but I
think it was in that article that they
were talking about you know while the
reporter was there there was a whole
bunch of pizzas that showed up for these
guys who were basically camped out there
from the the Sanders campaign yeah yeah
and and it is and it is that's happening
in Appalachia around coal mines and it's
now starting to happen in Wyoming too I
wrote an article about this recently
Wyoming mines are now starting building
Girl
it's the same thing you sort of vulture
capitalist come in takes a company for
bones shed all the pension and health
care obligations and then declare
bankruptcy right and walk away as rich
as ever leaving behind ruin baby but
that's what's happened in Appalachia
that's what's happening in Wyoming and
it is Republican lawmakers who are in
charge of these places and who are
watching this unfold and letting it
happen it's Mitch McConnell who could
step in and stop this stuff right at a
national level but he doesn't because he
hates the coal miner unions and he likes
coal executives it's just the whole
dynamic about who's looking out for the
interests of these workers you know it's
they're clearly getting screwed right
now under Republicans and here's you
know here's like Sanders and Warren and
every other candidate or saying we'll
take care of you will tell you the truth
a-about about the fate of coal and about
the transition that's coming and we'll
help you out so you know it'll be really
interesting to see if circumstances and
that kind of messaging together shift
that very very old and very stale kind
of narrative write about about what
environmental policy I mean that that
seems to be just a broader sort of I
guess political gambit by Sanders is is
to is to reach those people and well
they're all trying they're all trying
right like it's just like who who will
the media allowed to do it right because
that's like a peep you know boo to judge
he's also trying but like you know the
media gatekeepers are gonna be like oh
here's this like you know elite prep
school McKinsey working guy it's not
authentic you know so it's who will the
gatekeepers allow to say that and sound
authentic saying question let me ask you
let me just skip ahead from some of the
other questions because it's you know
they they get a little bit more specific
about the actual policies and I think
you know the the you know largely it's
it feels like the green New Deal has
sort of set or Inslee like you say open
sourced his plan and is is you know
people are coming and taking chunks of
it and I think he's very happy
that I suspect that was basically his
agenda from day one I don't know that he
thought he was going to be President
but the green note New Deal it seems to
me to has sort of set a framework for
people that is like a constant it's
almost like gravity is almost like the
opposite thing I want to express but it
but it has a moderating it has like a
magnetic pull on some level that it is
sort of like pulling all of their
proposals towards a certain direction a
very ambitious direction and it feels
like it's that magnetic pool is is
working yeah no I think that's I think
that's really really well put and that's
exactly what's happening and that's
exactly what the sunrise movement set
out to do right that's exactly what the
activists behind the green new deal is
exactly what they were trying to do and
this is exactly what Inslee was trying
to do right is to provide that sort of
gravitational pull toward toward greater
ambition and this is like something that
the climate movement has been missing
for so long because climate is so
complicated you know and there's like
every sector of the economy and then
there's mitigating emissions who knows
adapting and there's just so many pieces
to it it's really hard to get a grab a
slogan around it right it's really hard
to sort of compact it all into into into
something that's memorable and catchy
and the green New Deal just absolutely
caught that lightning in a bottle
like the green New Deal it almost
matters less like specifically what was
in the green New Deal resolution and
more just that
finally like ambition on climate doing
what's actually necessary rather than
whatever we've decided beforehand might
be politically possible right really
pegging our ambitions to what's
necessary that's what it stands in for
and and so you're right it's just our
serving is this kind of beacon pulling
all the all the candidates and like
every candidate without exception has
come out with a plan that is just
wildly ambitious relatives to anything
anything you would have seen and I mean
just like even a year ago like the the
even the most moderate candidates now
are saying yes we need to reach complete
net zero emissions in the US by 2050 by
mid century as the IPCC says and that
alone is just like radical like if you
just follow that back you just follow
the implications of that target back it
implies radical immediate action so so
so you know who knows how much the
slogan itself did it or the movement did
it or Inslee did it or what there's or
the Hurricanes but like everything's
coming together and listing ambition
simultaneously across the board here I
have one more like specific narrow
question about about the the climate
stuff but but but since we're on this
topic do you think because like you and
I have had conversations of this ilk for
I don't know probably a decade maybe now
over that time back you're in your Grist
days and you are also you know one of
those guys who's been writing about
climate but it has been extremely
sensitive to the politics of you know
the water politics in which the the
question of climate has sits and and
you've written as much about Republicans
as anybody and serenity and Democrats in
terms of the way that they address
Republicans I mean it seems to me that
like what's happening with the green new
deal is not unique to what's happened to
politics you know from the center to the
left you know that's that's exactly
right I mean I think what I think one
way to describe it is with win the
Republican with the Republican Party
having become so kind of insular and
crazy and drifting off into Alpha
Centauri and becoming so plainly
impossible to like bargain with or or
you know like it's just not there's just
a point anymore that is kind of like
freed the the Democratic Party at least
a sort of Vanguard though the primary
voters in the
and the leading candidates to just sort
of like let their freak flag fly and
start talking more about what they
really want to do you're getting is
weird like disjunct now like the two
parties are just talking about different
worlds my worry Sam and this is about
climate change but also about everything
is everything we're hearing from
Democrats now really doing Trump and
especially during the run-up to the
election is just all people who are
trying to appeal to democratic activists
right the ones who are paying attention
and the ones who are going to vote in
the primary so it's all the kind of
ambitious voices and messages we're
hearing now but like I remember 2008
right I remember all the hype and
excitement going into the Obama
administration and kind of people had
just forgotten that there's still a
bunch of really crappy you know
conservative DIMMs hiding out up there
in the Senate they still exist right and
we're still going to need their votes
and so like I just worry that like the
rhetoric of ambition has gotten so huge
now that there's going to be a real
reckoning when all the sudden we're in a
position where drill and me it is
the the gatekeeper to what is allowed to
pass I I don't know how that's going to
resolve itself but but but yes you're
right I mean I like the supercars moving
left across the board let me let me
bring it back to these candidates then
because that to me that dynamic you know
when we were to juxtapose that dynamic
with let's say the health care with the
Affordable Care Act right the Joe
Manchin in that situation could have
been you know II wasn't quite the prayer
it's not a perfect analogy with like Joe
Lieberman but but but there's an analogy
pretty good but they're pretty close
right because you know Joe Lieberman was
a guy who used to support a buy-in to
Medicare at 55 and then when the
insurance companies were pretty clear
that if we get the ACA there we're about
to save their industry so they no longer
need to offload you know those 55 and
over folks Joe Lieberman was against it
and there was a lot of activists at the
time but we're saying Obama go to
Connecticut and put some pressure on Joe
Lieberman I don't know if that would
have worked but there would have been
one way to find out because I I
certainly don't know what the cost would
have been at this point in looking in
retrospect yeah and yeah I think in
retrospect Obama underestimated how
horrible people even work
well no horrible lot like what I don't
think that there's a there isn't that I
think people are more savvy and the
question is is there somebody in that
field who you think has the ability to
go to Joe man to go to West Virginia or
to go to Arizona because I imagine we'll
have a problem there too if we win right
or I'm not sure where else it might also
be a problem but yeah and go yeah I can
go to the go to that state and pressure
I mean is there a candidate that you see
that that expressed sort of some
awareness and willingness to do
something like that right uh that's a
really good question and really
difficult to answer you know I think
it's so is so tough to imagine what
circumstances are going to be and really
like what skills are gonna be called for
again I mean the first thing I would say
and I and I say this over a girl mer
again and I said it in 2008 I've been
seeing it ever since it's like a lots of
people sort of there's a lot of undue
focus in the American political
discussion on the President and sort of
a lot of their over estimation of what
the president and do and I think most of
the reason that you end up with
jerk-offs like Lieberman in a position
where there are all of them like their
whims are gatekeeping the fate of
millions is structural you know I mean
you know that's like I'd it has to do
it's over representation in the rural
areas in the Senate and and the
electoral college on and on and on but
basically like you end up in this
position where you you have to get these
marginal most conservative them vote so
there's a lot of sort of structural to
it so I'd say two things one like who
can play the inside game who's good at
building relationships
who's good at at grabbing the levers of
power and making things happen I think
Warren
I mean Warren's my call for that
specific skill I think I think her
history shows it and I think her like
one really good example of it lately is
like a minute James Lee dropped out she
she went met with him
buttered him up adopted the best parts
of his climate plan probably assured
herself a key early endorsement
you know like grabbed the credibility
that he had on climate change for
herself made a friend of him just like I
just thought it was a really savvy move
and I think she's good at that stuff and
I think she's got a proven record of
making things happen so that's one
that's the sort of insider game but then
there's of course the outsider games
were marshalling a an outside activist
force to pressure these people right and
and who can do that you know like
Sanders is the obvious answer although
I'm very skeptical about whether the
sort of movement is going to show up
sufficient to do that but like that's
the other answer is if anything is going
to save us in those situations but if
you think a pressure mansion you know
the sort of modern-day Lieberman I think
it'll be less the president in ourselves
than than an organized citizen movement
so the question of how big and how
strong that movement might be is very
much an open question and Mike and Mike
it's it's done a lot on climate so like
it's done a lot more on climate you know
in the last year than I expected so who
knows well he knows what's possible
there's a lot of people asking there you
know I think talking about that sort of
that Sanders warren dichotomy you're
talking about and it's going to really
let me just ask you this question here's
a question that was put to Elizabeth
Warren and I have I have a question
about that it may like for me it is I
have always felt quite strongly that we
should be we should be nationalizing our
energy production in this country like
III I haven't you know II I'm not
convinced that we need to have
of private energy companies but here's
that questions put to Elizabeth Warren
and I want to get your take on this
question both from the perspective you
know as to whether it's even a climate
question or just simply one of like or
one that has to deal with that question
of power here is this is a robert wood
asking a question a writer and a climate
organizers are asking a question of
elizabeth warren g as president would
you be willing to call out capitalism in
this way and advocate for the public
ownership of our utilities gosh you know
i'm not sure that that's what gets you
to the solution i'm perfectly willing to
take on giant corporations i think i've
been known to do that once or twice but
for me i think the way we get there is
we just say sorry guys but by 2035
you're done you're not going to be using
anymore carbon-based fuels that that
gets us to the right place and if
somebody wants to make a profit from
building better solar panels and
generating better battery storage i'm
not opposed to that what I'm opposed to
is when they do it in a way that hurts
everybody else you shouldn't be able to
externalise these costs that's the
problem with fossil fuels right now I
think that the best way we go forward
here is we we open up the opportunities
we open up the possibilities we invest
in the science we invest in the
manufacturing we invest in the pieces
don't let us build a future together
going forward but yeah I just want to be
clear we got to have tough rules that we
are willing to enforce and that means we
have got to be willing to fight back
against these giant industries so get me
give me your take on that Dave because I
mean I'm not convinced as I watched that
question like I'm not convinced that she
just got worried about the the the when
the guy said are you willing to take on
capitalism that way as opposed to the
sort of the substance of the question
but when she
says you know it's the problem is that
they're offloading these externalities
on to the public I don't think that
there is an energy I mean I think you
can manufacture solar panels and I think
you can develop better battery
technology but I don't think that there
is an energy sort of distribution
industry that doesn't on some level
offload these externalities for private
profit well this is an enormous ly
complicated question and subject
we're probably well beyond what we can
squeeze in a few minutes of a podcast
but I'll just say that here's the way
I'll put it when we talk about energy
companies we're talking about a lot of
different kind of things right there's
oil and gas companies which are one
thing regulated one way then there are
electric utilities which are responsible
for electricity and that is what Bernie
Sanders in his plan has sort of proposed
to quasi nationalize although my
experience is that even the Sanders fans
online don't really understand this what
what are you doing but he's basically
going to nationalize utilities my
understanding and I've and I have
studied power utilities for a long time
and they are extremely complicated in
anything simplistic you want to say
about them that's going to end up being
wrong so my impression from the experts
in the field is that is that that's not
the main axis of the problem right but
that's not sort of like that's not where
you'd go for a solution these things are
not I mean private utility companies are
not just like in a free-market pursuing
a private motive they are regulated out
the wazoo like we set up the system we
set up the system that now incentivizes
them to want to build more stuff like
that's how they make more money they
build more power lines build more power
plants build build build and then they
get it sort of guaranteed rate of return
on those investments we can set up the
system differently
so that they are incentivized to pursue
energy efficiency so they are
incentivize to produce pursuant electric
vehicle infrastructure we can set it up
so that the profit motive is working to
our advantage and there are you know
like I'm not a I'm not a market
absolutist on either in like commute
markets are just tools there are some
places where they work in some places
where they don't some places where you
want them in some places where you don't
but this but in an area where there's
tons of innovation and uncertainty which
is very much of the electricity industry
right now there's tons of stuff going on
tons of new tech some of the new models
emerging it's precisely in an area like
that where you want to get the market
working for you where that sort of
distributed the distributed innovation
of a market is perfect for that kind of
area obviously you want guardrails
obviously you want everybody taken care
of
obviously you set baseline standards for
you know for for emissions and
everything else but getting the profit
motive working for you I think is very
important in the electricity industry
right now in this sort of notion of if
you nationalize everything it'll be okay
I just think people need to think about
that a lot more before they jump on that
bandwagon especially as some sort of
like you know sort of lefty like
gatekeeper issue like you're not a
purist you know you're not pure and good
and let's you jump on this bandwagon
it's just really not that simple and I
just would like to ask people like you
know there are public utilities out
there some of them are good and some of
them are terrible like there's there
there's no guarantee like look at the
government now like do you want this
government completely in charge of the
electricity industry from top to bottom
like you know III the notion that public
will necessarily yield good results is
it's not necessarily comfortable either
so I would just say on this I would just
encourage people if you're looking for
like a litmus test issue you're looking
for like a bottom-line issue this is
this is not the one there are other
policies that are that are that are more
important I think like like for instance
like Bernie wants to ban fracking and
some of the other candidates want a
slower or phase-out of fracking that's a
real policy issue like that's I see
something that Sanders fan can and
reasonably pressure the other candidates
about I would rather than do that and
then get on this nationalization
bandwagon I just don't think it's a very
appropriate vehicle for their sort of
ambitions and and I guess theoretically
- we're talking about you know in a post
fossil fuel era those externalities are
gonna be a lot different in terms of
what you socialize those costs like you
know you know all the all the whatever
the cancer that we get from the
windmills or whatever we're supposed to
get from the windmills will be one of
those socialized costs yeah yeah and and
you know if you what the president if
you want the private market or you just
say like the utility US utilities have
to reach net zero carbon emissions by
2030 just put that rule in place and
then all of a sudden that's the
innovation will serve you right then all
of a sudden all their efforts will surge
like that
that's well short of nationalization but
it would be perfectly like effective
right yeah I mean I guess there is a
there the there is these questions of to
what extent yeah I mean that answer I
think makes sense particularly when the
context of climate change in and of
itself and I guess it is also probably a
less steep hill to climb to get that
another another another thing worth
pointing out here that I mean there's a
sort of element of like ridiculous
cosplay to this and you're never going
to get to US Congress to pass a law that
nationalizes the electricity sector and
honestly family the electricity sector
we need working for and finding
innovative solutions
that's when markets are good but you
know who we need to just shut down and
phase out is oil and gas companies so
like I don't know why the nationalize
errs aren't going after them right like
if you just want to like take over an
industry explicitly to phase it out like
that oh I would start first with the
refineries we nationalize every refinery
we keep hearing about how it's so
important to our national security good
let's just uh we
we'll take control of that yeah Dave
Roberts always a pleasure thanks so much
for your time today I really appreciate
it thank ya thank logged in by Mikey I
would still take those I will take those
refineries that III think we should do
that tomorrow or what we'll wait till
Monday like what is the argument for not
D commodifying energy in that way
freedom well no the the argument that he
was making in terms of not D
commodifying is that right now we're in
a transition period and the innovation
that you get from having multiple
different entities trying to get to
certain goals there's an argument that I
think is is you know in terms of
innovation government cash is behind it
in the right way well I think government
cat they're saying or he I didn't think
he's saying government cash as much as
like make the passageways to where they
should head narrow enough so that we get
what we want
I just don't think that's gonna happen
well the argument that nationalizing all
of it happening is I mean look look at
light bulbs it's a it's still a
controversial issue apparently Trump
wants to go backwards on this but the
government did it with light bulbs as
just as an example the the Bush
administration raised efficiency
standards for light bulbs of 10 years
ago or something like that they may have
been tightened somewhat during the Obama
years the light bulbs that they first
came out with we're not great and now
the bulbs are great got a Calot and
they're I just say got a cow there's so
much at stake here and I just don't
trust the market I don't trust the
private marketplace to get this done in
a way that doesn't throw anyone under
the bus
especially in marginalized communities
right well I mean I think the point is
you need to have strict regulation the
question is which is easier to get to
what's more likely to happen
very narrowly tailored regulation or a
full nationalization well I mean these
light bulbs are also not like the entire
fossil fuel industry in terms of the
stakes of what type of industry or
innovation you need to bring under
control
but as far as the fossil fuel industry I
mean Warren isn't behind Bernie she
wants to just say you're done right and
Bernie wants that too the difference is
on non-fossil fuel energy right isn't
that what we're talking yeah yeah in her
answer we play there she's like we're
just gonna tell them that you don't get
to do fossil fuels anymore i mean i mean
i don't know i don't yeah i mean that
timeline is very different but that
might ultimately be true but just for
this conversation we're talking about
just energy companies at large which
could include right i mean i think
everybody's on the same page we end more
solar power plants and i think the point
is like maybe we should just help
democratize those work place is not
necessarily nationalize them like right
there's different options for those
smaller scale ones he does have
proposals like that in fact but i think
there is broad agreement that fossil
fuel industry should not exist and large
like there's a book called silent theft
about the commons which comes at it I
don't know if David Boyer would identify
as a socialist or not it's irrelevant
but he was identifying these whole
sectors of the economy whether you're
talking about either natural resources
and that could be I could in fact be the
son he was proposing something called
like a sky dividend to pay for
transitioning out of the climate crisis
but his broader point was that every
type of sort of collectivized natural
resource does need to be ultimately held
democratically and outside of private
hands and I I think that that is just
fundamentally true in an important
political distinction like it's a very
odd notion that you know there would be
and and the reason the fossil fuel
analogy works is just in the notion that
like why would we ever
breathe two fossils from the ground
being held by private companies and
similarly with wind and solar and other
innovations it's a very odd space to
have things that are sweet old sore are
different though right because it's no
common collective resources yeah and at
least the state is exactly under
Democratic control whereas the private
industries are not correct but wind and
if we putting aside fossil fuels because
I think in fossil fuels there's
obviously externalities and it's a
finite resource and fossils themselves
are finite but wind and Sun are not and
we're talking about ownership of the
panels or the windmills should be as
like the means of production of energy
yeah right I mean not Commons that's the
commons area i mean look it's it's
interesting like there's a new land
proposal in the UK which is getting at
the distinction between someone can own
a house but you shouldn't be able to
loan they'll own the land underneath
right house right i think that's the
type of way you can make it more
concrete but it's an important
distinction to carry forward i do think
in the context of if we get fossil fuels
as a as an industry done i am less
concerned with nationalizing the the
solar farms let's say per se or the
delivery at least through a certain
transition at one point it may make more
sense existing can have a big impact
environmentally yeah how it's delivered
there not environmentally neutral they
involve extraction of resources from the
third world and I I just don't trust
private industry to be responsible about
that but even somebody like Jeremy
Rifkin who's not again we're talking
like a EU adviser moderate guy is
basically like if you don't do what he
calls the I think it's the third
Industrial Revolution in basically a
decentralized right way it will it will
carry forward like you can have as an
example you know there's places where
there is in broadband there can be
places that aren't on new electricity
grids but that's what you're talking
about is regulation well
or it could be a post-office model which
is a stash '''l state Commons so that
would be something I would be more
interested in but yes regulation could I
mean all of these we should have without
a regulation and I think we do interwar
alike electricity we have that I mean
you you cannot have an electric company
and not serve every every every every
place in the country now you can you can
do that with cable apparently but cable
should be regulated in that way because
I don't want to see put it in play like
that though I mean you've seen
municipalities privatizing water that's
a that's relatively dangerous yeah my
concern about regulations is also that
it's easier to undo them in a time when
industry and private capital acquires
more power again that's true I don't how
to utilize something I think that's true
as well it's also and then the the the
opposite is also true but yes I think
that is that's a good point
you know you but it would be a little
bit scary you could I wouldn't want to
trust necessarily the electric grid
right now to the trumpet we put it under
the Pentagon's I mean I think there's
there's decentralized versions of
socialism too and I think like
especially with the current makeup of
our state it might not be a bad idea
just like focus on blackouts in blue
states that you're subjected to over the
summer it's just somebody might not have
books we use them it's good stuff we
gotta take a quick break when we come
back Matthew film guy will be joining us
quick break
you
a little communication problems it has
been so long since we spoke to our next
guest ladies and gentlemen it used to be
that summer was the time for
blockbusters well we've just rewritten
the rules ladies and gentlemen and I'll
tell you why in this little song
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
Matthew yeah film guy how was your
summer
it was great Sam it was busy I was
working I think I told you I'm editing a
feature film and we spent a month up in
Long like New York editing on set while
they were shooting so it was hectic it
was fast paced and it was exhilarating
to be honest with you it was really fun
well tell us about the film what can you
tell us it's it's called black bear it's
directed by my friend Laura's Lavigne
it's starring Aubrey Plaza Chris Abbott
and Sarah Gadon who your listeners may
know from various things Chris Abbott's
from girls and he was big on he was in
that catch-22 miniseries I'll be plazza
of course is the star of many films and
TV shows none of their yeah I recognize
none of those names so far the only name
associated I mean it's gonna be a hit
the that so far the only names I've
recognized associated with this are
Matthew Weiss film guy yeah and editor
the first name of the director Lawrence
I know a Lawrence you've never watched
Parks and Rec I feel like you'd be
really into it it's about local
government no I know what it's about I
have friends who were were on that show
quite a bit but no I never saw yeah that
was her breakout I was actually in my
early improv days I was in a class with
her so she's a you know has a similar
background to you and this is actually a
great kind of a break out for her she's
playing a dramatic role with some comedy
touches and she's amazing in it so she's
Chicago person there's a lot of Chicago
people so no the New York New York
glazier and I was on that show and Amy
Poehler I believe right yeah yeah Amy
Poehler was the star of the show yep
Yuli that is true so there you go oh
yeah I'm hip
yeah there you go I'm with sounds great
what sounds very funny yeah all those
people were good but they were all good
twenty years ago so good
Mac Matthew can we write a some type of
Christian apocalypse vehicle where
there's like a token Jew played by Sam
can we do that absolutely
that'd be great I just think it's a big
oh no get to the car my sciatica hurts
they're gonna take a gut no you see are
you on a speakerphone no I am on my
headphones it's okay it's not great it's
not great I mean you might be out
upgrade that sound let's see how do you
like it you can upgrade a little bit if
they take that gun show you why maybe
you should have some type of like sound
deadening in there yeah well this is
mother any better yeah that is better
much better okay
yes this is the point we wanted to ask
you about this film that of course Kevin
Sorbo is involved with I am aware of
Kevin's wiggins work he was Tarzan I
believe you know Hercules Hercules oh
all right
well nevermind maybe was Tarzan -
Hercules he was one of those I just
remember like ads with him with no shirt
on that's what I that seemed - yeah you
remember the feeling you got when you
did exactly exactly and he is like like
my old friend Ross broccoli now doing
religious-based film work and Ross
broccoli did like a couple of Mormon
bankrolled movies and then I think they
figured out who he was and then they
stopped doing okay but so this is a I
think is this a Christian movie like
yeah I think definitely that there's
going to be some Christian elements to
it he's a yeah but it's it's a
right-wing unity and it it's sort of I
guess like I don't know I guess it's the
right
the Wrights version of like a Handmaid's
Tale in a way or I think people can't
afford done right or the anti-fur red
diamond where the country is taken over
by antiphon and and of course you know
if you carry an American flag in America
then you're in big trouble now they're
talking to me yeah they're attacking the
Second Amendment and you've never seen
more guns in how long is this thing this
is the trailer all those anti-gun and
our kists out there right there's a ton
of anti-gun anarchists but they're taken
away the guns and I've never I don't
think I've ever even seen like I don't
even think I've seen previews of a war
movie that have more guns than this one
but here maybe we're overreacting just
that was an our neighborhood
positively so we should just tell you
that that you know that's a family in a
suburban area and the ring and the wife
is basically just saying to Kevin Sorbo
oh boy maybe we're overreacting and then
deus ex machina the gunshots in the
suburbs we're in trouble
let's get mobilized they're coming for
our leg hose just that was an our
neighborhood get everyone in the car
cash helps need to deliver all towns on
fire police are treating we have
prepared for this we will survive
[Applause]
the world is falling of the second
Emily's under attack
guys trying motorcycles new windows
family tree three meals a day
it's adapter died
what would you do
phones are on time out is what I would
do
your family was attacked dad to come I
love you guys got a sword what guns are
outlawed only outlaws love guns
you guys already divided within Social
Security
the Reliant protect family and faith I
read I read handyman magazine get away I
with everybody my pal the my part of the
the rebellion or the what part of oh no
you I'm just a victim one of the guys I
promote by podcast at the beginning
you're assuring them that there's
actually nothing to worry about you're
like everybody needs to calm down
because you're all listening to this
right-wing copy and I was talking what
you need about this 15 years ago that
all of a sudden auntie loves you
this is what the from I am deep in a
Christian family that's the safe your
kid I am deep it raised raised that is a
Christian the children for me Matthew
let's write this like like immediately
as soon as you get back just be careful
when when Michael says let's write this
Mathew pre-prepared IMDB a 19 year old
woman cares for her sibling after an
econometric collapse leads to widespread
violence and then and this is another
metric yeah and there's no such thing as
in econometrics I was talking with
somebody at the Center for American out
IMDB says the economic collapse causes
widespread rioting and social unrest
leaving a lovesick 19 year old girl
struggling to care for her siblings in a
stretch of woods bordered by lawless
anarchy wondering why a good why a good
God would let this happen when is this
movie out and where can I see it the
production values really I mean it is
there there is not filmed in Ohio these
people have money behind them always
filmed in Ohio buddy I mean that's it's
like hey listen this is
independent film so it's like the dark
side of the kind of democratization of
the Hollywood studio system like you got
a bad idea and enough money behind it
you can make a movie with Kevin Sorbo
that looks like you know a million but
if you happen to be I I don't know where
this is actually but on August 3rd oh it
premiered August 3rd at the Great Lakes
Christian Film Festival do you go to
that Film Festival on your film tour no
that is i i've stopped putting that on
my circuit oh that's in Buffalo New York
so I mean it's it's yeah almost no it
burns my it burns my skin when I walk
into that I and now I got no problem
with the Christian film festival circuit
as who's the caboose basically got
stumbled into the Jewish film festival
circuit and we've played all around the
country it was fantastic actually I was
just talking with Digby about this on my
show the other day it's nothing to worry
up that was not rigged of fire which you
could download I actually that's also on
the majority report yeah there you go
he's like the mayor in shut it down we
don't there is also the mayor and Red
Dawn except the very red dog laughs I
get a couple of cycles last yeah he'd be
Christ the willing collaborator there's
apparently some very other good good
movies at that festival so maybe Sam ha
Great Lakes Christian Film Festival
here's the 2019 schedule in the kennedy
room in the McKinley room wait a second
okay all right there's a lot of praise
and worship that goes on that did not
happen at the Jewish
there's the miracles from The Killing
Fields 10 a.m.
saved escape from Kim's regime dinosaur
heart finding a home in boomtown the
people of the heavenly kingdom
liberating fire broken unbroken Betty
Williams contagious courage warriors to
Lourdes it's amazing like so much of her
she's Lord these are all sort of a like
love possibly there is but the point is
is like there's only a couple of things
that the rest of them are like life on
the island of Jesus yep welcome to Jesus
Island only one person will be safe I
think I know what the moral that's there
a lot of you guys want to live an
eternity with me and I wish I could take
all of you but it's only gonna be one
but I would be going next year with the
help of some plants and chemicals I am
so stoked to have you all in Jesus
Island unfortunately only one of you can
stay who's gonna meet st. Peter who's
gonna meet st. Peter like what the hell
man why didn't no one tell us about Tom
it's been really awesome having a little
island you have good energy and a good
person but what's really going down the
industry panel that that would be
actually pretty fun to go but you know
what there is a huge the fact of the
matter is there is a huge Christian film
industry yeah and also you know not just
film but also radio and there's a whole
you know sort of like um another
parallel media and on some level that's
like you know Fox and the conservative
media has followed this sort of same
business model which is like you can
have a thriving industry that exists in
it just simply creates another narrative
the difference is of course when people
watch Fox they don't realize that
they're involved in you know certain
some type of alt media as the
alternative but the righteous and
distribution systems yeah it is the
downside of it in that some people
come you know can get squirrel doff the
problem is it's not even so much the the
problem with the fragmentation as much
as the when one of these fragments get
too big like I think that you know
everything was small it would be better
I mean how big is it though really I
mean compared to like you know
mainstream Hollywood movies you know is
it even as big as what plays it's like
Sundance or no I was talking a ban I was
talking about in terms of like the news
but I would be very surprised if this
industry was not a huge huge industry I
don't know
yeah they all you know they all listen
to striper and Creed and and watch these
Jesus Island movies I guess you know
it's a niche just like if you're a
horror fan you go to the horror
convention or the you know specific
genre it's a genre
it's just john r with maybe maybe it
were mentally i don't think it's a genre
i think it's an industry like i in that
it's a it's i think it's an engine
industry oven to itself you know horror
is a genre within the film industry but
the mechanics of the industry the same
and the you know this i think is its own
thing apart I mean that was my sort of
understanding you know in the radio
business you could see that as well that
there was like yeah there were there
were different rules as to who the
audience was and their behavior was
gonna be different and therefore the the
way that they they financed these things
are gonna be different in the way that
they recoup and make money off it is
going to be different you say you're
saying the people behind these they're
just making Christian movies there next
week making romance movie or kids in
jail movie there's not only Christian
yes I a it in a middle-aged Jewish man
Sam see when the right now with a focus
on let me just let me just a word of
advice just make sure Michael delivers
the writing first before you deliver
yours
I did say my writing that's how we do be
ideas we were doing it right now are you
taking notes I've already got the first
draft fade in with the right wing
controls political palette II who say
generally students never see Jewish
Jewish bad way to say boy here we played
life on the island of Jesus trailer oh
please he just put it in the channel
that one and I want to make this clear
we're not making fun of Christians we're
making fun of Christian monavie's that's
right and Kevin Sorbo which by the way
that trailer showed the same shot of
Kevin Sorbo like looking up into the sky
like four times did they not get that
much time yeah every time ah
they had to keep like taking the same
shot and then flipping it yeah slightly
and then cry I didn't even flip didn't
even flip it it was just like that same
like dolly into his face looking up in
fear of liberals like over like four
times I think they call they call that
take hearing gunshots in suburbia this
is a documentary that's his play he just
island the island of Jesus and a small
group I'm a part of we were discussing
the idea of handing God a blank check at
a similar age my parents made that
decision to abandon everything and come
to Quebec not let me just come and
10-years the document we seized made
Mallard process that led to this
documentary is gonna be terrifying
dinosaur heart or saved escape from
Kim's regime I think they're all
documentaries all right these are the
same people who will tag like Nancy
Pelosi aoc and me and like my show and
all the fake auntie fat Witter accounts
in one tweet because they think that we
are somehow
acted like an tyfa is the paramilitary
wing of the Democratic Party you are you
are you are connected try to take all
our guns all your second amendment
attacks because they only have tanks
wink wink
well you know the amazing thing is is
that a movie like that it it validates
all of their sort of paranoid delusions
not just about an tyfa but the idea that
like look we need to have these guns
it may be an tyfa it'll probably just be
you know black people angry or it could
be the cops who knows is going to come
after us but the point is we need to
have these guns so that I could save my
family in the suburbs and we if we have
to go out into the woods at the very
least at least I have that survival
handbook and we're gonna figure out
we're gonna pick berries and shoot
squirrels and you know that like we've
prepared for this this is what we've
been waiting for that's actually the
most amazing moment in Red Dawn which
which is my favorite like that that's an
are you talking the original the
original I haven't seen the new one well
a favorite movie that's a long
hysterical like irony watch and the
scene where they got and I don't like
all of these incredible scenes because
like the Soviets totally occupy this
town with like Cuban paramilitaries but
they can also literally walk up to the
chain-link fence where like their dad
and everybody else is being detained for
like a chat and not be noticed and
basically their dad pretty much tells
them like well now I understand why I
had to kick the out of you every
day because I had to be like an abusive
dad right the Soviets were gonna come I
knew this is what I betrayed all the
time said I wouldn't talk to you or I
was a guy was hard on you this is why so
he literally that's why I gave you the
belt cuz I knew this day was coming
oh at the Soviets reinvade Idaho that's
why your father
and that is really disgusting to me to
think these Christian films are
encouraging people to believe their
worst impressions about human nature and
to be even more fearful and sort of you
know banding together in violence it's
like the opposite of what a film guys
should be looking for in a film well I
would respect the hell out of this movie
if it turns out to be like the babadook
we're like halfway through realize that
the protagonists with the guns are
actually that terrifying monsters Matt
play this
Matthieu film guy you remember this cuz
you worked you poor you may have even
edited this back in the day but when
Maron and I did break room live we had a
we we came up with this sort of you know
we developed a bunch of like you know
sort of like freestanding bits that we
could just plug into on any given day
and so I had this idea that in RNC
headquarters the way that they would get
their talking points would be to go into
the study and one of a Red Dawn poster
would talk to them and this is I I don't
even know what this one was about but we
did a bunch of these
I remember this this is Bill
[Music]
listen up freedom fighters tonight
Barack Hussein Obama is going on ABC
otherwise known as the American Barack
Obama corporation to explain his health
care proposal it's an infomercial what a
coincidence
health care starts with an H and so
doesn't Barack Hussein Obama
it's an Al Queda infomercial this is
unprecedented
yeah precedented no unprecedented right
news organizations should not be allowed
to let presidents explain policy yeah I
want to watch wide swap journalism is
dead yeah I want to see Extreme Makeover
house edition ABC needs to give
insurance companies equal time according
to the Constitution amendment thingy
only 76 percent of Americans want a
public health insurance option who will
speak for the remaining 74 percent of
the American people who don't it's an
infomercial Obama is abusing the bully
pulpit health care isn't bullying it's
more like a pansy pulpit he should be
attacking Iran and take their health
care now go and spread this information
it's an infomercial yeah infomercial
and this was at the time they must have
been saying that this was an infomercial
that ABC was allowing the president to
speak on national television
total infomercial total infomercial and
I don't need to remind people but I will
that I did a movie with one of the one
of the guys in Red Dawn and I can't
ignore his name well as the CT has C
Thomas how oh yeah we got blown through
the window now so Matthew field guy
let's go let's get to business here
let's stop dilly-dallying we've been
doing this for twenty minutes now
already nice what um what do you got for
us alright so and getting ready for this
movie that I'm making with Larry Levine
he had me watch a couple directors and
one of the ones that really stuck with
me and it's basically become one of my
favorite international directors at this
point is the South Korean filmmaker
named Hong sang-soo now he is in all
honesty a true and rare artist
he's a minimalist his films and he's
made 23 of them since the nineties and
I've only seen four so far but I fell in
love his movies are they play with time
and repetition so in this movie that
we're making it's kind of like there's
two halves I don't want to give too many
spoilers about it but Hong sang-soo's
movies often have the same plot elements
replaying in a second kind of set like
it resets and it's all about social
mores and the vagaries of romantic and
and platonic desires you know a little
bit like éric rohmer if you know the
French filmmaker éric rohmer
not to be a pederast but he's one of the
best filmmakers
[Music]
anyway anyway so he he's he's he doesn't
use conventional story structure or
doesn't have the kind of resolutions
that you're kind of looking for he's up
but he's a master at playing with your
perceptions you know replaying the
segments that you've seen from other
points of view it's just he forces you
in the best way to reassess your
feelings about what you've seen before
and draw your own conclusions one of the
one of the main movies I want to
recommend is right now wrong then I
showed that to my class recently and it
went over big that actually has the same
sort of no that's from 2015 if I'm not
mistaken right that's it's one of the
more recent to those kids yeah yeah
another one that's great is tales and
I'm often it has the that's from the
early dawn domain if I'm not mistaken
the mid oh yes do it again you nailed it
again wow that's pretty good
um do you know when the movie he made
called the day he arrives was made 2011
yes this is getting good anyway the day
he arrives right now wrong then tale of
cinema and another one called in another
country which actually had French
actress Isabel who care in it those
workers right after down right after
right after the day he arrives that was
like sort of like Irish twins if I'm not
mistaken yes yeah well you know what
what's interesting about Hong sang-soo
from what I've read total pederast is
right here yes sir but from what I read
about Hong sang-soo he started making
movies now with no screen player
treatment he starts the process just
like with the actors a location and a
rough idea and then he writes the script
every day in the morning before the
shoot maybe Michael maybe you and I
could do that but a movie that's not us
think about something more kind of yeah
I mean I certainly have always what does
he shoot on what are people shooting on
when you go up to do this film up in
Buffalo what are they shooting on it's
long like but yeah it's
digital video is a huge digital Airy
camera you know it's like 4k video
actually we shot like two-and-a-half gay
but it's digital baby but it's using you
know cinema lenses and and they bolt it
so it's that's what we use these days
interesting and so it that that greatly
diminishes the the lighting requirements
yes or no no no it doesn't it doesn't
change that at all actually what it does
is allow us to shoot for days and days
and days and give the editor of tons
more footage to have to comb through
because you can just keep shooting
because it's very inexpensive damn you
know I'd like to spend like 20 minutes
switching the mag and checking the gate
and all that stuff is done that's right
Sam those days are over
I've got like 18 terabytes of media here
representing this movie so like opinion
editors are that's why editing is
starting early because you got to log
all this stuff right and uh indebted
exactly right Sam I mean actually
editing on set one of the benefits was
that I could put together sort of drafts
of some scenes and see if we needed to
reshoot anything right if anything
wasn't working take it a different way
so I was able to sort of feed back to
the production while they were still on
set with the actors and everybody
present it was sort of a one location
thing it was looking a cabin in the
woods so yeah but anyway back to Hong
sang-soo who I want to definitely give
the hugest credit for for basically
introducing me to the Korean drink of
soju you guys know what this is it's
like Korean rice wine yes they make
bloody marys within bars they don't have
their liquor license oh nice nice
because it is consumed like in every
movie he's got like some repetitive
themes and one of them is that people
getting drunk off their faces on soju
and stumbling around and it's actually I
haven't really mentioned it but these
movies are hilarious do they have a lot
of very funny awkward moments some deep
and sort of moving stuff to but people
are always drunk and smoking a lot of
cigarettes and I get the sense that this
is autobiographical for him because a
lot of the characters are either
filmmakers direct actors excuse me but
anyway the fact that he makes up the
script on the day and then you see what
he actually comes up with is
mind-blowing because the films are
tightly
structured and they have a very precise
aesthetic even though it's in that
minimalist style but honestly he is yeah
I'm about to go on another binge and see
the next whatever 28 so movies so where
should we start
right now wrong then is that the place
to start I gotta say actually I would
say start with in another country
because that is like that is a home run
it has an actress you may have seen it
some other international cinema it it's
really one of the more funny ones right
now wrong then is also just I mean you
can't go wrong with any of those if
you're a real film head arrest you can
start with tale of cinema that would be
the one for the people who are really
into film that that's got more of that
kind of playing with the form but all
those are excellent fantastic all right
I'm gonna I'm you know I always say I'm
gonna watch but I have put on my list
and and folks not only do we put Mathieu
film guys recommendations on our page
but we also link to his letterbox des
ministres always say there'll be the
economic class but that's not what Dean
Baker says you idiots the econometrics
it's not gonna be a huge hit it's gonna
be a huge it also I want to say I'm
shooting my friend Ted Alexandro who I
still do his podcast a little bit me if
you'd want to check out a great comedian
podcast a little bit me with Ted
Alexandro he's gonna be on laughing
literally tonight which is a show on
Broadway I think Janine is gonna do it
one night where as a bunch of lip tardes
doing stand-up comedy about politics
right should be great fantastic pot yes
oh cool I produce and edit it yes it's
been a lot of fun and check it out a
little bit me are you on mic - no no I
am NOT this is basically a little bit
Ted it's like he takes the rig with him
when he goes on the rodeo for Jim
Gaffigan wherever he's playing he kind
of gets his thoughts there's certain
segments
does a great segment where he cold
called comedian friends that aren't
suspecting the call until they get it
and then they approve it or don't
approve it call the catch up that's been
a fun bit let's go what's good night
what are you up to well that's sort of
what this is about this this segment but
it's okay yeah I mostly answer the phone
call
Matthew film guy as always a pleasure I
will check out hung sang-soo and even if
I don't someone will and so I hope you
come on we'll all right buddy the time
any time take care bye Oh awesome
don't forget we didn't even check in on
his eBay thing I have a feeling his eBay
thing he's probably suffered because of
his work he's actually doing something
folks we're gonna do a freebie Friday
today we only got about a half an hour
left and we're just gonna let you ride
all the way through but don't forget you
can support this program by becoming a
member go to join the majority
reports.com also just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off
folks
check out that just coffee and also
listen to the a.m. quickie we're a week
or two away from from splitting it off
from the majority report feed so you
will be getting that every morning and
we're getting out the door a little bit
earlier now right a little bit you know
more or less so check that out also
today is Friday which means that Tuesday
was Tuesday what happened on Tuesday
Michael crystal ball and I discussed why
the establishment is lining up behind
Elizabeth Warren what that means for the
fate of the race and how to understand
the race then artesia ball dropped it
was a friend of mine and is a TV
producer talked about the Jay Z NFL deal
and Jay Z's remix of the Moynihan report
also Kashmir and the history of a
paramilitary group called the RSS this
coming Tuesday Thiago Motta Taylor and
Bosh Carson Carr gonna be on as well as
Napoleon the legend today publicly
available there's a link on majority at
FM get your tickets the next EMBs live
show november 23rd the week before
Thanksgiving in Philadelphia with
special guests
crystal ball emma biglan and artesia
ball drop looking forward to seeing you
guys Jamie what's happening on the ante
father so this week on the anti feta I
was not around but the guys did a very
special crossover episode of the
intifada Pro lat cult history as a
weapon and JG Michael's parallax views
about Operation Gladio
so in this special special crossover
episode they take a dive into the stay
behind operations after world war ii
which were designed to protect western
Europe from leftist victory at any cost
including cooze assassinations and false
flag terror plots is this conspiracy
theory
no it's para politics which dwells in
the realm between the political and the
confirmed and the conspiratorial so
check it out also if you want even more
conspiracy I'm sorry para politics
there's a bonus out today with more of
that good stuff also I would like to
plug an article that I wrote in commune
magazine it's sort of a meditation on
the D si convention but other topics
related to that that came up at the
convention it's called when the wave
crashes and you can read it at commune
mag com
it's on the front page right now so
check it out I tried reading it in a
book about Gladio and it was pretty
interesting in the Europe parts and then
the modern stuff was all about Gulen
which was very confusing the Gulen
movement yeah it was it was Luna it was
lunacy it was like you got it really
Islamophobic too but cool on as in like
lon Turkey you have a Turkish guy that's
interest it's very because I would
actually still read that because I want
to know how he's even making those yeah
it was a while ago but I was like what
is what am I doing here
but yeah for a literary hangover
recorded last night the second part of
james fenimore cooper's the pioneers
which is a story about basically a
fictionalized story about how his dad
settled central new york and a lot of
stuff there so yeah check it out all
right folks we're not going anywhere
sorry we were doing a freebie product
there you go um let's uh let's just get
to this I don't know how I I don't even
know if we're not gonna have time for
calls folks I'm gonna just do I am I
don't want people holding as much as I
know that people like the right sort of
a bit cartoons at this point with with
me sort of a bit not answering the phone
for people but but people do like that
rapid fire segment we've been doing the
third yeah I do too
we used to do that on on radio I used to
do like V at the end of the show I would
do the thirty seconds and that's it but
I don't know maybe we can do that we'll
see see how we go here but we've got
some bad news
ladies and gentlemen and in some ways we
have not we have not been we have not
had we got dared to push the stretch of
our imagination
yes America is clearly not the place
that we all want it to be or maybe it is
actually we all remember this moment
when Bill Burton who probably got about
two to five million dollars to basically
say this on television and then spend
the rest of his time also just like
telling Howard Schultz that he was
really good this was gonna kick ass this
happened in January can you believe it
nine months ago on social media there's
a certain op-ed you wrote in 2016 for
the Sacramento Bee that's been making
the rounds let me put up a piece of it
if Steiner libertarian candidate Gary
Johnson eat into Clinton's support even
a little that could matter in a close
election and in the same way I would bet
that Ralph Nader or at least many of his
supporters wishes that he didn't help to
make George W Bush our 43rd commander in
chief I suppose Stein supporters would
not want to be in the position of
explaining to their kids how they
helped to make a Trump president why
should you not eat those words today a
couple of things number one Howard
Schultz is not Jill Stein Jill Stein was
in that race because she thought that
the two parties were too close together
the two candidates posit for one second
he starts at number one but really he's
starting at number two because number
one is well Todd Chuck Todd rather I'm
making a lot of money I'm making so much
money Chuck that like you're gonna work
this year and next year and probably
like multiple years before you get to
make when I'm making for what I imagine
is gonna be maybe 16 months what Howard
Schultz thinks is that the to the the
polar opposites of the parties are so
far apart but the American people are
close together and maybe what we need is
a choice for the American people to
choose something different a different
path a different a different kind of
politics in America and secondly I just
think that the first of all hasn't made
the decision to run but if he did I
think we can agree that would it would
be a more serious effort than what Jill
Stein put together well fair enough and
we're still don't know how much help
Jill Stein had from outside actors given
given where she's spent December of 2015
well let me ask you this he obviously
you're using this book tour to launch an
exploratory bid as well as any book to
her launch for a presidential bid yeah
as I've seen in a while so it's clear
you want this to be the front why what's
his what I'm trying to figure out is I
don't understand why he wants to run
other than he's not them and not them
what is the big idea beyond not a
Republican and not a Democrat well the
book tour he wrote the book whether he
was gonna think about this or not
because he has a story to tell and he
wanted to get it out there you know he's
a guy who grew up in the projects and
was self-made he he worked his way
through college he went on to build a
great company that did the right thing
by the folks who worked for it and now
he just he wants to continue to serve in
terms of what his big idea is it's that
politics is broken and maybe we need a
solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
you know I I forgot that he was
off-camera because there's no doubt in
my mind he is reading it like go back
justjust go back like 20 seconds you
know that he's reading it because he
can't even like you you can't he's just
like literally going like that risks the
possibility of a new day and he's doing
that and that's probably why they've got
this b-roll over him good I'm to build a
great company that did the right thing
by the folks who worked for it and now
he just he wants to continue to serve
and Trentino district idea is it's that
politics is broke you can hear papers
rustling well I don't know if those are
those Canucks yeah they could be chucks
but I also forgot this part about like
where he seems like he started a new
company he wants to continue to serve
yeah being a CEO he was really being
called to service yeah he was involved
in public service can I just say I mean
whatever always F Jill Stein but
seriously dude
Chuck Todd has to go with the deranged
Russia stuff with her yeah I think it
more likely they got in money from the
Republicans but yeah like they did it in
in Pennsylvania my way just finish it
politics is broken and maybe we need a
solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
he asked for b-roll because he was
laughing while he did he's like guys
Howard insists that I read this and what
I'm asking you as a friend as if the
camera not be on me while I read it's
like look I don't there to be evidence
how much I'll give you 10 grand right
now that's falling it's 10 grands fallen
out of his pocket he hands in 10 grand
he'll put a little beer all over
throwing me 10 G's I'll throw you 10
grand you could have a couple of shots
so Howard Shore does a Starbucks board
meeting Howard Schultz is dropping out
of the race because apparently after his
extended he's maybe has some illness
that's going on which I yeah maybe
that's possible too much money
ah too much money he's got happens is
awful his deep his deep affluenza and
that's one other diagnosis I'm
comfortable even this this Washington
Post his letter announcing his decision
not to run was tint with an irony Schulz
maintained that the window for a
moderate reason third party candidate
was wide open but he could not figure
out how to grab and hold voters
attention in an electoral cycle
dominated by angry partisan voices in
other words there's a huge market for
what I'm doing out there but somehow my
millions of millions of dollars in
access to 60 minutes and every cable
news station and every newspaper in the
country I couldn't find those people I
had unlimited press coverage for a
campaign that had absolutely zero public
interest and I was able to hire two of
the top pundit political consultants in
the country but somehow no outlet I
could not get and it was weird because
there's a market that's just hungry for
this I was in The Times I was away I was
on the like cover of news of you know a
magazines and I couldn't get a single
and he supposedly sent this to all his
supporters and honestly like do you
think that they spent anything unposted
I mean like like they didn't even need
they didn't even need to get one of
those email programs that emails
everybody because there was so
whew they could just do it out of Jim
Tom Steyer is like the Marty funkhauser
Canada it's like you don't get it you
got to get a whole bunch of emails for a
fake cause right and then you run for
president you
it's too much imagination supposedly
he's going to do something that is good
for you know like he's like there was
some I can't even remember what it was
like he's gonna go he's gonna promote
democracy or something good good you
know honestly pour your money into
Senate races okay and into State House
races there's two or three states you
can make a big difference if you really
care I should have mentioned this before
Christian piccoli knee is on Twitter
basically asking to crowdsource a
significant amount of money so you can
keep doing the work he does exiting
people from hate organizations
why don't you bright him a million bucks
no kidding
so there it is Howard Schultz we don't
have him to kick around anymore
now folks this is important this is
important stuff as you know Dave Rubin
consider has joined the conservative
online conservative network that
launched such people as Gavin McGinnis
that promotes the homophobia of Stephen
Crowley a Crowder steven crowder Crowder
and he is here is dave rubin
returning to the grid after 33 days
haven't been paying attention to
anything at all no he does not look
relaxed and he is talking about this new
technology that he's developed that is
basically patreon but just for himself
and how he is going to open up and now
folks the the gist here is for for dave
rubin is that well
you know the that he's gonna keep the
trolls out and we're gonna address that
but here's David well left a draw and
all that so the big debate which
philosophically which we've hit on here
a couple times for me has been do you
get the government involved or not so
without rehashing that whole
conversation and you know my preference
is that I would not want that right I
did what I thought was the right thing
which is I started a tech company about
six months ago and we got I went to
literally one investor one investor I
got investment I started it with a with
a really great startup guy that I know
and we are building a seriously awesome
what will first be a Reuben Report app
so we're building it because what I
thought was I can't solve everyone's
problems first I want to solve my
problem first I want to make sure I can
always communicate with my audience I
want to make sure my audience can be
communicating with me I want my show
what what he needs is some form of like
a communication that goes back and forth
but I am NOT going to cut it neither
phones there's got to be something like
a like a forum a forum we're gonna
develop something like a forum but it's
gonna be better than I it's gonna be
like up like a private forum like almost
like a it's gonna be discordant in some
way it's gonna be like a discord this is
literally listening to him talk is like
is like a conversation about like the
founding of like the well community in
the 1980s if it was done by an
incredibly stupid person it's it's like
acknowledge II being in vision that
doesn't exist yet by an idiot I think
it's because his reddit looks something
like this with things oh wait wait wait
wait they keep that don't don't step on
this let's start with this so here he is
this is like imagine this is like what
you're about to hear now and it's he
describes his new technology that he's
developed it's literally like me showing
up one day and going folks I've got a
new idea what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
get a backdrop behind me and I'm gonna
get a microphone and I'm going to opine
about of various different things and
I'm gonna do it every day at the same
time we're gonna stream it
through video and that's what we've
developed but here he goes can't solve
everyone's problems first I want to
solve my problem first I want to make
sure I can always communicate with my
audience I want to make sure my audience
can be communicating with me I want to
make sure my videos can be posted and if
people actually subscribe they can see
them and not be manipulated I want to
figure out ways to have real community
building where audience members can
communicate with each other like the
temperature of censorship or being
correctly I want to figure out how to
anonymize that properly so that
subscribers because you know if you have
a subscription service you've eliminated
99 positive choice we'd say you can say
he said I want to learn how to monetize
that properly I'm not exactly sure what
that means I mean the membership models
pretty swell set I mean is he talking
about he wants a smaller processing fees
or but we find out what it monetizing it
properly means may figure a price point
that will make it hard for people who
want to troll me but because look at
let's go to his reddit thing this is the
problem this is really the problem that
Dave Rubin has in his own reddit it's
not he doesn't own it but it was one
that was supposedly built to promote him
people are mocking him constantly which
is really rude things like lol how can a
grown adult working in media current
events go off the grid
you could truly tell how much Dave Rubin
cares about what's going on in the world
that he goes off the grid and doesn't
watch the news once what an effing
steven crowder still thinks Hitler was a
liberal socialist Rubin panders to his
boomer Mogga audience with the lame
plastic straw joke let's see what else
he's got
definitely not staged yes I was true
laughs the grid with no phone or news
for 33 days right okay I mean this is
his fans but let's go back and we need
to hold on let's let this run a little
bit
they can see them and not be manipulated
I want to figure out ways to have real
community building where audience
members can communicate with each other
without fear of censorship or being
current I want to figure out how to
monetize that properly so that
subscribers because you know if you have
a subscription service you've eliminated
99% of the trolls because you can say a
lot of things about the trans control
chief and the trolls are nobody's gonna
pay me to troll me but if you subscribe
to me they will well if you do that's
what I'm not creating a platform for
everyone where I'm gonna be hurting your
free speech I just won't take your money
and bye-bye you're gone
so I think okay pause now wait a second
didn't he just say 15-20 seconds earlier
that we're gonna have a way of
communicating without any censorship or
anything like that I mean didn't he just
say that and so now he's saying that
well I'm gonna weed out the trolls now
look folks I'm not gonna promise
anything right now because I want to see
what these price points are but I think
it's very possible that what we're going
to do because look I feel somewhat
responsible because I think you know we
here at this show and you've used this
platform in some way to to at the very
least forced Dave to come clean with the
fact that he's actually you know a
conservative or at the very least his
show I don't know what he is in his
personal life I don't know if he has any
I'm married to a man there ya know
without getting into identity politics
I'm gay marry without getting into
identity politics
he definitely shares some libertarian
philosophies but his show is geared
towards presenting primarily
conservative views I mean that's why
he's on the blaze and if that in any way
inhibited his financial growth I feel
horrible about it and so what we are
probably going to do and we need to wait
until the app is rolled out is I think
every week we're maybe
we'll do a little contest or something
where someone wins a six-month
membership to the Dave Ruth competition
would start kicking in that's right and
we're gonna do that
we do that for you know couple couple of
months it's gonna cost some money it's
gonna cut into the college fund for the
kids but I'm sorry baile
I'm glad you terrorized this dad's
algorithm I'm not going to I'm not going
I read Xena Sweeney Prussia up on
competition anybody does anything other
than enjoy the show get in there and
leave some comments and if they're
positive comments build community build
soul community it's our look there's
also there's also been talk that what
will happen is people will join his
discord or whatever it is and be like a
sleeper cell and you know just inhabit
there for a couple of weeks or months
and then start doing it and look I
understand I don't think this is gonna
be a problem a lot of people said to me
like oh but wait a second if Dave thinks
there's a bunch of people in his discord
that are actually like trolls he's gonna
have a trigger hair finger to ban people
who criticize him at all and that he
could get confused he could actually be
banning some of his own fans and hello I
just don't think that's gonna happen
he's banning them for freedom of speech
I mean do we think if trolls are cheap
do we think this community cost more or
less than a billboard in Los Angeles
well I mean the Billboard I think he
already happened is instance just to
give you a sense of Dave's emotional
state with regards to the reddit I think
we this this exchange that I just sent
you guys between James Day more
innocently questioning Dave Rubin and
Dave's now James Day more is Google got
the Google guy were they on it would
stay more on the show yes oh get this
out verse 13 seconds yourself ready and
they seemed to sort of angry I don't
know well I don't even want to get into
that there were that wasn't my my own
thing yeah it doesn't matter because no
matter their warning contents under
pressure the bullfrog on his bullfrog
was very talented bullfrog that was all
the way from January that's who did the
Mr fun knowledge mix all right and since
we're on the take are we gonna let this
go a little more is there any more to
that no I think that's it anyways
can we talk about the complications of
Hitler now I'd like to talk about Hitler
now and how he doesn't get enough credit
for this I don't know credit cuz a
couple weeks ago there's this woman
marianne williamson saying that slavery
was so bad I was like what it's kind of
offensive the Holocaust but now I'd like
to take the other track and see maybe
Hitler did some things that we need to
talk about now let's talk about the the
new strategy of the left of Kevin Sorbo
if you believe Kevin Sorbo what's going
to happen is the anti Phi is going to
take over everywhere and is going to
drive everyone out of the suburbs and
they're gonna have to take their weapons
hell yeah bench Bureau the intellectual
pillar of the new right in this country
we get one of these every three or four
years they just cycle through bench
Bureau announces to the world based upon
the daily wires piece this is his outlet
Walmart caves too far left
stop selling ammo and guns and
interesting that that they they perceive
it to be the far left but you know I
think there may be probably a broader
audience that is a little bit upset at
the mass killings that have taken place
in Texas just in the past
weeks or all around the country but I
will credit conservatives with at the
very least not wanting their children to
be shot or their family members to be
shot
sometimes the calculation that they're
willing to you know increase that risk
by allowing for guns doesn't make much
sense but nevertheless I don't think
they're happy about it and so Walmart
has responded in the marketplace right I
mean when we talk about the marketplace
when anybody talks about the marketplace
this is supposedly the the wonder of the
market if your consumers don't want you
to sell something they're gonna express
it in multiple ways and you make a
decision is it worth my while
I mean in fact all the libertarians will
tell you there won't be there wouldn't
be any racism if we didn't have a Civil
Rights Act because people would boycott
those you know those lunch places that
don't serve black people now of course
in practice we know that's not the case
what happens you know when Chicka filet
was even was you know funding and
anti-gay organizations there was a lot
of people who rallied and specifically
went to chick-fil-a but nevertheless ben
shapiro has a problem with what's going
on with wal-mart he says the left has
found a new way of in the plant
implementing policy from the top down
this policy presumably is we don't want
big-box stores selling guns without the
use of government simply pressure
massive corporations to do their
political bidding now i don't know if
there was a boycott here or what he goes
on to say this is a dangerous precedent
and adds to the continuing polarization
of the country are we now going to have
politically segregated big-box stores
now what's fascinating about both of
these tweets
is he perceives pressure on massive
corporations as a national policy on
some level it's really just one store
that is not selling stuff it is a
corporation deciding it's not in their
best interests to sell these baby
killing machines and these people
killing machines to people it's a
dangerous precedent now can we look up
what precedent means can we look up what
precedent means because I'm curious
precedent I thought meant let me read
this it says an earlier event or action
that is regarded as an example or guide
to be considered in subsequent similar
circumstances in other words when he
says this is a precedent that would be
this is the first time that this has
happened and it's going to end up being
something that happens in the future
that political groups are going to
pressure businesses to do something that
reflects their values let's see well
let's do can we Google it before we even
get to this this this era I want to just
go the the let's see okay let's just
Google let's google conservative boycott
from what's the most recent one like
just today if we were to just google
conservative boycott let's see we got a
brief history of batshit conservative
boycotts boycott lists for conservatives
boycott left-wingers dot-com that's an
actual website that has a list click on
that let's see what we get here
okay this is updated oh this is as
recent as here it's slide it over I
can't see the thing can you slide it
over you
go okay we have oh now they haven't done
anything since January of 2019 added
Gillette for their man-hating
commercials added Nike for honoring
Kaepernick added in-and-out burger a
burger to the support list added
MasterCard to the boycott list for
attempting to silence conservatives
added Publix to the support list Waffle
House removed from the support list
because their gun free policy coolers
added to the boycott list Yeti coolers
adidas added to the list for supporting
an American hater Ace Hardware moved
from boycott to support I don't know if
I call myself an American hater now this
is weird
because based upon the definition of
precedent we're actually going back in
time to establish this as a pattern can
we go back to the google list maybe this
is just something that's recent and it's
so close let's go to January 2011 to
January 2016
conservative law a launch boycott of
Mozilla after gays press CEO I don't
even know what the rest of that is
freedom from facebook wants
conservatives to boycott conservative
groups call for a national boycott of
Girl Scouts five corporations that
should be blacklisted by conservative
rights townhall in 2013 that's weird
boycotted advertises matters help but
stop fake news back in 2015 why
conservatives shouldn't boycott Chipotle
they must have been cutting Chipotle a
conservative op-ed promotes a boycott of
a hundred and forty seven-year-old
student newspaper there you go
wait a second let's just go back in time
even to 2006 to 2010 we have boycott
movement against Jim Crow streetcars oh
that's not bad Christian let's say
boycott Christian conservative boycott
of Disney back in the time GM bailout
call a triggers calls for boycott from
the conservative right why I'm done with
a whole
foods there you go ladies and gentlemen
the idea that that in some way it's a
precedent for people and there was no
boycott for Walmart it was just pressure
and who is he defining as the top in
that I feel like we might need to look
up what that means to the top would be
of course down the power and I guess
he's saying that Walmart consumers are
the elite in this country who are
forcing this change there you go
once again the pillar of the
intellectual right in this country bench
Bureau shows you know it's not gonna cut
it
hey jab the ball on that one a little
bit oh and this lastly let's to get to
this clip and then we'll just take some
ions and get the heck out of here Fox
News Fox and Friends they want to
promote this notion of basically I don't
know if there's like a Kevin Sorbo movie
Pro tie in but they're talking about how
everyone is outraged by this sort of
rash of of attacks on the New York
Police Department people are throwing
milkshakes at them and dairy products
they can't go anywhere without it
this is just and it's because the
Democratic Party is promoting this and
of course New York is pretty heavily
Democratic state and that's why this it
must be one would imagine this would be
completely rampant where people are just
like for no reason at all just go throw
a milkshake out a cop day
oh and by the Clinton Global Initiative
he's like a black power and so Fox and
Friends this big assembled a whole
studio full of New York City for
responders because they care except of
course when the Republican Party was
standing in the way of funding the 9/11
Victims Fund ok greedy but first
responders that's such a good umbrella
term to include the cops we got people
we actually like yes there's people who
save people from buildings that are
burning and there are people who go and
harass kids on the street but
nevertheless they assembled all of them
in the studio and they really wanted to
drop the bomb we're gonna show America
how horrible the Democratic Party is by
encouraging all these people to pick on
first responders here is Steve Doocy
they always give do see the the job
because he doesn't care at the end he's
like I whatever I can't even believe I'm
here
can we see the hands of the people here
today the first responders in law
enforcement who have encountered
anything like that in the last year or
so in New York or wherever you are with
water hit with milk disrespected taunted
alright know anyone that has well that's
good alright well let's talk let's talk
a little bit yeah let me tell you let me
tell you what was good about that no one
raised their hand there was one dude far
in the left hand corner you see him like
right if you look at far and left the
corner sort of like half-heartedly right
wait are we supposed to raise our hands
and there was nobody else nah I'm it's
been fine I saw a very rude Twitter
comment yeah aren't we supposed to
aren't we then the guys told me not to
slam his suspects head against the roof
of my car I felt very threatened
by that people want to fire officer
Pantaleo that triggers a PTSD response
to me because I could have just as
easily been being the one choking out
the fat black guy so does a lot there's
a lot of adventure motional imagery of
the job so mow raise my head by bad
haunted here's when he tries here's how
he tries to save it like he gets faced
and then he tries well let's see if we
can get something that's even vaguely
remotely
elevant to the spot that we've used to
lead this Inn in New York or wherever
you are with water hit with milk
disrespected taunted alright know anyone
that has have you heard any stories did
you hear our report when we claimed it
did you hear what we were saying 20
seconds ago and nobody okay well that's
good alright well let's talk let's talk
a little bit just generally who would
like to talk on TV right now I would
imagine everybody where's Gerard
Gerard's over here on the end all right
George yeah we got yeah anybody want to
talk about this no I just you know they
told us we had to come here so it's
we're getting paid so you know yeah not
really I mean you know because you look
at something like Pantaleo you know
there but for the grace of DeBlasio go I
write I know the the police union told
us it was important to come to to crap
on de Blasio but I don't have any
stories I just you know just want to say
I was on TV so one time this woman was
telling me not to drag a kid off of the
squad car that yelling was so loud about
it like hard dudes Rumble what not for
fun yes that was traumatic there was a
week where I had to say like what what
did you say
I couldn't yeah yeah okay so there it is
ya know move on chief show's over
yeah shows up show's over those we
appreciate your work in that we that
Mitch McConnell signed off on the first
responders bill thank you thank you for
that thank you for one interference for
that all right let's uh let's go to the
IMS and then we're gonna get out of here
Worcester Polly Crone appleís that is a
joke on the Worcester Polytechnic
Institute the real Worcester heads that
yeah Kevin Sorbo is currently famous for
the God is not dead film series along
with fellow superhero Dean Cain but more
importantly are you stoked about the
boss Sox moving the farm team from Rhode
Island that a taxpayer-funded stadium
Worcester during the offseason
this has been a big struggle for me
because yes I'm psyched
no I don't think there should be a
taxpayer-funded stadium they just don't
but yes I would be lying if I didn't say
that I'm not psyched about the paw Sox
they're coming
unfortunately they're beginning to be
called the whoo Sox they should be the
ones but apparently they calling the
whoo Sox I don't get it cuz they don't
want to say whoa dumb dumb kid bad
people call it the BoSox bad marketing I
mean you know what you're totally right
well calm the Warsaw we should go to
some more iamps
JJ cool I want to point out that
innovation isn't something that only
comes from the private sectors in Warren
Warren's world view defaults to the
market first while Sanders recognized
the problematic nature of market first
solutions I mean I think that's accurate
I think that's accurate I mean and I I
don't think obviously Sanders doesn't
doesn't believe that in everything he's
not calling for the nationalization of
everything but I think it's just a
question of in what instances are
eliminating markets relevant and I think
in the context of delivery I don't see
why you wouldn't nationalize because
there's not necessarily a ton of
innovation that has to go into that as
far as I can tell maybe there is but
maybe in the last mile you know there's
an argument as to how it gets into the
houses but I don't see that and I could
see maybe in the first mile like we have
a new technology in terms of solar or we
have a new technology in terms of wind
that's conceivable to me I don't I don't
know that industry well enough but in
terms of like the pipes that get to the
house I guess you could argue that it's
so have
regulated that it's that there's really
not a lot of stuff that's going on there
but you know why don't we just get that
profit why don't we just kick that
profit back into into society certainly
the infrastructures all seems to me to
be have paid off at least in terms of
that stuff and but but I also think that
there is an argument that that is a
second order problem I don't know that
you would get is if this is based on the
assumption that you would eliminate
fossil fuel sourced energy that I don't
know that you're gonna get any
significant beyond that I don't know
that you get any significant value in
terms of of climate change to
nationalize you know you know places
like National Grid odd homonym Sam since
you and Michael are never going to do
your basketball game or boxing match or
whatever it was yes we will you should
do competitive eating eating match sharp
Ling was recently talking on the best
show about you and Benjamin thinking
about doing one years ago and I think
you probably tie in a sponsor for blue
apron presents or whatever why would
blue apron want a sponsor such a
disgusting yeah I think so
if Jeremy Renner's app couldn't last
there's no way Dave Reubens will well
all Dave Rubin is talking about
developing is what Kyle has developed
for us it's fans not FM we'd like an
add-on for a forum that's all that's a
battery I'm with the Terms of Service
Agreement that you cannot disagree with
but you're just a moderator that
basically says we're gonna fire you Alec
a chef is gonna be moderating the chat
for any language or anything anything
insulting to me I oh that's the weekend
hashtag man train boy you got a good
point matt has a week in half yeah Dave
Reubens tos Dave Romans Terms of Service
hashtag Dave Reubens tos and you can
suggest your own clauses that should be
in the Terms of Service
but listen but listen listen I want to
make something clear if you on that
hashtag
Dave Reubens TOS which
you'll probably end up seeing all I can
say is just be careful about saying that
there's some type of you heard of some
type of rumor about people who are going
to buy into his thing and be sleeper
cells cuz that's gonna make him very
nervous and uptight about the whole
thing
and it's gonna expend a lot of resources
beliefs so please just real easy
don't him to worry train boy I wonder if
Joe Kennedy will face the same wrath
from the DSCC that insurgent candidates
are promised when the primaries when he
primaries Ed Markey from the right no
kidding
vote for Ed Markey ridiculous ridiculous
vote for ED mark it shouldn't even be
close pajama boy hi Sam I represent a
prominent Christian film company and
know you've been looking for work since
Bob's Burgers keeps giving you the shaft
we've been trying to break into a new
genre with Christian horror and want you
to star in our first film where aborted
fetuses come back to kill the mothers
who aborted yeah that's a little bit
shows it serves the devastated right
those fetuses well cut back you just
relax again your abortion I love giving
wishes because it's empowering to women
calling from Nebraska psorbos loud even
want to go down that road so are both
last film let there be light was gold
it's every suburban night's
manifestation of an atheist liberal a
divorced author became an atheist due to
God taking his precious baby boy from
him he has a black woman publicist a
Russian girlfriend and a gay British
assistant as well Shore boasts character
sees the light after a drunk driving
accident and reconnects with his wife
who arranges a meeting with a former
wise guy turned pastor pastor Vinnie
pastor Vinnie illustrates how Jesus was
whacked and is our Savior the movie ends
with a Hannity segment where the entire
Christian community shines their cell
phone screens toward the sky so everyone
else can see the light we gotta see this
yeah which that man that sounds
incredible better or will you look that
up
Brendan Burrell let there be light hey
Sam it's Beto I just like to say you
laughed when I asked you to join my
campaign and now you're
tulsi is gone yang is next then Bernie
maybe if your viewers asked nicely I'll
make war my VP battle 3.0 oh my god just
give up and move into my basement please
rube daven our people upset about the
2016 rigging also upset about losing
money in casinos David Feldman's sound
board people do need to remember that
over three hundred thousand three
hundred registered Florida Democrats
voted for George W Bush in 2000 hypnotic
genes what was the name of the song
before the Dave Roberts interview oh it
was them changes by Thundercat
bender dad thanks for the shout out and
shofar on Tuesday I'm cured wow that was
easy
dingo ate my baby Matt I agree that to
terrestre Oregon origin freak and
unconventional flying objects is a
possibility I think it's possible the
universe doesn't need more than one
planet with conscious beings and wear it
but I think it may underestimate how
astonishing a terrestrial origin would
be in over s rates the same for external
origins either way
something amazing is happening with
potentially world-changing implications
if made public yeah let's see it
bench P ro puberty blockers I've noticed
that Michael Brooks is a contributor on
the Mr page but he calls himself a
co-host a lot on your show and on his
own right it's up with that that's a
good question I am literally a co-host I
host on Thursdays are you getting it
logic like the the rat community in this
audience we've leave believe me we've
joked about that quite a bit when your
absence before anybody ratted you out
TV TV show recommendation Vikings on
Amazon video may the gods bless the
majority report
Sebastian Gorkhas pain free back
listening to Matt's podcast on Rutger
Bregman I heard him mention Wolfpack and
how a constitute convention could be
overrun by conservative ideas I heard
this yet zank is adamant that you would
only vote on one thing any clarification
it is my opinion that jenk is wrong that
the three or four
constitutional professors some of whom
were quite esteemed who have opinions on
this have opinions on this but it has no
bearing as to what could actually happen
in this situation I mean you know I was
out in front of the Supreme Court
adjacent doing interviews when they were
looking at the ACA and I spoke to half a
dozen very prominent constitutional law
professors who were talking about the
ACA case and they all thought the idea
that you couldn't force States to expand
Medicare Medicaid in the way that they
did was laughable like they literally
said like good and then there's this
part but that would be crazy and so you
just don't know in this environment with
a conservative dominated Supreme Court
and also legislatures that are you know
some that are gonna sign are gonna be
dominated by Republicans which way it
would go that's that's the only thing I
just don't think it's a slam-dunk I
think it's very dangerous to open up
that gaben Iowa at the end of that Dave
Roberts interview was such a bummer all
that look how inefficient this
government is do you really want them
taking stuff over his pure libertarian
garbage I guess that's why we should
expect from Vox at this point but still
well but no I think the idea is I mean
from his perspective and I think there
is something to be said about this I
mean I frankly I think you know you I
don't see where there would be an
ideological frame to this but I could
see it possibly there would be attempt
to privatize it but I think the idea is
that you see what Donald Trump is doing
to the the EPA there's an argument that
you wouldn't want a Donald Trump to be
able to control this stuff but I think
if you set up an agency in such a way
that it's doing it you know like I don't
know if the Department of Energy is
being the way that we're storing nukes
is being well I mean that's just yeah
yeah I don't know but secret identity
politics there's a great Christian movie
on YouTube called the life zone
featuring Robert loggia it's a pro-life
horror movie and it's free to watch that
evangelical Christianity is poison but
their movies are the funniest things out
there there won't be any problem you
just have that abortion it'll be great
random you guys should add a Bernie drop
to the rotation of sound drops maybe
make something a little sassy Lou Lily
very thank God Schulz dropped out no
kidding all right three more Christian
in Chicago let's just the link will do
three more Winnipeg Craig Sam you're
running out of time to cover the
Manitoba election it's this Tuesday the
race is going to come down to a race
between the NDP and the Conservatives in
Winnipeg suburbs cross your fingers and
remind you of numerous Manitoba
listeners to get out and vote and DP a
square mat let me echo John from San
Antonio kudos on the deep archive
selection these were Brandon's the
review of Obama 2000-2004 dem convention
speech was apropos also for the partial
mirage that we were served that we were
all so hungry for that hopi changing
thing sam great interviews in thread
last week thanks for giving us great
content
did you see Tim Carney piece on keeping
racists out of the Republican Party I
saw the headline I meant to read it but
I was just like oh yeah you know that's
the worst thing to look at when you're
when you're basically a you know
listening to a podcast on the Civil War
like you realize
Barney sandals huge props to Bill Burton
still drifting the hell out of Howard
Schultz class hero and the final I am of
the week
[Music]
my kid Teddy whose progress I've shared
with Sam over the years as he is the
same age as my Allah is also two days
into high school coincidentally nearby
the MRR headquarters at Brooklyn Arts
High School oh that's great time flies
Sam how is your daughter doing so far so
far looks good those Red Dawn bits with
Maren were great then are even more not
wrong now see you Monday
[Music]
no son
[Music]
I was I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no blockage chicken
[Music]
I did somewhere the choices made option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
Jeter takes yeah
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
