actually saying Burnie closed this I
think in a very powerful way with a
message of solidarity and compassion are
you willing to fight for that person who
you don't even know as much as you're
willing to fight for yourself
are you willing to stand together and
fight for those people who are
struggling economically in this country
are you willing to fight for young
people drowning in student debt even if
you are not
are you willing to fight to ensure that
every American has healthcare as a human
right even if you have good healthcare
are you willing to fight for frightened
immigrant neighbors even if you are
native-born are you willing to fight for
a future for generations of people who
have not yet even been born but are
entitled to live on a planet that is
healthy and happy because if you are
willing to do that if you are willing to
love if you are willing to fight for a
government of compassion and justice and
decency if you are willing to stand up
to Trump's desire to divide us up if you
are prepared to stand up to the greed
and corruption of the corporate elite if
you and millions of others are prepared
to do that there is no doubt in my mind
that not only will we win this election
but together we will transform this
country thank you all by the way looking
very good
I've guys looked very good since this
heart attack it's almost bizarre he
looks great I mean he looked the same as
usual which is to say great but he
actually nobody feel he actually has
dropped a few pounds and he look his
face looks like I don't know he looks a
little bit a little leaner a little bit
less red a little bit he's he's he needs
to get that rest Bernie you work your
ass off everybody needs to rest he's
working twice as hard as people half his
age he needs to get a little sleep you
know he puts the rest of us to shame I
wish I had half as much energy as Bernie
Sanders Jesus Christ seriously like I
get tired from doing this part-time job
yeah I remember after the heart attack
happened and they were saying that he
was scaling back his you know ground
operations a little bit they made it
certain outlets made it sound like
oh he's not gonna do anything and then
you know on the ground reporters like no
he's doing more than everyone else yeah
that's right like he's gonna do like
three major rallies a day instead of
five yeah and still fight to end the
genocide in Yemen
