right now I mean it's sort of
interesting and I'm not quite sure if
this is a Republican attempt to seem
reasonable to keep a guy like Chris
Murphy from getting out ahead of this
maybe it's there is I'm not quite sure I
don't know if it's because we have an
impending massive catastrophe in Yemen
with a a famine that has been unrivaled
in this century within a century not
even in this century within a hundred
years but and maybe just killing and
dismembering a Washington Post columnist
is just a bridge too far
incidentally Donald Trump floated the
idea of a rogue killing he didn't want
to get into the mind of of NBS but it
might be a rogue killing I think he said
the other day and then apparently the
Saudis were leaking that they were
contemplating now pretending that it was
a road killing despite the fact for the
past two weeks they've been insisting
that Khashoggi left the embassy which is
a weird thing to circle and square it's
also weird to like oh my god we
accidentally killed this guy while we
were torturing him before we rendered
him so what do we do to make up for it
oh I know let's chop up his body into
pieces apparently that's the that's the
line from the White House and from the
Saudis no word on what Thomas Friedman
has to say about this but here is
Lindsey Graham understand put aside the
issue of killing a journalist put aside
the issue of our support for a brutal
bombing campaign of Yemen where
incidentally as a result of Trump
loosening the restrictions on
on targets as a some type of fig leaf to
protect citizens the number of citizens
that we have killed has I think doubled
put all that aside this isn't a personal
offense to Lindsey Graham Saudi Arabia
the Secretary of State is heading over
there now to try to get some answers
about what happened to the Saudi embassy
inside Turkey you know what happened
who's to blame well I know this nothing
happens in Saudi Arabia without NBS
knowing it
who's MBA he's the 33 year old crown
prince who jumped over other people he's
the son of the existing king and I think
he's on a bad track I can never do
business with Aussie right I loved the
idea that he is he has an issue with him
jumping over other people as if this is
like some type of democracy or something
right like you didn't follow the proper
line of Ascension to the dictatorship
it's also that that was a positive for
him when people are running fluff pieces
that he wasn't fitting with traditional
monarchy protocol because he was a bold
reform the only man good job he's being
right he's completely disruptive he's
very disruptive to the Saudi monarchy
that's why through a bunch of his
relatives in jail and that was reported
positively like okay he's being serious
poker up ssin vs. ha ha
I wonder why like a young aspiring
unhindered instruction might put uncle's
in a you know the team the creative
destruction is with Saudi Arabia again
until we get this behind us right and
what does that mean that means I'm not
going back to Saudi Arabia as long as
this guy's in charge so you're selling
the crown prince has to leave this up to
them but I'm not going to I've been
their biggest defender on the floor of
the United States Senate this guy is a
wrecking ball he had this guy murdered
in a consulate and Turkey and to expect
me to ignore it I feel used and abused I
was on the floor if I understand Lindsey
Graham correctly the all the other
things that that NBS was considering
when he was going to kill this guy
putting aside everything that's
happening Yemen
according to Lindsey Graham that NBS
didn't stop and say well Lindsey think
about
yes this was Khashoggi should have said
the guys were torturing and murdering
him that this would be very
disrespectful to Lindsey Graham please
stop or I feel used and abused I was on
the floor every time defending Saudi
Arabia cuz there's a good Ally there's a
difference between a country and an
individual the MBS figure is to me
toxic he can never be a world leader on
the world stage what is the president do
you think it's up to the president but
what I would do I know what I'm gonna do
I'm gonna sanction the hell out of Saudi
Arabia you know we deal with bad people
all the time but this is in our face I
feel personally offended they have
nothing but contempt for us why would
you put a guy like me and the president
in this box but after all the president
has done this guy's got to go sorry
Arabia if you're listening there are a
lot of good people you can choose but
NBS has tainted your country and tainted
himself that's up to them so my job this
is so bizarre because Lindsey Graham is
literally going on trying to pitch to
the president what he should say that's
what's going on here I mean we have a I
don't want to say a five-year-old I
think it's closer to a four-year-old in
the White House and Lindsey Graham is
sitting there trying to trying to just
model behavior for Donald Trump but look
the bottom line is Lindsey Graham has
laid down the gauntlet ladies and
gentlemen he is not going back to Saudi
Arabia because that guy has embarrassed
him and we know when Lindsey Graham says
something his word is his bond this guy
is not the type of guy it's not a no no
Fairweather Senator let's play this clip
this is I'm confused wait oh this is
from oh just about a year or two ago
okay
don't believe Donald Trump is a reliable
conservative Republican good luck will
Paul Ryan trying to find a conservative
agenda with this guy and I don't think
that's the temperament of judgment to be
commander-in-chief a lot of my
colleagues will vote for him
enthusiastically some will hold their
nose I just can't go there with Donald
but senator oh oh and now he's his
biggest fan so he's literally one of his
prime advocates in all of Congress so
would you say Lindsey Graham is gonna be
in Saudi Arabia by early December or do
you think this will be he'll wait until
mid-december yeah he seemed really peppy
there so but on the other hand I'm gonna
you know what it's gonna depend on how
savage the winter is in DC that's how he
has nice weather and I will reserve
judgment to find out if it's gets rainy
and cold just keep me in the loop just
keep me in the loop on the weather
forecasts are eight months from now now
what could be what NBS is doing
