[Music]
let's go let's briefly you know we're a
little bit I appreciate your hanging
with me here so we go through this and
really in many respects sander sanders
starts his campaign as and as a as an
issue campaign he does much better than
he thought that he would it seems to me
and it seems like somewhere around
January of 2017 or 2018 or sixty excuse
me sixteen he realizes like I could win
this but it's basically too late in many
respects right for him to you know you
needed to go back in time and have had
laid some groundwork for you know
because winning a campaign is extremely
difficult but what comes out of this is
a huge mass of energy that gets
dispersed into different organizations
and different techniques of raising
money and it shows that someone can go
and raise money without having to have
corporate interests and let's just just
tell us a story about the Justice Dems
which came out of which is like I don't
know a third generation or second
generation sort of Sanders people and
and what what decision they made that
ultimately proved to be the right one
yeah what was cool about this crew is
that a normal campaign wouldn't have
hired really any of them for the most
part but the Sanders campaign and Becky
bond was one of them talked to me about
this said that you know they they had a
real hard time hiring professional
campaigners and consultants because
anybody who worked for the Sanders
campaign was gonna be blacklisted a
Clinton dominated party going forward
you know Jeff Weaver came out of you
know he had gone to run a comic book
shop retired from politics and came back
to run the campaign and then this this
crew that gets into what
they end up calling distributed
organizing which is basically taking the
Sanders volunteer army and putting them
to work doing you know door knocking
text messaging house parties and you
know turning all that energy into voter
contacts that team is people like Becky
bond and Zack actually both exact in
particular was influential nadine
campaign so like you said like the very
a lot of the very same people who were
involved in the beginning were are still
doing a lot of this today then you had
corbin trent who was a food truck food
truck operator in tennessee and you had
Troy Koch Chakrabarty who left Silicon
Valley he was an engineer at stripe
payment processor he became he becomes
like an engineer for this team and then
you had movement people like Zack Malick
and Clare Sandberg who I come out of
occupy anti-globalization movement not
not the kind of typical like work for a
campaign you work for a state
legislative campaign and then a
congressional campaign that has that a
campaign that a presidential and so
because of that they all thought very
differently about how to organize the
campaign and they really had only
figured it out like you said by January
something like 85 to 90% of the voter
contacts that their operation made and
they made millions tens of millions came
after in after January so kind of too
late for it to work but in in 2016 then
after that the campaign is winding down
they could go out and they form this new
group that they call brand new Congress
where they're trying to elect 435 new
members and they they go to janked Weger
and they say hey you think TYT would
want to the TYT viewers would want to
support something like this and he's
like this idea that you're gonna run
Bernie style candidates in a Republican
primaries is nice but it's crazy because
yes the the economic popular
them works with Republican voters but
they'd have to be anti-choice it has to
be anti-gay like we're not we're not
supporting candidates like that that's
not going to work that's crazy
he's like other Democrats all right that
could work and so they say well what if
we what if we split it up and and so
they carved the Democrats out and called
them Justice Democrats and Jake said
okay that you know that we can get
behind and so he you know he promoted
them heavily on TYT and and TYT guru
kolinsky as well got involved in that as
well yeah yeah huge and and they pumped
more than two million dollars you know
to kind of get them off the ground and
then their idea that they were gonna run
these candidates in every district you
know did didn't pan out
they wound up with several dozen and
then all those several dozen most of
them were struggling and so they they
pivoted at the end said listen you know
let's pick one and go all-in and they
and they picked Ocasio Cortes and then
she you know remained loyal to a lot of
the to to the idea and so you know her
victory speech that night talking about
Ayanna presley and cory bush and so they
so they ended up winning Ayanna presley
cory bush they did not and so they so
they going for 435 I guess they wound up
for the couple no they had also gotten
in behind people like where she had to
leave in HoN Omar in blue districts but
yeah so this was without the Sanders
campaign you absolutely do not get brand
new Congress or Justice Democrats and
you don't get because you Cortes so of
course her selves was and in many
respects that ends up being a very smart
decision right I mean to get her in ends
up having you know the that's a one
pound for pound that ends up paying of
an exponential win there yeah so okay so
ultimately where do you anticipate
things going right now I mean because
the idea is and I know that you've
described this as aspirational the end
of big money and I you know I heard you
talk at a a book talk and if anybody has
the opportunity to go see it
say it say don't miss book talk I should
say but where does that lead now because
we've got Joe Biden does not represent
that right we have many of the
candidates who were struggling who
started off like I'm not going to take
it does well like maybe he is the end of
big money I mean think about imagine
you're the you're the donor class and
you've already lost control of the Trump
wing of the Republican Party and you're
clinging you're clinging to your
relevance in the in the Democratic Party
and the man that you're putting out onto
the field of battle in this in this
climactic final clash between the donor
class and and regular activists your
horse is Joe Biden there's there's
something symbolic in that like it's a
it's representative of the the weak
position that the donor class finds
itself in that that this is who they're
who they're going to ride into into the
final battle but like I said like if if
voters democratic voters decide that he
is the electable one and then he's the
smart choice to be Trump and it will be
less the big-money and more more that
that punditry that voters engage in that
will put him over the top I think the
only way that he stopped as if voters
decide that actually he's not electable
that he's a lousy campaigner that that
he can't he can't take a political punch
and that and that Trump would actually
you know manhandle him in the in the
general election if coders decide that
then I think they start looking at some
other options
how much are and we're sort of pivoting
off of the of the book a little bit here
but how much are the
campaigns like you know I mean sure
there was obviously a push the past week
or two it's hard to know which of these
campaigns are out there sort of like
actively making life miserable for for
Joe Biden but I got to imagine that you
know last week I think was what you know
the worst week that Joe Biden has had
politically since he basically was
picked by Barack Obama to be his running
mate and it was where he you know had to
reverse a position that he had held for
40 years after two days of criticism and
say well it's because of the Republican
in LA it was a pretty lame cover story
actually a piece of the piece the book
rocked him back a little bit - there was
a I pulled up a few quotes from him in
this in the 70s talking about you know
I'm not I'm not responsible for what my
ancestors did 300 years ago you know
this is you know it's not it's not the
white man's problem to you know he
shouldn't have to give anything up
because of you know what happened so
long in the past and then he said you
know the two-party system is clearly
gonna be good for the negro in the south
which is after the Southern Strategy
like Nixon was already employing others
the Republic the second party strategy
was to be more racist than the current
party and so it was a it was that was a
skeptical no no I was a dubious claim to
make at the time and has not been borne
out at all so then you know that that
kind of started him off and then and
then he followed up with this
idem Edmund faith plan which which like
like that like if you're the
electable guy you can show that you're
good at getting elected well that is
like the meta story right because with
him it's all the meta story and so every
time he backs off a position it shows
weakness like there isn't been round
other candidate as far as I know that
has had to back off a position yet or at
least so publicly anyways and he had to
do that because it it suggested that he
had some weakness and when when that
starts to come out it becomes
self-perpetuating I think right at if he
loses let's say he loses in Iowa that's
that it's worse for him than it is for
anybody else right because like you said
like his whole thing is that he's a
winner and and he should win the
nomination because he's a winner and he
will beat Trump but if you don't win in
Iowa and you don't have anything else
then it starts to fall in on itself
