[Music]
this is really nice you have a Rand Paul
here is at the vaccines and public
health hearing in the Senate and this is
highly problematic as you know measles
was wiped out in this country some 30
years ago and has returned and there is
particular concerns that it is going to
return with a vengeance when we get into
spring which is apparently the season
where it has its most ability to spread
there's some theory out there that you
know after a certain period of time
people forget there's an institutional
or you know sort of a generational from
forgetting of just how horrific measles
can be and here is Rand Paul doing his
is his best to justify the spread of
measles that parents who refused to
vaccinate to vaccinate their children
risk spreading these disease to the
immunocompromised community there
doesn't seem to be enough evidence of
this happening to be recorded as a
statistics but it could happen but if
the fear of this is valid are we to find
that next we'll be mandating flu
vaccines between 12 and 56,000 people
die from the flu or a said to die from
the flu in America and there's estimated
to be a few hundred from measles so I
would guess that those who want to
mandate weasel's will be after us on the
flu next yet the current science only
allows for educated guessing when it
comes to the flu vaccine each year
before that year's flu vaccine is or
strain is known the scientists put their
best guess into that year's vaccine some
years it's completely wrong we vaccinate
for the wrong strand of the wrong strain
of flu vaccine yet five states already
mandate flu vaccines is it really
appropriate appropriate to mandate of AK
seen that more often that not vaccinates
for the wrong flu strain as we
contemplate forcing parents to choose
this or that vaccine I think it's
important to remember that force is not
consistent with the American story
that's it for one second all right so
whoo
first off he starts off in his opening
statements here sort of conflating three
or four different principles why we
shouldn't have mandatory vaccinations he
conflates the fact that the measles
vaccination has a success right a rate
that is x4 superior particularly year to
year I don't know what it is well into
the 90s versus the flu vaccine he's
right every year scientists do not know
they just predict what flu strains are
gonna be out there and some years the
flu vaccination is like 50/50 which is
still pretty good some years it's 70%
effective but the measles vaccination is
not 97% 97% but he's conflating these
things as he said as if it's a principle
as opposed to a simple assessment that
he as a doctor should be aware is made
every single day in a doctor's office
right like the potential for you to get
a certain type of cancer is a function
of how much it's been present in your
parents etc etc therefore I as a doctor
would be more willing to prescribe you
getting a subject to radiation to assess
whether or not you have cancer then if
you have no reason no reason for me to
believe that you have an elevated risk
for cancer and so I won't subject you
that to radiation because it doesn't
make sense because I'm weighing that out
that's the the concept that's at work
with vaccinations and then it becomes a
policy because that's the only way that
vaccinations work but let's hear him get
to the to the nub of it this is where he
really needs to deliver this so that his
dad's email business thrives important
that force is not consistent with the
American story nor is forest considered
consistent with the Liberty our
forefathers sought when they came to
America I don't think you have to have
one of the other thing I'm not here to
say don't vaccinate your kids if this
appearing is for persuasion I'm all for
the persuasion I vaccinated myself i
vaccinated my kids for myself and my
children I believe that the benefits of
vaccines greatly outweigh the risks but
I still do not favor giving up on
Liberty for a false sense of security
thank you now the fact of the matter is
that we have multiple examples of our
forefathers engaging in mandatory force
for health right what do we do you have
those examples right there
oh there on the sound sheet okay yeah
quarantine legislation which until 1796
was a responsibility States was
implemented in port cities threatened by
yellow fever from the West Indies oh
well maybe we can just convince people
what about Liberty not to go around with
West Indies it's back in the 1790s maybe
that's not our forefathers weren't doing
then of course they were doing in the
States because there's there's public
policy measures that actually prevent
people from getting sick they didn't
need convincing with the yellow fever
they just said this is the way we're
going to contain yellow fever we're
gonna quarantine people that gives you
even less Liberty definitionally right
you have no are you gonna quarantine
people come back with Ebola I mean this
is just absurd it is such posturing and
it's so stupid the way that he does this
it's all literally all about an email
business that his dad has that he hopes
to inherit first the Senate then dad's
emails even trying to run for president
even my anarchic communist utopia
have vaccine requirements and hopefully
people will believe in less nonsense but
wealthy in my Hanako utopia you sell a
newsletter with secret investor advice
on gold bars that will also get rid of
liver cancer so to each their own
