one more call calling from a five one
eight area code who's this where you
come from
as dan this is Addison from Ohio Addison
what's on your mind so I know you've
been doing dealing with a lot but you
really embarrassed yourself yesterday
and I think we need to just cover this
info real quick just going forward you
don't want to mess this up anymore so
Jamie explained twink yesterday a bear
is a big gay guy like I know what a bear
is very hairy
I know an otter
is kind of like halfway between a twink
and a bear right it's like kind of thin
but usually has a bit of hair and then
you have a trunk and this is kind of a
newer but really important one so it's
kind of like halfway between a twink and
a hunk it's basically like Matt Lex
you're a producer so don't mess this up
anymore okay what am i hi folks Sam
cedar here we still need your help on
our patreon page YouTube ABS have come
back but not nearly as much as we had
before so if you can help us out any
little bit helps head over to our
patreon page right at this URL and
you'll help us keep helping you by
making videos
