from a 5:01 area code who's this where
you come from
Sam this is Blake I'm from Searcy
Arkansas how you doing hello Blake
what's on your mind I wanted to
investigate what you guys are talking
about with the the children's have
ordered a little bit more do you do all
their in the studio agrees that that
illegal should be turned away at the
border or sent back at the very decision
do I think that I don't know what you
mean by illegals do I think the people
who are undocumented if they're seeking
asylum my first response would be no
they should have the right on and they
do under US law to to go through an
asylum process where we determine
whether or not their claims are valid I
would expand the claims particularly
from where they are as of today that
would be valid for those people who are
entering into this country without
documentation it is a civil crime and
should they be deported I mean
personally I think that we have plenty
of space for for new immigrants I do
think that we could be doing more to get
less push going rather than a poll you
know so that people who are coming here
aren't just coming here because they're
trying to escape escape some hard
conditions but they actually have
interest in coming but so but continue
they are well they're undocumented if
they're coming in and they're going
across the border without documentation
they're undocumented but if they're
walking up to the border and they're
saying I'm seeking asylum then though
that term undocumented means nothing
because we have a process of asylum
seekers here you know the idea of like a
Russian athlete a Soviet the Soviet
athlete coming here in 1982 and saying
you know I'm a hockey player but I want
political asylum here and that's going
well you're not
documented as soon as you say that we're
gonna kick you out of the country is
absurd and it's really the same dynamic
well okay so do you believe that these
people that come across since they are
undocumented regardless of what
documents they may or may not have that
it's probably pretty hard to verify that
those children are theirs particularly
if they're teenage children
are you asking me if we can believe that
these children belong to these people
who are coming I would say common sense
says of course is it possible is it
possible this guy's an uncle and this is
my nephew or this is my niece because
his parents or her parents have died and
I am their legal guardian yes I suppose
but the idea that these are these kids
are just randomly paired up with these
people I would find that very very hard
to believe can I give my cousin are you
are you aware that the cartel controls
about 80 percent of the illegal
immigration across the southern border
okay now giving that or even a range
there in would you allow that you know
probably some of these people aren't
exactly telling the truth I would
imagine that yes in any if you collect
any number of people in any circumstance
whether they're a caller to this program
or whether they're going to buy a car or
sell a car or whether they're showing up
at the border seeking asylum that yes
there are certain people who will be
telling lies and not truth in fact if
you just put presidents in a room I
think you'll find people who are telling
lies so if you have if you have a mixed
group of people that may or may not be
telling the truth
with accompanied or unaccompanied minors
someone across the southern border which
at this point happens to be a crime what
now excuse me sir excuse me we define
crime for me with that define what you
mean by crime because uh that is no
proper feature to come into this country
when you come into this country for the
first time without documentation it is a
civil violation a crime right no no I
don't know you call that a crime I don't
know is it a crime to get a speeding
ticket
you committed a credit court you pay you
pay if I'm it goes on your record
speeding tickets a crime okay that's a
pretty broad definition of crime but
okay but but even if all these you ever
spat before have you ever spied before
you ever gotten a speeding ticket
look at that have you ever gotten a
speeding ticket am i yeah are you
talking to me yes you sir have you ever
gotten a speeding ticket so you're a
criminal yeah you're criminal I just
want you to know I'm gonna just take
what you could your criminal the
criminal okay so tell me you don't worry
about what's coming from the criminal
mind I'll finish the thought so even if
even if all these children belong to the
people who say they do yeah even if they
do regardless of the age and I'm I've
been told I've seen reporting of this is
a lot of teenagers so if they come and
they in their house with their families
how do you how do you segregate a family
or children from other adults who you
may not you obviously don't know the
identity of where they came from
why they're here well this is this is
what you could do I mean if you're
suggesting that it would be really
difficult to in turn these people and
keep these families together this is
what you can do it is exactly what was
done up until about two months ago is
you could put ankle bracelets on these
folks and say do you have a place to
stay yes I do it's with my cousins who
have been living in this country that's
been done there are multiple or
oversight is there to track what may be
excused me a million and a half
immigrants coming across the border if
you have the ability to house them
in pens are you telling me you don't the
ability to put electronic bracelets on
them it would be a holding position
they'll hold position what are you
talking about holding position how long
on the board how long
apparently it's six weeks now is it six
weeks I think it's not even a longer so
why they are yeah whether or not they're
asylum claims are legit there's a court
process for that right so so going back
to what I said at the very least of all
my points what do you do with the
children do you have them with them I
just told you that you let the families
go don't excuse me
you let the families go you put a
bracelet on them so that you can track
them and make sure that they come back
for their court proceedings and they cut
it off and you never see them again what
is that that what happens at electronic
pace let's you there a lot of that's the
same scenario that that everybody was
taught up in arms about about the 1500
lost children they were given to family
members and the family members quit it's
in fact it's a different it's a
different situation they were not
obligated to keep in charge of those of
those kids it was a big deal it was
misreported okay here's the thing from
the criminal mind like yours right I
mean you have to committing crimes I
don't know what other crimes you have
but go ahead I bet do you take drugs
have you ever taken drugs you've never
you've never known an age drink before
you were legal when I was eight yes I
saw crime arch arch criminal the
speeding the speeding the criminal stuff
look we didn't have to create
concentration camps for people two
months ago for children so there's no
reason to believe that we need to do it
now right I'm trying
if it was effective before was it well
we had net a little net negative
immigration net negative immigration
across the border okay as if we keep
track of it so you're telling me a
million and a half wait a second a
million and a half people come across
the border but somehow we can't keep
track of it so what is it is it a
million and a half oh we can't keep
track of the inflow and outflow
accurately oh we can just keep track of
the inflow is that it I would assume so
what what do you mean you assume so you
just gave me the number and you told me
we can't keep track of it Sam how many
times you're gonna switch the goalposts
here what I just told you we had net
negative immigration you can google it
and look it up what he told me there's
no way to keep track of that
right after you totally how many are
coming in according to US government the
government you hate you know listen and
you don't believe in the liar in chief
mm-hmm so wait a second so do you not
believe in that liar in chief or do you
have a US government do you hate the US
government No
then why won't you accept their numbers
when they when they say it's net
negative I don't think anybody has an
accurate idea of anything right nobody
has an accurate idea of anything that's
going on except for you believe that and
then you call to espouse some opinion
which is based upon that and you have no
idea about I have no idea about what
anything besides committing crimes sir
I think he's proven that he has can I
blow your mind for a second you are not
you are not equipped to talk about you
fail do do you felt if there's nothing
more to say here and you don't
understand you don't even understand
that you failed like your argument comes
were you talking about what situation
with the children that you guys keep
talking about right and so you're in
favor of locking up children in these
prisons separating from them from people
that you can't verify that are their
parents so leave your argument so let me
just see if I let me just see if I get
this clearly the reason why you think
that these these children should be
separated from their appearances that
you do not believe the claim of
Parenthood should you if they're under
no no no just to answer my question now
the question answer it I just want to
get this straight so that we can bullet
point this for people so when people say
how is it the people justify separating
children from their parents and the
answer can be well this guy doesn't
believe that there are actually their
parents he thinks this is some type of
in remembers happened where whose kids
do you think they belong to how do you
think human trafficking happens I know
how human trafficking happens whose kid
do you think do his kids so you are
suggesting
let me just got this let me get this let
me get this let me get this correct and
frankly a lot of them do have
identification but you don't care about
that so your assumption is that these
kids should be separated because they're
being humanely tracked their human
traffic victims is that it some of them
are how many you you just said you're
making an assertion separator from there
all the parents are in process like a
man and tell me hold on stand up like a
man I'm gonna hang up on you stand up
like a man you stand up like a man you
tell me how many you're saying you're
protecting these kids you tell me how
many of these how many of these kids are
being human traffic tell me right now
do you know you are making the assertion
that any of them are oh no I can't say
it's zero you're making the assertion
I'm saying that if the vast majority of
these kids are who they say alright so
your plan is we're going that's what
we're gonna separate these kids despite
the fact that everything we know about
these kids coming from people are that
they are suffering there you're going to
decide in your mind to justify it that
they are actually being human track
traffic I get news for you you're a
piece of garbage you're a criminal piece
of garbage you're a criminal piece of
garbage hey blow your mind for a second
okay just I just don't know this guy
doesn't I love Italy like he knows for a
fact that they cut off and but does not
know out of here I was gonna tell
him my answer to the first question is
no I don't believe that immigrants
should be turned away at the border I
want to abolish the state so
maybe you should listen to reasonable
folks like Sam before people like me
come along and just say he's just very
butters there's no reason here this is a
sadistic scumbag who's making up reasons
who doesn't have who doesn't even have
the fortitude to stand up and say like
look I don't care about these kids get a
make up some fake some fake
that I'm protecting kids from being
human traffic because these aren't
really their parents there's 2,000
people are coming across with their kids
and they're pretending that these are
their kids because why wouldn't they he
just wants to help the children it's
just I what kind of do you
listen to oh I know what kind of
 you listen to let's play this
 and I would also say one
other thing these child actors weeping
and crying on all the other networks
24/7 right now do not fall for it mr.
president
I get very nervous about the president
grows news from TV because I also have
an idea I don't know if well I don't
know Yorker
is not a conservative publication they
described I told you we wouldn't get
away these kids are being I'm so sorry
we have to go given scripts to read by
liberals according to The New Yorker
don't know all for the after children
with there you go maybe they're all
actors these children this is just a big
casting call what a coward
what an incredible coward you have to be
to call in and tell me that this is
about protecting kids from child
traffickers you got to be kidding me
you got to be kidding me
no I mean okay I forget who said this
but every border implies the violence of
maintaining it it does but in addition
to that there are matters of decrees and
I think we can all acknowledge that's
what's happening now is far worse far
worse than what was happening before but
like this is something that is a problem
with the concept of the state in the
first place and long term horizon like
there's a reason there's a reason why
leftists have issues with borders and
the state to begin with I don't want to
put tracking bracelets on people I think
people have a right to flow wherever
they want to so I listen I have I would
expand legal immigration significantly
we can certainly absorb these folks and
but there is a big gulf between that and
having to you know do this to children
certainly I wanted support that guy
exactly that's what I want I think
people are not focusing on the major
takeaway from that call we need to which
is deport that guy I just can only stay
if it's enforcing crimes against
immigrants yeah that's right
I would actually totally that's that's
the type of third way public-private
initiative that I'll implement on
president
