[Music]
here is uh let's just play this one last
Donald Trump thing get it out of the way
so there one will feel sick here's
Donald Trump he Wow there's two
different things here I guess - is this
the yeah this is just this is Colombia
one of the what are the is this one of
the longest-running sort of like
insurgencies in goes back to think
central seventies yeah in Latin America
yes you would think that when you become
president you get briefed on some of
these sort of like long-standing things
well also there was a peace deal which
has been undermined by a a far-right
government in Colombia so not only is
this long-standing it's actually a
breakthrough that was pulled back on and
Colombia's already been one of the most
violent countries in the region for a
decade it there's a lot to know making
some be a great so nobody Trump they're
definitely making clock you created
right yet Trump was asked about FARC
which is the I guess in Spanish it's a
different but it's the Revolutionary
Army of the Revolutionary Armed Forces
of Colombia
I'm forces of Colombia and their
nickname is FARC and started in there
maybe that's thief or I thought it was
the 70s of 1964 and so Donald Trump is
asked about it and and this is why that
he only does this in front of airplanes
and in front of helicopters is because
they don't want you to hear the question
it's one a part of it and they want to
be able to pretend that he didn't hear
the question and if he gets called on
this none of his supporters care none of
his supporters care at all about this
but it is again this is just historians
are gonna look back at this era and
we'll see you know what happens with
places like Kashmir we'll see what
happens with places like Hong Kong we'll
see what happens throughout Central
America South America
frankly we'll look at the Congo I mean
these are all places that the the
ignorance the incompetence the
ideological the ideology of the Trump
administration we'll see this in Israel
and Palestine their absence their
failures their incompetence which are
not like you know can't we history we'll
be able to assess but this is one of the
things that historians will look back on
and say like for instance here's an
example you know I can imagine the
seminar course right in 20 or 30 years
when when all the implications of like
having no one at the steering wheel of
u.s. foreign policy is in no go here is
here's one example of those people who
make the argument the Trump was just
stupid
Columbia
he's talking about the country of
Philippi
now we have a great relationship and
they have a problem because of n as well
a lot of people are pouring in
but Columbia we've had a great
relationship with going
there you go
I mean it remains to be seen you know
III lump in you know like like a
cashmere and you know the developments
in Syria maybe in the israel-palestinian
situation and Hong Kong and Central and
South America I mean and in Congo there
had been I think there's renewed
fighting there after the Obama
administration Russ Feingold they
basically negotiated peace there in some
instances for worse in some instances
for better but the the complete sort of
just like ghosting of the United States
in the context of of world conflicts is
I don't know I guess we'll find out
if that's what that means I mean here is
a Don Trump being asked about on the
80th anniversary I guess of of the
invasion of Poland he didn't go because
you remember he had to stay at home to
watch the progress of Dorion from the TV
apparently better than I've had internet
connection so I can fight with Debra
Messing on Air Force One right I need to
stay I got her Kent Dorian in 4k right
meanwhile he's easy did like 36 holes of
golf but he didn't go to Poland
that's a tough day 80 year anniversary
of the invasion of Poland the the
invasion of Poland not by like you know
the Beatles but by the Beatles came and
Elvis and everybody had shaggy haircuts
i by the ad did it like german military
and what they would do is they would
shoot people people will get shot and
they would shoot tanks like it it was
extremely back then it was extremely
violent to have your country invaded
by an invading force here's Donald Trump
what's your response on the 80th
anniversary of this invasion where
Poland was invaded yeah I do have a
great message for Poland that we have
Mike Pence our vice president is just
about landing right now and he is
representing me I look forward to being
there soon but I just want to
congratulate Poland it's a great country
with great people we also have many
Polish people in our country it could be
8 million
we love our polish friends and I will be
there soon a lot of people make light
bulb jokes
I won't I want to congratulate
congratulate on your 80th anniversary of
being invaded in fact many of your
population probably emigrated to this
country in part because it was so
destroyed in that invasion and
occupation also congratulations on
having 8 million of you over here -
that's right that's your numbers a
little bit helped me really great really
great we can knock those numbers down
though in our phase two former immigrant
calling that we're going to do there's
so many Polacks that everywhere and I
would tremendous message graduations
congratulations
you can't change a light bulb but you
can get invaded dodge it's just a little
R&R rest of relaxation but I look
there's a big hurricane and that
Debra Messing keeps tweeting at me I'm
sorry go to the phones alive holes with
invasion is too much historical
information from
