I want to play this appeal from the
United Nations from Mozambique there
isn't much to add to this but I just
want to keep this in our awareness at
least there's a cholera outbreak there
now several hundred people have died I
know that there's some South African
true presence and this is a report that
was done on I believe it's the South
African Broadcasting Corporation so
that's South African Public Television
through the UN just to Center Mozambique
for a little bit here the New York has
launched a 282 million dollar appeal for
Mozambique similar Appeals for Zimbabwe
and Malawi will follow in the coming
days the funding is only for the next
three months with the big focus on
hygiene sanitation health and education
for children show and Bryce piece
compiled this report as the death toll
now reaches beyond 750 across the worst
affected countries the immediate concern
is preventing an outbreak of disease and
were thousands either huddled in camps
or schools humanitarian workers are
bracing for the spread of diseases like
cholera or malaria Bera has been
separated so it's been an island the
airport is now working communications
are back up as of this weekend there is
running water which will be extremely
important but we are very worried about
disease what should we be learning from
this we pressed these UN officials on
what the long-term recovery and
development requirements would be one of
the poorest regions of the world the
future will have to be public and
private which is what was the basis of
the Marshall Plan and so to Mark's point
as you're rethinking the economy we have
to try to make sure that these are
knitted together in each country as best
we can and encouraged it
with a need for the agrarian economies
of the region to diversify faster in
order to offset the extreme weather that
will continue to be a common feature
with at least half a million hectares of
agricultural land damaged in Mozambique
alone
how is Malawi and countries like it
going to if going to evolve the economy
to be able to cope better with these
kinds of problems the scale of
devastation extraordinary with entire
communities villages and cities having
to be rebuilt once this phase of the
humanitarian response is complete
Sharon Brice B's s ABC News New York
so the so obviously of course there
needs to be a just immediate
humanitarian delivery but there's a lot
of problems in the assumption of that
report so like as an example we know
that more money migrates off the
continent than goes in because of tax
left and tax shelters and things like
that we also know that yes of course
places like Malawi and Mozambique need
capacity-building to adopt the climate
change but the notion that it's sort of
on them when they are the least of
contributors to the global climate
crisis compared to obviously the United
States or China for that matter and in
addition to that the notion that this is
a question of their own economic
diversification is a profound mystery
ting of all of the systems of
exploitation in the global system that
still operate on Africa and block not
only economic diversification but in
fact even the types of industrially
productive and development moves that as
an example China got to make China got
to break the Washington Consensus and
protect Democrat domestic industries and
manage its growth because they were big
enough to not be bullied by
international organizations Mozambique
in Malawi or not so we create the
broader effects of a catastrophe like
this
