so Sara very happy to have you on the
program
wanted to talk to you really since the
the resolution of the government
shutdown I happen to believe that the
the biggest unsold story of the
government shutdown is the role of of
labor in ending that shutdown and
specifically your Union in that context
but before we get into that story the
tick-tock of that and then I also want
to talk to you about the latest action
you folks are taking in regards to
frontier and then more broadly the union
movement in this country I just tell us
give us some the basic facts of the
flight attendant Union in this country
sure the association of flight
attendants represents 50 thousand flight
attendants across 20 different airline
we were founded in 1945 have the first
contract in 1946 at United Airlines and
we have worked over the years to beat
back all the discriminatory practices
that tried to keep this as a job had
young women have to leave the profession
if they turned age 30 if they got
married if they got pregnant we had to
step on a weight scale until 1993 and of
course originally it was only a job for
women so we also had to fight for the
rights of men to have the same rights as
women on the job and that is our history
today what we're doing is representing
people from all genders races cultures
and creeds
to make up the flight attendant
profession anyone with the heart of a
flight attendant can have this as their
chosen career and we fight for economic
justice on the job and we fight for
safety for our members and for the
traveling public and I imagine the I
mean I can only imagine having just had
experience obviously flying and seeing
my fellow passengers that it's a trying
position at times I imagine that
requires some support in the context of
dealing with management well look I we
wouldn't have this career if it wasn't
for our union we wouldn't have many of
the safety regulations that
wasn't for our union we fought for clean
water on the plane we fought for the FDA
inspection of our food on the planes we
fought for clean air we got rid of
smoking on the planes these were all the
actions of our flight attendant Union
none of this was initiated by management
in some case we brought them to our way
of thinking but none of this would have
happened if it wasn't for our flattest
minute Union all right so let's talk
about your Union in the context of the
the government shutdown I think there
was there was a lot of folks who were
saying over the course of the shutdown
that we weren't really going to see any
type of movement frankly until we
started to see problems in air travel
before you get into the role that that
that labor played why do you think it is
that air travel in particular has the
ability to make people more conscious of
what the government does well look
everybody is connected to air travel and
you can just think about this if you
were alive on 9/11 and the days
immediately following that everyone
would say that they could remember the
quietness of the skies and how strange
that was that we're all used to looking
up at different places all over the
country and seeing planes in the skies
and and our air transportation system is
really what connects our entire country
it's how we move the vast majority of
our mail and services and goods and it
is what people think of as their
connection to their loved ones or to
getting to the important business
meeting or to celebrating a marriage or
to remember those that we love when
they've passed and so this is really
what connects all of us and it is a
common denominator across genders races
cultures and creeds it is a microcosm of
America and every single one of those
metal foods that goes up in the air
every day so alright so walk us through
this because there was a lot of people
who felt that
what we were going to see is that the
the we're looking to are specifically to
the air traffic controllers specifically
as the sort of the the I guess the the
pivot point of of the stability of air
travel and in some ways it ended up
being the air traffic at your air
controllers but it ended up being the
the TSA folks and you folks who sort of
I guess ratcheted up a would tell me
about the dynamic of how this because on
the I remember that morning it was a
Friday morning where there was reports
that LaGuardia had been shut down for an
hour that I think it was in Philadelphia
in Miami and I I I mean at that moment
it was clear that it was just a matter
of time and it ended up being literally
just a matter of hours but what give me
the the sense of the dynamic the
interplay between those different
constituencies who were able to put
pressure on airline travel sure well
first of all airline travel doesn't
happen without an incredible public and
private partnership the federal
government is so completely intertwined
with the private business of the airline
that one cannot function without the
other and so anytime the government shut
down we have opposed that we have
expressed concern it has an impact on
safety and security if you start having
people come to work and telling them
that they're not going to get paid that
has an impact on a distraction on safety
I learn in my flight attendant training
every year the very first thing we learn
is that when you're doing safety
sensitive work you remove all
distractions any distraction can cause a
disruption to safety
so not paying people is a very very
acute distraction and it really created
an unsafe space the other thing that it
did was it stopped all of the
infrastructure planning and the programs
that help support safety and security so
anything that was in process to improve
the safety and security or to upgrade it
or to update it or to fill in staffing
behind of people who are leaving in the
normal course the operation
or medical Reeves or what-have-you none
of that was happening and so every
single day that the shutdown went on
those safety nets that we have the
layers of safety and security that are
there that keep us safe
we're getting stretched further and
further and it was creating holes and it
was creating the possibility of a
catastrophic incident and so every
single day that that happened we became
more and more concerned as flight
attendants and as federal workers they
not only do not have the right to strike
but as we learn from patco in 1981 those
strikers can actually be federally
prosecuted they can even lose their
freedom not to mention losing the right
to have their job or to return to work
in any government position so those
labor laws are really a bismal and if
you think about it in private business
no one would go to work without getting
paid
or being told that they're not going to
get paid that would end on day one for
the two million people who either went
without work or without pay they would
have been given a warm notice of at
least 60 days and been able to plan for
that none of that happened but under
federal labor law these workers didn't
have the right to strike and so it
really required a finding for the public
what was at stake and when you say there
wasn't really any action or a lot of
people said there wasn't going to be
action until this was affecting air
travel what that really means is that
air travel is something that can affect
every single person's self-interest and
they can relate to that
it can be concerned about stopping air
travel and so that is where our politics
converge that is where our interests
converge and what we did spent a lot of
time with the air traffic controllers
and with the transportation security
officers and with the pilots doing in a
partnership between public and private
unions is we defined for the public what
was at stake here and the air traffic
controllers could only do this job for
so long without having those
distractions be such a stressor on them
that they medically could not do that
work and what we told the public was in
any other job if you do your job at
99.5% great of efficiency you are
stellar you are going to get a
words and if the air traffic controllers
come to work and they have a ninety nine
point five percent effective day that
means fifty airplanes go down that day
so this there was a lot at stake here
and we had to define that and so a week
before the flight started to stop at
LaGuardia our union also started to
stand up and say look we have got to
understand really what's at stake here
and we need to talk about a general
strike because if Washington isn't going
to do their job these people are going
to continue to follow through on the
oath that they've given to this country
and go to work and and perform these
safety and security functions but the
same people that they report to are not
going to do their job to make sure that
they have the pay and the support and
the systems up and running to support
the work that they're doing then we've
got to step up and stop everything and
make Washington do its job so we had
been calling for a general strike our
union had been preparing to withhold our
service because we were getting to a
place where this was just simply unsafe
to be on planes and we were very loud
about that and the air traffic
controllers were really only doing what
was within their rights after defining
it so clearly for the American public
and we got the attention because we were
able to as a private union talk about
the fact that we were not going to
continue to go to work under those
conditions
all right well Sara Nelson we got to
take a quick break when we come back I
want to talk more about the the union
movement more broadly and if we are
seeing in this country a renewed sense
that workers have have more power than
they have contemplated in the past and
withholding their labor can they can
promote benefits for the entire society
I also want to talk about what's
happening with frontier air we got to
take a quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
