[Music]
let's let's play a clip this clip coming
out of North Carolina's ninth
congressional district
this story is nuts and it is I don't you
know we bundle together because
obviously it deals with voting in
proprieties what's going on in the
Statehouse and I don't know exactly what
the latest is out of Wisconsin today and
I'm also and I and I did not ask this of
re I meant to and I don't know that he
has any insight into it but the back in
2011 when Scott Walker was passing
through a host of bills that would get
rid of the Wisconsin health care they
had a I think it was called badger care
and also to essentially begin to
dismantle unions in Wisconsin I think it
was 14 Wisconsin state senators left the
state in fact I think that's what that
sign is back there
the Wisconsin 14 never gave up and
neither will we
they left the state and held out for as
long as they could preventing a quorum
now the thing is though is they weren't
gonna wait for four years there was no
way to do that eventually I think state
cops came and found them and brought
them back it seems like and I don't know
and I don't know if any of our our
Wisconsin experts are listening at the
moment if they are text me but it seems
like this might be an opportunity for a
Redux on that leaving the state
you'll you would only have to stay out
of the state and hide essentially you'd
have to hide until Evers took office so
at least there's you know 30 40 days I
imagine these state senators don't want
to miss Christmas with their family
maybe maybe Emily somewhere warm right
pay for all the families to go who knows
so just go someplace somewhere and play
video games well I know that's also why
you probably get a read that's why you
would not be elected no problem there
won't be another quorum I'd be perfect
once I got that wrote a Tuesday ya know
I'm gonna be back to vote for health
care I'm gonna go on the lam this is
this is like the beginning this is like
a like a total early 90s movie I think
we're like Matt's just playing video
games and his roommate you know gets
elected to state state legislature and
then his roommate like is like dude I
get a hideout because I Republican
you've got to be me why the Republicans
are gonna end democracy if you don't be
me for three weeks
okay I'll be you are boring I'm the
state senator I want to write that
screenplay and go back in time I want to
go to a different era where it would be
sellable all right but so out of a so
about a week ago maybe it was two weeks
ago I mentioned that the for some reason
in this district 9 in North Carolina a
race we didn't follow too closely but a
Republican only won by 900 votes the
local Election Board refused to certify
it and there was some implication
because there was one area where there
were problems well apparently and maybe
this has been going on for a while
sort of sounds like there was a practice
well there was a wide disparity in
returns on absentee ballots like in
every other district in the state the
Republican was like averaging around
like I think around twenty percent uh uh
in terms of what they would get in terms
of absentee ballots obviously in North
Carolina where there's been a tremendous
amount of voter suppression Democrats
have been using absentee ballots as a
way of making sure that they get their
ballot in that they know that they can
vote etc etc and so the average is is
that they they're winning in terms of
absentee ballots in this one district it
was a completely the opposite and it was
a little bit suspicious and the the
disparate the Delta the disparity
between the number of people who had
asked for absentee ballots particularly
Democrats and had returned was seemingly
way off and so the reporters from
Channel nine in I don't know where
exactly a North Carolina this is this is
in Bladen County and they were tracking
down people involved who apparently had
been picking up ballots on behalf of the
Republican remark Harris and this is a
reporter Joe Bruno this is the interview
he was doing with a woman that he found
who apparently was handing was picking
up the ballots so
my Baker and hires and he was working
dicen says she never discarded ballots
or saw who people were voting for but
after picking them up she didn't mail
them she gave them to McCrae Dallas sees
all the people devoted did their votes
count so you don't know certainty
whether they were yeah I dropped them
off what they do is on them so
apparently she dropped them off to this
guy MacRay Dallas and he was the local
Bladen County Soil and Water
Conservation District vice-chair which
apparently is an elected position has a
criminal record maybe he made some
mistakes back in the day and he's
reformed or maybe not
apparently so no apparently this is
where she was dropping off the the
ballots and he he's been paid consulting
fees for different Republicans there is
now a suspicion that this has been going
on for years in that County and they
suspect that maybe this happened during
the the primary apparently Johnson this
is the the candidate received 98 percent
of absentee by mail-in votes this is in
a primary some so they had sort of
figured it out I mean this is the
campaign finance reports confirmed that
the Bladen County Sheriff paid Dallas
seven thousand dollars was as they get
out the vote
this is I think on the sheriff's race so
the guy has been doing this in that
neighborhood for Republican candidates
for some time there's gonna be a rest
here
people are gonna go to jail and they're
gonna redo that vote and if the Democrat
has any confidence whatsoever he's gonna
go around to these people and be like
incidentally your vote was stolen this
time you're gonna get to do it for reals
it'll be interesting to see what happens
but a little bit more sexy
I guess maybe for the national media
than the idea of an entire state
legislature saying oh we lost the
election so now we're going to
disempower the governor and the next
Statehouse Josiah Darlene don't just say
you just handed them off like that
got a crazy or plausible deniability
