speaking of fake populism and lies here
is Donald Trump lying about Bernie
Sanders and Medicare and you have
respect for this he tends so it gets on
issues the American people care about he
just has a different view on how to
solve it so Medicare is out health care
is almost number one on almost every
voters list in the midterms
so he says Medicare for all is the
answer what is and you wrote an op-ed
against this and he says your
mischaracterizing what he means what is
the biggest obstacle for medicare for
all or something that would give people
insurance well let me just tell you that
Bernie's the problem with Bernie's plan
is that you'd have to pay four times the
taxes that you're paying right now and
one of the problems you would have is
essentially well he's probably okay with
it but nobody else is you'd have no
money left I mean you'd have you could
go everybody would go out of business
you wouldn't be able to do it but maybe
as importantly I don't more importantly
but as importantly you go and you look
at countries where they essentially have
single-payer tax carried single-payer
and not everybody is not if you look at
it they're a disaster they come to our
country when they need operations they
come to our country when they need help
assuming they have the money to do that
the the level of service is so bad I
mean essentially the government runs it
you can take a look at what we did at
the VA now I have choice where you're
allowed if you have to wait in line for
20 days or if you have to worry some of
these people are waiting 32 and 40 days
to see a doctor what happens is now
under VA choice they're able to go out
get a private doctor we paid the bill
the vets are so happy with what we've
done well if you look at Bernie's plan
it's a catastrophe because basically
it's government runs the government
can't run anything they've proven that
mr. Buscaino would be a disaster I know
you so okay obviously this is a tsunami
of lies their traditional Republican
lies one of the leading causes of death
the United States is medical era
actually as but one example people
starting with importing drugs from
Canada
need to go overseas to get access to the
United States and then as he said right
all these other places like the UK
France where they have national health
programs and their businesses aren't
bankrupt right of course that's another
contradiction it wouldn't your taxes
wouldn't be four times the same rate
your taxes probably would go up a little
bit and then you would say if you're
rich particularly if you're rich which
is a good thing rich people's taxes
should go up for every reason
conceivable even if it wasn't paying for
health care even if it wasn't paying for
health care but if you are anything
other than ultra rich you will save
money because you won't be being ripped
off by a private insurance industry
whose business model literally rests on
denying you care yeah and you won't die
because you didn't have health care like
some people still think they can roll
the dice I guess and assume they're
gonna be healthy forever but spoiler
alert you're not also you can live the
rest of your life after being sick and
not have to have crushing debt over your
head the rest of your life and Trump's
bit about the medical tourism that might
be the case if you are some sort of
super elite that can come afford to come
to America and just blow like a few
million dollars on some like some luxury
caffeine that is being subsidized by US
keeping people off of health care and
you know our capitalist health care
system that's gone I don't want that I
don't want a super elite like secondary
health system I don't care if that goes
away a lot of people who come here from
overseas to get treatment if there's
like some specific thing that we do
really well here it still paid for right
by their national health services a lot
of the time Emiratis and Katara's will
pay for you to go get care in the United
States
