[Music]
we haven't talked that much about this I
mean I this case is heinous and I mean
we brought it up peripherally over the
years probably but this guy Jeffrey
Epstein I don't know he's a billionaire
over just a hundred millionaire but I
have a feeling thank you Isabel
I think he hit billion and had
relationships with all sorts of major
media and political figures including
Bill Clinton and Alan Dershowitz there
and Donald Trump there have been some
pretty explicit accusations about Alan
Dershowitz I don't know about anyone
else I haven't heard any explicit
accusations about Bill Clinton in the
context of EV scene that I've definitely
heard that he was on a man if manifold
where he took a flight with him or used
his plane not necessarily what's that
that's known it's like oh yes that's one
saying yeah I think it's been reported
that he's a man has also been on his jet
the idea of politicians going on
millionaires and billionaires planes not
too uncommon but the the the the
specifically in terms of Dershowitz
there's been a lot more explicit
accusations I think by victims or
alleged victims so what happens is there
was a lawsuit that was threatening to
essentially try almost for the first
time Jeffrey se I mean or retry because
what had happened before is that Epstein
had made a plea deal with a federal
prosecutor years ago that was about as
good of a deal as you could ever get
having been essentially copping to
[Music]
sexually assaulting
dozens of underage women and sexual
trafficking
he was basically allowed to register as
a sex offender and then leave lead his
life almost completely unfettered that
trial was set to start I think within a
day they were going to start to pick the
jury for this lawsuit and Epstein
settled in other words bought off all
the the plaintiffs who were bringing
this case however apparently this is not
the end of it oh I should also mention
the US attorney in Florida who gave
Epstein the sweetheart deal was a guy
named Acosta who is now the head of
Labor Department under Donald Trump
which oversees human traffic laws in the
country cool takes one to know one
and I want a bad but here is one of the
attorneys from the plaintiffs who
apparently have a Phase two planned
going to have a volume of victims that
are going to come forward and be ready
to testify and not get cross-examined
testify about what happened to them in a
way that will help them heal it would
take a fool not to recognize that he
faces extremely serious jeopardy at this
point he faces the distinct possibility
that his sweetheart plea bargain can get
set aside and that he and others will
face federal criminal prosecution
there's a federal case also pending here
in West Palm Beach involving Epstein and
the secret agreement that the federal
government reached with him not to
prosecute him federally if he would
plead guilty to a couple of state
charges he did 13 months in jail he's a
sex offender registered but he could
have gone to prison for life if he had
been prosecuted federally so this is not
over and I have a feeling there's a lot
of
very nervous people not just Epstein
because I have a feeling that at one
point he's going to decide there's some
there's some other fish here that can be
fried so this story is not going to go
away and it sounds like a super super
creepy one oh it could not be more
disgusting and grotesque also uh I I'm
paraphrasing it but in the first New
York magazine article that was written
before he was charged there was just
sort of like who is this guy there's
some fishy stories about him I think it
was um phil weiss wrote it he
interviewed Trump and Trump said
something to the effect of we both like
young girls yeah I will tell you that
