Jarra dear amor with sam's
sita the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people then
they are unanimous we must guard against
the acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
it is Wednesday August 21st 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Donald
Trump is going bat-crap crazy and it's
funny and not funny
Trump cancels his Danish trip because
they won't sell him
Greenland says Jews are disloyal and
that he's king of the said Jews also
wants to put nukes in space painting
meanwhile back down to earth Trump's
team is telling major Republican donors
there's gonna be a slight and short
recession maybe coming but we'll cut
more taxes if that makes you feel better
US government will not provide flu shots
to migrants held in their concentration
camps and are about to break the Flores
agreement so as to hold children in
those camps indefinitely meanwhile a
suspicious major uptick in Brazilian
forest fires under bowls an arrow and so
much for tariffs u.s. steel lays off 200
in the wake of an economic slowdown and
I have some bad news for you about the
guy in charge of our nuclear weapons
also unpaid Kentucky coal miners still
blocking that million-dollar coal train
[Music]
13 US congressman demand answers about
u.s. involvement in the Brazilian lava
jato political hit job meanwhile Bernie
Sanders unveils a massive labor
empowerment plan and we'll have some
updates on the USD USD a move the
Volcker Rule and a report that says
government scientists saw the opioid
epidemic coming in 2006 apparently no
one in the bush administration cared all
this and more on today's program ladies
and gentlemen what an auspicious start
to the beginning of my own personal
vacation the program will not be on
vacation at least in terms of live until
Monday of next week wherein we will have
a week's worth of great if I do say so
myself
interviews that are all brand new and
Brendan has picked a bunch of stuff from
our deep archive for the
from the deep archive of majority report
vaults for members you can be one of
those members by going to join the
majority reports.com
and checking out so the plan was for
today was it was gonna take a lot more
phone calls during the free half of the
show we were just gonna do a little bit
of news and then we just got this sort
of onslaught of the president is
seemingly I mean the only thing I can
imagine with what's going on here at
this point is that he is worried about
his Christian fundamentalist base I mean
assuming that he hasn't just completely
lost his mind
which is you know it's a big assumption
at this point the change in mine in
Greenland so is in play but I I've got
to think that there is at least as
bizarre it is some some broad sort of
even tactical response here to something
that they must know internally in terms
of a problem if you look at the polls
over the past couple of days he is
bleeding support from his base never
mind college educated men and women
which have deserted the Republican Party
in broad strokes non-college educated
women are deserting him significantly
right now
white women I hope that goes without
saying because it's only white people
who I mean broadly speaking who voted
for vote for Republicans I mean that's
just a statistical fact and there's easy
start anything with the wife there's
even some I mean so he's he's bleeding
support and I gotta believe that what
I've just told you is public from Fox
News poll I got to believe that there's
internal polling that suggests that he's
losing some of his
angelical bass and that's what this this
is the only thing I can imagine what
that's about because what I'm about to
present to you in in a two or three act
play here little novelette is is it's
nots I just don't know who he thinks
he's getting with this at this point if
it's not trying to shore up the
evangelical base which really I mean
obviously they are dyed in the world
Republican voters so they want a
justification for not liking brown
people other than just sort of the
blatant like you shouldn't like brown
people but he also is trying to activate
their Israel their love of Israel and it
gets more religious as we go on here is
Donald Trump talking about ill on Omar
and receded to live and then getting on
the Jews a little bit for not being with
the program to let them man including
the for I'm talking about all for but
these two that wanted to get in Omar and
to leave and I think would be a very bad
thing for Israel but Israel has to do
what they want to do but I would not cut
off aid to Israel and I can't even
believe that we're having this
conversation five years ago the concept
of even talking about this even three
years ago of cutting off aid to Israel
because of two people that hate Israel
and hate Jewish people I can't believe
we're even having this conversation
where is the Democratic Party gone where
have they gone where they're defending
these two people over the State of
Israel and I think any Jewish people
that vote for a Democrat I think it
shows either a total lack of knowledge
or a great disloyalty all right thank
you very much now a lot of people have
taken this a lot of different ways some
people have said well he's saying that
Jews are disloyal to America
and here is Rudy Giuliani clarifying for
those who Rudy Giuliani says Trump
accuses Jewish Democrats have great
disloyalty the New York Times this is
routine for the New York Times and J
Street but really disappointed a
representative of the anti definitely
definitely definitely because they're
all saying maybe in this I didn't read
the time specifically right up on what
their that well they're all saying that
this is an old anti-semitic trope
they're accusing Jews of disloyalty and
but here is Julian clarifying POTUS
that's the president United States is
referring to disloyalty to Israel you
see what the president is saying is that
Jews we all know have a loyalty to
America but they also are supposed to
have a loyalty to Israel it's both
countries in other words there's another
way you excited you say like Jews as you
know have a dual loyalty in other words
they're wandering people they don't got
no loyalty to America so which is real -
he's talking about ball they ever do
smear - right they're supposed to and so
this is like him basically saying like
you know Jews are supposed to be cheap
and some of these Jews aren't even cheap
let me put it this way let me put it
this way let me let me give you a
friggin comparison what if there was a
law that that Rashidah whatever came out
she said Oh incidentally I hate the Jews
so not only do I help owes Israel but I
want to get rid of all money lending
operations in the country and if a Jew
were to support that would that be very
supportive of his own people
you answered me that time so in other
words a Jew himself would vote against
money lending operations so what the
president is saying is that you as a Jew
if you were to vote against say
exorbitant credit card interests as an
example you would either be stupid or
disloyal
how much more simple can this game so
there's Donald Trump I guess trying to I
don't know what he's trying to do there
but he accidentally I'm trying to start
the jig's of this I exactly
he's trying to Negus into starting the
jig's it is there you go so and and and
and let's be clear whoever he to
whatever country he's saying Jews are
being disloyal to he's talking to 80% of
the Jews in this country and probably
there's other countries where that kind
of message coming from the President of
the United States is a bit worried wait
a second eighty percent of use opposes
 now yeah exactly what kind of
loyalty is that I thought the Jews were
supposed to be smart right exactly
supposed to be good with money supposed
to know how to work the numbers all
right so there's Rudy Giuliani
clarifying things for us oh boy more
Claire mom so completely unrelated
completely unrelated to the story of
Donald Trump saying that Jews have dual
loyalty and when they don't it's a
failure on their part what network is
this this Newsmax TV invites on or no
this is here's a regular show they're so
in the wake of this Wayne Allyn root
goes on to his Newsmax TV show now Wayne
Allyn root if you're not familiar with
him was is a Fox News I don't know if
he's a paid contributor but he goes on
there quite a bit he's the one who broke
the story about Barack Obama being a gay
Muslim he is also the one who broke the
story about Heather hires killer being
paid by George Soros he also broke the
story I'm trying to think what else what
other stories did he break I can't
remember exactly what other stories he
broke here but nevertheless he broke
a lot of these top stories as you go one
of the really a real I want I think we
should save it but he had some very
interesting insight about the Moller
investigation oh that's right
yeah I think we have audio of that in
fact let's play some of the audio of the
Muller investigation thing just so I
give you a sense of who Wayne Allyn root
is in terms of like being a this is from
right-wing watch of course our friends
over there I think Jared Holt right is
that it and here's that Wayne Allyn root
he's gonna lead in on the Muller
investigation men are from Mars Women
from Venus and Robert Mueller's from
Uranus that's the plan he must be from
this guy in my opinion I'm gonna say it
right in national TV it's penis envy
that's what it is
this guy is jealous it's like going back
to high school there were guys that okay
I mean I think I don't think Robert
Muller is cognate jealous about seem
like yes big dick energy I'm just gonna
say the Heather higher stuff and use a
the Heather higher stuff is is more
offensive I think obviously by far as
stupid and then yeah the the gay Muslim
stuff so this is Wayne Allyn root and
this is what he had to say now here he
is and and I should just tell you for
those of you are not watching the the
crawl on the chyron says jon voigt slams
who does he slam just let it go a little
bit for Slams radical left and just
that's ads breaking news that's breaking
yeah praises Trump as a man of truth in
love so that's that's that's breaking
news so they're gonna play that across
the thing and so here he is you can call
a John Wayne Allyn root if you want or
Wayne Allyn root if you want to all you
got to do is dial 833 war talk and here
is here he is in the wake of Donald
Trump's comments yesterday um don't
forget I don't if you haven't watched
the show Apple to be Jewish by birth and
75 percent of all Jews vote Democrat and
they don't like Trump and is the
greatest president for Jews and for
Israel in the history of the world not
just America Trump's the best president
for Israel in the history of the world
and the Jewish people loved him like
he's the king of Israel they love him
like he is the second coming of God and
then American American Jews don't like
him they don't even know what they're
doing or saying anymore makes no sense
but that's okay he keeps doing what he's
doing he's good for all of us good for
Jews good for blacks good for gays he's
good for everyone in America wants a job
party thing okay
now I should just tell you I don't want
to get too pedantic here I was a
religious studies
I think Co major or I can't remember but
I I did study that in school in terms of
the Jews we don't believe in a second
coming we don't actually even believe in
a first coming we don't believe in a
messiah as a god-like figure I mean you
can be a messiah just means you're like
a really smart dude essentially or you
know that you just come in and maybe is
that word again right smart okay but not
I mean I guess presumably you'd have to
be Jewish but I'm not even sure about
that do we have a king or a pope well
there was a time back in the day where
the Hebrews did have kings but not
really so much anymore now hey why would
we spend time at the beginning of the
show on some lunatic Wayne Allyn root
who is a total lunatic who exists on the
margins of society who is clearly
bat-crap crazy maybe it's just a grifter
whatever they have them on Fox News to
promote this stuff and you know who who
watches WorldNetDaily except for
absolute right wing nut genders actually
like prime news us right well there's
one other there apparently is one other
viewer and he quote tweeted Wayne Allyn
root in fact he wrote thank you to Wayne
Allyn root for the very nice words quote
president Trump is the greatest
president for the Jews and for Israel in
the history of the world not just
America is the best president for Israel
in the history of the world dot dot and
the Jewish people in Israel love him
he's like the king of Israel they love
them like the second coming of God but
American Jews don't know him or like
them they don't even know what they're
doing or saying anymore it makes no
sense that's okay if he keeps doing what
he's doing he's good for the all Jews
blacks gays everyone and importantly
he's good for everyone in America who
wants a job there's a second come out oh
no Wow Wow now the WoW the WoW is his
comment and of course this is from the
president the United States has either
instructed someone to transcribe ordered
the transcriptions I found out cupped I
mean someone probably helped him do this
but the president the United States it's
not just retweeting he is literally over
the course of three tweets quote
tweeting this absolute lunatic look at
what brother Zion once said on YouTube
anybody who hates Obama's a white devil
with a corroded it's s written parade
anybody who wants a job Devils blacks
African Asiatic men love Obama
Wow that's right now transcribe it
myself
Steven I love the quote this that this
has to be this has to be a function of
them feeling like their evangelical
support is caving it's the only thing I
can imagine I mean or just I mean that
is a real miracle though right look it's
it's it's unbelievable
it's unbelievable
as to the incredible disloyalty that
Jews are displaying by not supporting
Donald Trump and voting for Democrats
Bernie Sanders
you may know a bit Jewish himself but if
you are Jewish
I gather to be a loyal American you
gotta vote for Donald Trump and
Republicans well let me say this to the
president I am a proud Jewish person and
I have no concerns about voting
Democratic and in fact I intend to vote
for a Jewish man to become the next
president of the United States challah
there you go that's awesome
now again according to Rudy Giuliani
Bernie Sanders was wrong it was not
about loyalty to America it was about
Jews failing to live up to their
expected dual loyalty that they have for
both Israel and for America and are not
placing Israel properly enough in the
decision-making matrix when they vote in
terms of you know supporting the
right-wing Israeli government so nice
statement Bernie but wrong sorry so look
brother Sadat acts Asiatic African one
anyone who hates Obama must be grafted
by a pig everybody who loves him are
those who want jobs no matter devil or
full human Wow there you go another
failing on my quadruple loyalty to
Czechoslovakia Poland and Germany and
I've noticed that actually where are you
out across quite a bit
you don't even push for Germany or
Czechoslovakia stories in the chat so
back on the Donald Trump has gone
bat-crap crazy over the past 24 us now I
can come up with a I mean look there's
there's two answers to all of this right
he's completely crazy cuz I can
understand why he's attacking
Ilhan Omar and receded to live because
bigotry against people of color bigotry
against women bigotry against Muslims
that is an actual currency within the
Republican Party that it's not to say
that that doesn't exist outside the
Republican Party but within the context
of the Republican Party it is the
primary motivating factor upon which
Republicans vote that's just simply
that's just undeniable the statistics
are there it used to be including
homophobia up until you know 2004 was
the last major presidential election
where a hatred of gay people and a
disdain for the idea that there could be
marriage equality drove people but now
the Republicans are just relying on on
race and on anti-muslim bigotry and
transphobia is in play as well
transphobia is in play that's true
it doesn't you know Donald Trump is not
he's just actually but he doesn't use
him he doesn't get rhetorical as much
about it as probably would satisfy them
but he's certainly done plenty to to
hurt their protections and you know in
terms of the military and whatnot but
yes I would say transphobia those four
things cover easily eighty percent of
the Republican voter you know voting
base in terms of like you want to
motivate them out I mean I think that's
I I think there's you know it's not hard
to find the statistics on that abortion
would be in there to abortions in there
as well rich people yeah I think that's
true but I think that I think that that
those that doesn't necessarily motivate
them to vote in the same way I mean if
you look at times where there has been
depressed Republican turnout the thing
that really motivates them
and so I understand why is tacking to
lib and Omar I think I can come up with
a plausible explanation as to why he
would say this about Jews because he
wants to make it about Israel and he
wants to motivate evangelicals that may
be wrong and maybe just crazy antics are
voting personally - right but this in a
million years I can never understand as
you know I don't even know if we covered
it because it was so silly Donald Trump
supposedly was asking his advisors about
buying Greenland we covered in the
context of Kudlow right okay but it was
like it was just like a side story like
it Oh Donald Trump tweeted out this last
night Denmark is a very special country
with incredible people but based on
prime minister met day Ferguson's
comments that she would have no interest
in discussing the purchase of Greenland
I will be postponing our meeting
scheduled in two weeks for another time
the Prime Minister was able to save a
great deal of expense and effort for
both for both the United States and
Denmark by being so direct I thank her
for that and look forward to
rescheduling some time in the future he
is trying to punish the prime minister
of Denmark for deigning to take his
desire to buy Greenland seriously and
then saying yeah not for sale
that's how you make a deal I I guess he
thinks there is a constituency in the
United States that is saying like the
Greenlanders wanna see him tough with
the prime minister of Denmark I mean I
this is just bat-crap crazy
unless he's just like didn't want to go
or something or who's having a bad hair
week or something like that I'm not sure
I'm not being facetious this is it's
almost inexplicable I fear I read it as
he just doesn't want to go and is
looking for an excuse
that's what it could be Celes French
Antigua here's now Danish Prime Minister
if you want to see her response yeah
here's her response to this now isn't
she like anti-immigrant a little bit
yeah I think she's dream like oh yeah
and so you would think natural allies
but I want a Greenland it is with regret
and surprise that I received the news
that President Trump has canceled his
state visit to Denmark on the second and
third the September I had been looking
forward to the visit our preparations
were well underway it was an opportunity
I think to celebrate
Denmark's close relationship to to us
and who remains one of Denmark's closest
allies I was looking forward to having a
dialogue on the many shared interests
that mikesh has with the u.s.
furthermore the developments in the
Arctic region called for further
cooperation between the u.s. and
Greenland Faroe Islands and Denmark and
therefore I would like to underline our
invitation for stronger cooperation on
Arctic FS skilled stance what a bad
accent I was just gonna say you know if
there's no honor among fish Cystic
bigots that's the problem you know it's
just that's the thing is that there used
to be a time back in the old days well
you would stick together you wouldn't do
this over a piece of land you would
never do that over a piece of land just
you're surprised I would also add to the
array of back crap crazy things coming
out of the White House today before we
get on to the also horrific things
coming out of the White House today that
on Tuesday yesterday in addition to
saying that Jews have dual loyalty and
are failing at it in addition to
cancelling a visit to Denmark because
they won't sell us Greenland
president Trump signed a presidential
memorandum outlining new procedures to
launch nuclear power systems into outer
space now it's a great week to do this
because we just had this wonderful story
this week of evidence that Russia may be
trying to cover up a tragic nuclear
accident after a blast on August 8th
killed at least seven people at a naval
weapon site
there was fallout that was found quite
some distance that's how people know
about it so why do I bring that up as
Trump directs the Department of
Transportation to issue public
guidelines within a year for commercial
companies seeking a license to launch
spacecraft with nuclear systems into
space I am pointing upwards because
that's where it will be let the free
market decide and I imagine that this
memorandum which gives NASA 180 days to
create an interagency nuclear safety
review board 180 days that's plenty of
time to do that to ensure the safety of
launching radioisotope power systems
fission reactors used for power and
propulsion and more up into the sky and
I'm sure the benefits of this will reign
upon us for years and years and years to
come
competition would start kicking in I I
just might even better keep the
testosterone flowing as well I feel
pretty good about going on vacation
let's also just get to this horror
because I wanted to use today to talk
about some proposals that that some
Democrats have and flow
but let me just start with this before
we get on to because I had said the
other day that Democrats had no real
immigration plans on the table and both
William Castro and Elizabeth Warren have
pretty vigorous plans much of Warren's
was borrowed from Castro I mean
according to her but nevertheless
they've signed on to those but before we
get to that two stories about our
concentration camp plans and programs
the customs Border Patrol will not
provide flu shots for immigrants who are
being detained in our concentration
camps at least three children have died
in these detention facilities over the
past year from complications arising
from the flu that is the first time in
ten years than any immigrants who we
have been detaining have died in our
custody there were more that have died
but three were specifically in part from
the flu and we are not providing them
flu shots
because supposedly we don't hold them
long enough which of course is absurd I
don't know how I mean it's just it's
absurd it's absurd it's inhumane I don't
know what else to say about it except
for the idea that we are holding them
only for short periods of time the the
Trump administration wants to deal way
with that as it stands now when we
detain immigrants
and and this has changed somewhat over
the past three years it used to be we
would not separate children from their
parents unless the parents were shown to
have committed a serious crime and the
crossing of the border ie they were they
had drugs they were abusing the family
some other violent crime and then kids
would be separated from the from the
parent because that's what we do even we
in this country as well the Trump
administration then changed their policy
and instead of issuing civil violations
coming across the border without papers
which is the way that it had been
exercised basically for decades they
considered it a criminal charge and
therefore based on that separated
children from their parents there has
been an agreement since 1997 called the
Flores settlement agreement that was
based upon a wide-scale lawsuit a
class-action suit that was brought
against the US government on behalf of
migrant children under the auspices of
that agreement the federal government is
now allowed to hold children more than
20 days they must be licensed care
programs there are specific requirements
in terms of Hygiene and access to
sanitary facilities and medical
treatment and contact with family
members under this agreement well the
Trump administration has decided we are
no longer going to follow that we're no
longer going to follow that agreement
now that it's gonna be lawsuits and
supposedly they're gonna go in front of
a federal judge before this new
regulation essentially that they're
doing it's new edict it goes into effect
they'll find a judge who Trump is
appointed and they will get an okay on
this I'm quite convinced of it
they will pick the judge they will make
sure that the judge signs off and then
we'll see court cases it's just horrific
and it's just it's horrific
they are doubling down on everything
it's totally horrific and this is how
concentration camps turn into death
camps like Ryusei starts with neglect
exactly ryu sees texas tweeted the u.s.
death rate and children from the flu is
about one in six hundred thousand so far
three children have died out of two
hundred thousand people held at
detention facilities along the border so
already the death rate is a nine i think
nine times the normal death rate from
the flu and as someone else pointed out
and Frank didn't die in the gas chambers
and Frank died of typhus in overcrowded
conditions so this is a this is a
terrifying and intentional way to start
killing people check out the three
arrows video how societies turned cruel
for more on that yeah I mean this is
you're absolutely right and this is and
this is part of the program it's just
one more element to make these
concentration camps miserable ostensibly
to either a scare immigrants from trying
to come to America or be allow their
base to justify in their minds that the
parents are subjecting them that them to
this it really is disgusting it really
is disgusting we're gonna have to push
that at I don't want to do this at so
let's talk a little bit about to the
more robust immigration plans that we
have out there now look somebody on
Twitter was complaining that we haven't
done enough coverage of who Liam Castro
and like you know there are twenty there
are twenty candidates he's not pulling
at he
2% I think his immigration plan is as
good it seems to be the most aggressive
of all of them on some level Elizabeth
Warren has adopted a bunch of it quickly
in terms of Castro's plan in addition to
him having a calling for what he calls a
Marshall Plan for Central and parts of
Latin America which I wouldn't trust his
version of that well that is that's my
other reservation you remarks but the
idea of it floating around is good it
can always be problematic when it's in
but the idea is to try and rebuild the
institutions of of these countries since
we have interfered in their development
and it made these countries in many
instances extremely dangerous for people
which is why and untenable for people
it's why they they migrate here he calls
for the government to get out of the
business of routine immigration
enforcement Immigration and Customs
Enforcement would retain its
investigations unit but enforcement and
removal would see its functions split
over different agencies and would
prioritize individuals with serious
criminal convictions and threats to
national security
multiple reentry's with a criminal
history Customs and Border Protection
would be steered away from routine
immigration enforcement within the
United States DHS would stop signing
agreements with local law enforcement
agencies immigration detention could
only be used in the most serious cases
it would end the use of private prisons
immigration courts would be removed from
the Attorney General's Authority so you
can't get stuff like Jeff Sessions
saying you no longer gonna consider
domestic abuse or threats from gang
violence to be legitimate causes for
asylum
those are the big points on Julian
Castro's immigration plan
Warren adopts a lot of that particularly
the 13:25 thing that that Castro brought
up in one of the debates that is the the
1325 title 8 is the law that's been on
the books that says it is a crime to
cross into the country without documents
before the Trump administration every
administration prior to that to my
knowledge at least for the last 20-30
years had been interpreting that and
basically doing prosecutorial discretion
and saying that it instead of it being a
criminal violation it was a civil
violation sort of like a like a speeding
ticket and if you got a speeding ticket
you can't separate the children okay
kidnap them uh you don't you don't put
these people in prison say you gotta you
got a court hearing go and come back and
that system is what worked well one of
the things that Castro and Warren would
do would be to reverse that executive
order and get rid of that statute so
that it cannot be interpreted in the way
that the Trump administration is doing
warrants pledging to emit six to eight
times as many refugees as Trump has
although that that number is to win I
don't know what the base number is on
that that number is dwindling
significantly she would implement
proposals that would make it easier for
asylum seekers to get their day in court
they would of course expand dreamers and
temporary protected status for folks she
would reverse the 1325 she would also
get rid of government contracts from
private detention facilities as well cut
down on the use of detention for
migraines awaiting their day in court
altogether proposes making immigration
courts independent like Castro no Roarke
calls reinstating daca pledges to admit
a hundred and twenty-five thousand
refugees in her first year as president
175 per year at the end of her first
term reverses Trump's restrictions on
those seeking asylum to again to include
victims of gang violence and domestic
abuse and the remain in Mexico policy
which the administrations are used to
require asylum seekers to wait on the
other side of the border more support
for legal ingram immigration including
redistributing unused visas to address
the millions of currently in the backlog
waiting for a way to enter the US lower
the barriers to naturalization and so
forth I mean I think Castro's probably a
little bit more aggressive in terms of
not just decriminalizing but allowing
more folks in but there needs to be I
think still a a set of policies that are
more clearly can be espoused in you know
frankly in a bumper sticker on some
level I think open border scares people
frankly the vast majority of Americans I
think would recoil at that but there can
be sort of broader principles like we're
gonna give everyone who wants
citizenship a path to citizenship we're
going to give everyone who is seeking
asylum based on certain criteria rights
to asylum that I think you know broadly
speaking you could say everyone who
comes in with you know non criminal
record or at least some mitigation of
that or maybe you've served time or
there's no open warrants for people or
something to that effect there's got to
be a way of doing it where you can say
we're gonna have control over our
borders
we're still gonna let people in we're
just gonna we're gonna do so in a
controlled and orderly fashion but we're
gonna let people in because immigrants
add to our society and that's that yeah
I actually kind of agree with you about
the term open borders I mean within the
left it means something very different I
think than what most people understand
it to mean it means mostly it's an
umbrella term for what you just said
decriminalization of migration a path to
citizenship all the things that most of
us agree are good I I would ask people
to focus more on the idea of a free
movement of people rather than open
borders because it's too easy to
conflate open borders or free movement
of people with the unfettered free
movement of capital which is not the
left's project that is a neoliberal
project yeah and I think I mean these
proposals go a decent way towards some
of this anyways but and so I had you
know said that there was really not no
proposals out there that were
significant I guess last week and so
wanted to address that and that's it no
more Julian Castro sorry sir that's
probably it's not happening that's
probably his record at HUD is terrible
that's probably really not good very bad
and very bad for you but I appreciate I
mean that you know this is this is the
the the this is the point of this stuff
and let me just while I'm at it I'll
talk about Bernie's Labor proposal
because you know if Julian Castro's
contribution to the to this race is that
Elizabeth Warren adopts a bunch of his
proposals and gets it more into the mix
forces other candidates to adopt similar
proposals that's great
like their Bernier Oh from eggs exactly
where I was going like not to bring up
the horse the dumbass horse whisperer
again but whoever that anonymous guy who
turns out to be a corporate PR guy now
maybe he's not cuz I don't know who he
is but he didn't deny it guy who's paid
to represent the interests of
corporations I'm not I'm saying that
literally that's literally what he gets
paid to do was critiquing Bernie Sanders
claiming that Bernie Sanders stayed in
the race to sell books in 2016 now I
think people can have complaints about
anything that is real if people want to
complain that Bernie Sanders stayed in
the race longer than they wanted him to
fine that's your opinion but when you
look at every policy proposal that is
out there and if you support Joe Biden
well I don't have you then this is not
for you but for the rest of you every
single proposal that the candidates are
promoting in some way and I would argue
in a very large way is a function of
Bernie Sanders pushing these proposals
in the first place all the stuff on
health care this conversation would be
radically different at Bernie Sanders
dropped out of the race in January of
2016 the it would be radically different
on health care it would be radically
different on labor Elizabeth Warren
would not be pushing the labor stuff
that she's pushing
on other I mean to a certain extent
maybe climate although I would imagine
they would all be pushing it fairly
significantly but without Bernie Sanders
the primary argument that has existed in
the Democratic Party at this point would
would not be he would not be happening I
mean it would be basically like how can
we shore up parts of the ACA that's it
that's it
Biden would be defining it so having
people like Julian Castro in there
putting one proposal forward that gets
picked up by the others that's great I'm
down with that
which is also why I love this that
Sanders is unveiling this because it's
hopefully will put pressure on the other
candidates to adopt the similar I mean
the idea is that we want to push the
Democratic Party to the left like to be
in a position to execute these proposal
but the point is if the Democrats are
running for the next 10 15 years on
these proposals they adopt them when
they get into office they're going to
have to push them Sanders a Labour
platform includes ending at-will
employment so companies could no longer
fire workers without showing they had
just cause extending collective
bargaining rights to state and local
government employees that was we have
that on a federal level not on States
and locals necessarily allowing federal
employees to strike the plan would
create sectoral collective bargaining
system like they have in Europe that in
which labor and management would
negotiate minimum standards sort of like
show business right now it happens I
don't know if what happens in other
industries but I'm pretty sure that what
we have in show business there's a
minimum standard there's no
zag after a job that I can take that
doesn't pay a minimum I can get paid
more but there is scale period and it
would be a similar I would imagine
dynamic as that it would halt
the executive order pension benefit cuts
which were made possible by a 2014
compromise signed into law by President
Barack Obama and Vice President Joe
Biden as he once credit for all that it
would require companies to recognize
unions once the majority of workers
signed cards that's card check right now
what happens is they sign cards then
they got a petition the National Labor
Relations Board for a vote during that
time when the vote comes companies bring
in spokespeople movies experts to
dissuade people from the Union veiled
threats
maybe they'll punish some of the union
leaders if they can get away with it if
they're real morons they'll renounce
they're doing that on Twitter like that
what is that is it was either barstool
of barstool sports and it will ban
mandatory workplace anti-union meetings
it will abolish state right to work laws
that prohibit mandatory union fees it
will make it harder for companies to
claim their workers are independent
contractors and employees so no it's
theft it'll protect workers jobs during
work stoppages this is huge and I don't
imagine that the majority of the
candidates will adopt all of this but I
imagine that the candidates will adopt
some of it and it will put pressure on
them and Joe Biden can hearken back to I
all the days where he was you know hard
hat Joe or whatever it was was tough and
I came down and I said
remember when Bobby Kennedy was killed
in 1980 Strom Thurmond and I took shots
I said I said I don't want them bussing
but I don't believe in full surgery he
said I do but he was great guy
we worked together we said Bobby Kennedy
shouldn't be shot in the head that's
what we got to do here here it is folks
here is your most electable hashtag a
moment of the day here is the most
electable candidate the Democrats have
to win the presidency the most electable
here he is right now speaking at where
is in Iowa fair Iowa on Tuesday
just like in my generation when I got
out of school that when Bobby Kennedy
and dr. King had been assassinated in
70s late 1700s but a couple men may
remember that was a time in the early
late 60s and early 60s and 60s where it
was drop out go to Haight Ashbury don't
get engaged don't trust anybody over 30
wait women weren't involved in that yeah
I don't know what that's the narrative
haromm Strom water he was like why is it
all you hippie kids why weren't there
any woman in the free love movie it
sounds to me like he's saying like I
gave up all that I gave up all that so
all the guys were doing you gals
wouldn't know about that
100% gay dudes in haight-ashbury fun
fact what's that back then that's what
he is implying
yeah that's try this way is again
because a lot of people are making a big
deal out of the 70s and he goes back and
he tries to cover his tracks by saying
cities over again because it makes it he
says late seventies we just late 70s but
then he goes back around and he's trying
you could tell that he catches himself a
little bit but the way that he papers
over it it's like I just got to say
something that's vaguely misogynist too
so that people will pay more attention
to that my generation my god
school that when Bobby Kennedy and dr.
King had been assassinated in the 70s
late 1700s but a couple men may remember
that was a time in the early late 60s
and early sixties and 60s where it was
drop out go to Haight Ashbury don't get
engaged don't trust anybody over 30 yeah
me and why we breed y'all he's freaky
women er I don't hate a second with your
homies because we know I don't think
that's what it was when they had their
periods he reads the weed harvest yeah I
don't at that time that's not what that
was about
hey Jill why did you try to bring a girl
with you - Barry be it there was no F
dudes here beard you're thinking of the
Castro what he's saying that don't that
no women did this why he is saying no
women did it but it's not a gay thing
he's just saying that like this was what
like it was enticing young men had to go
out there he's just implying it without
realized did you ever watch hair being
that guy went to Vietnam just to get
away from his old lady was he just
saying I guess the real question is is
Joe Biden just saying that everybody who
went to San Francisco in in the 60s was
gay or that he just didn't believe that
women had that option I think that he
doesn't think like the option between
whether being politically active or
dropping out I don't think I think he
thinks that didn't apply to women
because women couldn't weren't political
back then I think James Maddox explained
to him that it was only homos in
haight-ashbury I mean women have been I
remember Strom Thurmond he said it's all
a bunch of gays from Syracuse Joe what
he's trying to say is like hey fellas am
i right you went there to like do guy
stuff and like have sex with women I
think I think he was saying I think you
started pointing out of the draft I
think that's what he's and political
apathy doesn't makes any sense
I think the draft or I think he's saying
that like it was very enticing to go and
be irresponsible but I was not that guy
yeah cuz he talks the same way yeah it's
it's about the being politically active
dropping on doing drugs but yeah yeah
they were out there too in trucks
meanwhile I was studying for the bar and
getting engaged again I wasn't going out
and having a non perfect sex life by
going out no women I love how's those
planning on thinking of practical ways
do we know what - negro do we know what
time that speech was given during the
day because the hill is reporting and
there's a quote Biden has a tendency to
make the blunders late in the day is a
lies say particularly after a long swing
on the road that doesn't happen much
when you're president or when your
campaigns interesting because after a
long day I like to play a pickup
basketball game how you like me now
plugs like he had last week in Iowa they
say something needs to be done to give
the candidate more downtime as the
campaign intensifies in the fall I have
a suggestion and that is to drop out
that will give him a lot of downtime it
will refresh him and he can come back
you can come back in and give you can
give a talk at the car at the convention
probably give a good convention stop
nail it all right I talked to two Strom
Thurmond why we so divided he says it's
because the force in our lunch counters
and I said by golly I don't totally
disagree or agree but we're Americans
and he was a great guy all right I was
upset when Bobby was killed in 1979 uh I
meant we're gonna take a break go to the
fun half I'm gonna take a break go the
fun half did not get to college yet
apologies we will immediately as soon as
we get in there we'll have plenty of
time to take four calls
folks just a reminder you can support
the show by going to join the majority
report column I get a little bit
sentimental uh when I'm about to take
Vicki because this is this is the
longest vacation I have
of the year it's gonna be seven eight
shows in a row and so see ya we'll see
you very mental now but ya know I just
want to thank our members for making
this show possible thank all of you for
supporting this show in in every way
that you do starting you know after
Labor Day it's gonna be pretty intense
for about 14 months and it could get
pretty intense after that but it's gonna
be an intense 14 months and so buckle up
get ready to do some work you're gonna
have to get out there I encourage you to
support any candidate that you you you
you support in the primary by actually
like getting physical with it I'm not
saying you should beat up people don't
imitate other people but threaten them
be clear about you bring what I want
taken in the 1970s bring that back do
some phone calling do some walking and
knocking on doors do some harassment of
women online harassing women online of
course if a woman tells you she's not
interested in andrew Yang's ubi plan
that is absolutely an invitation for
that did be super detailed though don't
just really be clear about automated
automation and what andrew Yang's
proposing try mute Nero Tandon and just
move forward I just I can't believe I
watched some of this stuff and I'm just
like I I mean I got it a little bit more
during 2016 because it was a bitter you
know but these people like who are they
their brains broken it there's something
wrong they're off there's something
really wrong there super oh ah you got a
you know it's it's it's really decidedly
unhelpful and unhealthy and unhealthy I
mean like honestly like
the Center for American Progress we
don't have big institutions even on the
center-left things like Think Progress
valuable resource maybe you spent a
little less time online tweeting a
little more time trying to build these
organizations which are you know it's
tough time for them I mean honestly this
is it's it's I I I'm flabbergasted I
think six figures the tweet is a good
salary I would I would do it I would do
it but I would also start to like wonder
like hey wait a second maybe I should
focus a little more on the organization
oh yeah I have infinitely more respect
for people who get out there and try to
execute the courage of their convictions
than people who don't
in the meantime join the majority report
calm don't forget just coffee co-op fair
trade coffee tea or chocolate use the
coupon code and majority get 10% off and
all next week we will be will have brand
new content for you and every day we
will have fresh daily content for you on
the a.m. quickie you can get it by
signing up for the majority report on
iTunes wherever the podcast is available
stitcher Spotify paw defy all the
different places where you can get
podcasts that ain't a real one is it
well it's like some weird sort of
business association overcast all of
them and you can you can hear it then
yesterday was Tuesday
what happened Michael in this office we
had an excellent tea MBS as we're want
to do on Tuesdays I will say shaheed
guitar who's running the challenged
Nancy Pelosi was I mean a real deal yeah
and I even great politicians or people
running for office that was a standout
in the sense that I I felt like I was
interviewing somebody who the content of
the interview and the breadth and depth
of his synthesis went well beyond
a campaign but that campaign is super
important and I think if anybody could
pull off such a Herculean task as
actually upsetting Nancy Pelosi it would
be him and we went everywhere from
democratic socialism and relationship to
safeguarding constitutional civil
liberties and how that intersected with
the critique of the national security
state Silicon Valley and a whole bunch
of other topics ana kasparian amazing as
always
in the postgame an intro to integral
theory and jean gebser and perceptions
of perspective-taking going back to the
renaissance with jeremy johnson and is
the left coming back election results on
argentina and a bit of an illicit
history of the Kirchner's and a whole
bunch more including israel brazil and
this amazing initiative in ethiopia
patreon.com slash t MBS michael brooks
show on youtube in the next be the next
in the next sixty years so subscribers
on youtube and we will hit her first
seventy one thousand and come see us
Saturday in Chicago folks with Chuck
Mears we're looking forward to it
Jamie this week on the anti Fattah we
had back our friend Molly crabapple to
talk about her arrest with a bunch of
her fellow Jews last week's Amazon ice
protests the importance of anti-fascist
activism and then she gave us a little
overview of the protests in Porto Rico
that she reported on as most people
probably know they exploded when
governor ricardo ross aoe's ghoulish
frat boy chat logs were leaked to the
public so we talked a whole bunch about
that and then on friday for patrons we
have a bonus coming where in mali goes
over and translates some of the lyrics
of the official anthem of the protests a
falando louis koo Chios by residents ala
and bad bunny patreon.com slash the anti
Fattah matt a literary hangover a less
two weekends at two new episodes of our
george orwell reading series so check
those out and also on the youtube
channel the record Bregman episode has
just been uploaded and
next week I think I'm gonna start
playing around with live streaming on
that so you might want to subscribe on
what live streaming on YouTube first and
then I might get twitch after this we're
gonna go to twitch I think following
Labor Day we're gonna start to just
design we'll cast and see where that
takes us all right folks six or six to
five seven thirty nine twenty take calls
now Jamie and I may have a disagreement
yeah you can't just say whatever you
want about people just cause you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube their buggy I am NOT your
employer I'm sorry maybe you should
rethink your idiot we're just
going to get rid of you alright yes I
know everybody's taking their dumb Jews
dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital see
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars you're scum
you're not paying use me
 you you alright take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there take
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber classic I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses
hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
Rosie's evil Shitler what suction No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
hello I'm Sam cedar this is the fun half
fessional yep
let's get right to it calling from a
2:01 area code who's this where you
calling from
2:01 where you calling from hi I'm
calling from New Jersey Anthony from New
Jersey what's it what's happening yeah
so I was just thinking like I have a lot
of I guess yeah
spanish-speaking cousins and they all
mean right
pretty much and one of them is like a
die-hard Trump supporter and I was just
wondering yeah like have you ever
thought of having like a Spanish
language majority report where you like
higher like I guess Spanish actors
basically or like political people to or
to recreate the majority important
Spanish like I don't know how many like
less meaning Spanish shows are there
that out there well I mean I've thought
about how you know about I've actually
given some thought to translating our
show on YouTube like paying for
translations but yeah we've got
something in the word
with Sam's non-union Mexican equivalent
I want an antonio banderas to play me
Sam's looking for some guy in an
Argentinian so Popeye I gotta say that I
feel like what you're proposing would
not have the proper return on investment
that it would involve we would sell out
yeah we wouldn't well I know this from
just my Tim Ferriss listening to but I
think what you're talking about in terms
of hiring a spanish-speaking versions of
us and then transcribing the show and
having them deliver the show hello I am
here for a senior Cedars divorce
proceedings
I'm Harrell l version Spanish I don't
think the idea you have someone who just
has a banished accent it would be
actually well he might need to speak
English for your divorce percent saying
that if maybe if this person had a broad
portfolio in terms of just occupying
your life generally it could become now
if I could arrange something like that
are you sorry I'm well just where you
know someone would come in and you could
find a Spanish person to just be Sam
hola ninos yo soy tu Padre maybe I think
if we hired people I'd like to add some
dramatic elements as well like me yeah
one of us is involved in the drug trade
some other stuff going on you can make
it a whole like telenovela well I mean
yeah we could maybe like but I mean I I
I understand your point it would be nice
if something like that existed I
certainly you know in the back of my
head when I think about like if I ever
had any ambitions to to expand this as a
as a business doing something like that
trying to find shows like that would be
one of those things but appreciate the
call and if you know Tom Steyer have him
calling yeah Tom Steyer is one of
endless amounts of things Tom Steyer
could do
would be better than running for
president column from the 501 area code
who's this where he come from is with me
it is you I'm will from Arkansas will
from Arkansas what's on your mind
oh well first of all I just want to say
that I love you Sam I think you're the
best swept-wing horse or the Lord you
like and so and also that Michaels last
makes my day about ninety percent better
so I won't boast you guys and Jamie and
that that's already fat that's great it
sounds also like maybe your days start
off at a baseline that's pretty low but
I'm glad to know I'll take it but it's a
pretty low energy call in terms of
emphasis here and I'm not buying some of
the positions what else you got
oh I was after I buttered you up I'm
calling because I'm a massless desk we
fan and he's been doing some pretty
rough stuff he talked to mike from PA at
4:00 a.m. last night our bring over his
socks lie back and they were like why
would you even do that and they were
just screaming at each other and mike
has done a good job talking to him is
being reasonable he won them over on
like Bernie electability why we need I
want you to talk to him family needs you
we need anyway did you say it 4:00 a.m.
that's insane
yeah they have like seven three hour
argument over stock buybacks okay boy so
detail did they start at 1:00 a.m.
oh I'm not exactly sure when they
started I just know is it we do rhombic
four am watching this I learned it I
watched it this morning
wow I would be I would be happy to talk
to to destiny or anybody about stock
buybacks of course are you kidding he's
only I'll do those he said one time that
a OC and economically illiterate and he
just
he just assumes that position to the
death I don't understand it at all
I I don't I mean you know I don't
understand it either but yeah I'd be
happy to tell Alice about destiny we
would all be happy to drunk-dial destiny
about I'm not doing it in anything that
involves the words am at all I mean
maybe maybe 9:30 a.m. I would do but not
not I'm not not before then but this
might be a good thing she ate bleep just
yeah just I can't sleep I'm gonna call
desta I like delirium as Christ 4:00 in
the morning
people are very they were very he you
didn't let him talk
calm debate you spoke 80% of the time
well I don't know if you know if you
know in chess what they do is they do
the stoppers and then that's well he
should have tried
I'm joking Walter block thing gone Fred
603 calling from a 603 area code who's
this where you come from Ryan the NRA
seal from New Hampshire Oh Ryan and the
NRA chill from New Hampshire would
almost don't appreciate the South now
thought it i yeah do you accuse me of
being a painter i sell i am at this
point
the immature not professional okay then
I accuse you being paid in my racial I
believe that was the common sense guy oh
no I think I said I hope you were what
I'm saying for your sake I hope I hope
that you weren't doing it as an amateur
but I guess okay
okay free so what uh what what do you
have on on tap for today for free so
actually I think he talked about this a
little bit with the text messages
yesterday and really day was work but I
think the Democrats would be good for
them to push for expanded house
representative seats to help kind of
correct some of the gerrymandering issue
and some of the electoral college issues
yes we could go up to 1,500 seats in the
House representatives and it still be
lower population per congressional
districts the last time we get it in
1911 yup it seems like a pretty good
policy point but I don't hear anyone
talk about it that's just curious of
your thoughts III mean the III I don't
know if I would go that far but only
because I think it's you know just I
think it's very hard to do but yes I
think we should up the representation of
people without a doubt I I just think
that like you know pushing for that type
of structural reform when we can't even
get rid of the filibuster and we can't
even get voting rights for Washington DC
and Puerto Rico and I think is is is
long hope but I in terms of principle
yes increase the democracy just another
point is a lot of states like New
Hampshire and other small rural states
that are at risk of losing congressional
seat and going from two to one
yeah so I think there might be possible
systems bipartisan support because yeah
like I said a lot of the states are
about to lose half the representation
that's conceivable that's a good point I
mean I'm I'm certainly open to it I just
think that like opportunity cost if
that's what you're gonna push for it now
exactly I mean I think that like it's a
structural reform right now it's going
to be very difficult and and if there if
there's gonna be any I would like to
exercise it on the Supreme Court on some
level House of Representatives my least
least of my worries right now I'm gonna
directly affect electoral college I mean
I guess in that respect but I also would
like to see the Electoral College go
away frankly I don't see I don't quite
see the point of it but yeah good idea
better than this one you paid by the
national popular vote people I hope you
are
I mean if you know any numbers this give
me I'll call them feeling it hi precinct
appreciate the call right alright come
from a 6'5 Oh area coat we got a lot of
people on the line folks six five Oh
soundcheck am I good you are good who is
this
hi my name is Susan from the Bay Area
Caesar finality no listener yeah and
I've heard your previous caller and I
just want to let you know that I have a
cousin that could do the show for a
bargain and could probably install some
bathroom tile if you wanted him to do to
let you know my number I'm pretty good
at I'm pretty good at the bathroom
tiling myself frankly very good I just
do you really have a cousin who could do
it no I'm kidding so the reason I called
was you previously had some callers talk
about bring up the issue of rent control
and you don't really quite as go into it
you have you know you just had other
topics to talk about right but a person
that you guys could interview that's
really good on this is at Tony Samara he
is the program director of land use and
housing at urban habitat nonprofit in
Auckland and I think you should have a
month okay
put them on the list appreciate the call
all right okay Mike Brendan will you
write that down
Tony Samara urban habitat they've been
doing some interesting things with the
tenant organizing at an Oakland - okay
yeah I come from a330 area code who's
this where you come from ICM this is
Nick from Canton Ohio Nick from Canton
Ohio what's on your mind Nick well I've
had a couple of conversations in
progressive circles about what what is
going to be or what should be rather the
focus of the healthcare movement if we
passed Medicare for all and a lot of
people have
brought up the idea that it would be
important to not just focus on having
single-payer but also having like an NHS
type situation where we would have
mostly public hospitals and sort of end
private control of that particular
aspect of the healthcare system and so
my question is what would be some added
benefits to having that so that sort of
system that could be designed based off
of the British NHS or or the Taiwanese
health care system that would add to a
Medicare for All system assuming that we
were able to pass Bernie Sanders or Jaya
Paul's bill I mean I feel like that's
getting way ahead of ourselves on some
level I mean it's really I you know
hypothetical conversations like that or
okay I mean I think the first thing that
I would do maybe in tandem with Medicare
for all would be to deal with Hospital
concentration corporate concentration of
hospitals of ownership of hospitals I
would probably look to some type of
antitrust stuff to basically say you
know the same rules that we used to have
with like media you can't own X number
of facilities in one you know one
localized area something to that effect
yeah I mean if another aspect of it I'm
sorry I would introduce maybe more and I
think this may be actually part of I
think jeyapaul's bill and maybe Bernie's
as well money to create rural clinics so
I would actually you know add some
competition that way you know you just
like the contemplating turning our
entire medical system over medical
delivery system to the government at
this point seems like you know we might
as well we're gonna have to deal with
climate change let's let's put it this
way we're gonna have to deal with
climate change
such a big way before we get to even
something like that I mean that it's
honestly like it's like you're basically
saying to me let's talk about colonizing
Mars because it was taken I mean like
think how long it's taken to get to like
just the ACA in American history right I
mean we're talking about like half of
our history when was the first you know
medicare-for-all what proposal was like
Truman I mean so we're talking 70 years
out 80 years out and we're still not
even I still think that we're probably I
mean who knows but at least you know
best total best case scenario we're 10
years out from Medicare for all that's
it for everything like lines up I just
think that I don't know well it's also
true that sometimes sister you move slow
and sometimes history moves fast that's
also true well one thing that I'll say
is that I'm currently writing a blog
post for for data for progress on
Medicare for all as an LGBT issue one of
the things that I'm finding is that when
we specifically look at rural areas that
the healthcare outcomes for LGBT people
are much worse compared to LGBT people
in urban areas and so I think that one
solution that could also be part of
Medicare for all is focusing on building
public hospitals in in those areas where
marginalized populations are not service
served as well yeah and and so there
certainly can be other public aspects of
the medical delivery system where we can
do that but not necessarily you know
focus on nationalizing the Cleveland
Clinic or something like that you know
yeah no I agree I agree I think I say I
think that maybe even and it check in
check in both those bills because I
think there is money in there for
clinics at the very least in rural areas
appreciate the call
Thanks thank you bye-bye so
want to get to the do we have that
footage of the Amazon on on fire
basically the good amazon not the one
owned by Jeff Bezos right I'm just
looking at some of these pictures here
do we do we have that video is that me
all right gosh I think that's a is this
do we can we cred can we credit this
there have been reports before we get to
this there has been reports of major in
fact record forest fires in Brazil and
within the Amazon rainforest
there have been 73,000 fires so far
detected by Brazil sprays a space
Research Center it's an eighty three
percent increase over the same period in
2018 now here's the weird part these the
surgeon wildfires has taken place since
bolson ro took office in January he has
vowed to develop the Amazon for farming
and mining he has ignored concerns about
this from the international community
because of course the Amazon forest is
one of the premier carbon sequestration
entities that we have in the world
bolson ro was asked about the spread of
fires is from Reuters he brushed off the
criticism saying it was the time of the
year or the Kumada which is the burn
when farmers use the fire to clear land
however the space agency I n PE which
has the satellite images said the large
number of wildfires could not be
attributed to the dry season or natural
phenomena alone there's nothing abnormal
about the climate this year or the
rainfall in the Amazon region which is
just a little below average said an inpe
researcher people frequently blame the
dry season but that's not quite accurate
he said the dry season creates the
favorable conditions for the use and
spread of fire but starting a fire is
the work of humans either deliberately
or by accident here is just some of like
the footage and we got to just credit
this Abdi Riza there you go
and watch watch some of this footage
it's pretty nuts this is on Twitter
there's no audio there's no audio if
someone just driving by I mean it's just
vast stretches and it's hard to know I
wouldn't put it past bowls an hour I
mean would you put it past him to go out
send people out start fires here and
there and there well it's even even I
wouldn't put it past him but I mean it's
even easy locations he is telling people
like as an example trying to pass their
versions of stand-your-ground laws or
saying that like police should be able
to shoot kids and favelas with it which
already is a major problem so it's like
what you're doing is sending a signal I
mean a couple weeks ago an indigenous
leader was murdered I think by people
looking to mine gold you're basically
telling corporate interests and large
farm aggregate like shadows are this no
problem shekels are exactly this map
looks just horrifying yeah and he also
fired a you know the head of the Space
Age exactly I was talking about this who
was talking about this and basically
refusing the ax fall
estimates essentially oh no big deal
according to that tweet it only provides
20% of the world's oxygen yeah
there's two main as Vijay Prashad was
explaining this last week there's a site
in Papua New Guinea and Amma and the
Amazon and those are the two those are
like the fulcrums of our global climate
and you have an administration and this
is also the idea of removing protected
status for indigenous people as well so
this is a ethnic cleansing story let's
go to a 509 area code who's this where
you come from his family Ronald Reagan
Ronald Reagan how are you sir good I
speak Spanish and I'm working on a
Maoist cristina kirchner impression so
well
you up for a commute are you up for a
cross-country commute Bernie or bust
Emiliano Zapata sounds amazing
I think of Christine I was gonna say so
I think that you your your broader point
is still correct even though there's
some good immigration plans which is
that the Democrats need to coalesce
around something that is easy to
communicate and some points that aren't
quite so technical even with Castro he
seemed really focused focused on this
idea of decriminalizing unlawful entry
and that's really small-bore it doesn't
well the problem is - is it it allows
for a lot of exploitation of these folks
when they get here sure I mean
so they used it's true that they used
strict enforcement of that misdemeanor
law to separate families for a while
last year and then they stopped doing it
so they're not strictly enforcing that
law anymore now you should still get rid
of it but he had two debates where he
had the opportunity to go out and and
really
you know communicate something and he
chose to lean on that one aspect of his
plan both times and if you were to
repeal that law would be good I'm not
saying it's not but it would also fix
virtually nothing right so they're
saying well it should be a civil offense
well that's how its treated 99% of the
time already and and so and if the
administration is showing there's other
cool ways to separate families you don't
necessarily need this misdemeanor law so
yeah he has a pretty good plan and some
good ideas but I think he he failed to
communicate effectively what the plan is
and the problem is like you mentioned
the other day most people kind of want
to just ignore this they don't really
want to think about it too hard or very
often except for the people who feel
really really strongly the other way and
so I know I think that's a similar know
to be honest with you I think that's a
similar dynamic with guns I mean I think
that like I think when there are
particular instances that offend the
sensibilities people are like I don't
want that but they're not right willing
to sort of subscribe to some broad you
know the idea of like we're not going to
prevent anybody from coming in and being
a citizen they just they would rather
hear we're gonna have a humane and just
policy and then just sort of walk away
and say okay you guys take care of the
details
as opposed to something more specific of
like we're just we're simply going to
let everybody we're gonna have a
procedure for it we're gonna have you
know maybe you know some criteria where
we will you know where 5% of people we
will turn away I'm saying an arbitrary
number but you know some percentage of
people we're gonna turn away but broadly
speaking the vast majority of people who
want to come become citizens will become
citizens I think what I would say is
that we want the immigration plan that
exists already in the minds of most
Republicans which is if you're here and
you work hard and you're a good person
and you can pass a background check you
should be able to get in line and
legalize your status and the problem is
that's what most people think exists but
it does not exist and so I want to put
in place the plan that you imagine
exists already but doesn't and because
people write this whole concept of like
get in line
why are you jumping ahead a lot that you
know the whole line concept seems to be
a sort of a fantasy plan that exists
right and it makes sense that if if
there was a line that you could go and
get into you could go down to the paper
store and and sign up and get a green
card it would make sense to to be really
opposed to illegal immigration because
you know all you got to do is go down
and do the thing and and then you'd have
papers and if you don't there must be
some nefarious reason but like all of
that is based on a faulty promise so
that's kind of how I would try and frame
it I wanted to ask you one quick
question and then I'll jump I've been
thinking a lot about my time as a Mormon
missionary I'm a former Mormon as I've
mentioned before yeah and how it's not
an easy thing to sell Mormonism because
it's super weird really but did you have
did you have that like the animated book
that explained how the angel came down
to Smith guys I know it's weird but you
got to bang up a high of girls on your
own more than I think about it I when I
was a great but when I was a pretty
strong payoff on the back end when I was
a kid I was traveling through Europe at
one point and whenever I would meet
Mormon missionaries I would spend a lot
of time talking to him and I saw that
book they had like the animated version
multiple times did you did they give you
those or this was
way before your time no we did I mean I
had those growing up but no we didn't
have those on my mission but that the
point is um you know we had to think a
lot about how to communicate to people
and how to sort of recognize their
concerns and all these sorts of things
we would also get into debates with like
Jehovah's Witnesses it was like a scene
from West Side Story you know a couple
of Mormon missionaries and so anyways
those types of contentious encounters
always left both sides leaving more
emboldened I think in their own dumb
beliefs even if like objectively you
lost the debate I don't know that you
can really lose or win a debate amongst
those two groups but even if they scored
most of the points you would come away
feeling more more money than you had
going into it so it really was not an
effective way of communicating or trying
to win hearts and minds and I wonder if
this is not a function of Bernie bro ISM
but online ISM if we need to start
thinking more strategically about how we
communicate it seems like online the
goal is to people see themselves not as
missionaries of an idea or like trying
to win hearts and minds but you know
we're all trying to score points or you
know get a big dunk on somebody and
sometimes that's important when when
there's bad faith actors or people
you're never going to win over anyways
but I see a lot I do see a lot of
hostility hashtag online between sort of
like leftist purists and people who are
maybe more century or people who just
care less about politics and it seems
like that's that is harmful and it is a
real phenomenon and maybe like it's you
know maybe we need to have a
conversation about how to engage with
those people and I think especially this
is the last point I'll go you know the
idea behind Bernie being the best
candidate is he's going to lead
grassroots movement and he's going to
bring in more people to the fold and
that's going to be really hard to do if
there's a sense that people who are
coming into this for the first time in
their maybe not as woke or they're not
as informed we're going to be met with
hostility and dunking and that sort of
thing rather than a sense of community
so Saturday on your on your latter point
like you know it's it's hard for me to
get a full on assessment of this because
you know I it's sort of just the waters
I swim in I mean I think the analogy of
your sharks and jets with the Jehovah's
Witnesses in the Mormons for me the
issue isn't what the players thought the
issue is the people who gathered around
you and listened and what they thought I
mean that's the that's you know I mean
I'm in a business where and I entered
into this business as a performer and so
I am simply conscious of the audience
and I think I think there is you know I
don't I can't make really any broad
assessments about the way that people
are fighting or who's fighting online
but I can say that like people should
enter into these exchanges with a
broader audience in mind and be
conscious of how its received by other
people and I think that will that will
you know go a long way to saying like
what's the value of me dunking on this
person and I say this is someone who
believes in very specific instances that
there are is a lot of value on it of it
but you have to be aware that the the
what you're doing has no value in terms
of the individual you are you're you're
engaging with if you're engaging in that
way I think I think that that's I like
that he made the distinction though cuz
I think there's a much broader point
about online ism in general and how it
actually bleeds really destructively
into
even sort of like quote um you know real
life spaces and I always recommend in
the kind of family of that there's
always the vampire Castle essay which is
great but I I think that on the flip
side I was actually just talking with
Hassan about this like there also
needs to just be more comfort with
people disagreeing with each other and
just because people disagreeing have
debates especially among people that you
sort of share a set like you know I've
had uh you know friendly disagreements
with people I have nothing like the the
highest respect for on as an example
like you know some of the intricacies of
really establishing the distinction
between Sanders and Warren as an example
I think that's actually an important
debate and I think there's real
substantive differences there and none
of those arguments or debates have led
to like I still really like and respect
these people we still work together like
that that's that's the that's sort of
the paradox is it's like it really all
or nothing like either total destruction
in a way that's extremely alienating I
think to normal people or on the other
hand just some idea that like unless
we're just always synchronized we can't
have disagreement that's just not true I
mean disagreement can be healthy and
it's totally normal and totally fine um
let's go to what is this de Blasio what
did see what's going on with the Blasio
I haven't watched this yet but Dave
waggles at least want to give the Blasio
props for calling for freeing Leonard
Peltier absolutely before we make fun of
him yes he's calling for freeing of
Leonard Peltier and and then this
happened to him
[Music]
[Applause]
oh boy that hurts so cute that may drop
him from 0.752 but seriously good job on
the leonard peltier thing yeah telling
you he's right but he's always a
contender for a number two choice he's
been listening to his kids so here is a
Donald Trump freaking out about the
reports that the economy is going soft
apparently they've had to tell donors
that they there's a chance that there
may be a small mild short recession
don't worry but just in case you were
wondering about our economic powers
if you reelect us now here's the thing
here's what is problematic about this
promise
he needs a Democratic Congress to go
along with these proposals but all they
got to do is float tax cuts for some of
those donors maybe now I have to be
asked we've heard again digital cut
payroll tax indexing and capital gains
but would you accept well you know we've
been talking about indexing for a long
time and many people like indexing and
it can be done very simple it can be
done directly by me and so we've been
looking at that as you probably have
heard I can do it directly so we're
talking about indexing and we're always
looking at the capital gains tax payroll
tax we're looking at I would love to do
something on capital gains we're talking
about that that it's a big deal goes
through Congress payroll tax is
something that we think about and a lot
of people would like to see that and
that very much affects the worker in the
workers of our country and we have a lot
of workers right now by the way we have
more people working today than we've
ever had before in the history of our
country we have almost 160 million
people working today I think the word
recession is a word that's inappropriate
because it's just a word that the the
certain people I'm going to be kind
certain people and the media are trying
to build up because they'd love to see a
recession we're very far from a
recession there you go
so Trump claims that he can index the
capital gains tax unilaterally
supposedly it would it would cost
according to an analysis by economists
at the Penn Wharton budget model school
it would add a hundred billion dollars
to the national debt and it would
benefit of course the top point point
one percent not the top one percent the
top point percent now this would be
indexing the capital gains tax to
inflation so in other words you go out
you buy something you go out and buy
something for a hundred dollars let's
say is stock it goes up huge run to one
hundred and twenty-five dollars you sell
it over the course I let's say it goes
up by twenty-five dollars over the
course of two years you sell it you pay
taxes on the twenty five dollars capital
gains of course it's reduced because
that is so much harder than actually
working it's rude
the pay gains on that twenty-five
dollars then you would if you had
actually gone out and dug a ditch to get
it and what he wants to do is say well
there was two percent inflation during
the course of those two years so it's
not really twenty-five dollars that you
gained it is only $20 so we only getting
a tax on the twenty dollars and he
claims that he can do that himself there
is a legal opinion in 1992 that was
offered by the Office of Legal Counsel
under Herbert Walker Bush and they say
you cannot do that
so you know again it's one of those
situations where one of his lunatic
advisors like you could do it I don't
know if he'll do it
we'll see if he'll do it but maybe that
is the price that he needs to get some
donors on board guess we will find out
meanwhile speaking of his cabinet ladies
and gentlemen as you know we have a vast
vast arsenal of nuclear weapons they are
under the auspices of the Department of
Energy the Department of Energy is under
the auspices of a man named Rick Perry
just if you forgot who Rick Perry is I
take you back to this moment years ago
at the 2000 I guess it must been in 2007
maybe it was in 2000 yeah 2007 primary
debate for the 2008 election here is
Rick Perry this was ten years ago when
he was sharpest attack it's three
agencies of government when I get there
that are gone commerce education and the
what's the third one there let's see
EPA EPA seriously
[Applause]
is EPA the one you were talking about it
no sir you can't name the third one the
third agency of government I would I
would do away with the education the
Commerce and let's see
I can't the third one I can't sorry God
Jesus crazy alright so I want to cut
three branches of government I just
can't remember which three your only
Trump said he's like so got glasses now
but it doesn't work right is that smart
well and he's in charge of our entire
nuclear arsenal which could blow up the
world I don't know what is it two or
three hundred times oh yeah
the entire not terrifying at all but
good news he why I should say yeah the
good news is that this was the
technology that he had trouble sort of
deciphering didn't end up causing a
meltdown but I would remind you well let
me just explain what happened on
Instagram sometimes people send around
what amount to like chain letters and
they have fake memes and they're sure
pranks I know this is the case because
when my daughter was 12 she fell for one
once and called me up and said dad I I'm
so sorry
why what happened well I clicked on a
thing on Instagram and it's going to
delete everything on my phone and I'll
probably have to get a new phone what
are you talking about well someone wrote
this on Instagram and it said something
to the effect of like don't forget
tomorrow starts the new Instagram rule
where they can use your photos and they
can they can wipe your phone if you use
the etc etc I'm like sweetie that's
that's not true it's just an internet
meme that someone's trying to fool you
with and now she knows to do that
well apparently no she knows that's not
anything to panic about apparently Rick
Perry not as savvy he reposted a
Instagram post saying that tomorrow the
Instagram rule where they can use your
photos they can be used in court case
litigation against you everything you've
ever posted becomes public from today
even messages that have been deleted or
the photos not allowed cost nothing for
a simple copy and paste better safe than
sorry Channel 13 News about the change
channel 13 News did I talked about the
change in instagrams privacy policy um
we just know it how it looks like
Instagram has been pasted over something
else like throughout this well it mean
cuz it's uh it's like bold and like
there's it looks like there's some this
dub you missing it looks like like they
use white I don't know what's going on
there yeah it looks very crude whatever
the point is he reposted this and then
people pointed out a dude you got you
got fooled by an internet meme and he's
like Oh what are the chances huh oh you
know like haha
feel free to repost no no you know no
thanks Instagram haha I'll be darned
first time I've ever seen anything fake
on the Internet Oh glasses oh my god
seriously you mean that's a fake ha ha
I'm disturbed by his emoji use yeah yeah
well I should not use emoji like that
here's the thing it's not just that this
guy's so dumb that he falls for a you
know not good
there are phishing scams there are all
sorts of scams on online you could one
phishing email makes it into his email
box we know this is the way that the
folks in the Clinton campaign nest it
was like oh I won't change my email pass
exactly oh but for the guy who's in
charge of the nuclear arsenal maybe
we're gonna want a little bit more savvy
about how the internet works now I will
remind you that there were reports it
was reported by credible reporters that
he thought the job of being the
secretary event of energy was
gonna be overseeing the nuclear arsenal
that we have in the country among other
things he thought he was just gonna
travel around and promote the oil
industry - people thought I was gonna be
like travelling Roadshow bro that's what
he thought it was gonna be
hey should check out some liquid natural
gas I mean on some level said Texas that
should be just grounds for an
impeachment of Donald Trump right there
just sheer incompetence I do like the
Podesta one though like Oh a gift
certificate for Whole Foods absolutely
it's it's a tendency bills little scary
little scary and I get listen my you
know I I don't I'm not
Instagram savvy so you know what I do I
don't go on Instagram and if I really
felt like I need to because I'm
Secretary of Education and I'd say or
energy or education or any of the other
agencies I've cut I would say hey person
I just hired you're going to be in
charge of my Instagram account you're
savvy about that stuff right yes okay
good
that's the way you work that now you
hire top people we have to get the best
people we need to get the best and the
finest and if we don't we'll be in
trouble for a long period of time
[Laughter]
um let's go try and kill me let's just
check in with Brian Kilmeade again
because I get a lot of I getting a lot
of response to Brian Kilmeade yesterday
trying to parse the the jewish-american
things that they should be loyal and
it's almost like we watched Kilmeade
make this point yesterday on Fox &
Friends
right yesterday where he said like I
can't believe Jewish Americans you know
how they can support Democrats I think
that's where Trump got the comment from
he got it from watching Fox & Friends
and he goes around he turns it and now
brian kilmeade 'he's got to defend the
comment the Donald Trump made that was
probably based upon brian kilmeade z'
comment the day before it's like or a
Buress it's some very very strange
you know like s you're painting type of
situation very limit eats it really it
was this time really in fact this is
it's completely dark and they're set and
they're doing this in the middle of the
day
are you kidding no it's probably the
first thing in the morning we're like
we've got to deal with this early here
is Brian Kilmeade he III don't know
what's going on with him he seems like
he's super tanned I know if he was on
vacation for a long time or he just
feels like maybe he's got some type of
rash situation he just feels like he's
like a little bit I don't know he's a
tanning booth he's having a tough time
lately obviously and she can't believe
that we've gotten to a point in our
country where we have congresswoman that
are completely against giving aid to
Israel yeah well they're three billion
dollars I think anyway a lot of this
stuff was cut by were from President
Obama who had single-digit approval
rating with inside Israel the president
brought up yesterday I think any Jewish
people that vote for a Democrat I think
it shows you there are lack of knowledge
or great disloyalty because if you
compared the two administrations and
their allegiance to Israel and their
alliance I think they're by far this
president has shown on more of an
allegiance to Israel than President
Obama has so he thinks that somehow that
doesn't turn up in the ballot box where
President Trump only got twenty four
percent of the American Jewish vote I
guess they could be voting on out of the
things that could be another
factor one thing yeah there yeah yeah
now it doesn't quite explain why where
there's disloyalty to whom because he
realizes like Oh II I can't believe I'm
responsible now for making that number
20 percent instead of 24 percent and
ruining the whole I mean they have
destroyed their entire project about
Ilhan Omar and Rasheeda Talib being
anti-semites right I mean he's out there
Donald Trump because Brian Kilmeade
'he's little offhand comment that he
ad-libbed and that's why he's probably
reading from his script today saying
like yesterday when I tried to freelance
a little bit I got in some big trouble
like I got the President to repeat what
I said and it's it's gonna sink him
today he's reading on a script make sure
that he just sort of like lays it out
doesn't address the dual loyalty that
they're supposed to have maybe they're
voting on other things yeah maybe or
maybe they also are voting on other
things and also have some issues with
Israel total anti-semites anyways what's
wrong with you people
what about your second country or your
first country there's make any sense
who is the RJC Republican Jewish a voice
for American Jews in the GOP yeah here
we go we take the president seriously
not literally
president Trump is pointing out the
obvious for those who care about Israel
the position of many elected Democrats
has become anti-israel what about voting
Democrats that are Jewish yeah when to
live in
Omar talk loyalty they're questioning
American Jews loyalty to the United
States President Trump is talking about
caring about the survival of the Jewish
state I like that the first reply is
keep tweeting right exactly I mean this
is just it's stunning it really is
stunning
the these people are just insane maniacs
and Bernie Sanders crazy Bernie if his
proposal goes through one less
could be out of business
one last thing we'll do some phone calls
the Sean Spicer is apparently gonna be
on Dancing with Stars and I have two
reactions to this one is that's usually
the last vestige of a celebrity very
often it is the last time that you will
you will make some cash
it probably pre Sage's a Celebrity Big
Brother to have a situation or something
like that
it's really a cruel thing to call it if
you think about it what's that Dancing
with the Stars
right exactly like guess what buddy oh
well you know he's theoretically the
star that's what sort of problematic
about it there was some tweet where
somebody said you know I never
understood in studying you know like
when I was like learning about history
about the Holocaust like how things like
that could happen in a place like how
did how do you slip into something like
that and then I saw Sean Spicer on the
Emmys and I understood a lot of things
and I I think there really is an
argument that now I understand a lot of
ABC viewers they like the Trump
administration and I imagine ABC in
particular is a network that aims for
people in the middle of the country in
the southern parts of the country that
is where they they make their hay as it
were and you can go back over the years
and you can sort of see that by this
shows that they put on to a large extent
but there's an individual who works it's
ABC I don't know who it is I have no
idea who made this decision and a bunch
of people signed off on it and I can
assure you that those people
do not live in the south they do not
live in the middle of the country they
are coastal people who I would imagine
at least some of them would not vote for
Donald Trump I would imagine some of
them are raising money against Donald
Trump and the complete jettisoning of
one's political views when you make a
decision to normalize in celebrity eyes
someone like Sean Spicer who was
horrific in his lying to the American
public is I mean it's it's disgusting
it's disgusting I understand like you
know if someone came to me and said like
well you know what everybody who is
involved in signing off on this there
were all Trump supporters all right you
know what I Trump supporters exist but I
know that's not the case
I know that's not the case and it just
shows an incredible lack of eminent egg
rity and then stuff like that those
small decisions that are shrouded in
like well I'm not gonna get in the way
of this I got my career to worry about
and Baba this is gonna be good for two
good TV people are gonna want to watch
Sean Spicer we've run out of people who
are willing to do this I don't know it's
disgusting to me and and what's even
worse this clip we're playing right here
this is from Good Morning America their
news Morning Show or whatever it is play
it one more time he comes out like he's
a WWE star
[Applause]
[Music]
and I want a but one correction here
he's not straight from the briefing room
he's been doing nothing since he left
there because actually other people have
standards I think honestly straight from
being drunk on a former Fox guys show
whose name I don't remove all literally
straight from being tipsy on a youtube
show yeah well I mean nothing wrong with
that he'll believe but let's be honest
the best thing he's ever done right I'm
just saying it's not the briefing room
ah then oh I would have it be happily
comfort with that spot straight tipsy
from a youtube show got you went to my
alma mater
sadly Connecticut colleges most famous
alum Kevin Sorbo went to mine so it's
alright it's interesting now you look at
Bates and he got Benjamin Mays was of
course president of Morehouse College
adviser to em okay and you have Sean
Spicer
yes great well done yeah I guess we got
to watch it
[Music]
the nice thing is Shawn will be in
charge of assessing audience size have
uh that's hilarious how he was
gaslighting the entire country by lying
about what was obvious to everybody's
face that's hilarious he was just a
public official what he did that this is
so weird
and here's the guy who told everybody
the father from Chernobyl wasn't gonna
be a problem at all haha just kidding
there's a guy that's holding the throw
the switch even though the safety
procedure wasn't in place this is like
one of those like the this was just a
badly deeply sorry des Beaux I have
trouble pronouncing his last name at Dig
Lee oh you're looking up a cool
Connecticut cop oh no I knew des Beaux
um he was a civil civil rights attorney
yeah he should have been Oh L see
it's very different this is just not
funny though no it's like it's actually
just really gross it's close it's super
gross everybody should be disgusting
it's disgusted by that frankly everybody
should be alright let's go back to the
phones calling from a nine to nine area
code I know a lot of people can hold
them we got a lot of people nine tonight
BAM how you doing this Holden from
Sacramento Holden from Sacramento what's
on your mind I just wanted to do a quick
there's a Bernie Sanders rally tomorrow
evening Cesar Chavez park anyone in the
area be awesome to see you there
number two the one of your callers had
an interesting idea and I figured I
would promote it a little bit any
Spanish speaker who listens to your show
I mean they're more than free to just
make a podcast super easy you can
literally podcast from smart phones so
you can literally regurgitate everything
that's on the show I mean realistically
what do you think about that I I would
have no problem with anybody who wanted
to basically do a you know like a
director's cut every day of parts of the
show or our videos I mean I would I
would welcome it
yeah maybe do that to literary hangover
team yes we will sue you we will put it
immediate season
yeah if there's any other things they
can do good work we will promote it and
actually for what it's worth I think
there already are people who do that
sort of thing and you should let us know
about it yeah because people are already
making I see it from time to time people
do make cuts of all of these shows and
sort of mash stuff up and you should
direct things are away because we'll
promote it absolutely look good
appreciate the anti Farah and espanol
but I imagine that whoever is doing this
has their own unique perspective to add
as well alright here's what we're gonna
do folks we have so many people hanging
on the phone I'm gonna take one might
not get to all of them regular calls and
then I'm going to go through and do like
a speed stuff like you used to do this
on radio where you know you got 30
seconds
but you seven one for area code who's
this
where you going from hello hello oh hi
I've been calling from LA I driving
through Tennessee right now okay what's
on your mind Ivan a month let me break a
quick stereotype yeah latino gay truck
driver liberal nice yeah you know you
get that many yeah I'm a minority of a
minority in the trucking communities oh
yes you are literally oh you are
literally only the fourth gay latino
truck driver who's called this week oh
wow I'm Joe well I have a well I don't
know if it's a question or suggestion
have have you or Michael or if you
knowif change from to like tea or how
cool is he has ever tried getting on
Bill Maher show because if you'd notice
because I've been watching Bill Maher
for like 15 years and like I just I'm
disappointed to where he's at right now
most of his quote unquote left-wing
guests are usually you know
establishment political hacks yeah that
won't you know that won't fight him back
on yeah the
Barbossa view on this last show like
have you guys tried to get on the show
or I obviously I don't know about I
don't know about Kyle or jank I can tell
you that back 10 years ago now I got
asked to do a show that was a commentary
on the Larry David show that would when
Larry David show was sold to TV Guide
they did this thing where instead of
having commercials in between it they
would have this commentary like a panel
that will comment on the show it was
like 2009 I think I was I got the call
and I thought it was a joke I didn't
think it was real I showed up and Larry
David was there Seinfeld was there in
some basement and but Bill Carter I
think his name is Bill Carter what is
the EP of the Bill Maher show and he was
peeing this show and he wanted me on he
was a fan of mine he wanted me on the
show I'm pretty sure that Bill Maher had
basically said no had asked me from like
the the day that we had him on majority
report in 2004 on the day we launched we
had Bill Maher on by phone would you
know and I think I annoyed him in some
fashion and I think that was it so I
smoke pot and I'm Jewish too I would
just like to say yeah just uh
when they finally pull the plug on that
exhausted thing give me that show there
we go I'd go and Bill Maher I don't give
a crap yeah well anyone oh ma Wray I've
actually I've you know and and I want to
be really clear this is of the like I've
generically heard stuff so take it with
a grain of salt but it I it is
interesting I've definitely heard that
really with the exception of people that
are like you know incredible stars in
different domains like Cornel West as a
public intellectual or killer Mike is a
you know rapper and public intellectual
for what it's worth actually in fact
that his like date his selection of
people that would be in our sort of
general tier he does not go left know
what correct that
curation of you know centricity whatever
is very conscious it's not that lacking
awareness of other voices yeah yeah he
doesn't want you doesn't want that
haven't I got a jump I get I remember
him all right cool I appreciate the call
he was never as left I think as people
surmised at one point got to be left in
an ultra right-wing era when he just
sang Bush was bad was a libertarian he
got libertarian ish type of guy he got
bumped from from ABC because of his
comment about like I don't think it's
cowardly to fly that takes a lot of guts
to fly planes into a building he was
being sort of a pendant he's an edge
Lord and he and then he became a voice
against bush and like I say you know
like you know and I don't think it's
happened quite like that in this era
I think there's been more consciousness
and you know more sophistication but
back then there was just one set of
politics like George Bush is bad and
everybody assumed they were on the same
team because of it so outdated all right
here's the deal folks this is what we're
gonna do 30 seconds I'm gonna time you
and you're gonna get to make one comment
and that's it I'm sorry that's the way
we got to do it lightning round
lightning round you're calling from us
406 area code you got 30 seconds
who is it where you calling from and
then go hi my name is Brennan Watson
from Montana I've called it a few times
I just wanted to say thank you all for
the free education that you provide us
every day and Lula Libre Wow
best call ever good job and made it at
eleven point seven three seconds well
done you call it from a six four seven
area code who's this where he come from
hey Sam it's Sebastian from Canada hello
Sebastian go I just wanted to contrast
trying to talk to Burt up to my two
grandmother's about Bernie Sanders
talking to my Spanish grandmother
in the Civil War she was an anarchist
our family was Basque and she literally
did not even know who he was so that's
how bad the spread of information is if
you're just watching TV the other one is
my Canadian grandmother who is basically
like a centrist liberal yeah but despite
all the negative information she's
bombarded with about Bernie Sanders
she's come away with this idea that he's
like really polite and he reminds her of
FDR I was just blown away by that
great interesting story appreciate the
call everybody show a little bit more
make it clear so that everybody knows
that he was talking about the Spanish
Civil War I when he said civil war I was
like holy wait a second the super ager
she's got to be close to like 160 a lot
of wisdom all right come from a 308
area code who's this where you come from
you got 30 seconds let's go
hey it's Kowalski from Nebraska I just
wanted to call in and let you guys know
that a lot of those burnings and the
Amazonas to make way for livestock the
Amazon is where roughly one-third to
two-thirds of California's water
originates from blood and rainfall and
about 40 percent of u.s. agriculture is
concentrated in California and about 80%
of your vegan and vegetarian diets
depend on their success so if you really
want to make things better we need to
free Lula thanks walls he is absolutely
the first Republican I will be
aggressive yeah he's in Russia where
he's amazing
that's all Wolski someone just sent me a
2008 piece outlining this new Amazon
protection initiatives by the Lula
government calling from a 585 area code
who's this where he calling from is john
from western new york john what's up you
got 30 seconds oh yeah help get on some
of those shows if somebody wanted to
take a Chuck humor here in 2022 yeah
that's
ha all right appreciate the culture
thank you John Thank You Terrell calling
from a to10 area code who's this where
you calling from you got 36
Cody called from San Antonio hey I was
watching there was a razörfist Kyle :
here eh this is a guy who impersonated
Dennis Miller to insult you
they had an argument about gun control
on their debate a while back I just
wanted to give a little light to the
fact that you know razörfist brought up
that you know they had know just where
they banned assault rifles in Japan they
never had any violent gun crimes like
that beforehand I was just thinking you
know we should probably all give a
little bit more relevancy to gun culture
rather than you know gun legislation
which is important but the culture is a
big thing also if I can just say real
quick a message from the progressive
voice YouTube Chet
we are on to you Sam cedar have a great
day okay appreciate it I'm not under
censure and what they're on to but I
have no doubt it those guys are on top
of it quite a bit it could be a myriad
of things so this is a response to a
response to a previous response for the
video let me just tell you guys in the
progressive voices chat let me just give
you a piece of advice
keep digging because there's a lot of
stuff out there
you're gonna strike gold believe me
believe me oh shoot I just hung up on
863 I'm sorry
we will swing back around we'll get wait
hey there 863 this thing is a little bit
funky calling from a 702 area code who's
this where you come from gotta be quick
thirty seconds hey Sam is Brooklyn
Ingles Las Vegas brother man go go you
got 30 gotcha okay so they can't talk
for too much I'll go off at Jamie's
point Bill Maher's very outdated there
was a time when he was kind of special
because he's kind of the only voice out
there but I kind of feel like he's
supposed to be like a edge Lord but
I guess the internet kind of replaced
them so now I just kind of like a kind
of sundowning old funny man and he's
pretty racist so I hate him so big
points out Jamie also Mike I like to
debate with destiny
I think you I think you talk a little
bit too much sorry it's my Christmas but
some we wait wait hold on Mike I'm just
kidding awesome wait when you didn't let
him get away with the TPP talking points
that was ridiculous otherwise I loved it
I talk too much I agree with you
appreciate the cop but also you know
he's got an outfit if you're gonna get a
playoff you got to be alpha conference
three zero area code who's this where
you come from just me yep all right
Andrew from Illinois for a longtime
listener first-time caller
I'm well okay real nervous don't worry
you're doing good wanna see yeah I want
to see the Democrats start and the left
in general try to reclaim economics it
always seems like you know sort of
squealing hordes of the moderates always
seem to kind of just inherently believe
Republicans are better on that sort of
thing and frankly that's just simply not
the truth
we just we never even talked about
velocity of money stuff like that though
I don't generally agree with Andrew yang
I like the way how he talks about things
that are normally you know moralized
through more of a technical lens and I
think that should be more brought more
broadly adapted throughout the less good
point I appreciate the call Andrew I
will just add go quick quick quick
oh also I like the idea of an array
cysts weird you did mention that there
such thing as microaggressions but when
whenever I even use that money or that
word I it makes me want to sort of do my
lunch money agree I appreciate that yeah
so I appreciate gotta let you go 30
seconds that's the way we're working it
right now but I will say this I think I
you know I don't necessarily always like
the things that Andrew yang says but I
do like the way that he approaches these
things and I think to further that point
I don't think it's a
of like taking back economics as much as
it is understanding that when we talk
about economics 90% of the time we are
talking about choices that we make as a
society that there are no sort of like
this is we're not dealing with the
weather this is not a question of like
should we have a tarp because it's gonna
rain we're actually in charge more often
than not about the rain whether it's
going to be cold or whether it's going
to be hot it's a question of our own
priorities as a society so like people
need to understand that so much of what
is considered economics like we need to
do this because there is some physical
reason that we need to do it if we do X
then Y happens is not the case the
reality is we can make X happen that's
our decision we can make Y happen that's
our decision the a lot of these outcomes
are preordained based upon decisions
that we make and people need to
understand that you know the the best
analogy I can give you we did a lot of
different birthing classes and different
story but different types of birthing
classes and there were some that were
quite hostile to hospitals things like
hypno birthing and natural childbirth
varying degrees have some hostility
towards hospitals you know they're not
ending up burning them down I'm just
saying they're skeptical and and one of
the things I learned in that is that
many things that that are passed off as
medical procedures or that that are
perceived by us as laypeople
as medical decisions just turn out to be
administrative decisions like it's more
efficient for us to have shifts that go
six hours as opposed to 12 hours or 12
hours as opposed to 6 hours or you know
the reason why a doctor might give
pitocin to speed up the birthing process
is because they want to sign off in an
hour
there's no medical necessity to it and
there's question you know there's some
people say like you don't need pitocin
you shouldn't have pitocin and that
dynamic is very similar in the way that
I think economics is people have to
understand and more often than not when
we're talking about economics we're
talking about choices that we make I
just want to say just and that I
actually though think that that's a
reason to be very hesitant about Andrew
yang because I think he does speak about
technology's economics and I'm highly
determinist with yeah and a technocratic
way as opposed to like political economy
which is the right describes all of us
coming from a 978 area code who's this
where you come from
30 seconds hello 30 seconds who is it
hello hello who's this where you come
from yep clock is running 37
they say this is an error from New
Jersey are you doing good 30 seconds
Eric good good day so yeah I don't we
talked a while back I don't you remember
I'm a doctor from New Jersey Michael
what's going on brother hey all right I
just wanted to say man I want to just
touch on this latest iteration of the
bullcrap sort of anti medicare-for-all
argument yeah kleavon Jason is saying
all hospitals are going to be stars for
income because Medicare only pays about
half of the reimbursement that private
insurance pays I haven't really heard a
great counter-argument to that so I just
wanted to share it with you and maybe
some other time spend more time giving
your take on it but this is sort of an
outcome is I mean this is basically by
design because Medicare does not have
the funding to pay what hospitals needs
and basically what the hospitals then do
is they negotiate with private insurance
companies for higher reimbursements and
this is actually a great counter
argument against like the Buddha judge
versions of this because they don't
really want to fundamentally increase
the funding of Medicare by charging
everybody more taxes and so you still
don't have all these private insurance
companies you can have an underfunded
public system and you're going to have
sort of haves and have-nots in terms of
who can access medical care and doctors
are going to have the option not to take
the Medicare program and go with the
private insurance plan and so if we
actually do Medicare for all and
Bernie's version of John Paul's version
we'll actually have a sufficiently
funded system to pay hospitals enough
where they can give people to care that
they need and we won't have this problem
so it's sort of a I don't know they're
they're basically reversing cause and
effect in a way that's completely
disingenuous and good point Eric
appreciate it thanks to the call we'll
talk more about that in a future piece
calling from a nine to five area code
who's that's where he come from you got
30 seconds
hey Sam this is Wilfred Manhattan how's
it going good
thirty seconds ago I'm I'm just I'm
looking at these polls and Biden's not
going down as much as I want him to so
I'm just wondering what is your thought
on because in my view I think Warren has
to drop out in an endorsed Bernie in
order for a progressive to win or the
other way around so I'm just wondering
what you think about that because
Biden's not dropping just from his gas
you know yeah I appreciate the call I
mean I think like it's a little bit
early to make that assessment that he's
not going to drop let's see what happens
in the next two months and after Iowa
but at least in terms of the polls but I
think ultimately yeah one of those two
it's gonna have to look to the other and
say which one of us is it gonna be and
you know presumably you'll be the one
that has less delegates at that point I
mean I think this is gonna go to pretty
close to the convention that's my guess
but we'll see call from a 408 area code
who's this where you calling from
you got 30 seconds yeah this is Marwan
from California what's on your arm oh
just wanted to talk about new sources
what do you guys think of like the gray
zone I've seen Michael on i-24 Donna as
a side note what's the deal with t
Whitey's quality control you know they
gave a platform today Rubin Jimmy Dore
and Michael Tracy and those guys kind of
kind of seemed very hawkish appreciate
the call I mean CIT does a lot of great
work it's a big operation i I think gray
zone I does some really good stuff
online and there
and I you know in the end they had they
certainly have a very particular
perspective but they're on the ground
there I mean things like the half-hour
interview with Manuel Zelaya I would
definitely put them in your in your diet
yeah I mean I think you need to you know
be aware that they have you know what
their perspective is you need to be
aware of
everyone's beauty where everybody basic
assumptions well yeah except for me I'm
totally objective I just call it as I
see it and that's it I have no I have no
priors and I have no I come from no I
have no disposition on this stuff until
I see it and then I just analysis
analyze it like a computer would but
aside from me you need to just you know
understand people's priors but if you do
that you know I think grey zone is good
I don't know I 24i 24 is well look they
actually do book a fair amount of Avice
Ariel they hire me so I don't want to
criticize no I mean it's an ultra right
wing like it's a particularly idea oh I
mean yeah I would not of course it's
extreme right wing and now that they
don't have now that David Shuster isn't
there anymore Shuster gone she's just
gone so I think what happened I don't
know all of it oh but I think yeah I
mean certainly if you're just asking
like you can watch id24 for some debates
but I mean if you're asking look
generically about their actual reporting
I mean it's certainly quite skewed of
course yes all right come from a 408
area code who's this where are you
calling from got 30 seconds we got to be
quick Pam hi this is Susan Cosmo yeah
hey what's on your mind nope
I was on the David Pakman colors show
and he mentioned that the bulk of the
Democratic votes the most stable one of
centrist left and there's been a lot
data about demographics of votes and I
just you know there's no information
about what do you think is the habits of
progressive voters because there's so
much you know CN NS says that the energy
and enthusiasm is with progressive right
now and is that going to turn into more
voter turnout and I'm just wondering
like what is the sort of habits and
voter data about progressive voters it's
a good question we're gonna have some
pollsters on in September who can answer
that question better but my
understanding is that
what is motivating people the most is
not necessarily an ideology one way or
another it is it is being partisan and I
mean that's why they like the way that
that I think is like to that people like
to frame this is you hear like the
centrist saying like well people want to
vote against Trump but if we have a
candidate it's too far left then they're
not going to do it but I just don't
think that that most voters make their
decisions that way I think most voters
make their decisions like if they don't
like Trump they want to hear someone
who's going to go at Trump the hardest
and I think you know certainly policies
to a certain extent filter in there but
I think it's you know people look at how
much they trust somebody I think there's
just a lot a lot more to it than just
breaking it down within the left or the
right itself on on on policy in ideology
but we'll talk to a upholster about that
come from a seven one six area code
who's this where you come from got 30
seconds hi Sam mrs. dan from New York go
Dan I am calling to agree with you that
I don't think that people will be
frightened away from the Democrats if we
run a Democrat that is far left ER than
any of been recently I do agree that the
Democrats are allied with the
Republicans and only ashamed that Trump
is baring their their black soul I think
we could save ourselves by bringing Al
Franken back and having and rip on trunk
well who knows appreciate the call maybe
find someone who's not a sex creep you
might want to we can do it come from us
I can't tell 786 area code who's this
where you come from
yo this is Michael Brooks from Brooklyn
New York
oh hello Michael Brooks what's on your
mind yo so I'm just gonna use this time
to say a lot all right one my
congresswoman is Debbie
wasserman-schultz I don't know how that
 got elected
she uh she clearly stole the election
it's the clearest case of Elections
brought against my boys in Canova um
what else you know Florida is a terrible
state of all Republican it's terrible
out here besides that we need to focus
on the issues climate change israel
palestine western sahara and a Lula
Libre all right thank you appreciate the
call it sounded like a good call from
what I caught of it it's a very strange
bit there call from a different you and
a different dimension seven to zero are
you on this buggy come from a nine for
nine area code who's this where you come
from
hi this is Mike Mike thirty seconds
quick go okay great um first of all I
think that Bernie should get behind
basically medical debt cancellation both
on moral grounds because we all agree
that health care is a human right yeah
but also when you think about how they
can attract teen years this campaign
they tend to be a population class that
has accumulated a lot of medical debt
and then I have some time left by one
really quick buck and that's for a
foreign policy blog called fellow
travelers it's an all-volunteer effort
but we're trying to basically imagine
all what you are neoliberal World Order
your fellow travelers blog okay great
appreciate the call that medical debt I
think I've heard whispers that there's
talk about it but who knows calling from
a 6'5 one area code thirty seconds go oh
my god that's me
okay Minnesota State Billy from
Minnesota the Minnesota State Fair is
happening
tomorrow and basically every politician
in the Midwest is going to be there as
well as the presidential candidates so
everyone that wants to get involved and
make sure that they say Medicare for all
is their plan then they need to go out
there and say it in person also mom Dan
happy anniversary love you both
mom Dan happy anniversary appreciate the
call
can I say I come from a three four seven
area code go you got 30 seconds hi this
is a junkie San Francisco I had a
question
hello yeah good yeah I had a question
about all your thoughts are on op-eds
like in the New York Times and
Washington Post if we can get more
progressive poppets and if you think
that would be a sort of a valuable thing
to do it's a valuable thing to do it's
very tough thing to do
but it definitely has value come from a
two seven two seven zero area code who's
this where you come from
folks I'm gonna tell you right now if
you have not Jeremy from Kentucky hold
on one second if you have not been on
for an hour on the phone then hang up
now because we're not gonna get to you I
still get about five or six more people
have been on the phone for over an hour
guy Jeremy go is a little bit of a
confrontation I notice when you show a
few times recently I've called Cornel
West the most important public
intellectual in America and I'm
wondering if you guys are going to do
anything so this is yourself Servette
when he invariably endorses some
wackadoo third party candidate when duh
no no wait a sec no I mean III I I
certainly I mean like look I think he's
a very important public intellectual and
if yes if he endorses a third-party
candidate I'm gonna say that's a stupid
thing to do I'm gonna disagree and I'm
also gonna say that Cornel West has
certainly earned a right more than any
of us speaking here to make mistakes and
has contributed more than any of us
speaking here and the role he's playing
now is absolutely unparalleled and I'm
not going to be yeah about that he made
a mistake in my opinion that's and and
you know yeah we're not talking about
jimmy dore we're not talking about
somebody like that sorry he's not a
pundit he does work as a public person
in 2016 and endorses joe
side-door Singh Hillary Clinton I mean I
appreciate the call I mean I I
personally think that you're right
endorsing Jill Stein in 2016 is a huge
mistake people go out and they vote but
if you know I think you're doing that
from a regardless of your intellect I
think you're doing it from a place that
like is I don't think it's justifiable I
really don't I agree look everyone
thought Hillary was gonna win and I
think Jill Stein was an umbrella or an
excuse or whatever or platform for
general critique of the president that
everybody thought was coming yeah Eddie
Glaude did the summer know West did it I
did it I used to do this as a news peg
many times to deliver my criticisms of
Hillary Eddie Eddie cloud in his book
and we had a big fight about this on
when he came on was saying that people
should stay out of the election and and
and I think he backed off that point
that's why I just say like it's
something to disagree with but it's not
something that would make me feel the
pressure to like distance ourselves from
I don't know what these are
I mean absurd I don't know what it means
distance I mean it's not like he's
hanging out here and you know this guy I
work that he's doing in the present
tense is absolutely more important and
more effective than anybody I could see
and there's a long history there and I
just I'm and I will say I will stack up
my criticism from Jill Stein with
anybody I am proud of the DSA and all my
comrades for voting on the correct thing
which is that if Bernie Sanders doesn't
win the primary we're not going to
endorse anyone well a lack of
endorsement is is is a very different
thing than then telling people to go out
and vote for someone who's not going to
win and who could possibly uh sure in
Donald Trump that's why I'm saying it's
the better thing to do I think that is a
better thing to do call from a 774 area
code who's this where you come from
thirty seconds a mrs. Kouri calling from
Worcester nice 35 seconds go oh yes so I
think that Anthony Fantan will be very
proud of your segment yesterday on the
veganism but I just wanted
a quick thing that I don't think
anybody's really talking about with the
whole gun control debate
I work in pharmaceuticals and I think
that I mean there's been a number of
articles published that connect SSRIs
and any depressants and of gun shootings
actually going back to Columbine many of
them were either coming off of SSRIs
which can cause you know these feelings
apathy and all these other horrible side
effects and I mean I don't know how we
can make the pharmaceutical industry
answer this other than publishing many
more studies and having like I don't
know the FDA actually pushed some kind
of legislation about it but I think it's
an interesting topic that no one's
really touched on I'll look into it I
appreciate the call Cori I mean I I will
say this that there are times where I
have been just appalled at the way that
doctors psychiatrists have told people
to go off of drugs without any awareness
of of the implications of it I mean the
I have a friend who's a drug counselor
stories of like doctors not
understanding like the the physical
implications of getting off of ativan
even small amounts obviously the opioid
crisis not necessarily psychology
psychiatry are doing that but there
there is there is a little bit it's a
little bit too easy the doctors just
aren't terribly excited about titrating
or on to them like I've had a doctor try
to prescribe me an antidepressant
because I've got certain symptoms of
chronic fatigue I mean it's I don't
think III antidepressants I think are
wonderful things that help a lot of
people but I think there needs to be a
little bit more I don't know how to
incentivize to have psychiatrists you
know take these things a little bit more
seriously at times come from a for15
area code who's this where he come from
hey this is matt stone man san francisco
california go you got thirty all right
yeah I just wanted to kind of bring it
back to the basics based off of the call
yesterday then you guys got where the
woman just kind of
ask how each of you was radicalized and
I actually wanted to get Michael's take
on that but secondly to just for the
uninitiated what are some good resources
like news news resources and books and
otherwise just because I'm trying to
apprise myself well go look go look in
our archives I mean we've had every book
that at least you know that has come out
in the past ten years that we think is
worthy of you reading we've interviewed
the author there's also a good TMDs
Goodreads that people put together and
there's an M mark great yeah yeah those
a good place to start I guess I just
kind of wanted to personalize it to you
guys like what's a foundational one or
two books okay tough question for right
now but appreciate the college at all
people's history of the third of the the
darker nations people's history of the
third world by Vijay Prashad and growing
up without money I'm trying to think I'm
like one Howard Zinn's maybe people's
history was like an early one for me
I read manufacturing consent yeah a lot
of Chomsky yeah we're talking about
early ones definitely the dispossessed
by Ursula Le Guin
6:08 are you on the phone 600 yes this
is Elvis Elvis from Wisconsin I don't
have time for what I really wanted to
discuss so I just got a couple of
comments Sean Spicer I heard his dance
partner was going to be the bush in
front of the White House lawn nice a
couple of questions who's Dumber who is
dumber Ben Carson or Rick Perry is a
cabinet member and then I was getting
into this argument with somebody about
the cost of Trump and Obama their travel
and they brought up this two billion
dollars to go to India is that true I
don't know uh but I Q suppose it's
Google I appreciate the call and I don't
know about Carson or Perry I would say
probably I would say probably Perry yeah
person's a brain surgeon who's this 773
who's this
not ride okay quick you got 30 seconds
people stop trying I wanted a rant about
last Friday's Bill Maher to shoulder the
hypocrisy is because he complained about
his buddy Neil deGrasse Tyson having his
speech censored yet the anti BDS bill
can fire you if you disagree with Israel
and actually yes
Israeli yeah by the way the good call
from Gus right there the source for that
expensive India trip for Obama was
Michelle Bachmann and she never backed
it up yeah okay both laid out a billion
dollars area code three one zero folks
stop calling in column from three one
zero go ahead Quinn from El Segundo
California what is the common thread
what is the common thread of right-wing
authoritarian nationalists rising to
power around the world
I hear club with globalization offered
us a answer a lot and it seems like a
bad answer because the effects are so
different no question localization is
appreciated called answer because the
different effects can still be
problematic in a variety of different
ways check I have to do this watch the
conversation I did with Celso Amer
inform Brazilian foreign minister on
globalization the far right yeah it's
it's a rise or or an intensification of
racism certainly that's always existed
and at the same time a collapse of the
neoliberal Center or anything that would
provide an opposition to that I mean it
certainly I can tell you that in terms
of like close proximity the
globalization in the financial systems
around the world you know brought about
basically a a major major economic
disruption around the globe that we are
still feeling the impact of speaking of
book recommendations IRA Katznelson
sphere itself talks about the 1930s and
how following the Great Depression
basically you get a rise of
authoritarian I mean you know people
don't like to be a misery
austerity is a huge factor come from a
703 area code who's this where you come
from
Davis is Dan Crenshaw
dan Texas dan Crenshaw well welcome to
the program we go you got 30 you guys
missed me on Joe Rogan last night I
haven't heard you speak about it
you guys getting 30 minutes to
Bernie Sanders every day take it easy
take it easy
don't swear sorry sorry I forgot
censorship
yeah you know I'll just call and see you
guys how you guys like the home runs I
was hitting up Parkman Bernie Sanders
having trouble hitting those uh slow
pitch softball showrooms throwing down
well hidden grand slams all right I'll
check it out take the eyepatch off and
go have it okay yep goodbye gone from a
two on six area code who's this where he
come from
yeah your phone's breaking up hello
your phone's breaking up okay God real
drag I'm sorry you're gonna call back
apologize I just can't hear you calling
from a 404 Oh area code who's this where
you come from
hello hello you got 30 seconds go hello
my name is Keith in from Cleveland yep
hey uh yeah I sorry they're cloners I
love the show guys
free lula Kashmir and Israel Palestine
most important conflict on earth right
now just wanted a quick comment on the
wunderkind of the IDW upend everyone's
favorite jackass ben shapiro he is
trying to do the the thing he always
does with the you know whenever he sees
anti-semitism manifests on the right
he's just bringing up this thing where
it's like you know he's creating
distinction between ethnic Jews and
religious Jews I don't want to ask you
Sam is that like does that hold water at
all does that make sense like can you do
that was anti-semitism something that
was only targeted towards the latest
news and not ethnic Jews and again
sorry sir you know I call how nervous I
found I appreciate the question
that is absolute total horse crap I
don't know how you define anti-semitism
you know if it doesn't include the fact
that when they put people in the gas
chambers they did not ask how many times
a day do you pray they didn't ask it do
you have you laid to fill in they didn't
ask if they you had a mezuzah on your
door they didn't ask they in fact in
fact neo-nazis have more of a problem
with cultural Jews they say because
their value system is more divergent but
when they put you in the gas chambers
they never ask that they asked who was
your mother who was your father who was
your grandmother who was your
grandfather who were their parents
that's the only question they asked
anti-semites do not make that
distinction except for to the extent
that they do and they've articulated it
it is the absolute opposite of what ben
shapiro is talking about ben shapiro is
disgusting human being he's a disgusting
human being and frankly i find that type
of fundamentalism of every of every
stripe but particularly his just because
i'm not close to it I find it disgusting
I find it disgusting it's disgusting
people talk about religion being the
root of so many problems in the world
it's not religion it's fundamentalism
call from a 951 area code who's this
where you come from
951 going once 951 going twice go up oh
hey there nope I think you got sorry
come from a 303 area code who's this
where you come from hey madam called
from Colorado
30 seconds Matt go okay
Hickenlooper dropping out of the
presidential race is a very good thing
but running for Senate in Colorado is
not a good thing
Colorado already has two strong
contenders and the Democratic primaries
here and either one of them could easily
take Cory Gardner's seat and both are
running on things like health care and
climate crisis so given the opportunity
I'd rather people promote the number-one
guy in the polls Andrew Romanov for
Senate against Gardner by the way is
getting tons of money from the Koch
brothers and direct support from
McConnell all right reverse flipping the
Senate and it's all for nothing if
Hickenlooper wins I think appreciate
yeah Andrew Romanov that's very
important and this is another Chuck
Schumer special garbage call from a 266
area code who's this where he come from
30 seconds hello hello hello hello 2 6 6
you got 30 seconds go okay hello sorry I
don't know what happened call from a
three to five area code who's this where
you come from 30 seconds go hello
there's a Martin from Clyde Texas Martin
what's on your mind I wanted us I wanted
to say for one thing what about the the
idea that universal health care will
make it so that businesses can hire
people on full time because they don't
have to worry about paying for their
insurance any longer and also I would
like to say Bernie and Elizabeth Warren
need to say now that instead of one of
them dropping out that whoever ends up
winning the nomination will take the
other as their vice president possible I
appreciate the call I can tell you that
employers will have to pay taxes I would
imagine on a per employee basis probably
not as high as insurance cost as they
stand I think I also think there's got
to be a person of color on the ticket
frankly I really do I mean both from a
perspective of just like what we need to
have in terms of representing people in
this country and also
just from a sheerly electoral
perspective I really think that's
important particularly coming out of
this era of Donald Trump come from a
3:01 area code whose this where you come
from
hey Andrew from DC what's on your mind
got 30 seconds ago yes so I was having a
conversation with a friend he's actually
he works for tons of low experience in
in the RNC actually because I wanted his
take on Bernie in the Democratic primary
since he doesn't really have a dog at
the fight and he told me something kind
of interesting how they kind of rank
things based on engagement that will
lead to the vote and he said the bottom
thing is putting in an email
he's like that so it doesn't matter
because anybody will do it the second
worst thing is a max contribution
because you're probably playing both
sides the third thing is a small
donation something that Bernie's
crushing and the best thing that would
lead to votes is volunteer for the
campaign right so my question is why is
money the gold standard of strength of
the campaign and not support and you
know just people volunteering their time
etc because you to measure money is much
easier you get a file and so from a
reporter's perspective you can measure
money easier and make an assessment
easier and that is what dictates what is
the gold standard and I'll tell you it's
not like all that dynamic exists in
everything
whatever the gatekeepers can measure the
best is imposed as the best standard
easy to just say we have X amount of
volunteers I don't even know you know I
don't believe you oh okay appreciate it
they don't appreciate the come from the
six one zero area code who's this where
you come from 30 seconds guys yep go 30
seconds this is Dee from New York I just
wanted to say a couple things one I hope
that Warren supporters realized that the
favorable media coverage is gonna shift
as soon as she picks up in the polls
it's a threat more of a threat I didn't
also I wanted to see if you guys would
have Tim Wise on because he had a viral
threat about how Democrats do not know
more
trumpet focus it's more explicitly on
his racism rather than politics I
appreciate the call I've had Tim Wise on
while back gone from a 2 to 8 area code
who's this where we've gone from hi this
is welcome Matheson from Biloxi
Mississippi and I just wanted to tell
you that my nephew my little
six-year-old nephew just started first
grade and the first political question
he had for me was why is the president
Orange and I know that I mean I've
thought about it but I never really
thought about why is he allowed to be
orange because every job I've ever had
and I'm assuming you guys too I showed
up caked in orange my boss would say
wash that off your face and get
back to work so that's my question
um I do not have an answer for you but
your son sounds very astute I think you
just answered it yourself he's never
worked a day in his life we we have a
chance to fire him year from now six six
one who's this where you come from we
got four more colors in line five more
colors six six one got thirty seconds go
six six one going once twice good-day
come from an h-60 area code who's this
where you come from eight six zero eight
six zero
good day column from a 607 area code
who's this where you come from
it names Austin from Boston thanks for
having me on the show Austin for Boston
in 30 seconds go yeah I'm a technocratic
libertarian now why they just a few
points really you know I'm actually
against Carris I'm not a Cox for Donald
Trump in the Tea Party no I like tax
cuts for the Tirol not to the rich
you know single-payer health care is a
libertarian possible policy because it
makes people more free and cost less
money for everybody you know I'm anti
ice and I anti immigration because I
appreciate freedom and Rand Paul sucks
because yeah you lied to everyone it
surance its followers because he's not a
libertarian aspect of people's Liberty
respectively so I'll probably be voting
Democrat in the next presidential
election even though I don't really
agree either party very much but I'd
like to your position on gun control
because I you know the NRA or anti-gun
Dwight the Black Panthers were our
nights off in California and I wouldn't
I wondered if you would appreciate the
policy where a technocratic libertarian
policy where gun control laws passed if
America wasn't the first per capita in
the world for jail I appreciate the call
I mean I
the the history of gun control I mean is
yeah I mean I agree with you that's why
it was done we had a very different
society I think a back then and the
number of guns and it wasn't we hadn't
kicked into being such an incredibly
lucrative business I mean guns are bad
for society and the interpretation of
the Second Amendment is a relatively new
phenomena ten years old at this point
that it exists for everyone and so I I
would like to see gun control how that
goes about whether it's like you need to
have
classes of license in terms of how many
guns you can own and what kind of guns
and you need to establish you know some
purposes I think that could be a way to
go I think also banning wholesale
certain classes of guns is obvious we do
that when it comes to other arms right I
mean it doesn't say guns in the
Constitution it says right to bear arms
so why can't we go around with bazookas
tanks tanks why can't I have my own
fighter jet I mean you know there's we
have got a fuel-efficient fighter jet
we do have arms control that in this
country so can't use the fighter jet
milah no I mean that Black Panthers
example is interesting because yes they
did patrol their neighborhoods with guns
they showed off guns and the government
murdered a lot of them and that's a
terrible thing to think about but also
to carry forward in in our movements in
the future most of the people who die
from gun violence now are poor people
and people of color so I think that
deserves some consideration and people
who kill themselves and Frank absolutely
by far-- and I would support gun control
measures that put the onus on the
corporations and the profit ears I would
not support gun control measures that
beef up the carceral state and the
surveillance state because that's always
going to be used against the most I
agree route of stop and frisk is gun
control call uh
seven three seven area code who's this
where you come from
three more callers 737 going once going
twice gone calling from an eight one
three area code who's this where you
calling from Tony what's on your mind
you got 30 seconds ago talk about okay
what I can tell all the advertising for
it is exclusively saying come to me
expenses made now that comedy ready for
the real it's not yellow bikini because
some things seem like they hate each
other
less is best thank you so much really I
mean I find it hard to believe that they
would bump him off the the the ticket I
find that really hard to believe all
right final call of the day come from a
six to six area code who's this where he
come from
hi this is spaceman squid from Colorado
okay
you got 30 seconds all right I wanted to
get your take on public shaming as a
tactic for the left
specifically perhaps a list of people
like officer Pantaleo or a nice card
caught on tape abusing someone in their
custody etc for things that people will
care about and so that you could find
out like maybe I'm really against one of
these kinds of things and there's a list
of people that I'd like to shame if I
ever see them publicly I have mixed
feelings about it I don't like to
institutionalize something like that
because you don't know how that could be
used but I think people should go around
and be aware of what they don't like and
when it comes the public figures
definitely yes you start getting into
like you know and and certainly I you
know when you have a guy like Pantaleo
like you should something like that
should be bureaucratic insofar as like
we should he should get fired in this
case he should be her jail right I'm not
sure I meant specifically the whole
shaming thing no no in some of these
people's cases and I think the guy who
ran his truck through the ice people
right well I think there should I think
they give you hardly to jail you want to
say go hey fu to somebody
yeah but that shouldn't be a website
right I I think that yeah people can
have their own expression to do that
alright appreciate the the calls that
was a good experiment there with that
thirty second thing we should do that
limit itself didn't then just cut it
down about 30 minutes
yeah and we're gonna do for Iams then
we're out of here doh
Biden's fundraising has been in the
cellar since the first great day Bernie
number one Warren and closing in then
Harris secret identity politics Biden
doesn't have the stamina private
insurance doesn't want to pay that
either pejorative John I tried shooting
up liquid IV I think I did it wrong
hangover went away but I definitely
didn't get I and the final I am of the
day just twitch no more YouTube YouTube
premium has been a lifesaver know we'll
be on both bye bye
[Music]
but I know some
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
sweet ride
[Music]
yeah
