[Music]
but actually let's do this because of
the quality this Lu la story quickly and
then we'll get to some more sound so two
different things we're gonna do here
we're gonna play a clip Lulla after
being silenced for a year the reset as
always was that he's the former two-term
president he led by double digits in the
polls he was put in jail with without
based off the testimony of one informant
Sergio Moro the prosecutor now justice
minister for the fascist Boston ro
government served both as prosecutor and
judge which is a rule that is a hangover
from the Inquisition that still exists
in Brazil judge Moro called Lula nine
was his nickname because he's missing a
finger because he had a finger lost a
finger as a young metal worker when he
was coming up as a young man the
political the American Association of
jurists and I'm quoting now which is has
an NGO consultative status at the United
Nations Economic and Social Council has
published a statement recognizing
Brazilian President Luiz in√°cio Lula da
Silva as a political prisoner Lula
sentenced and now I'm quoting again from
the letter was issued as a consequence
of accusations produced by violating due
process law that prejudiced is right to
a defense without evidence the ajj said
Brazilian far-right politicians
benefited in the elections while Lula da
Silva was isolated in prison as a
presidential candidate and had the
broadest popularity in electoral polls
they denounced the sentence and they
said such conditions demonstrate
including his lack of ability to speak
to the press demonstrate a detention
that was made by violating fundamental
guarantees endorsing clear political
motivations in lacking connection was
properly well defined offense and having
duration accessory penalties which were
aimed at both moving Lula DaSilva away
from national political process and
laying the foundations to discriminate
against people endorsing
different ideological tendencies through
irregular procedures he could be
described as a prisoner of conscience so
this is fundamentally a byproduct of
u.s. foreign policy starting in 2009 in
Honduras where there was a coup against
the center-left leader Manuel Zelaya
supported by Obama and Clinton and even
though these pink tide governments in
Brazil and Honduras followed a
center-left path Chavez and others more
left path the sort of tolerance for even
the most sort of moderate redistribution
and resisting of Western multinationals
and as an example emergent oil markets
in Brazil was both intolerable to
oligarchs at home and the traditionals
you know wall street in petrochemical
interests of the states and others that
is the broader context behind these
things and behind again imprisonment of
an extraordinarily popular leader with
no evidence
Lula finally was given the right to
speak he held his first press conference
this is actually in prison I do find his
resiliency incredible and here he is a
little bit unfortunately wished I don't
I wish the people who done this had not
bedded music under it but there this is
the English translation we're gonna play
some of his reflections on what's
happening now in Brazil again
extraordinarily impressive that a year
in solitary confinement his family's
been prosecuted his country is under
assault by balsan ro and Trump and here
he is I'm Nicola getting started with
posi is a you speeding it up can you
just go at regular speed so I can read
the so I can keep up with reading for
people yeah the day I leave here they
know I will be on the road
we're together with the people held up
our heads high and not give our country
to the Americans to finish with the
underdog complex I have never seen a
president saluting the American flag
Molson arrow saluted the American flag
I've never seen a president saying I
love the USA I love it love your mother
love your country we love the USA is
there anyone thinking that the USA is
going to favor Brazil we are the ones
who must fend for ourselves and with the
underdog complex uphold our heads and
realize that the solution in Brazil is
the problem in Brazil is Brazil itself
look the government lowers the people's
income per capita you the government
decreased the minimum wage all things
most neurons doing you the government
reduce the possibility of job training
and you think that that's one trillion
for a puncheon funds and Social Security
will solve anything for the financial
system it's going to be alright
do you know what works what's works is
doing what we did legalize and formalize
six million individual entrepreneurs
small businesses do you know why
pensions and Social Security at a
surplus in my government because it had
20 million registered workmen people
because it had 6 million individual
entrepreneurs formalized because
Brazil's quadrupled it's expert
explorations rate so when you save money
the people can eat one extra bread drink
one extra coffee have one extra beer
earn extra rial by another sindel that
way you start to create jobs in the
country so basically I mean he did
follow Mackenzie in policy that as I
would say lifted about 40 million people
out of poverty and increased material
well-being for tens of millions
including this most historically
repressed right now under the guidance
of a Chicago school economists are
trying to get rid of pensions and
they're attacking the legality of labor
unions as well
