[Music]
yesterday marked the start of donald
trump's 2020 campaign he's raised a
bunch of money we received emails from
people who were getting fundraising
emails as if they were republicans so
who knows what that's about
I wonder if they're not looking to build
a list to see which Democrats they think
they can get but the there in full swing
and Donald Trump had his first campaign
rally I guess I mean it seems like he's
had multiple campaign rallies but this
is the first official official campaign
rally it was held in Orlando Florida
seems to have been fairly well attended
and of course he played all the greatest
hits during the show the lock her up the
acid-washed server they did introduce a
new slogan which is keep America great
which I think might be problematic but
we'll have plenty time to talk about
this this part however was the most
fascinating thing I found and it's
interesting because at least
acknowledges or is this gives you a
sense that they are aware that they
cannot run things exactly as they did
last time we're in that mode now we're
in office so we got to be a little bit
more low-key on or a little bit a little
bit less explicit let's put it this way
on you know our problems with brown
black and brown people a little bit less
explicit when it comes to being our
thuggery just keep it in check
it's campaign season what better way to
get that message across than the
candidate himself going out and asking
his followers to be respectful of other
people
that of course is the best way to do it
this way is a different way it is from
what sounds like possibly an automated
voice be peaceful gotta be peaceful keep
can we go anymore what happened oh we
missed all the good stuff yeah
forgive us ladies and gentlemen
[Music]
Fozzy because everybody in the studio is
just like looking like wait why what did
they just say so just to be clear if
you're at one of these events and you
see a protestor alert the officers by
holding up a rally sign and chanting
Trump Trump Trump
[Music]
how much would you pay those perfect
Liars guys to go back into these rallies
and constantly hold yelling Jack Trump
you've got a protester here you got a
probe no so you don't have to do that
that's the beauty of it all you have to
do is just go Trump Trump Trump and then
the cops show up and then kind of with
other people but then be like no I'm
just saying Trump yeah I mean that's
gonna happen smart way to indicate
there's a problem to happen constantly
well that's that's like literally saying
if you find yourself in the water and
you're drowning yell I'm having a great
time over and over again lovely
something comes up like this and go I'm
having a great time shout all good yeah
exactly with that one those poll numbers
if they start to dip absolutely we got
to stop with that announcement the
announcements not right tough have her
say and take the signs and hit them with
the signs and yell Trump Trump mr. Trump
will pay for your legal bills checks in
the mail
