you know maybe this would be good for
you since you are a politician and
you're a sitting senator and I used to
be a country saying I has to be the
first lady country yeah you used to be
the first lady of country a listener of
mine has put together a campaign ad
ostensibly for me to run for the Senate
in a primary in New York State and I
thought maybe you could listen to it and
give us a sense like somebody on Bob's
Burgers my daughter loves Bob's Burgers
did you ever
is there somebody sometimes sounds like
you on that Bob's Burgers thank you not
that I'm with no no no yes I mean I
that's not important
here is a ad that was done by Craig
Adelphia the YouTube champion yeah and
Greek I I don't I don't a Greek fella
it's possible right I can't I can't read
the name but there it is I mean people
can see it and here's an ad they put
together that splices together some of
the audio from the show with some images
and perhaps maybe you could give me your
feedback on this sure let's have to get
with the program and understand the the
Democrats have to get with the program
and understand the way this stuff works
is you take the power and you use the
power even if it means you're gonna lose
the power Congress right will control
things like commerce interstate commerce
and has responsibility for the general
welfare you're not going to raise taxes
bottom 20% and it's absurd it's silly
it's dumb
you know medicare-for-all would go a
long way to make people's lives that
much better well I went out actually
with those two guys for a drink the
other night I didn't think so that's the
only thing I can frankly I didn't have
to pay so how's that people are ready
for me and I'm ready for them you know
this is the problem with politics that
it's all about it's all focus group
driven it's like what happened in the
candidate
the campaign manager comes in and starts
to corrupt the guy now here's the thing
and then I've been saying this for two
years once you get there
the left is going to start a civil war
in this country but the majority will
impose its will on the the rest of the
country this is the threat
this is a threat it's a Cession threat
it's it's no it is a civil war threat
right we have two choices one is to
embrace government or there's gonna be
violence that's the choices that we have
America that's it there's my viewpoint
either you start letting the states
discriminate and create a race to the
bottom there's going to be violence the
only thing that should give you any type
of hope although it's still incredibly
disturbing we're going to reduce well
you're going to land on
idea of government and the most
appropriate size of government that
maintains the order of power that I
benefit
the Chuck stops here I'm Sam cedar I
approve this message
now I have to say Cindy hyde-smith that
the the those some of my words were
edited out of context tonight can I say
listen to me I fell asleep mostly but I
did perk up a bit when I heard civil war
and violence I heard those words now
here's the problem with that add the
music oh my god you need to get like
maybe the Atlanta rhythm section or
maybe the Charlie Daniels Band or maybe
even both Cephas Hank Williams jr. both
Cephas get that music or Ted Nugent
something my goodness it was Oh other
than that I thought I sort of liked some
of the words I was hearing but I mostly
fell asleep I'm I did I'm sorry I'm
sorry that was my that's what I would
have to say so you would say okay
because uh because a an audience member
made the video and I just wanted to get
you as a as a sitting u.s. senator and
obviously a candidate for re-election I
well like I said some of the words I got
perked up but I mostly was asleep but I
perked up when I heard civil war and
violence and threat I like the sound of
that
