[Music]
they're stories about that are you know
the there was a great story in Al
Jazeera about the US government's policy
now of creating this border crisis by by
essentially preventing people from
coming into the the border I mean you
can only apply for asylum when you're in
the United States and US law has said
you know how you get in is how you get
in but you as long as you attempt to
apply then you get into the system so
they are basically keeping people from
outside and they're there they're
preventing them from crossing the border
to apply for asylum this is creating
this crisis situation on the border and
I mentioned that you know we've been
talking about this for the past couple
of days about all the different ways
that the right wing has been prevaricate
about this like there's actually more
men than women and children in the
caravan true as if a that means that
there's no men women and children and
which is decidedly untrue maybe it's a
30/70 maybe it's a 4060 split maybe it's
20 80 but you're still tear gassing or
pepper spraying women and children and
then men who women and children may be
depending on like it's not such a great
thing just pepper spray Magna mean like
I don't understand like why all of a
sudden like oh yeah you could pepper
spray bit but here is Geraldo Rivera on
Fox News knowing that his job is to be
the stick in the mud very rare occasions
but a very rarely he does it and here he
is with the odious
and equally moronic Jesse Watters
interrupting this Jesse Watters moment
to deliver a what I think is a pretty
impressive heartfelt plea for some shred
of decency and humanity from these
people president will be speaking at a
rally in Mississippi this hour and we're
gonna be monitoring it and we'll bring
you the latest
all right so Geraldo on the tear gas
situation everybody is showing in the
mainstream media there's one image of
the mom and the young girl fleeing but
they're not showing is that they're
surrounded by almost all men who had
been you know violently attacking and
throwing things and taunting the Border
Patrol do you think that just what the
media is doing or dishonest I refuse to
deal with this as a media issue because
it's far too important all due respect
Jesse this is something that goes to the
very quick this goes to my soul filling
my role is the designated pinata on Fox
News I want to say that's racist I am
ashamed this tear gas choked me we treat
these people these economic refugees is
if they're zombies from The Walking Dead
I think we arrested 42 people eight of
them were women with children we have to
deal with this problem you mainly and
with compassion these are not the these
are not invaders stop using these
military analogies this is absolutely
painful to watch this is we are a nation
of immigrants these are desperate people
they walk 2,000 miles why then would
because I want to rape your your
daughter or steal your your lunch no
because they want a job well they want
to fill the millions of unfilled jobs we
have in the agricultural sector they
want to wash dishes and the restaurants
they want to deliver the pizzas for
goodness sake
III I can't we suspend our humanity when
it comes to this issue and I fear that
it is because they look different than
the plank can I respond because Jurgis
because I actually I understand what
Aldo is saying but you cannot demean
people for looking in this and saying
this is a violation of a process
oh no you don't know what the process is
the violation of the process is actually
on behalf of the Trump administration
which is not allowing these people to
come in apply for asylum have their
asylum claims or petitions adjudicated
and then either be a granted asylum or
rejected for asylum and told to go home
now if it was up to me I would have a
far more lenient process one that wasn't
so requiring such a high bar in terms of
a silent but that's the process so this
is you know gut fields position is a
retreat to attempt in the light of being
shamed for having no humanity to make it
about process and he's lying here too
because he's got no answer for that as
well they do this move where says you
can't blame people for looking at this
and seeing what they're seeing like
broken processor like rocks being thrown
right but they're creating the
impression that right they're the ones
who are mediating what's going on down
here blame them for leaving our lies and
propaganda exactly you're watching the
five you know they're watching the rest
of the tripe on this network and rather
they've been watching us lie about it
and give them anxiety it's exactly in
fact we should be held legally
accountable for premature aging and
heart attacks of isolated old people
watching this garbage all day and that's
why you could look at the ads that they
offer and then it all comes together and
speaking about the economic nationalism
in some of these arguments they're
making I saw a stat on Twitter that if
you which is clearly a great source if
you just gave a million dollars to every
person in the caravan the government
would come out ahead and I believe it
considering how much it costs to station
all those troops there oh oh yeah the
cost that they're expending on you know
housing 14,000 children let's say or the
cost that they expended on the hundreds
of millions of dollars to
send troops down there the and I don't
and be clear I don't think the military
troops are actually even engaging in
this I don't know that they're even
there just there is like backup but the
military presence and brutality is the
investment they're making right there
they think it's gonna have long-term
payoff
