Jarrah more with Sam Sita the destiny of
America is
safer in the hands of the people than
conference rooms of any of these and
they are unanimous in hate for me and I
patron we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought
so much our day report with sam cedar it
is Tuesday November 20th 2018 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
associate professor of political science
from Indiana University Barnard Fraga on
the turnout gap race ethnicity and
political inequality in a diversified
America also on the program today Ivanka
Trump has an email problem lock her up
and meanwhile her dad to give written
answers to Robert Muller this week which
means Black Friday is really gonna be
Black Friday and not unlike Ohio and
North Carolina Wisconsin Dems get more
votes than they do state lawmaker seats
meanwhile Obama appointed federal judge
halts Trump's Asylum ban and get this
Trump's have excuse me troops the troops
are heading home they are leaving the
war zone that is the US Mexican border
I don't want freaked people out but this
is happening just as the caravan begins
to reach our shores so to speak
meanwhile the Trump administration have
discussed sharing census info with law
enforcement and the proud boys
congratulations are now classified by
the FBI as an extremist group with white
nationalist ties and pretend Attorney
General Matt Whittaker to be sued by the
Senate Democrats meanwhile of course to
mass shootings yesterday killing 10 and
lastly chained CPI returns all this and
more ladies and gentlemen
on today's program just a couple of
housekeeping notes upfront I am catching
a cold perfectly timed so that I can not
feel well when I am spending time with
my family
which cuts a lot of different ways and I
don't think I need to get more explicit
than that but today may be a little bit
short so I can go home and nap but we
will do our best
usually what happens is I feel miserable
at the beginning of the show and then by
the end of the show it's typically I
can't stop talking it's the adrenaline
yeah it's the adrenaline I'm um I'm game
day that's basically what it comes down
to it's like it's very much like
speaking of Michael Jordan Michael
Jordan will not be a guest at our live
show January 13th at the Bell house in
Brooklyn New York it's at 2:30 it is an
18 and over and tickets are only $15
because we want everyone to be able to
attend this is not one of those
highfalutin shows where it costs you all
sorts of money this is this is a show
for the people
and it's at 2:30 on a Sunday don't know
if we're gonna have guests but we have
definitely definitely crossed off the
list Michael Jordan I asked him and he
said no because Republicans listen to
podcast - yeah that's what he said so
but you can get your tickets now by
going - well you can go to majority dot
F M we have a link we are part of the
Brooklyn pod fest we will also put of
course a link in the description YouTube
and in on the podcast description get
your tickets now folks do not
dilly-dally because they will sell out
rather quickly they make a perfect
holiday gift for politically inclined
loved ones indeed indeed so we're gonna
have a lot of fun there don't know again
what we're gonna do about guests or
anything like that but it's gonna be fun
and don't forget this show relies on its
support of its members you can become a
member at join the majority report com
join the majority report com it is the
way that we we create this show is
because of our members and we do the
first 45 minutes to an hour free and
then we give a bonus to our members a
lot of extra time a lot of fun time you
could hear what we get up close and
personal after during the fun half folks
have you ever had trouble finding the
perfect present for someone I'm looking
at both you guys I don't even think you
guys this is this this is slam dunk
for both of you for your folks you can
show your appreciation for anyone on
your list by treating them to a gift
from mrs. Fields now sometimes when we
get when we do stuff like this when we
do ads we get the product sent to us I
did not know some miscommunication I did
not know that we were doing an ad for
mrs. fields and that came
that box came at the yesterday so
yesterday or Friday I can't remember and
I was like this is very nice I was
actually like genuine like I went
through the experience of getting the
gift and then I have a problem with
cookies and I ate too much of the gift
but it's nice it's a nice the the
cookies and the brownies were delicious
and it makes you feel good I don't
people don't say you know you get gifts
it's a nice thing mrs. Fields has made
delicious treats for over 40 years from
their signature chocolate chip cookies
to handcrafted frosted favorites and
melt-in-your-mouth brownies oh boy mrs.
Fields gourmet gift tins and baskets
make the perfect present to surprise and
delight anyone on your list at mrs.
fields their cookies and sweets are
baked daily they always arrive fresh and
flavorful it's true ordering is easy
they can ship to your gift anywhere in
the US Plus you can add a personal touch
with a custom message company logo or
family photo well that would be good
mrs. fields even offers a hundred
percent customer satisfaction guarantee
this year send a fresh-baked gift no one
can resist I love those cookies I'm
bringing the wreaths home for the kids
they got the frosted ones and then you
guys can you guys can fight over it
because I can't have them around the
office anymore I mean I have a real
problem right now get 20% off your order
when you go to mrs. Fields Calm enter
promo code majority that's 20% off any
gifts that mrs. fields calm promo code
majority mrs. fields fi eld s.com promo
code majority checkout we'll put that
obviously in the podcast description and
below the YouTube also folks this is one
of my I might one of my top the other
day we were talking about like top
products that we do ads for this is on
that list life is too short
for bad Wi-Fi I have actually pushed
zero on several people in my life
thankfully the Eero home Wi-Fi system
brings you a fast reliable connection in
every room in the house not to mention
the second-generation hero an ero beacon
allow you to build a Wi-Fi system that's
perfectly tailored to the your home more
than ever before when you add ero plus
you get total network protection with
the ability to block malicious and
unwanted content across your entire
network by checking the sites you visit
against the database of millions of
known threats aeroplus prevents you from
accidentally visiting malicious sites
without slowing anything down euro plus
automatically tags sites that contain
violent illegal or adult content so you
can choose what your kids can and cannot
visit right from the Eero app I'll tell
you what this would be great for it just
occurs to me like put it in my parents
house so I don't have to worry about
them getting it's like a phishing
situation you can also get rid of
annoying ads and popups on all your
devices ad blocking improves improves
load times for heavy ads site so you can
browse and stream faster than ever
before in in my household I think I
mentioned this the other day I told
Michael to say this did he say it I used
to have a problem I will go to the
bathroom and I would pick up my
neighbor's Wi-Fi more than my own to
help with connectivity and it was
incredibly frustrating with a euro you
basically put a an extender or you're
creating a mesh so we have one in the
kids bedroom one in the hallway one in
the living room and I have total
coverage everywhere in the house it's
never an issue but the other and it was
super easy to set up I mean super easy
much much more much easier than a
traditional Wi-Fi router you just get
the app it tells you exactly what to do
if one of them gets unplugged by a
mistake I see it on the app and I
control when my Liz
Wi-Fi turns off and now on top of that
can I not only control what when the
Wi-Fi turns off for her I can do
specific things so it's like your phone
doesn't work but your computer does so
you can do your homework no I get full
control last night she was complaining
dramatically about it never think about
Wi-Fi again get 100 bucks off the Eero
base unit into beacons package and a
year of e Rho plus just visit zero e ro
dot-com slash majority enter the code
majority of check out
that's ero EE ro dot-com slash majority
and code majority at check out so
yesterday we were talking about the
attempts to to unseat Nancy Pelosi as
the leader the Democrats in the House
and ultimately she's vying for Speaker
of the House and I was telling you my
reasons why I would like to see her go
or at the very least the problems I have
had with what she has announced or even
maybe not even trumpeted about her
tenure as a Speaker of the House and
that was specifically the pay-go
provisions where any new programs must
be paid for you cannot deficit spend and
a house rule that said you need a
supermajority to raise taxes on anybody
but the top 20% and the combination of
those two things in my mind makes it
almost impossible to pursue any
progressive bold progressive agenda and
it gives
congressmen and women and out as to why
they couldn't pursue it because there's
no way to raise revenue and we have to
raise revenue because of the pay-go
rules and we can't raise the revenue
because there's only we can only tax the
top 20% and this tax may burden you know
people and the top 40% or whatever it is
now with that said we mentioned the 16
signatories of a letter we thought it
was going to be 17 yesterday and I think
it's relevant and significant that it's
only 16 because 16 essentially is the
number of people who can vote against
pelosi and she could still win by one we
don't know exactly how many Democratic
seats they're gonna be I suspect we're
gonna pick up one or two more but as it
stands now 16 plus the 218 that you need
puts it at 234 Democrats in the house
and I think that's about where we are
right now but the reason why and I've
been saying this for months
the hesitation about getting rid of
Pelosi is that someone's got to be there
and no one has stepped up on the left to
take that position and there's not clear
that anybody on the left could win that
position or I should say to the left of
Pelosi at least presumably and AOC was
on Chris Hayes last night and this is
how she put it and I think it's spot on
so one of the big issues right now is
this leadership fight so there are 16
House Democrats who signed a letter
saying the time has come for a new
leadership basically saying they won't
vote for Nancy Pelosi if ben mcadams
wins in utah that's their one vote short
of blocking her where are you and how do
you read this fight well for me when I
when I was reading this letter that was
kind of released today my main concern
was that there is no
vision there is no common value there is
no goal that is really articulated in
this letter aside from we need to change
and for me what that says is you know I
do think that we got sent to Congress on
a mandate to change how government works
to change what government even looks
like but if we are not on the same page
about changing the systems and the
values and how we're going to adapt as a
party for the future then what is the
point of just changing our party
leadership just for the sake of it
what I'm hearing from you is that you
don't feel like there's an ideological
or substantive sort of agenda driven
core of this objection no I mean if
anything I think that what it does is
that it creates a window where we could
potentially get more conservative
leadership and when you actually look at
the signatories it is not necessarily
reflective of the diversity of the party
we you know after we have about 16
signatories 14 of them are male there
are very few people of color in the
caucus they're very there's very few
ideological diversity it's not like
there are progressives that are signing
on it's not like you have a broad-based
coalition so I find it you know I I
don't I'm not totally bought into the
concept you all right I mean that is
what a smart leftist sounds like where
she realizes this is what the the
playing field looks like and so I can I
can go out and pretend the playing field
looks like something else or completely
ignore what the playing field looks like
and do something that's just basically
arguably self satisfying but gets us
nowhere in terms of an agenda the fact
of the matter is I think to a person the
people who have signed that letter are
to the right of Nancy Pelosi
and I mean I'm looking at the letter me
no I don't think so is this the sort of
thing where they were all hoping that
the Dems would perform worse in the
midterms and this would actually make
more sense from their end or what's
there what are they thinking no the
reason why that's not a coincidence
because they're in a district where they
had to separate themselves from Nancy
Pelosi because Nancy Pelosi from
electoral standpoint is I think toxic is
too strong of a word but she pulls very
poorly these districts Bradley pours you
know polls not so great in a lot of
districts but apparently not so badly
that it's going to bring you down if you
put yourself at arm's length so these 16
people they are signing this letter
because they want to run again in two
years and they don't want to be
associated with Pelosi that's all well
and good and their opponents gonna say
my opponent says he doesn't like Nancy
Pelosi vote it with her eighty-five
percent of the time and they're gonna
have to overcome that but at least
they're gonna say like look I I signed a
letter on day one I'm against Nancy
Pelosi that's how that's gonna go down
so that explains their motivation but if
you want a more if the idea is that we
want Nancy Pelosi out because she has a
ten year to where the country is moving
in terms of moving to the left electing
someone who is to the right of her is
not going to help you however saying to
her you know we'll bring you the votes
we don't have a candidate that we want
but we will bring you the votes instead
of abstaining because you need our votes
as long as you start to basically take a
couple of people that we sign off on put
them under your tutelage train them to
be the leader after or in the leadership
after you go which you
said you're transitioning out of
probably within the next two years
that's what's happening and so but she
put that very very savvy it's
unbelievable to me how savvy she is she
doesn't even start off by saying they're
ideologically to the right because she
didn't want to alienate anybody in the
car in the Democratic caucus why bother
it just it's the third or fourth uh you
know sort of where she gets like they're
not necessarily that progressive
everybody knows it's just that she's not
throwing anybody under the bus unless
there's value cuz this is not a
performance we're not watching a play
this is about someone who's trying to
build power in an institution and doing
it in various different various ways I
mean I feel like I am defensive about
this because I can't help but think
there's gonna be some morons out there
who feel betrayed or think that like oh
my god this is why the Democrat you know
the there's a lot of dumbness around and
so this is one both to praise her and to
to answer those dumb critics before they
start to talk about it and they probably
already have all right we're gonna take
a quick break when we come back we're
going to talk to Bernard frog up about
the turnout gap race ethnicity and
political inequality in a diversifying
America will be right back
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program assistant
professor of political science at
Indiana University Barnard Fraga on his
book the turnout gap race ethnicity and
political inequality in a diversifying
America welcome to the program Barnard
thanks so much for having me so let's
just start with the the central premise
there is a turnout gap between whom so
what I identify is the gap in the rate
of participation between whites and we
could say minority Americans so even
after accounting for citizenship age
socioeconomic factors we still see big
disparities in the rate of turnout for
minorities african-americans Latinos
Asians versus white or Caucasian
Americans okay and what would you say is
the biggest myth about what causes that
that gap in and maybe you've already
maybe you've already stated at least one
of those myths right or that that maybe
it has something to do with like the
median age of people of color in this
country or the economic status of people
of color in this country but that's not
those are not factors so I you know I'm
gonna take that I think that you're
right a lot of people think about
citizenship or age or socio economics as
big factors but no I want to take that
in another direction a little bit which
is that I think the biggest myth is that
minorities don't vote because they don't
want to because it's something about not
being interested in politics or a lack
of knowledge about politics in fact when
you look at the data there is interest
in politics it's just a lack of
mobilization and a lack of engagement by
candidates and parties sorry so what
does that mean
lack of mobilization lack of engagement
and well how give us an example of that
I mean what how do we know that that
what that is in in the wild as it were
sure so when we take when we look at
surveys of rates of contact or
mobilization of racial and ethnic
minority groups especially African
Americans in the
he knows one of the things we see is
that even after accounting for you know
the fact that black voters tend to be
heavily Democratic that means Democrats
should try and mobilize them rates of
contact are still lower than what we
would expect lower than they are for
whites and the same story goes for
Latinos
despite Latinos being this growing
electorate and the candidates talking a
lot about trying to mobilize Latino
voters when you look at the data
Latinos say they're not contacted by
campaigns they're not talked to and most
especially their issues are not being
addressed by the two major parties okay
so all right let's just start with the
the the lack of contact in mobilizing I
mean so I mean essentially what that
comes down to is they're just not asked
in the same way essentially to vote yeah
I think that's right I think that what
you see is in most jurisdictions so in
most states or in most congressional
districts parties and candidates running
for office understand that white voters
are decisive that if they want to win
they have to mobilize turnout talk about
the issues that pertain to white
Americans that's just the demographic
reality even as we become a more diverse
country so when it comes to those
campaign strategies even the GOTV on
Election Day a lot of it is focused on
trying to turn out wide voters perhaps
it should be because of the numbers but
that's going to mean lower turnout for
minority groups
well III wanna I want to put a pin in
that in and ask you in a bit if that is
necessarily the case like if it's
necessarily the case that it has to mean
that but but but let's let's wait till
we get there I mean so give us a just a
sense of just of how by how much of a
gap exists sure so I use voter file data
in my analyses surveys have some issues
about people over reporting whether they
vote and sampling issues but using voter
file data you know provided by a voter
file vendor what we see is that the gap
and turnout in for example the 2016
between white turnout and black turnout
was on the order of maybe 15 percentage
points that means the black rate of
voter turnout was 15 percentage points
lower than white turnout and in midterm
elections we see a pretty similar gap in
recent years now this year it might be a
little bit better but that's a big
difference for Latinos we're talking on
the order of 25 to 30 percentage points
difference in the rate of voter turnout
so that's after accounting for
citizenship and then at age and for
asian-americans again around 25 to 30
percentage point difference in the rate
of voter turnout Wow
these are big differences right I mean
these are these are differences that
might you know help us understand some
of the election results we've seen
recently and now now 2016 where where
did 2016 fit in there versus let's say
2012 or 2008 so we saw a big drop-off at
black voter turnout in 2016 versus 2008
or 2012 the gap between white and black
turnout almost doubled in 2016 versus
2012 the census you know reports that
black turnout was you know nearly a
record high in 2012 I find that black
turnout was substantially higher in 2012
versus other years but yeah 2016 was a
low year for black voter turnout
especially Latino turnout was about
average maybe a little bit higher than
it had been in the past but the big
story is that black white turnout gap
increasing in 2016
okay so what why why why did why I mean
I mean I think it's I think it's fairly
obvious to two folks in this audience
why that would be a bad thing for the
fortunes of Democrats I mean the
Republican Party is something like and
you would probably know this figure
better than I but somewhere around the
lines at 95% white right I mean I mean
yeah I mean like I I don't think that's
hyperbole I mean I think it's pretty
close in terms of its voters overall and
so in endemic
traditionally lose the white vote at
least in terms of presidential elections
and so they need people of color that's
just know there's no dispute there so I
mean what what happened what I mean
the obvious answer on some level it
seems to me about 2012 to 2016 is simply
that Barack Obama was you know was black
and that drove people to the polls or
was there or or or is it because there
is just a like a better sense of how to
approach a constituency that is
overlooked by somebody else I mean what
what accounts for that so two things
number one you're absolutely right that
the Republican Party is heavily white
it's not quite 95 percent it's around
ninety percent but I mean that's very
hard and you know and the Democratic
Party this is the other part of the
story the Democratic Party is also
heavily white and I think we don't
realize that but if you look at the data
about 57 maybe 60% of the Democratic
Party's white voters in terms of the
base of support that they can depend on
consistently in elections so both
parties have high incentives to cater to
white voters now with that in mind 2012
versus 2016 the drop-off was it because
of Obama I think in many ways it was
because you didn't have a candidate like
Barack Obama at the top of the ticket
but it's not just because he was African
American because Obama in 2008 and 2012
realized that in order to win in order
to shore up maybe flagging support among
some white voters white voters who might
be reluctant to vote for an African
American he was going to have to do the
work on the ground to mobilize not just
African Americans with Latino voters and
not just minority voters but young
voters including young White's so really
the story in 12 versus 16 was a shift in
the understanding of what it was going
to take to win for a Democratic
candidate I don't think it's hyperbole
to say that people thought that Hillary
Clinton had this in the bag especially
with a opponent like Donald Trump she
thought that she was going to be able to
depend on high turnout from Latinos just
because they reject Trump or
african-americans because Obama had been
president instead it needed
on-the-ground work especially in those
blue wall states and maybe that's what
didn't happen
I mean because you know it's interesting
we had we spoke to John sides last week
who has with a couple others written a
book about the about the racial
attitudes that changed over the course
of the elections and the one of the one
of the aspects that book that we
discussed was that Hillary Clinton was
in many respects at least from a
campaigning style right what's
separating now and this is important for
people to understand we're separating
the rhetoric from the actual mechanisms
of getting people to the polls but that
her campaign was more racial in some
respects than Obama's at least in terms
of of what issues it addressed and so if
I hear you correctly that's all well and
good but that doesn't that doesn't get
people to the polls I think that's true
it doesn't get people to the polls and I
think you're absolutely right as you
know as professor sides mentioned and in
his book which is excellent by the way
you know they talk about this increased
racialization of politics but it's
important to note that that you know
goes the other way too in terms of
mobilization so before the election even
in the summer the notion was that for
Trump to win he would have to mobilize
and get support from white voters to a
level that seemed implausible and that's
exactly what he did and he did it
through that racialized campaign
environment through talking about you
know the things that he said building a
wall
other things you know so to me the point
is it's not just that Clinton was
talking about racial issues maybe more
than we had seen in the past and was
running a racialized campaign in that
environment
it's a Trump was taking advantage of
that and using it to mobilize his white
base so wait so so is it the case I mean
what's his ground
game that good in other words like if if
Trump is out there and able to get is
able to get people to the polls you know
this sort of white contingency that that
otherwise you know showed up more than
people anticipated he was able to
motivate them it seems to me with with
rhetoric right in a way that I think I
mean if I'm not mistaken you're
suggesting doesn't work for for the
Democrats in the same way so I think
that it does work for I think that it
can work similarly across groups and
here's a story that I would tell right
so mobilization is one part of the story
and mobilization is not just a hey you
should turn out to vote although that's
important it's also talking about the
issues of importance to different
communities it's also being present
outside of election time it's also
frankly the presence of the candidate
enabled in being able to I guess you've
received at least as a legitimate
representative of a community and I
think when you think about mobilization
in a broader sense like that you can see
that Trump's rhetoric was mobilizing
beyond just the ground game it was
mobilizing because it gave a very I
would say easy narrative to some voters
especially white voters who you know
felt like they were left behind but
frankly in a racialized environment felt
like whites were losing their dominance
in politics so it wasn't so much the
ground game for Trump as his rhetoric
although the ground game was also an
important component I think that we
overstated how poor his ground game was
relative to Hillary Clinton and I guess
to a certain extent one could argue that
Trump's Trump was considered more
authentically quasi racist in xenophobic
and misogynist then maybe Clinton was
considered authentic in terms of what
material benefits she could provide to
communities of color yeah I think that's
absolutely right I think especially in
the wake of things like you know black
lives matter I'm a kind of lukewarm
embrace of that move
men you know and in order to protect her
support from some whites you know she
may be made that calculation versus
Trump who was able to say things that a
lot of voters said you know no one had
ever said the dump before and they liked
what they heard not all whites of course
but you know a majority and that was
mobilizing for that segment of the
electorate so that there's there's a bit
of a high-wire act it seems to me for
the Democrats I mean even with you know
90% dealing with a ninety you know a 90
percent of homogeneous electorate
homogeneous maybe too strong of a word
but sharing certain attributes and
experiences and you know the way that
they face the world seems to me to be
easier than dealing one one that about
sixty percent and then the forty percent
is other because let's circle back to
that question if you're addressing the
concerns of white people can you do can
you also address the concerns of people
of color and let's talk about you know
sort of well let's start with that
question I mean is there you know how
much of a high-wire act is that does it
have to be and then let's talk about
maybe the difference is between say
black folk and Latino and aging
communities but let's just start with
that question of walking that that that
that that high wire so I I think it's
challenging don't get me wrong I think
that it's difficult to cater to
different constituencies and although
it's a relatively recent phenomenon to
think of white voters as a voting bloc
we usually tend to break it down and to
you know wide women suburban rural
college-educated versus not I think that
the message that Trump had in 2016
resonated with a segment of the white
electorate that is beginning to perceive
of itself as a bloc as a kind of a white
block of voters but let me
let's take it back for a second to think
about our most recent election 2018 so
you saw candidates like Stacey Abrams
african-american Minority Leader and you
know in the Georgia House able to be
there and perform frankly better than
any Democrat had you know in a good
amount of time in Georgia waiting to
vote I should say I just you know
they're they're putting the vote tallies
up there and she blew away any Democrat
who's run you know in in over like a
well you have an increased population
but in the past 10 years like blew them
away in terms of exact words exactly and
most of those candidates were white they
were running in Georgia statewide they
thought they'd had a chance and you know
Stacey Abrams didn't shy away from
discussing issues of importance to the
african-american community
she didn't hide from that and yet she
did really well so to me I think this
story there and even Andrew Gilliam who
maybe underperformed a little bit in
Florida but did about just as well as
you know Nelson did even though he
wasn't talking about African American
issues as much you know I think it shows
you that there are opportunities here to
build a broad coalition and really speak
to issues maybe in this highly
racialized environment of importance to
at least white Democrats in addition to
Democrats of color African American
Latino Democrats
so yes it's a challenge but I think that
we have seen the opportunities and the
possibilities that exist in building a
broad coalition at least across the
racial spectrum on the Democratic side
not to overly reference a different book
and the context but but in that that
book identity crisis one of the things
that I found interesting was that it
seems that voters can different
identities they have can be activated at
different times right and so it really
has to do with the way that you cut your
message cuts across them I mean I guess
you know the the metaphor I would use is
like you know the that onions can taste
different depending on how you slice
them as to whether or not they
caramelize or something like that
I'm making that up about but but the as
we slice the electorate in different
ways people get activated in different
ways Trump found a way of slicing the a
white electorate that was successful to
him activating racism and xenophobia and
misogyny and stitching together a
wonderful coalition of people that way
and I guess Obama did as well in in in
respects that he was able to speak to
people of colors concerns but also to
motivate white voters in the same way I
mean do you have a sense of like what
that was I mean what that what that what
that message was that encaptured all
those people was it simply the idea in
some respects of of what having the
first African American president would
represent so I think not like your
metaphor the idea of an onion you know
it tastes different depending on the way
you cut it or the way you cook it I will
say this you know both parties are
coalition's of different groups you know
for candidate to win especially
something like the presidency it's going
to take bringing together groups of
people who have different interests and
who might want different things out of
politics that's the truth and Trump did
it too right 90% of Republicans voted
for Trump whether they were never Trump
errs at any point in time or not a lot
of them didn't support him in the
primary and they still turned out to
vote for so the bottom line is both
parties are coalition's like that what I
would emphasize is that for Democrats
and thinking about the 2016 election
remember Clinton won the popular vote as
we all know Clinton had a coalition that
was viable
it just wasn't viable barely in a few
states that just made it you know our
discussion would be completely different
if Clinton had won the electoral college
and you know when the popular vote by
the margin she did it would be this is
the end of trumpism the Republican
coalition is a failure etc so I don't
want to put too much into right Clinton
and her campaign as a you know failing
to really connect the groups that Obama
was able to connect
she did just not in a few places and
those few places where she wasn't able
to do it have very white electorates
Wisconsin Michigan Pennsylvania Ohio
Iowa those are the places where Trump
and the Republican Party understood that
white voters are going to be decisive in
election outcomes and to me when you
combine that with low minority turnout
especially in those places that's why
you see the election results that you do
so I don't think it's so much an issue
of the messaging or the coalition that
was brought forth Clinton versus Obama
versus Sanders versus whoever else it
was just fell short by a little bit in a
few states because again white voters
dominated election outcomes and that's
what drives the patterns we see but if I
mean if we saw better mobilization in a
place like Wisconsin or Michigan I mean
those numbers in particular right those
feel like that to me feels like a one or
two decent organizers in those states
and it's a different outcome
right I mean that like it seems to me
that that is it's not hard I mean
obviously in retrospect but it's not
hard to imagine a different outcome in
those places I mean so the what what is
it I mean is it really just a matter of
saying like hey we just need to raise
enough money to have an extra ten to
fifteen percent of resources to go and
knock on doors in black communities in
Latino communities in Asian American
communities or we need some other
mechanism in which we are dedicating to
getting out the vote there so I think
the resources would help clear that's
part of the puzzle we don't have the
voter file data yet but the evidence
suggests that Latino turnout might have
gone up a little bit in 2018 certainly
higher than it was in 2014 which was an
especially low year for Latino voter
turnout and there were some investments
from within the Democratic Party and
outside of the Democratic part
to boost Latino turnout so resources
definitely help but I will say there's a
deeper problem there which is that in
states like Michigan Wisconsin those
states african-american turnout was
already very low in 2012 in 2008 so it
got even lower in 2016 but it's a
long-standing disparity and voter
turnout between whites and
african-americans that's going to take
more than just resources it's going to
take candidates the party really talking
about and addressing the issues of
concern to these communities and you
know the way that I talk about in my
book is that the incentives are simply
not aligned with candidates or parties
doing that in Wisconsin or in Michigan
Democrats that they want to win have to
get substantial white support there just
aren't enough minority voters so of
course they're going to focus their
efforts on you know the white electorate
there so the fear is that there's a
trade-off being made between mobilizing
and speaking about the issues of concern
to people of color versus making sure
you can maintain just enough white
voters to be viable in electorate and I
think the disparities in turnout are a
product with that trade-off being made
but what is it that what is that
trade-off just a question of finite
resources or is it a question of as you
get more in touch with the concerns of
people of color you risk putting off
white people because they go like hey
wait a second they're gonna get our
stuff well I mean that's the you know
that's the tricky thing I think that
it's very it's very contextual II
dependent I think that what we saw in
2018 in a few states like Georgia is
that you can have that balance but then
you know Stacey Abrams still lost right
more resources would help but there were
a lot of resources invested in Georgia
especially through you know groups like
black voters matter other non party non
partisan groups invested in mobilizing
African Americans and again
turnout was up but you know it might not
be enough and it might not be enough in
states like Wisconsin and Michigan you
know without the kind of mass of
investment that you see in a place like
Georgia because you know George is a
about a 30% african-american State
Michigan and Wisconsin are not 30%
african-american so I think it has to do
also
the non party actors where resources are
not going to create community
organizations stay wide in a place like
Michigan and Wisconsin in the way they
have in Georgia so to me it's it's it's
really a tricky situation but one that
the Democrats need to think really
deeply about if they want to be able to
leverage demographic change and really
say we can build a robust sustaining
coalition with a more diverse electorate
let's touch on I mean you say vote
suppression does not explain the turnout
gap and it surely it must explain some
right or no and and and you know we
talked about Stacey Abrams there is
certainly she believes this and it I
think it's a fairly compelling case
right I mean the amount of voter
suppression in Georgia and maybe it's
best to assess it but like white versus
black right like I mean it's hard to say
what kind of resources you know like I
know there's a dynamic where sometimes
suppression itself can drive turnout
because it motivates people and it
focuses resources but the bottom line is
surely like the white turnout in Georgia
does not need to do is not a bank shot
you don't hate it like it just you the
functioning of white turnout in Georgia
versus african-american turnout in
Georgia it seems to me is a lot smoother
machine and this you know particularly
this this cycle when you had the
candidate in charge of the voting rolls
essentially mm-hmm so you know vote
suppression when I talk about this in
the book you know I try and be careful
in the way I discuss it because we know
you know two things for sure number one
is that vote suppression especially
things like voter identification laws or
cuts to early voting disproportionately
impact minority voters we know that you
know
black and Latino voters are the ones you
know who are less likely to have
qualifying forms of identification
they're more mobile so things like voter
purges are going to affect them more
they're more likely especially African
Americans use early voting than whites
so that's that's true second thing
that's true is that these laws are
passed in places where there's an
incentive to demobilize minority voters
and this is important
Georgia was one of the first states to
pass a voter identification law way back
in 2006 although wasn't implemented
until later that's because as a large
pool of african-american voters with
relatively high turnout relative to
other states in the country so the point
is that these laws are passed in places
where minority turnout especially black
try not is already very high because you
don't need to suppress in states where
there's very few minority voters where
turnouts very low right the Republicans
you need to suppress in places where
turnouts already high so when we sit
there and try and judge these laws and
say do they decrease turnout do they
explain the turnout gap I say well not
really because turnout is highest in the
places where there's a big incentive to
pass these laws so they occur in places
where turnouts already high for minority
groups now those two facts in mind you
know Georgia was a very close race same
in Florida we can talk about the ballot
design in Broward County and Florida
this kind of thing right in a close
election these small changes that are
induced by vote suppression order of one
to two percentage points let's say are
enough to be decisive so it can
certainly be the case that vote
suppression doesn't explain these large
ten to fifteen to twenty percentage
point differences in who votes but can
still be the margin of victory for
candidate in a very close election and
that's why these laws which again are to
prevent fraud which doesn't exist where
we can't measure it at least not in ways
that could be prevented by voter ID laws
or restrictions on early voting you know
given that we don't have any evidence on
that we instead should question these
laws and say why do they why do we need
them when we already have very low voter
turnout especially for minority groups
in most parts of the country so so vote
suppression is almost like a river
syndicator yeah problem that you see
okay so so so getting back to that
problem why what what accounts for the
disparity in the voter gap like you said
fifteen percent voter gap and I guess
that's an average right in and in those
areas where we see the institutional
vote suppression I would imagine that
gap starts off lower begin that's why
you need voter suppression from the
perspective of the people on the wrong
side of those votes and I imagine in
some states it's it's it's higher than
15 percent but why why is why is Latino
the the gap 25 or 30 percent relative to
white people why is asian-americans 25
30 percent why well what accounts for
that do you have any sense yeah sure so
you know I think that circles back to
some of the discussions we had at the
beginning of our conversation right so
mobilization and talking about issues so
what I'd call even empowerment right
those are the mechanisms that produce
voter turnout people you know people are
born voters they have to become voters
their issues get talked about they care
about politics they pay attention and
they're asked to vote and that's what
makes someone a voter that doesn't
happen to the same extent in minority
communities so in the book I try and
figure out well what predicts those
differences in turnout why in some
states do we see a smaller gap and in
other states it's a much wider gap why
do we see a larger gap for some groups
than others and the explanation I have
is that it's about the incentives and
the incentive structure we have in our
current electoral system right all you
need is 50% to win and the bottom line
is in every single state except for
Hawaii every state wide voters dominate
election outcomes they're the largest
group the plurality group and every
single state in the country aside from
Hawaii so everywhere in the country of
you're running for office you're saying
the most important bloc of voters that I
need to pay attention to to think about
to address issues on behalf of is the
white electorate and in places where
that changes like in majority minority
congressional districts or in a few
places whether my
already populations a little larger like
in the deep south that's where we see a
reversal of the turnout gap that's where
we see gains of minority turnout
relative to white voter turnout that's
where the disparities are smaller so to
me the mechanisms are mobilization and
empowerment by the cause of that is the
incentive structure the incentives are
aligned such that in most places and
most of the time candidates and
campaigns should be trying to mobilize
and turnout white voters just because of
the population differences all right so
if I hear you that we can't necessarily
list off a list of specific things but
just that politicians behave in a
certain way where they go fishing where
the fish are essentially and when the
fish are people of color
the turnout gap is much lower or
non-existent
I mean do we have places where turnout
by people of color in presumably
majority minority districts is higher
than of white people yes so we have a
complete reversal in that black turnout
is higher than white turnout in many
majority minority districts and even for
Latinos in some of the border districts
where turnout is low overall Latino
turnout is about equal to white voter
turnout because in those places
Latinos again you know dominate election
outcomes and if you want to win you have
to mobilize and cater to Latino voters
so what I mean so if I was to go in and
I was go one of those communities right
and where where people of colors turnout
is greater where the where the where the
the the the gap is the turnout gap is
reversed relative to what it is in a
majority white district and I was to
study the politician would and see how
they're talking what issues they're
talking about what events they're going
to and write all that down would that be
would that be the key for me I mean then
I got to take it back to let's say my
majority white district
and figure out how to integrate that or
get the resources to emulate that and
maintain what I would instinctually do
to to you know play to a majority white
district but or is it is it is there
something else societally that is going
on that everyone has an awareness that
the the voting bloc that I am a part of
is going to dictate this election so in
some ways my vote is more important and
more powerful yeah so I think you're
right that it's a little implausible to
think about it as can we import what
happens in majority minority districts
bring it to a majority white district or
a majority white state use those same
tactics yet still maintain the margins
you're getting with white voters that's
difficult to do but you know I will say
that in you know that's kind of similar
to what we saw with some campaigns in
2018 I think that you know for example
stacey abrams when talking to just like
you said with identity and activating
different identities at different times
stacey abrams could go into the black
community and be seen as a legitimate
representative knowing how to talk about
issues right that might be a lesson from
majority minority districts that could
then be imported to certain audiences at
a statewide level but yeah i think that
you know you're right that it's it's a
difficult trade-off and something that
we have to we have to really think about
you know is that is it even feasible and
should candidates be be trying to make
that trade-off are they better off you
know with with what's worked in the past
which is mobilizing white voters I think
that's absolutely right is there a
another potential solution in that you
you you try and slice up the electorate
in a like a different like an even
different way like you know where you
look more at economic class as a as a as
a sort of a primary way of slicing up
the electorate in that way you cut
across these differences
so that you're speaking to two groups
that in one district may seem disparate
but in in in this district you can you
you're creating a sense of your message
is resonating with a cross you know
ethnic or racial lines I think you know
that's the I think many candidates
especially in the Democratic Party
believe that that is a solution that
it's talking about kind of these
cross-cutting issues as an example right
now you know we're gonna have a runoff
election in Mississippi for the Senate
Mike SP who's african-american you know
is running there the Democrat and you
know he says his target is to get high
minority turnout that is high
african-american turnout and about a
quarter of white voters 25% is his goal
and you know despite his opponent making
some statements that many are perceiving
is very racially charged including
saying his Republican opponent said she
would you know love to be front row for
a public hanging which in the South has
a very specific connotation SP is not
talking about that he's talking about
health care he's talking about jobs in
education and I think that that's the
strategy the Democrats have taken for a
long time so it's not so much the issues
in the rhetoric where I agree that
that's a necessary condition is talking
about issues that are cross-cutting that
can build other coalition's it's really
about the you know are candidates going
to black churches and saying let me talk
about the issues let me hear what your
concerns are are they going into urban
communities that are heavily minority
and saying what are your concerns what
do you want government to be doing right
I think that the kind of if we broadly
conceived of a left a broad kind of left
platform actually plays very well in
many minority communities but is seen as
alienating white voters so it's very
strange in that many of the policy items
that are seen as this is because of
racialization and many other factors
many of the policy items that are seen
as catering to a kind of white left-wing
voter base actually play very well in
diverse African American Latino
communities so you know the
might not have to change it might just
be delivering the message or the way
that you deliver the message that has to
change but I think the the agenda and
again the agenda of the kind of more
centered a center-left wing of the
Democratic Party is broadly favored by
minority communities on issues like
immigration criminal justice even it's
just getting that message out there and
really speaking to the community on the
community's own ground and in the manner
that the community wants to here is that
maybe what accounts on some level for
for the the even greater gap in terms of
Latino and asian-american voters in so
far as those communities may be less
homogeneous and some I'm not suggesting
that the the black communities
particularly homogeneous but when we say
Latino we could be talking about people
from 15 different you know national
backgrounds with some fairly with maybe
even more unique cultures same with
Asian Americans right I mean it does
that account for anything yeah so I mean
I think that the diversity within
minority groups creates different
challenges I will say that the other
part of the story is that
african-americans and you know they're
relatively higher turnout compared to
Latinos and Asians a part of that is
also because of how critical they are to
democratic fortunes in the south right
so even though in a state like
Mississippi which is only about 37
percent African American there you know
any Democrat has to get 90% of the black
vote right for Latinos you know in a
state like Texas Latinos are you know
about thirty percent of the electorate
but they're nowhere near as Democratic
as african-americans are in Texas or
elsewhere you know more like maybe 70/30
or even more Republican than that even
you know thirty thirty-five percent
voting Republican that means the
Democrats look at Latino voters and say
well you know that's not really as
reliable to vote as if they were African
American so it's going to take even more
Latino voters for them to say the
incentives are aligned with mobilization
so I think it's not
just the kind of ethnic or national
origin diversity in the Latino and
asian-american community it's also the
political diversity the partisan kind of
heterogeneity in those communities means
that the the population has to be even
larger for candidates to see a viable
path forward by investing significant
resources in mobilizing those
communities so when you go in and
mobilize the african-american community
your yield is higher yes exactly
okay exactly it is so is so are in 20
years from now in 30 years from now is
this conversation largely moot because
you're going to see more and more ethnic
diversity and more people of color
relative to white populations and and
then and then the turnout gaps you know
in in forty five years my my kids gonna
be having an interviewing your your kid
and they're gonna be saying like what
are we gonna do about this white good
turnout gap it seems to be pretty big I
mean is that what's gonna happen well so
two things on this you know I spent a
lot of time in the book talking about
you know as part of the title this
diversification of America and I will
note that 15 to 20 years ago that's what
we said would happen right now
is that you know we're majority minority
nation sleeping giant Latino voters have
awakened minority voters are pivotal the
Republican Party unless they become more
diverse and cater to minority voters you
know it's basically a dead party and you
know up until the last election you know
Republicans controlled all three
branches of government you know so you
know I think that making projections
about the future especially given the
racialization of our politics all they
would take is for white voters to shift
just a little bit more into the
Republican camp for us to see you know
the same patterns we've seen in recent
elections continue to manifest for a
generation or more so I mean it really
depends on the nature of the coalition's
and whether Republicans make further
inroads with white voters that said I
think you're right that is we become
more diverse if the party coalition's
don't change significantly then the
incentives are going to beam
more aligned with especially the
Democrats mobilizing minority voters and
I think in places like Florida and
Georgia ten years ago Canada would have
said or before Obama let's say someone
would have said you know you can't run a
black candidate in Georgia or Florida
there's no way they're gonna win and
increased diversity of those states
growing Latino population in both of
those states has made it so a you know
Democrat of color maybe is more viable
there than in the past so I think you're
going to see changes but I think the
magnitude of those changes means that
this is not something the Democrats can
just kind of wait and it'll happen
naturally it's going to take that
investment and really saying look if the
Democratic parties coalition is going to
be people of color heavily people of
color in the future those investments
have to start now or else or else small
gains by Republicans with white voters
are going to pay off much more in the
near term bernard Fraga the book is the
turnout gap race ethnicity and political
inequality in a diversifying America
thanks so much for your time today we'll
put a link at majority dot F M thank you
so much for having me all right folks
gonna take a quick break heading to the
fun half of the program going to try and
take a lozenge during the break don't
forget you can become a member by going
to join the majority report comm check
out T MBS there were two of them the
last week Oh is he not he's not here
tonight either right sir yeah we're
we're unlocking some stuff and we got
some premium kind of Wow all right
whatever nice doing the T MLS tonight
maybe no we're not going to do that what
is the T ml Matt lecture oh really
all the cat's away tune into T MBS
tonight and hear talking about the
Pequot War also the anti fada they've
got a couple out catch up on them this
week
at patreon.com slash the anti Fattah
and speaking of literary hangover Matt
yeah we're talking about Katherine Maria
Sedgwick she also we mentioned a little
bit about how she had a ancestor who
married into a mohawk family she also
had a cousin who married into a Cherokee
family to one of the signatories of the
treaty that led to the Trail of Tears
she was later assassinated for signing
it so small world back then oh yeah
literally all right take quick break
heading to the fun half the number is
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty I will endeavor to answer as many
calls as possible today within the
confines of my my my health see you in
the fine
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you
[Music]
you
[Music]
we are back it is the fun half ladies
and gentlemen that's what we call it we
called it many different things before
we settle down the fun half really yeah
we called it the flip side yeah we
called it the other half the resumes all
of the members show yeah I don't know I
honestly I don't think we sat on the fun
half until like three four years ago oh
really yes before I was even listening
then because it was always the fun half
I was it yeah well that's why we did it
because it attracts more people and then
you have to sort of like then you have
to justify it afterwards which is a
little bit tough too because I only get
in tougher I've had people I've had
people say to me like hey he said it was
the fun half back in the Republican
primary it was actually the fun house it
was always fun it was like where's Rand
Paul being irritated today things like
that hold on Oh Oh tomorrow folks
tomorrow
minoes well Janeane Garofalo is gonna
call in but my understanding is that she
thought it was today so hopefully she
will call in tomorrow we will do our
famous pre our famous pre-thanksgiving
advice segment from Janine I already
know what the advice is cut your ties
for me a family don't don't go don't go
home for Thanksgiving
why would you do that to yourself we
mentioned Stacey Abrams and she was on
Chris Hayes last night this is not going
to be the last time you hear of Stacey a
I would imagine that she is planning her
run for the Senate in 2021 of I can't
remember who it is one of the Georgia
senators are up for re-election in 2020
I believe and here is her perspective on
the election I mean look I don't think
you need to be of the left or a Democrat
to recognize there is something
fundamentally problematic with having
your opponent also determining who the
electorate is because they're in a
position of authority and are exercising
that position Authority I mean at the
very least recuse yourself for God's
sakes but no Brian camp wanted and I
will remind you I believe it's December
4th we got to double-check the WiiU
double-check the because I don't want to
give the wrong information but if you
live in Georgia and you voted in 2016
and 2018 and you don't vote in this
runoff for Secretary of State that's
taking place in about two weeks I think
it is I think it's two weeks to today
you're nuts
because that Secretary of State position
clearly has major implications for any
future elections going forward here is
Stacey Abrams talking about the failure
of democracy in Georgia um was the
election in Georgia statewide a free and
fair election it was not a free and fair
election we had thousands of Georgians
who were purged from the rolls wrongly
including a 92 year old woman who had
voted in the same area since 1968 a
civil rights leader it was not fair to
the the thousands who were forced to
wait in long lines because they were in
polling places that were under-resourced
or worse
had no polling places to go to because
more than 300 have been closed it was
not fair to the thousands that were put
on hold with their registrations and it
was not fair to those who filled up
absentee ballots and depending on the
county you sent it to it either was
counted or not counted assuming you
received it in time
Brian Kemp oversaw for eight years the
systematic and systemic dismantling of
our democracy and that means there could
not be free and fair elections in
Georgia this year I want to get your
response to this as I think Rick Hasson
who's an election law expert writer
legal academic wrote this piece for
slate he said the democrats should not
call the georgia rick governor's race
stolen and and basically be you know
making the argument that that rhetoric
further erode sort of democratic
legitimacy I thought wonder what you
thought about that
I appreciate the professor's thinking
but coming from the vantage point of
talking to thousands of voters who feel
like their votes were not counted their
voices were not heard they've already
had their confidence eroded they've
already begun to doubt the integrity of
the system we have a Republican who is
getting a do-over election on December
4th because they forgot to put people in
his district districts that were drawn
in 2011 and updated in 2015 he had to
take out plat maps and single handedly
find all of the missing voters and then
take the state to court to get a new
election that means that this isn't
about partisanship but it's also not
about rhetoric it's about the reality of
people being denied their basic rights
of vote in the United States especially
in the state of Georgia
yeah very hard to deal with arguments
about like you do probably best not to
mention it the norms yeah you don't want
to I think this is different from the
norms argument I think it's like you
don't want to shake the foundations of
the institution because you don't want
people to think there's something wrong
with it and I think her point is there's
something wrong with it it's like don't
cry wolf when there's a wolf there
because a bigger wolf might come exactly
what if like a tiger comes
and the other point is and I don't think
I want to make this absolutely clear
that what Barnard Fraga was just saying
in the interview that we just did I
don't think he was saying that the
implications of that voter suppression
wouldn't change the outcome of an
election I think the idea is that in
Georgia african-american turnout is
higher than it is relative to other
place relative to white turnout than
other places and that's why you see the
voter suppression the Republicans
wouldn't do this unless they need it too
right it's not like a hobby I mean maybe
some of them might do it because you
know you get on the bandwagon because
there's a certain now amount of sort of
I don't know cultural identification
with voter suppression that gets you
some some some validity in other circles
but from an electoral standpoint the
reason why they do it in Georgia because
they have to and there's every reason to
believe that Stacey Abrams would have
outperformed even what she did if there
were more people available to vote in
the absence of Brian Kemp's suppression
so good for her and call attention to
the problem put them on the defensive
because eventually eventually these
people will lose out in Georgia I just
hope it's a gonna break yes sooner
rather than later let's hope but one way
that you make sure that that happens is
to go out and vote in Georgia and if you
are in Georgia you just heard our guest
the way to get people to go out and vote
is to go out and get them to vote also
the Democrat running for state secretary
just picked up a big endorsement from
the libertarian who yapping fur that's
why it went that's why it's gone to a
runoff neither candidate or nine other
the two biggest candidates the
publican in the democrat got 50% because
the libertarian got like I don't like 3%
or something like that and what is a lap
oh and in this instance good for this
libertarian yeah thanks grow a smite
that should do vol there you go
helping someone besides themselves
mm-hmm calling from a 5-1 to area code
who's this where he come from
um hi this this is almost from Austin
Texas hi Omar what's on your mind yeah I
wanted to talk about a topic that's come
up a lot on the show recently with Jamie
about capitalism and destroying or
getting rid of capitalism so and I used
to think that that's completely not not
valid but I'm not not hundred percent
sure anymore he's starting to get to me
in the in the logic but I'm still not
there yet
I think that I think it should be a
minority position and what I like to
consider there the Bernie Sanders and
socialism to be to be dominant at worst
case it'll be a like a stepping stone to
what Jamie's talking about best case it
might be the the utopia that we need
sorry I'm nervous um well I'll tell you
know Marv that is that is sort of my
perspective on that is somewhat similar
I mean I think the idea of
anarcho-communism and Jamie and I have
had this conversation I think is utopian
and I don't I don't think it's I don't
think it's viable I think it's not
consistent with with at least my
understanding of you know how humans
function and you know not all of them
but at least enough to ruin a situation
like that however they're the reason why
I don't have a problem with that
ideology in the way that I have a
problem with a sort of similarly
situated libertarian
is that the problems with libertarianism
is all of these steps towards that
utopia are worse in our situation there
might be bombing all of the steps
towards jail utopia are actually very
positive better yes exactly right and
and that's that's basically my
perspective my basic my base basic thing
that that makes me worried about getting
rid of capitalism it's sort of like
throwing the baby out with the bathwater
kind of deal because I think that like I
know I mentioned this on messages before
that like for example the concept of
Moore's law you know doubling of
processing power every two years that's
been going on since 73 I completely know
that that couldn't happen with our
socialism then in terms of government
funding and basic research right but I
don't think it could happen without
capitalism as well and I think if you
see the history of life on this planet
have been many extinction events and I
think that that humanity might be the
only maybe the only the first species
that's capable of avoiding the different
ways mother nature tries to you know
kill us all may bomb and if it if it is
successful it would be it wouldn't just
be through technology but it'll be like
ridiculously advanced it's like
especially talking about asteroid
impacts so it seems like if if we
couldn't really do that without and who
knows when that happened so I if we can
ramp up socialism to try and remove the
bad effects of capitalism that might be
a better scenario than risking rapidly
advancing technology yeah I mean you
know but it's it's tough to say like
first off why is Moore's law necessarily
a good thing I mean let's say you're
right that Moore's law could not exist
were it not for capitalism I think the
argument would be that maybe it's you
know like why is it necessarily a good
thing
well the reason that I think that it may
be necessary a good thing is that we
don't know when academically might might
happen ingenuous and might they happen
we might find out in 50 years that
asteroids heading our way right we don't
know that there was a technology that
fine it's one of those like 1% staggers
of course humanity that's my point is
that you know we don't know I I
certainly don't have an answer as to
whether or not humanity at the end of
humanity will be if there is going to be
an end to humanity that Moore's law if
we had never had Moore's law we would
have been better off or if we never had
Moore's law you know maybe we would
still be survive you know if we had
Moore's law we'd survive there's no way
to answer that I mean I think really the
key is just like you know how much
better does it make things for people
now I don't know if you can even answer
that now right like you know there's an
argument yeah if we didn't have a lot of
the technology we have that maybe there
would be you know we would be happier if
I mean could we evolve could we evolve
in terms of the emancipation of people
and the the sense that and being more
egalitarian which is what the our
evolution has been right completely
completely in fact I'm gonna step foot I
can even conceive of a reality where we
don't have technology at all and we have
net levels of better happening I mean
right you don't know Harare talks about
this in sapiens
that's his thesis right I mean we don't
know it's possible but all right well
Omar III appreciate I appreciate the
call we'll have to we'll have to wait
and see if we're survivors my only
comment is when I think about socialism
vers capitalism I my biases not to think
in sort of utopian super long horizon
terms it's that basically who's making
the decision for a given resource and
how its expended so like oil we should
socialize that that should be a
democratic there should be a democratic
body and charge that capitalism to me is
that just a private capitalist or
of them get to decide economic
production and I think ultimately any
capitalist should be under a democratic
framework and and that's basically my
bias a more democracy in the economy I
just saw I had the great misfortune of
watching some clip of what's-his-face
ben shapiro and he was talking about the
reasons why no I think it was Norway or
you know it was his one of his like anti
socialism buttons hey you sure this
wasn't a Reuben no no it was him it was
a Shapiro and he's like Norway of course
you know it has an advantage because
they have a massive oil slush fund and
it's like where you think they got that
from chief we have oil here too like
we've got the most dog right like Alaska
has a big oil slush fund incidentally
even the entire like North Dakota I mean
they're not being as generous as
Alaska's but they're using it to
basically create a huge giant slush fund
for North Dakota yeah we could do the
whole we could do that too and nobody
should nobody should be getting rich off
of fossil fuels in the year 2018 like
that like we could have a slush fund
that's not it's not like God came down
and said you are the chosen people in
Norwegians you will have the giant oil
slush fund it was just a political
choice it wasn't Thor rises right now of
course I would've illogical hero what am
I thinking of I'm so geocentric I
assumed it was yahwah alright just to
prove my point
i said this earlier let's see here we
had you had some voicemails here's a
voicemail we just play mmm excuse me all
of these messages samuel I'm very
disappointed in you very very very
disappointed in you so happy
Thanksgiving and and not to you though
not to you I'll try a couple more times
but I'm telling you I've had enough of
this
I'm gonna start spray-painting paper
towels gold in Mission Texas or
spray-painting some paper towels gold
and building a wall that sounds like
Katherine Harris I didn't realize that
she was still alive
Wow that she's got the number yeah no no
she calls in quite quite a bit she
called in many times
[Music]
wow that's weird
we haven't heard from cabin eros in a
long long time and what's going on you
tell me Carl at one we were doing that
segment today not tomorrow Kindler does
the same thing oh my god I have so many
voice mails from Kindler all hours of
the night calling from a four one five
area code who's this where are you
calling from
four one five I can hear you listening
to the show
good bye Oh all right let's go to calm
from a two four zero area code who's
this where you come from Sam is that you
yes it is who's this it's Vito from
Maryland how you doing
Vito from Maryland what's on your mind
so so anyway I happened to be watching
that Kris cage last night when he was on
air and my first thought was I wonder if
she watches the majority report because
that's what kind of a point that you
made the other day and then of course my
second thought was that I guess Jimmy
doors probably having a big cow today
over this but the
the other thing I wanted to mention
little briefly is um I think your guests
today I don't disagree with everything
but I'm not buying the whole the whole
idea that you know minorities weren't
sufficiently invited but I think it's a
lot more simplistic in that you know
identity politics I think has played a
part I would say Donald Trump probably
capitalized on sort of a perfect storm
of you know over the years and you maybe
even over the decades Republicans
typically have sort of placated these
people these people I mean like you know
the white supremists and the you know
the xenophobes all these people with
sort of dog whistles and throwing him a
bone I remember Ronald Reagan up in his
1980 campaign in Philadelphia
Mississippi right right outside the
County Fair yeah Philadelphia
Mississippi is really only known for one
thing and it's not do it and you know I
think what happened was they looked
around and they said hey you guys have
been promised this you're going to take
care of this stuff and what do we have
we've got these women they're still
getting abortions they're running around
complaining complaining about you know
the me to thing or whatever you know
complain about getting groped in her ass
and then we've got these immigrants and
then if that's not bad enough we've got
a black president now you guys said you
really get this under control and what's
going on and then all comes Donald Trump
and he just basically out-and-out says
white power and I think that really
turned those people out to vote and I
think the combination of that with
account you know the other the minority
voters and the people on the left
basically thinking I was guilty of this
to myself to a certain degree although
not to the point where I didn't vote but
I really was shocked at how many of
these people there are still I mean it
was it was it was pretty depressing but
I think I think that explained
but you know nothing none of what you
said is inconsistent with the argument
that he was making today and and and and
and the argument you're making is
consistent with the argument that sides
was making in in in in our interview
about his book identity crisis which is
you have these sort of latent identities
I don't think that there's too many of
them but I think that that you know for
for for you know for for Sam cedar you
know it's like I like you know geeky
stuff is important to me in social
security but also the Red Sox but I
usually vote based upon social security
but if somebody came in and made a
really compelling campaign based on how
great the Red Sox are and they're gonna
make the Red Sox great again that may be
that I may suspend I may rejigger the
order in which you know what what makes
gets me to vote right and I think on
some level that's what happened with
with people's racism and misogyny and
and I've you know said in the past like
I don't think from the perspective of a
racist misogynist and you know which is
not to say that we don't all have some
elements of this within us but from the
perspective of racist misogynist I'm not
so sure that those two things are
different uh you know I think a lot of
times it's just like I said this before
like you know how do you go from Obama
to Trump you know you say like well I
was willing to give them one non-normal
president but to non-normal presidents
in a row you know i won't go back to a
normal president you know rich white guy
yeah and so I mean I don't think I don't
think I don't think that Froggers thesis
is inconsistent with anything you're
saying I don't I don't think it is the
other things I think is that you know
the Democratic Party is going to have to
I mean moving forward strategically that
I have to try
make some choices I think when it comes
to because I think the only real answer
is to is to expand the electorate I
don't I think a lot of these you know
trying to get the vote of you know the
average working-class white person is
not consistent with winning electoral
anymore for the Democratic Party I think
it needs to be a broader coalition of
you know he was correct on these points
in that it's going to take a combination
of minority voters and and sort of the
more educated white voter and urban and
the suburban voters to sort of overcome
you know what's going on in I mean III
don't know I mean look I think you know
the the problem with that on some level
is that you're gonna get to a push comes
to shove moment right where those white
voters that you're getting they better
be on board
you know the suburban white voters
better be on board with material
benefits for a broader you know a swath
of Americans because that's the only
place that you know the Democrats
ultimately have to to land but we'll see
appreciate the call veto calling from a
266 number I'm not sure what this is a
little bit a little bit over modulated
who's this math Lee calling here from
London hello Matthew in London what's on
your mind great to get through to you
and first of all I just want to say my
thoughts are with you guys looks like
you might be having a constitutional
crisis to paying on what happens with
Muller and as a South African I sort of
lived through one because we had an
independent investigator I was actually
a fixed statutory one called
Public Protector that went up against
Zoomer and it was pretty hairy there for
a while so and you know batten down the
hatches and I hope you guys come out the
other end safe and sound
yeah for all our sakes thank you there's
gonna be exciting and the second thing I
want to do is I'm bit sad there Michaels
no rallies no call it in and both
criticize and also defend Elon Musk
the Billy Michaels not around but first
of all I think Elon Musk is definitely a
guy who's crying out for help
if you look at the time that he went on
Rogan you know know even a plutocrat
know saying business person who cares
about their stock price would be
lighting up a joint publicly I would say
well it's quite clear that there's some
kind of mental issues going on there and
stress wise but I think he gets more
sticker in his view mainly because he's
inserted his personality in is it his
personal brand into a lot of his
products I mean compared him to someone
who runs maybe JP Morgan or Sheldon
Adelson I think you know you know Mike's
products I really are needed you know
solar panels electric car of space
exploration these are all good things
the problem is is that you know all of
those products he does them in ways that
are stupid so you know the Tesla's a
nice cause but the problem is that he
can't he's very good at writing software
I think but he's very bad at actually
mass producing electric cars and work
compared to say listen and that's the
problem is actually you don't need to
have an autopilot in a mass-produced
electric car yet you just need an
electric car that's cheap if you see
what I'm saying yeah I mean I I think
there's an argument that that someone
could make that like you needed to make
the electric car sexy so that it could
break through you know sort of social
predispositions but I that none of that
to me is really too
the extent that I have a problem with
Elon Musk none of that to me is terribly
Minh I think like there's I would say
certainly in terms of these you know
entrepreneurs he he definitely is
looking to do something more than just
make a profit I mean he wants to you
know significantly improve the world
let's say as opposed to let's say the
Sackler z-- who we just we're just gonna
repackage opioids and sell it because
it's addictive and we'll make a billion
bucks I mean so yeah in that respect
that's fine but wait let me finish but I
do think he strikes me as someone who is
got some maybe some emotional issues
that he's dealing with but the thing
that is problematic from my perspective
is that is that there is this notion and
I think maybe it comes with the
territory but the megalomania ends up
also having a becoming an ideology and
the ideology is that we need you know
these problems camp can only be solved
by a great mind you know working
independent of it like there is a there
is just a perspective on on humans and
their relationship to other humans which
is you know a function of his
megalomania but is also problematic for
society that is the one that matters is
me I'm the only one that matters
yeah that's the that's the that's my
idea I jump on that very quickly yeah
yeah so I mean completely like the whole
paper is warning about an artificial
intelligence lots and lots of other
pieces like I warden
lots and lots of other people have
worried about artificial intelligence I
just want to also jump on his boring
tunnel thing did you see there was a
thing where he's been meeting with the
maze of Chicago and also LA and
basically they're kind of giving him
carte blanche to build his his subway
yes this is this is in viscid this is
where it leads is that all of a sudden
like cuz he's a billionaire right he's
he I mean this is look what happened I
usually like a more banal example is
instead of like you know boring tunnels
through so that we can have like the
world's most expensive three stop subway
essentially and I will say I will say in
New York a hundred and some-odd years
ago there was a similar guy who did the
exact same thing I should say it's
called the secret subway you can google
it it's it's an interesting in a hundred
years ago it was like okay good good for
you because but this is what but but a
more banal example of this is is Bill
Gates in education he decides that
because he's a billionaire he must be an
expert at everything and he looks at
education and he thinks I went to school
I can do this
and he spends about eight hundred
million dollars right nearly a billion
dollars on a project that in and of
itself he can do whatever he wants with
his money but it changes the entire sort
of like structure of education in our
country for a couple years because
everybody's assuming that you know it's
it's generating all sorts of ancillary
money that is going towards these
projects and then at the end without any
without any fanfare a couple of months
ago they had an internal report from
Rand and then they came out with their
own assessment and everything they tried
failed and it basically derailed
education in this country for a decade I
would argue it also it also led to the
destruction of public sector unions at
least in terms of like their agency fees
because people forget Janis case was the
the the prior case was Friedrich which
was about teachers and so much of what
Bill Gates did mutated into an attack
on on public Union teachers and so it's
it's really problematic to have someone
to have a figure like that with that
kind of money running amok in society
even if they do some good things and but
I will also say this I don't talk about
I don't talk about the individuals that
much because in some ways in my mind it
exacerbates the problem like I'll talk
about what the Gates Foundation does and
I'll talk about but I don't give two
hoots about Bill Gates and frankly I
don't give two hoots about Elon Musk and
I think like talking about them as these
supernatural figures does more in my
mind I don't know if it does
substantially more harm than good but it
is not helpful because I don't care
about him as an individual I care for
the same reason why these mayor's are
meeting with him is because he
represents power in the size of his
assets and power in what wielded by one
person regardless of their intentions
that amount of a disparity of power is
problematic
I don't think humans should have that
much power over other humans no good and
so that completely I mean if I could
just jump on that quick quickly I'm
sorry like I mean his whole boring
tunnel plan if you're from Europe in the
UK is like the worst country in Europe
so public transport and they've just
finished across London train that will
do something like you know a hundred
miles in about an hour like east to west
that's going to link up pretty much
everything it's running in a bit late so
when Ilan musk talks but it'll be
amazing and it's run by corporations but
like at prices set by the by the city
and so like when Ellen must talks about
he built the most amazing tunnel that's
three miles long like from the European
perspective it's just laughable I mean
we have tunnels to do the same thing it
you know don't fight basically and
there's no where where
email a 3-mile tunnel is like helpful
mind blowing
it's not mine it's not spent it's not
anything but the bar for American public
transport so low the people worshipped
this guy if he fell from the sky yeah I
appreciate the call you got that last
part right that's sort of depressing I
mean that's
Ilan's problem is is over capitalized
relative to his competence in a society
that really weighs hard in the whole
inventor hero archetype I would say the
bottom line is anybody with that amount
of money is over capitalized like I
don't think that there is a someone who
has capitalized that much
it's commensurate with their competence
I just don't think it's I just it's
irrelevant
like it's not like you can't having that
much money is a moral hazard because you
can afford to lose it too much and you
know you can go out and run for
president on a whim or you can go and
drop a billion dollars and F up
education for for a generation I mean
all of that is a problem in my
estimation let's talk about aoc a little
bit more she was on chris hayes last
night this is like he's at a good show
Hayes had a great show last night but I
feel like this is like it's like this is
what I think people probably imagine
like our my like dreams like the dreams
I have of like Chris Hayes sitting down
and talking with a I'll say that type of
thing right I mean the day they get
together to talk about expanding Social
Security that's that's probably the day
I retire folks
I'll have seen it all I'll have done
when she when she said when she sits
down with with Hayes in the Oval Office
and he at her for his first question is
with a majority Democratic Socialist
Congress and Democratic Socialist Senate
what will be the first thing that you do
president Cassio Cortez and she says I'm
going to expand social security and
finally lift the cap with a small donut
hole just for the sake of it that's
that's when I basically say like my job
here is done folks
and I walk away I walk I turn instead of
having the Sun behind my back I turn and
walk into the Sun like at the end of
Josey Wales
there it is anyways
and that's our every huh I think that's
what's known as a reverie yeah that's it
I just I just spoiler alert I just gave
away the end of the show that's when it
ends hopefully I'll be able to actually
then walk away as opposed to be just
wheeled away that's when Brendan comes
up and he's like it's time to go mr.
cedar you're and we'll just wheels me
away so one of the controversies non
controversies that have surrounded
Alexandria Ocasio Cortez was her
announcement that we she also made with
two liebe right the from Michigan that
they were via justice Democrats going to
continue to primary Democrats
it sounds like primarily in blue states
although it seems like across the board
but they're going to do so in a way that
is thoughtful I don't know if Andrew
Gilliam was one of the Justice Democrats
but the model seems similar right and
here she is discussing that primary and
there is a desire like you know people
out there getting freaked out
how could you primer how could you talk
about primary Democrats
that's what primaries exist for
like he's saying if you have a problem
with someone announcing that they are
going to primary Democrats then what you
should be working for is the dissolution
of primaries in your party I mean it's
absurd but here she has an opportunity
to discuss it in a way that hopefully
rational human beings can understand you
just as Democrats just a Dem such a
group that had sort of worked with your
campaign early on you and they had sort
of announced your plans to continue the
process of primering incumbent Democrats
which is how of course you got to
Congress I wonder like how that how does
that color the relationships you have
with the incumbents well I think what's
important to articulate what justice
Democrats is about is really it's not
their mission their mission isn't we're
gonna primary Democrats their mission is
we're gonna support working-class
candidates to run in midterm elections
and so they have supported and endorsed
candidates and redtube lose in open
primaries and but they do not shy away
from from actual primaries and blue
races either and so you know I don't I'm
not sure if it really changes much
because incumbent Democrats support and
endorse against other incumbents all the
time you add dan Lipinski earlier this
year that's what it come and see is that
is in part of the quote and so so but
you have people that also support other
primary challengers to incumbents as
well like again you have dan Lipinski
this year where you have kirsten
gillibrand you're privileged I appalled
that came in and said we need change in
this community so I don't think it's
anything too out of - - I don't think
it's a departure from precedented right
but I also think that we need to realize
that at least for me and what I tell my
community is that we don't once we get
elected to Congress we don't own these
seats we rent them from our communities
and we have to make our case every
single time and that's not gonna be
I'm saying this to you as as an
incumbent to be and I realized that that
that that means I hold myself to that
standard as well but I think it makes
our democracy health
I mean the it is it is stunning to me
that people are uptight about this I'll
just mention Horse Whisperer Anonymous
centrist account on Twitter which I
don't know if you guys are familiar with
but was freaking out about the Pelosi
stunt saying like did it look at long
numbered thread about how she has to
learn what to do in Congress and I just
don't understand that reaction from
people especially now first of all it
belies I mean if that person was sincere
okay and I don't know if that person
sincere right but if that person sincere
they don't understand politics at all it
is just as likely that Pelosi welcomed
that Nancy Pelosi nothing they were
asking for was inconsistent with their
agenda the more pressure Pelosi is under
the more she can go and leverage that
that is exactly how politics work I
would love to give you this but my
constituencies gonna make me pay so
you've got to come towards my position a
little bit that's what that is it that's
what FDR said that's what that's what
Barack Obama said I mean you don't
understand politics if you're freaking
out about that and particularly you're
also not aware of what AOC did she went
in there and she was nothing but
gracious to Pelosi and Pelosi was
nothing gracious to back to her i if you
have you told me I have a tape of those
two talking to each other beforehand
about like hey heads up I'm gonna come
and join the thing and like Pelosi
saying good this will work out well I
would not be shocked the FDR quote is I
agree with you I want to do it now make
me do it and the interesting thing is
like the first two clauses aren't that
important like even if somebody doesn't
agree with him you can still attempt to
make them do it but it's obviously
better to have people that want to be
made to do something
well those first two clauses basically
just provide
the the how paramount the third clauses
right because it's like never mind that
I wanted to do it that's irrelevant
mm-hmm what I want to do is irrelevant
is what he's saying exercise the power
over me plus if you think the
composition of these Democrats are
troublesome with regards to you know I
guess being corporate if we want to call
it that the Dixiecrats were Democrats
with the Dixiecrats were a bit had a bit
more structural obstacles I think to
passing some of this stuff exactly Colin
from Nebraska
what are your ideal federal income tax
rates tarp top rate starting at what
maximum income top rate starting at what
amount of income maximum income I I
gotta be honest with you I don't have an
ideal federal income tax rate because I
haven't sat down and done it but I am
perfectly comfortable with with
something that is similar to what we had
in the you know 50s and early 60s where
you know the top income rate is 90% and
you know on the first you know every
dollar after I don't know two or three
million dollars that you whatever it was
I think it been it was like four hundred
and seventy thousand dollars now today
that would be two or three million
dollars well you know how we got
speaking of FDR we got the ninety four
percent rate as FDR wanted to make every
in today's dollars every dollar over
three hundred and fifty a hundred
percent text and 350,000 hundred fifty
thousand not in today's dollars in in in
today's dollars would be three hundred
thousand and those dollars would be to
twenty five thousand dollars a year it
was ninety four percent on everything
over twenty five thousand dollars well
this is what this is the proposal so FDI
proposed a hundred percent top tax rate
at that time of quote grave national
danger Roosevelt told Congress in April
1942 that no American citizen ought to
have a net income after he has paid
taxes of more than twenty five thousand
dollars a year that would be three
hundred fifty thousand dollars in
today's so that was his opening salvo
but yeah
where it lands that's not where it
landed but that's how he started and
that's I'd be totally happy with saying
nothing over yeah I would I would say
like half a million dollars or something
like that a million to every dollar
after that ninety cents 100 cents on the
dollar but I would say like I would have
a hundred percent option twos we're like
I don't know if you put that 10 million
dollars so basketball players could get
their full close to their contracts or
something like that I don't know that's
who I can that's who I'm worried about
you're worried about the only the only
people I care about when it comes to
raising these tax rates are our
professional athletes and and video game
makers know rock star needs to unionize
even though Red Dead Redemption 2 is
great
yeah I'm just warning people I'm so
close to being so Fox News has cracked
the code ladies and gentlemen about
Alexandra Cascio Cortez it is it is
amazing to me how much work how afraid
the right is of her and of Bernie and
the whole movement on some level
certainly guys like ben shapiro get it
when they do their you know socialism
watch and they come up with all of their
explanations about norway and venezuela
and here is and this is funny this this
this segment is so backward-ass it's
unbelievable to me but let's listen to
this is on fox news and what's her name
it is Charles Payne hosting Kelly Jane
Torrance she's a writer at the Weekly
Standard right Charles and think about
Alexandria occasional Cortes right she
actually was in a protest at Nancy
Pelosi's office just a few days ago
about the green new deal that she is
going for I think she is trying to be
the Steve Bannon of the Democratic Party
and we saw how well Steve Bannon did he
tried to primary some candidates in some
cases successful in some cases not and
those didn't work now
well first of all this is so confused
so AOC is not part of the insurgency
against against a Nancy Pelosi and I
will remind people
Steve Bannon was the reason why Donald
Trump got elected I mean I remember
we're talking about a razor-thin margin
it's quite possible that without Steve
Bannon
he loses without the Mercer's with
without Cambridge analytics he loses it
doesn't take much 10,000 votes in
Wisconsin 10,000 votes in Michigan
30,000 40,000 and in Pennsylvania but I
also just don't get it
Steve Bannon is preying on his ideology
preys on the racism and xenophobia of a
significant portion of our population
and is she saying that a o'seas desire
for expanded Medicare and health care
options and free college is playing on
the desire of people to what to have
like a materially better life I think we
might be running up against the
limitations of Kelly Jane Torrance's
political vocabulary yeah that might
explain this and I mean is there any
doubt that if Steve Bannon was still
working at the White House that he would
be a hero at FoxNews I mean how many
times was Steve Bannon on Fox News a
million times there you have it
meanwhile as you know Ivanka Trump has
been the subject of now there is
announced today the Republicans will be
launching four investigations in the
house which they will turn over to
Democratic leadership three
investigations in the Senate the acting
Attorney General Matt Whittaker has
opened an investigation involving the
FBI and of course Donald Trump is
heading to West Virginia tonight to have
a locker up rally to call for the
imprisonment of her his daughter Ivanka
Trump because she has been using emails
from her private server to do government
business and I don't even want to get
into this story I just the whole thing I
find annoying I just let's let Muller
come in and just arrest them all please
but that's not going to happen but look
what it's doing to to Jeffrey to banned
on CNN that's the thing is on CNN you
got to go in and pretend like hey this
is normal to talk about this this way
CNN's like a petri dish for everybody to
look at how like sort of ideas exactly
how this stuff is going to mutate and
develop and but here is Jeffrey Toobin
sort of just I guess breaking the fourth
wall not really breaking the fourth wall
but sort of he's he's he's playing the
subtext folks secatur CNN chief legal
analyst Jeffrey Toobin and legal analyst
and Milgram Jeff irony is dead is Ivanka
Trump and legal trouble no I doubt it
but I meet because I think most people
realize that government officials do use
their private email occasionally Hillary
Clinton did it - it is not fundamentally
a
deal the news media made it a big deal
Donald Trump made it a big deal but this
is not a it's it's not it's technically
not within the rules but everybody in
government does it this is the problem I
mean this is why Hillary Clinton got a
very raw deal may not be illegal but in
terms of irony off the chart oh my god I
mean it you know it's just and and you
know and I feel personal responsibility
for this as well I spent a lot of time
here on CNN talking about Hillary
Clinton's emails and I think we talked
about it too much I think we made a
bigger deal of it as that then it should
have but it I mean it fundamentally is
not that big a deal it's not that big a
deal for Ivanka it shouldn't have been
that big a deal for Hillary so oh and
the other guest has nothing to say
because what do you say at that point
gotta love those moments where at the
very least you know and I think Toob ins
been there for like now I think 30 years
at CNN so he can get away with saying
the premise of this whole segment is
wrong we shouldn't good for him
a man can only take so much I suppose
yeah we'll break out the coz after
Christmas we only I mean after
Thanksgiving me only like 25 shopping
days to Christmas which means they
wouldn't have 25 days to play the war on
Christmas redone YouTube video that we
play every year it's like instead of
bringing out a tree bring that out which
same situation I was on with that the
head of Concerned Women for America guy
named Bob Knight and he didn't have much
to say after I was done in the first
segment this is pretty funny do we have
this uh Ben Shapiro let's start with
this first okay so there's a Hoover
Institute identity politics panel that
was announced I think it's happening the
Hoover Institute is this it's pretty
right-wing Hoover Institute and here is
the the panel
it's about identity politics brought to
you by Andrew Sullivan Heather McDonald
of the blue lows matter frame no
different Heather McDonald oh is it is
it well I think that's a blue peter
Berkowitz John Fante Michael Lind Mike
Frank and Mike Gonzalez and I would say
these guys range in age from probably 46
to 64 or maybe that may be pushing it a
little bit 50 yeah I amazing you could
say like they're in their 50s all those
guys and I do mean guys except her of
course Heather McDonald she's one of the
guys and if you are not watching this
you should know that they are all
seemingly Caucasian and so the the the
palette of the the the panel is up there
and someone tweets out to Dillon
Matthews tweets out a tweet that says
there are more people named Mike at this
event than there are people of color
this isn't the Hoover Institute identity
politics panelists mics aren't POCs
and bench bureau is on the case so
what's fascinating is this just gives
you a sense right of what the difference
between how a normal person and how a
conservative looks at the term people of
color so he says so Shapiro shoots back
as if it's all self explanatory so Dylan
Matthew says there's more people of
there are more mics at this event than
people of color
and Shapiro writes back Sullivan is gay
and I should tell you if your English is
not your first language gay is not a
euphemism for people of color it's just
not a straight person and Peter teal is
not a person of color that's right
MacDonald is a woman and I should tell
you that again women are not people of
color Berkowitz is Jewish not a
definition of someone who is a person of
color not typically anyway Gonzalez is
Hispanic parens Cuban now I guess you
might have an argument their ethnic
ethnically but he is of Caucasian
heritage it appears anyways but what's
fascinating is like you know and I've
said this already twice today I think
the way that racists and misogynist and
maybe homophobes look at people who are
black white or gay is not like I'm
racist against you and I'm misogynist
against you because you're a woman and
I'm a homophobe because you're gay it's
I don't like any of you because you're
not like me it's just this basic notion
of like you're the other which is what
my point is about somebody who voted for
Obama saying like look I'm not gonna
have to non-normal presidents in a row
we just had one non normal one I want to
go back to a normal one and to
illustrate this point Ashlee Feinberg
writes back just simply is a beautiful
tweet quote what's your ethnicity
question mark and quote and then another
quote woman they don't even get it they
don't even
get they don't understand he doesn't
know what whiteness is they just don't
disagree with it with the critique they
don't even get the most basic critique
it's fascinating incidentally I should
tell you if you're not familiar with Ben
Shira as Shapiro he is the foremost
intellectual on the right and also POC
bi is on logic and a POC then Shapiro
serve that one up to you Michael when
you're back you can do ben shapiro POC
there you go oh that's a good one that
is a good one let's go to the since that
out i am self commissioned officer after
that mrs. fields ad we know that there's
more than one baked thing in that mr
office jonathan Armstead i'm torn part
of me wants to lock Ivanka up for
risking American lives by using her
personal email address but can we blame
her she's married to a felon in training
has a father in law in prison was raised
by a deadbeat dad with no respect for
the law it's really just a failure of
fathers in this community in their
community and yes this is part of my new
character paternalistic black guy
lectures just like Fox News does Tommy
d2 could this be the worst rendition
ever of that horrible horrible song
Dragonslayer with the more mounting
rumors of a seeder 22 2022 Senate run is
this the way to sell out and do the
classic Republican move of promoting
your new book blaming the electric how
your vote was stupid Michael Newman from
mass do you think the reason
conservatives are so desperately
attacking AOC is because they are
terrified of the possibility of her
becoming House Speaker is Senator yet
one day without a doubt and not just her
individually about but like more of her
she's what they're worried about yes
like almost ticks off every single box
and the socialism is the only one that
they can actually cop to right like what
they're really worried about is the
ascendance of women and people of color
but they'll call it socialism because
their dads thought it was scary well
they called race-mixing communism you
know 70 years ago there you go
brave o matic the only problem they have
now the problem they have is that 70
years ago when they talked about
communism you had the evil Soviet empire
right and the money and the tanks and
their ability to send people to the moon
and now the best they got is like
Venezuela where I think most Americans
are like then Oh what where is that is
it somewhere around all of my debt
exactly exactly
it's just Venezuela is just not the
terrifying sort of force that I think
the Soviet Union the Soviet Union it was
a question of like are they going to
destroy us and will we have like three
minutes to find out about it and go
under our desks the fear about Venezuela
is are they going to start paying for
free heating oil for poor people in this
country again brave o matic personally
I'm tired of seeing folks on Twitter and
elsewhere acting as though no one in the
Democratic caucus is capable of being
speaker except Pelosi the other
Democratic Congress members are not
morons even if Pelosi might be the best
choice well of course I agree with you
they should step up Sam's tinder profile
hey girls swipe right do you like my fun
half or my flip side camp speaking of
Aleppo has anyone noticed that Gary
Johnson ran for Senate and only got 15
percent of the vote in a state where he
served two terms as governor I did not
notice that Seamster I only voted in
Georgia at first there was only one
place to do it it was quite a hike from
my home secondly the forum I was asked
to fill out when I got there pre
highlighted and pre hided highlighted
sections including an absentee vote
section rather than the early vote
section which was right underneath it I
asked the poll worker about it she
initially snapped at me telling me just
to fill out the highlight sections and
and said it would not matter which
option I choose I found that odd the
Crisler Paco is at about time for
Democrats to suppress Republican votes I
know yeah I know lefties are supposed to
be in favor of voting but we're fighting
with one hand behind our back can we
purge voters who own John Deere tractors
maybe we could intimidate anyone we see
at the polling station who happens to be
wearing overalls democracy's ideal but
as the GOP loves to remind us the United
States isn't a democracy
yeah but the new black panthers are on
it apparently though jet ski in the
sheets Marx also believed communism was
impossible without capitalism first
utopian ideals aren't negative to me
because they give something to fight for
in a political battle that is longer
than a human life pride of the
proletariat get the chuck out G T Co is
a better cedar slogan in 2022 than the
Chuck stops here hmm spay off your
guests said that the voter suppression
only happened in high minority states
I'm pretty sure they went to voter ID in
Wisconsin which he said was a low
turnout State
I think turnout in Wisconsin amongst the
African American community I mean I
according to him I don't know what the
turnout rates were in 2012 or 2008 it's
a good question we're gonna check on
that
Milton apathy veto is exactly right
Trump gave them what the Republicans
have been teasing with them for years he
talks like them in the open and doesn't
hide it
JJ cool would Republicans ever vote for
a right-leaning damn as Speaker or would
that be too dangerous for them no I
think they would vote for Nancy Pelosi I
mean I think she wants to win with all
Democrats but I have a feeling
Republicans would vote for Nancy Pelosi
or maybe they wouldn't to keep it in
disarray
yeah but they like that known commodity
that they have binders full of yeah
Trump's umbrella if you're reading this
I'm still in the tarmac Josh Chicago
why is Steny Hoyer you know the umbrella
you guys didn't think I was funny you
didn't get it if you're reading this I'm
still on the term Trump's umbrella
remember he left it outside the plane
okay I just I was just trying to think
of how well the umbrellas gonna text us
but wow it wasn't really on the tarmac
it was on the ladder there's an Air
Force Base Johnny from Chicago why is
Donnie Hori are getting a free pass 155
gems is signed a letter supporting him
his House Majority Leader he's a hack
he's the worst why because he's not used
as a cudgel in elections PDX
Tony aren't Republicans gonna lose their
share of white voters as the Boomers die
off aren't younger Dems more comfortable
POC candidates and PLC issues that
shouldn't move towards Dems embracing
those issues have their cake and eat the
Republican vote share - yeah I think so
I think so that's my sense column from a
3-5-2 area code who's this where you
come from
hey how's it going Sam it's going good
who's this this is Matt from Florida
what's up middle of nowhere anyway I'm
just I'm a cockle and ski fan also watch
your show - but I saw him he about a
week ago he said one of the things that
he's going to be fighting for on the
forefront going forward is having five
ballot initiatives on the federal level
every election cycle and I just want to
know what your thoughts are on that
having five ballot initiatives on the
federal level yeah yeah as opposed to
just the state so what would that mean
you need a you want a law passed in
Congress to provide for ballot
initiatives yeah at the better or every
election cycle and there has to be at
least five
whatever number just you know so that we
can have more direct democracy and what
would be the what would be the means in
which those ballot those initiatives
gets on there I don't know I don't know
who would decide what the issues would
be that would you put a limit on the
number of ones no no sometimes you know
I just really I really called it and see
what your reactions would be well my
reaction is that I mean my reaction is I
don't I don't have enough information
because I can tell you this if you say
okay we're only gonna have five we're
gonna limit to five and and
theoretically this is about democracy
right right do you think that there will
be a single question as to that anyone
who listens to Kyle or this program
would like because I'll tell you what
will happen if you're gonna do it like
based upon what happens in the States
you're going to the amount that the the
broader okay so you're gonna have 50
states right and you have 300 million
people let's say you need to get 10% or
5% signatures let's say it's 5%
signatures I think that's a that's an
average percentage 5% of signatures okay
so 15 million people I don't know maybe
a voting age I don't know what it is
let's say it's called 7 million people
sign I don't know how you limit it to 5
right as opposed to just having a thread
think of the point us to limit it I
think okay so you could have 20 no more
of 20 or 30 or 40 ballot initiatives on
they're all bought by big money big
money will have the ability to do the
marketing campaigns for this
I suppose you know I don't know how you
would keep money out of it and the you
know the people who spend that money
they get to write the the question and
let me put it on there I mean I I don't
know I I I would need to hear the
proposal fleshed out the broad idea
itself is like I mean it it doesn't mean
much unless I hear the details yeah I
like democracy but after like brexit I
think we need to be a little bit
concerned about national referendums and
how they're used by people I mean
nevermind brexit I mean there are times
where statewide referendums are good but
there are times where they're horrible
like when you know in in California I
mean maybe you know when you had grey
Davis recalled I mean I guess you could
say like I don't think I think was Pete
Wilson and frankly destroyed the
Republican Party in that state but some
referendums are pretty bad you know like
you know what will go on there I can
guarantee you what will be a referendum
coming from a state like Massachusetts
which suffered from this there will be a
referendum that your taxes cannot be
raised beyond a certain threshold unless
you get 7/8 of Congress to do it or a
hundred percent unanimity and then boom
that's all it's going to take in every
program you ever wanted bye-bye hmm and
I guarantee you that will be the first
referendum that you see that is far far
far more likely than a Medicare for All
Right asked on that and here's the thing
you could pass medicare-for-all
referendum but the other referendum
might be in this Trump's all referendums
that they could you know that when it
goes to the Supreme Court and the
Roberts Court says well we have two
referendums here one says you cannot
raise taxes without 7/8 of Congress and
the Senate voting in favor raising taxes
the other says Institute a
medicare-for-all plan well you can
institute a medicare-for-all plan you
just can't fund it so you just gotta
figure out a new way of funding it
besides taxes I mean that's what will
happen all right I guess that's really
the reason why I wanted to call in
because it's something that I don't
really understand and it seemed like a
good idea at face value but I guess it's
a lot more complicated than I thought it
was you know I feel like you have just
described the entire dynamic of YouTube
politics yeah appreciate the call man
well I'm just trying to I'm just trying
to make the best no I mean the idea
behind that I like the idea behind it
you know there is something I like the
idea behind the idea of like let's
figure out a way of making some of the
biggest desires of the American public
you know realized but it doesn't always
work out that well and and and that
referendum talking about I think they
called it prop maybe three in California
and it became Proposition 13 in
Massachusetts or vice versa
and what it did is it capped it capped
property taxes in property taxes and
then are the primary way that schools
are funded and I don't know what it was
like in California but literally one day
we went to school and there were no more
sports
there was no arts there was no music it
just destroyed public education
appreciate the call Matt thanks man
thank you gone from a seven one seven
area code who's this where you come from
hi Danny
pa Danny and PA what's on your mind well
I've been trying to call him for a while
now because ever since bolsa Nara was
elected that's been on my mind for
a long time I have a lot of close
friends from are currently living in
Brazil and all of them have had to drop
off the net because of it because how
you know just thread it being docked and
everything happening there I all my
friends have really appreciated the
covers that you done and I'd also think
that it's great but I did want to throw
in a new lens to look at Bolton Aras
election that puts him in the connection
close with the broader history of
Brazilian authoritarianism in fashion
the this area that I that I use a lot is
that the military junta in Brazil never
ended the person who I know the most
that has argued this most prominent
leaders of Brazilian Marxist Vladimir so
fossil who makes the case that of all
the five main South American juntos
Brazil was the only one that never
jailed a torturer the paragraphs in the
constitution of Brazil on national
security were copied directly from the
1966 Constitution that ideology where
the military is the guarantee of
security and stability are all still
present they still have a military
police in February this year the
military was called in to Rio to disrupt
protesters against the Social Security
reforms with the explicit condition that
they could not leave until the bill
passed further that somebody like Bolton
ro could even be elected in the first
place with the full support of the
military points that's frankly better
than anything else one of the things too
that I think goes with that is that I
don't know if you saw but in the lead-up
to the election the
there was a bunch of very prominent
general in Brazil who came out with all
these statements very cryptic statements
about how even if the election goes in
their direction
David initiate a self coup my first
reaction to that statement was that
they're just admitting that the military
still plays the same political role that
it always has but one of my friends
pointed out to me put it very bluntly
said you dumb you've been a
malice for every year I've known you and
you can't think of another case in Latin
America of a self coup fujimori in Peru
is somebody that Bolton ro had praised
extensively saying essentially that his
use of military intervention against the
judiciary and legislature is a brawl
model for him set aside as his ideal
governance and that fits in perfectly
with the idea that the military junta in
Brazil is still present the main point
that I wanted to make here is that I
think really puts his election into
perspective is that far from being you
know a new democracy the military junta
in Brazil just sort of stepped aside and
became itself a condition for democracy
to take place they just allowed people
to do democracy while always keeping a
watchful eye ready to intervene at any
point and with both in Aras election
that's when they're coming back into
full force because they're resetting the
resetting the clock more or less right
right yeah I mean that's exactly it
I you know I have to I have to you know
admit to having a lot of ignorance when
it comes to Brazilian politics and in
history but I think you know I mean what
you're saying makes sense to me and I
can only tell you that broadly speaking
this stuff has to be in the DNA a lot of
times for it to take place and it's
really less of a question of how does
something like this happen versus how
does something like this not happen and
and you know I think in addition to all
the the the environmental or societal
dynamics being being right in in Brazil
I definitely think the absence of a
force in this country that would frown
upon such a thing is also at play as
well but I mean I think that's it's
really fascinating and I'm gonna I'm
gonna read up on on Ladda mere saath tol
if I can plug this I have a link on my
social media page on Instagram as lee
seon Cheers and it has the link to it's
in article assimilated majority
reporters at gmail.com and we'll put a
link back all right will do and then if
I can close with one last thing about
Brazil to when during its quick during
his first meeting to transition meeting
somebody in the background while he was
walking in decided to play Bella Chou
which is the Italian partisan song that
someone too and he yeah it always played
instrumentally but he just looked very
uncomfortable as he was walking in but
he seemed they were going to happen I
appreciate the call Danny care right all
right have a good day
in a bad situation is that song as a as
the basis of another song in bad
situations have you heard that song
bella ciao I think in the context of a
bad situation is but I can't remember I
think if I remember it's the partisan
song
in the morning if they come and get me
how does the tune go I mean I can't sing
I'm a very bad singer so well I will
defer to my whistling which is actually
not bad you can hear you singing on
Spotify actually that's true I am I do
have a song on Spotify folks I'm sorry
we don't have time for any more calls I
apologize and I'm also feeling under the
weather I would go even further with
this we have hanging on the line over
eleven people some of whom have been on
the phone for well over an hour I
apologize let's go to the I am and then
we'll do a couple more Iams and then
we'll get out here letters please find a
way to survive Thanksgiving as a Maoist
surrounded by family members you grew up
in a town dominated by a KKK all right
Matt Youth Sam happy legal weed day in
Massachusetts Oh congratulations
are you and reefer cake gonna hit up the
dispensary in Leicester when you're back
in worm town do that Scott from
California Ilan's Twitter nowadays is
the most how do you do
fellow kids thing I've ever seen what
does that mean
it's a Steve Buscemi me what does that
from its from a such embarrassing that I
know this it's a it's from a Nickelodeon
show or Steve Buscemi infiltrates a
group of teenagers and he has a
skateboard and a backwards hat and a
t-shirt that says music band and he says
how do you do my fellow teens that's
pretty good I'd like to see that that
actually sounds pretty funny left hand
left Sam to prevent colds and reduced
duration find the black elderberry syrup
at your co-op whoa here to get on that
in fact we have some secret identity
politics AOC 2032 let's shoot Sam into
the Sun
it's from 30 rock ice officer I was part
of a special task force of very
young-looking cops who went full traded
high schools
how do you do fellow kids what
all right k it's actually funnier as a
gift
yeah oh you ruined that music band is
also now a real band I don't think as a
result of that they're a very good band
from Nashville it's all plugged up Ryan
from Ohio the head of the GOP in my
County posted on Facebook that the fires
in California are God's punishment for
liberals he will not be resigning Wow
Jesus Ohio is just move all right
three more by gada where is the evidence
that Moore's law would work better in a
capitalism than in a socialist economy I
I think he's I think that's he's
factoring in consumerism and buying
right phones and stuff like that but I
think the main thing that caused like
semiconductors for instance to be shrunk
is state investment especially during
world the world wars or World War two I
guess specifically Bates freshman is
using a place like Amazon that you have
moral qualms about make you a sellout I
you know that's a good question before
like I think there are instances where
you could you can you can engage in
stuff like that that would would be I
think highly problematic like people say
like I've got a job and I'm working at a
bank and I feel crappy about it cuz it's
Wells Fargo and they suck which is
different from like I'm working at Wells
Fargo and incidentally I'm actually
pushing clients into products they
haven't bought and I'm just not telling
him that's different if you're working
somewhere and you've got to have a job
and this and that I mean I think that's
you know less than than focusing on your
own personal sense of morals and ethics
it's far more important that society
regulate a company like Amazon make sure
they don't get as large
they do so that they don't have this
outsize political power because they're
you know there's no you you don't want
to get into a situation where like oh
it's Amazon but they're great they're
good people they do you know their thing
this is not about the individuals yeah
and so you know you deal with your own
morality sellout to me is really just
more like am i doing something just for
the money despite my my having a
personal sense of integrity sold out so
like someone could do something the
exact same act work for Amazon and it's
not being a sellout because it doesn't
really bother them maybe
de Blasio's a sellout well that story as
opposed to you calling somebody else to
sellout yeah I mean if you expand it to
anybody who uses Amazon then you're sort
of devaluing the word sellout which is
fine and who cares yeah Christo there
used to be a time where we actually got
we're like why is that band using their
music on that commercial you know it's
weird as well guys are just like looking
at me like what when I first started
listening to Sonic Youth like and they'd
have those bits about like corporate
America and those sorts of messages it
was weird because that didn't feel to me
like it was going to become more
relevant like listen to the mid-2000s it
seemed kind of like old-fashioned and
and now it's just timely again right
christow beyond the obvious targets on
the right I'd love to see you debate
some easy targets among the resistance
Dems cohort for instance folks like
comic Gen Kirkland needs to be taken
down a peg I saw some Twitter's that
happened I don't know I don't know I
don't know what I don't know I don't
even know how to explain that all right
I must be too maligned ashtec on goal
why are people incapable imagining a
life without a system that's only been
around for 400 of our 250,000 year
history as a species 60% of wild life
has gone extinct since 1970 capitalism
is killing us well first off
I can't imagine that 250,000 years
either a guy I don't it doesn't seem so
obvious to me the the the years before
capitalism not so great either I mean we
have a combination of technological
development which I think is not only
down to capitalism I mean we would all
argue that I mean we just argued that
Moore's law would have maybe existed in
in socialism yeah I mean I think the
idea is is its III don't you know
imagining one is one thing I mean but
getting there is a different one and I
will say like what I have trouble
imagining is not so much a different
system but one that is distinct which
one which calls for what I perceive as a
fundamental change in some aspects of
human nature I'm not saying that
capitalism is intrinsic to human nature
at all but I am saying that exploitation
exploitation the will to power greed
these things have a pretty long history
in our records little more than 400
years yeah I mean even God had to say
like don't do that don't be so greedy
I'm being facetious about the god part
but I mean humans were telling each
other at that time don't be so greedy
there may be better systems in which to
curtail that greed but one that does not
acknowledge the existence of people's
will to power over others not
everybody's but you know the mutants
among us all it takes is a couple of
Donald Trump's and you can really ruin
it Society
that's a I'm convinced of all right in
the final IM of the day who do you blame
more for the current state of the GOP
trump Roger Ailes or Rupert Murdoch
ICL's is more the brains and Murdoch as
the money Murdoch was pretty did some
real damage to Great Britain and before
he came here so I would say Murdoch
[Music]
I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
[Music]
I fell off switch right
[Music]
the teacher takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
