[Music]
let's turn our eyes to a Dave Rubin for
a moment ladies and gentlemen this is a
clip of Dave Rubin with the UK filmmaker
Dave fuller sort of a IDW adjacent kind
of guy and but he seems to be taking a
little bit of issue with Dave Rubens
characterization of some of Dave Reubens
past guests now we've explained in the
past that fellow IDW Dave Rubin
compatriot Sam Harris turned to Dave
Rubin to get his ideas about Tommy
Robinson this is the guy that is that
British people find fascist enough to
throw eggs at and we're milkshake sad I
should say and Sam Harris says I I saw
him on Dave Rubin show and I thought he
was a great guy seemed reasonable seemed
very reasonable I was able to in that
hour now that is probably I would say
the most helpful point Steve that Sam
Harris has contributed to our society in
many ways he gave really the one
unimpeachable illustration I think that
he's given that I'm aware of and that is
how Dave Rubin mainstream's
otherwise odious people and refuses to
question them in any way that would in
any way explore the reasons why they are
really worthy of being on a show in
other words Rubin has people on a show
ostensible who are controversial and but
then very often avoids that controversy
studiously and basically hides the ball
this guy Dave Fuller who was it sounds
like he is a little bit of a you know an
ally of Dave Reubens he even calls him
out and Dave Rubin of course I guess
just simply can't remember
he said in that interview you talk about
a new center of older but you draw that
new center around some people that that
I would consider on the right let's Ted
stefan molyneux for example well I've
never said that Stefan Barney's in the
new center really have you ever heard
and you say that like what you have no
it was it now
okay so followers is complaining that
that Dave Rubin is moving you know is
again hiding the ball as it were
defining the center including people who
are nevermind I think many people have
accused stefan molyneux being a some
type of crazy cult leader and telling
people to he had something where he
would tell people to defu defu that's
right to basically get rid of all your
family relationships if they're in any
way inhibiting your ability to follow
him and in many respects i'm interested
in ideas in that time land and so this
this guy says like you know you consider
him into the center now even when i
debated stefan molyneux years ago he was
really a far right my opinion lunatic
libertarian now he has since changed his
stripes a little bit because the money
was more aligned with trump so he became
a trump libertarian or maybe gave up
libertarianism you know temporarily to
be with Trump because that's where the
cash was whatever it was but let's if
only there was a way to find out if Dave
Rubin actually said this about stefan
molyneux so five years ago we're
liberals and conservatives we're just
fighting about everything now actually
there's a new center developing and i
think both of us are sort of in that not
in the exact same political part but
that's but to me that's irrelevant
whether we agree on everything or
tentative zoo a mix and he's saying that
to stefan molyneux in the in the other
frame i never said that i said who do
could do that compilation
oh i have the answer to that here but
that elk hobbes and cobs and donuts at
cobs and donuts on twitter there are
people doing great
work out that there is a lot of people
doing great work that the conversation
with Molyneux was apparently on stefan
molyneux Christmas Extravaganza where he
had a lot of his pals come in oh well if
that video ends the way most of
Melanie's videos do it's got Dave Rubin
like breaking down in tears and
promising to create more white babies
yeah
