let's get to this
the I got a text this morning from a
buddies like should I continue to
contribute to the Democrats if Trump
suspends the Constitution and he was
being a little flippant but Donald Trump
apparently in this conversation with
Jonathan Swain from Axios they have some
TV show called I don't know what and I
don't care and in this clip Swain is
clearly goading him on so there's a part
of this that is you know classic Trump
bravado like oh you're making a
challenge to me yes I'll meet it but
look they've been talking about this in
right-wing circles for a while Lindsey
Graham apparently came out and said oh
thank God somebody has finally looked at
this here is Donald Trump being asked
whether they want to go after birthright
citizenship which is ensconced in our
Constitution under the Fourteenth
Amendment but there's actually statutory
basis that precedes the Fourteenth
Amendment at least temporarily in this
country here is that exchange
on immigration some legal scholars
believe you can get rid of birthright
citizenship without tension the
Constitution executive order exactly
right have you thought about this tell
me more
it was always told to me that you needed
a constitutional amendment you don't you
don't number one number one you don't
need that number two next thing just you
but yes very much as well you can
definitely do it with an act of Congress
but now they're saying I can do it just
with an executive order now how
ridiculous were the only country in the
world where a person comes in has a baby
and the baby is essentially a citizen of
the United States for eighty five years
with all of those benefits it's
ridiculous it's ridiculous and it has to
end
have you talked about that with counsel
yeah I have so we're in the process it's
in the process it'll happen do you mean
executive order that's what you're
talking about yes exactly I didn't think
anybody but knew them but me I thought I
was the only one Jonathan could guess
now he sort of grins and I think part of
it he grins because we can't see what
Jonathan Swain is doing when he says are
you doing I'm just like you know yeah no
it's in the it's in the works that's why
I think he grins because I think Swain
looks at him like I know you're lying
and Trump knows that Swain knows that
he's lying and so he sort of little
smiles but there's no doubt that they
like the idea of this being put out
there now and just a couple of things
that you should know because the
president is I don't want to say a
pathological liar because I think that
he has a reason every time he lies but
he's also he's just a liar the like I
said the birthright citizenship is a is
ensconced in the Fourteenth Amendment
all persons born or naturalized the
United States subject to jurisdiction in
the United States our citizens the
United States and the state wherein they
reside so if you are born in the United
States you are a citizen of the United
States and the state in which you reside
there's a we can go to the weeds in
terms of the implications
stations of jurisdiction but the 14th
amendment also contains an exemption for
people who are not within the United
States so you hear a lot like oh this
was only supposed to serve to to make
sure that slaves who were brought to the
United States became citizens and there
and there I should say their descendants
became citizens they wanted to make sure
that and that's all it's limited to but
if that's all it's limited to then
Congress would not have seen fit to add
these other exemptions when Congress
passes a law or in this case a
constitutional amendment and they they
specifically cite exemptions it is more
evidence that anybody not listed in
those exemptions are considered falling
under the auspices of the statute or the
amendment so the two exemptions are for
Native Americans because they don't
aren't subject to the same jurisdiction
as as non Native Americans because of
our relationship with these tribes and
children of diplomatic representatives
so if you're a diplomat and you come
over here with your you know your spouse
and you have a child that child is not
an American citizen they're actually a
citizen of your home country and
diplomats also get away with parking
tickets New York City they get away they
have diplomatic immunity so the 14th
amendment was quite clear about that
there was also a law that was passed the
Civil Rights Act in 1866 that preceded
the 14th amendment this is right after
the Civil War this is all part of
reconstruction and in the course of the
debates there it was quite clear that
they meant not just for freed slaves or
for slaves for ancestors of air I should
say descendants of slaves but for
anybody born in the United States
there's a couple of law cases that
supported that back in the 1800s as well
one which allowed for the citizenship of
a child of a Chinese immigrant in
Chinese people were not even allowed to
naturalize at that time so it is well
entrenched in our law and in our
Constitution so he's talking out of his
ass but in addition to that where guess
what we're not the only country that has
this I'm going to read a list of other
countries that have this exact same
feature as if it made a difference
because this is in our Constitution you
never hear about people are saying like
you know other countries don't have
three houses and with three branches of
government what are we doing Antigua
Argentina Barbados Belize Bolivia Brazil
I'm still in the beefs Canada Chad Chile
Costa Rica Cuba Dominica Ecuador El
Salvador Fiji Grenada Guatemala Guiana
Honduras Jamaica let's say fo Mexico
Nicaragua Pakistan Panama Paraguay Peru
st. Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint
Vincent yes the Grenadines Trinidad and
Tobago tavola I didn't even know that
was it to vote the United States of
course Uruguay and can you believe it
Venezuela
well you know what the real response to
that list is gonna be oh yeah Venezuela
there you go folks so we're not the only
country that does that as if that makes
a difference we're going to take
