[Music]
here is Mike Pompeo at AIPAC talking
about America being infested infested
media it's supported by certain members
of this bigotry is taking on an
insidious new form in the guise of
anti-zionism it's infested college
campuses in the form of the boycott
divest and sanction movement it's
discussed in our media it's supported by
certain members of Congress I suspect
none of whom are here tonight now now
don't get me wrong
criticizing Israel's policies is an
acceptable thing to do in a democracy
it's what we do
no thinking but criticizing the very
right to exist of Israel is not
acceptable
no one has criticized the right for
Israel to exist no one has questioned
the dual loyalty none of that has
happened but whether it's Nancy Pelosi
or Chuck Schumer or Mike Pompeo that is
the narrative they want you to believe
it's just not the case here's Mike
Pompeo celebrating the fact that the
United States and to a large extent the
opportunity for America to be a an
honest broker in this conflict there has
long since passed but here is Mike
Pompeo celebrating the fact that Donald
Trump has probably made one of the few
the few sort of like status quo
situations in that region that has not
been a hot-button topic for decades he
has managed to make it a hot-button
topic her to bring that back we're gonna
bring that back wait
Golan Heights is the only place where
things are not a show wait a second
we're gonna fix that
and of course it was a great honor to be
on Israeli soil and to celebrate with
Prime Minister Netanyahu at the very
moment President Roh boldly recognized
the Golan Heights for what it is a part
of Israel
[Applause]
as most of you would have seen by now
just a short while ago President Trump
alongside Prime Minister Netanyahu
signed a decree a decree affirming
Isreal sovereignty over the Golan
what a truly great two days for two
great nations well Jesus and the
implications of allowing land that was
captured in a military conflict to be
annexed in this way obviously highly
problematic for going forward well I
mean it's also it's just you know but
this is what they've been doing in
general is basically just formalizing
what has already existed because of raw
power and this is specifically and I
don't think the alternatives the
Netanyahu frankly are any better from
the perspective of like actual
humanitarian situation in Palestine him
and his main rivals a general who was
involved in atrocities in Gaza but this
is specifically time to help Netanyahu's
re-election who's facing an incredibly
serious corruption probe and not just
like you take some money to do this like
something that actually implicates what
is left of internal democracy in
sixty-seven Israel did you she throw
mama from the Train
classic horse criss cross yeah criss
cross I saw it and throw mama from the
trains it's a hit from a change criss
cross I help him I help you get elected
so you don't go to jail you help me get
reelected so I don't get it I mean
basically that's a very reflects
relationship is cross once again very
nice pivot from Israel's right to exist
to Israel has sovereignty over the Golan
Heights right like those are the same
thing no but those people pain that
that's what they mean they mean Israel
is a right to exist as a perpetually
expanding apartheid state and also you
know and it's funny cuz I look I'm sorry
both I'd imagine Leah's logistically
what do you say why do you hate Israel
so much well because I mean they are
they're very annoying they're Meshuga
but um but I support you know I think
logistically and ethically a full
democracy for everybody but what's it
it's just a lot Omar was in The
Washington Post a couple weeks ago and
she said specific
that she supports a two-state solution
so it's like on top of every other lie
in instigation against her we're just
gonna take us like a matter of principle
that what her stated policy is in her
policy ok guys what a bunch of
scum band yeah even I think Israel has a
right to exist insofar as any state does
woo
Zion Jamie Zion Jamie it's tough stuff
shoe talk here a lot about food not
bombs hear a lot about capitalism this
and that but all of a sudden when it
comes to the tribe and ethno state can
exist sad stuff and tough stuff so yeah
Jamie
