[Music]
Koller come from a 303 area code who's
this where he come from hey my name is
Matt calling from Longmont Colorado Matt
what's on your mind uh you know I
officially left the Republican Party in
2015 and it's since become a progressive
so I still have some friends with
opposing views to my own I was talking
with the right-wing conservative friend
of mine about immigration and the camps
the other day and he said those kids are
in cages until they can be sent home so
I asked when are they going to be sent
home why have they already sent some of
the parents home without them and
ultimately if Obama was able to deport
record numbers of people during his
administration then why don't we just
use the exact same methods and deport
these folks
instead of separating families and
stockpiling them in these overcrowded
cells and cages it ended up being one of
those rare moments where I managed to
stump this guy but I'm curious what do
you guys think about that if they aren't
going to grant amnesty or a pathway to
citizenship then why not at least
support them immediately or am I just
over simplifying it well I mean to a
certain extent to a certain extent
you're you're oversimplifying it insofar
as like you need to process these people
you need to give them you can't just
deport them right off and the problem is
is that the Trump administration put out
the word that they were gonna close the
borders and so people are trying to get
in under the wire it used to be the case
that you would allow these families to
stay together and then stay with other
friends or family who would come and
they would be able to keep track of
where they were and about 80 to 95
percent of these people would come back
for their hearings in an orderly fashion
from a logistic standpoint I'm not I'm
not a hundred percent sure why
why the Trump administration couldn't do
what the Obama administration does but
they don't want to because they actually
are using this as a policy to deter
people from coming and it's it's it's
clearly not working but let me ask you a
question what was it that in 2015 that
made you turn from a Republican to a
progressive the candidates alone so I
say officially because I had been I
voted for Obama twice before that I
voted for George W Bush and and I always
regretted that I I just was I didn't see
the light at the time I have now and
when I was looking at those candidates
in 2016 for the Republican Party
especially Donald Trump I was appalled
and I I had my doubts and frustrations
with the Democratic Party but I thought
that they were still a fighting chance
over there so I switched sides I'm
technically a Democrat but I call myself
a progressive because I can't really
relate to those folks 100% right
interesting well I appreciate the call
I'll try and get an answer for you on
that you know like on exactly if the
Trump administration could do what Obama
did and if they don't why yeah cuz
otherwise it just feels like a political
stunt like they're just doing it so that
they can like you said deter people from
coming over here but you know at what
cost
well I think that's what they're doing
and I don't think they care about the
cost but I appreciate the call okay
thank you
let's go to a 509 area code who's this
where you come from if then this Ronald
Reagan Ronald Reagan just a man I wanted
to speak to
oh cool um did you hear that last caller
yeah well
what what what is that what what is that
why is it the trumpet why is there this
problem at the border I mean was my
assessment of it correct
why couldn't Trump deport I'm not saying
he should but actually argue you should
not but why couldn't he deport at the
rate that Obama did particularly in his
first term well I think that they
probably tried I'm not sure exactly why
the numbers weren't quite up to snuff
Obama's numbers were really from the
overuse or the expanded use of a process
called expedited removal at the border
where if people are detained within a
certain distance of a port of entry they
can be expeditiously removed and that
can count as a deportation whereas in
the past a lot of those people were
returned under what's called voluntary
returns so basically you know they take
their picture they sign a form and then
they return them without any legal
consequence so under anyway so under
certain circumstances Border Patrol can
just expeditiously order somebody
deported without a judge or anything
now if more people are requesting asylum
and and saying I'm afraid to go back
then that means they can't just
immediately be deported they have to
have an interview with an asylum officer
there's a whole process but you know I
think what what is going on now is that
under the Obama administration people
were fairly aggressively paroled they're
allowed to come in and Border Patrol
would put them in removal proceedings
where they would you know get the chance
to go before a judge and present in an
asylum claim and in some cases you know
you would even see people who didn't
express a fear they were apprehended at
the border and Border Patrol paroled him
and place him in removal proceedings and
you know I would talk to these people
and they'd say well you know I just came
here to work I'm not afraid to go back
but now I have a deportation hearing and
I think in some cases Border Patrol was
doing that as a sort of
release valve because maybe they didn't
have capacity for somebody or the you
know the middle of the night and it was
their shift was almost over
you know prosecutorial discretion is
basically what it comes to right and and
they you know they were telling the
officer you look you know my brother
lives in Yakima and you know they called
the brother and the brother said yeah
I'm here and and so rather than detain
them and and whatever they would just
parole them sometimes so but I mean
basically what's happening is you know
quite explicitly I think it's not like
we're reading a lot into this is they're
trying to act as a deterrent and the
only way you can really do that when
people are fleeing from abhorrent gang
violence and like complete chaos is to
like out cartel the cartels and so you
have to be you know if you wake up in
the morning and there's like heads on
your front porch or your neighbor's
house is on fire and their bodies are
strung up on the overpass or whatever
you're gonna flee and the only way you'd
be deterred from fleeing is if what's on
the other side is even worse right and
so this is sort of like the only way
we're going to be successful is if the
images coming out and the stories coming
out are are even more brutal and more
disgusting and more violent than what
people have to face if they stay so yeah
I mean it's on the one hand complicated
on the other hand not that complicated
we could just not torture you know it
the these conditions are terrible and
it's expensive you could just put them
in a Holiday Inn or her you know a lot
of the people being detained have
families that they could easily be
released to there's all kinds of
alternatives to detention including
things that I'm not a fan of like ankle
monitoring and
check-ins and you know with the local
ice offices which is what people have
been doing really since 2014 or even
earlier and it's been successful but
this goes back to even earlier when Jeff
Sessions issued this decision matter of
a B where he said well domestic violence
or gang violence is is not a grounds for
protection under or under our Asylum
laws and so they started even before all
of this by trying to cut off the legal
mechanisms that people could could use
to get protection and it's not like
everyone who was a victim of a gang or
domestic violence was being granted
asylum anyways it was already really
hard even if you've been battered or
whatever the circumstances but you know
this is just purely about not wanting
brown people here I think one of the the
ironies is or the tragedies I don't know
this is like American history 101 but at
the same time we've got these people in
cages I'm in an agricultural district
and our congressman is trying to get an
expansion of the guest worker program
because we have it like a major labor
shortage yep and so we have people in
cages who want to do jobs and jobs that
need doing and you know these things
can't connect somehow somebody was
telling me on the Cape up in
Massachusetts a lot of these Cape Town's
and I imagine this is probably happening
in the coast of Maine I imagine it's
happening at all of these sort of like
summer destinations there was a lot of
Eastern Europeans who used to work there
I mean years ago used to be Irish but a
lot of Eastern Europeans and they can no
longer get visas and you know so on some
level that's us at least slightly
encouraging insofar as that they're
being they're not just reserving their I
are just four Brown people but they're
making it much more difficult for for
for immigrants you know to come even
just in seasonal work it's pretty
stunning yeah
and the the guy who they just I guess
he's the acting director of USCIS which
is the sort of legal you know family
based or affirmative types of
immigration relief so if you're applying
for your your wife or whatever you know
he's in charge of this part of
immigration and he's going on with the
crazy thing is he's going on Fox News
and acting as a mouthpiece for ice and
talking about deporting people and all
this stuff when this is a part of the
agency which has always very
traditionally been about you know we're
here to sort of help people actually get
their papers and you know not that
they're not that they're super helpful
but the people that they put in charge
of this agency are also like deportation
Hawks which means if you are filing for
your wife or your parent or something
and you've got all your ducks in a row
instead of having like a fairly you know
friendly adjudicator who's there to sort
of make sure everything's in order
they're now ratcheting things up and and
really looking for reasons to deny
applications or to ask for more evidence
and everything is sort of grinding to a
slow halt so everything is terrible I
wanted to real quick talk about that
Seattle case of the the chief council
guy who was stealing immigrants
identities that that story kind of
starts a few years earlier when one of
their trial attorneys
Jonathan love got convicted for forging
documents in a case from seven years
earlier and he forged this document
which basically
blocked somebody in removal proceedings
from qualifying for relief to stay in
the country and so the guy was deported
and luckily the case was reviewed by
another attorney who realized this form
that was supposedly signed by the
respondent the immigrant is an ice form
that predates ice like this form can't
have existed and huh it was filed in
court by this this trial attorney
Jonathan love and and his boss was this
chief counsel Rafael Sanchez who was
just convicted sentenced to four years
and at the time you know advocates were
saying hey there should really be like
an audit of this guy's cases because
what are the odds that in this one case
seven years ago he forged this document
and it was like it was a really
run-of-the-mill case it wasn't like he
was trying to not that there would ever
be an excuse to forge a document but it
wasn't somebody who he felt like had
gotten away with a rape or something
like that it was just a regular guy who
he wanted to port it and and the chief
counsel Rafael Sanchez his boss was like
no everything's fine
this was a one-time thing and then a
couple years later it comes out that
Rafael Sanchez it wasn't just like I'm
gonna use a couple Social Security
numbers of immigrants and removal
proceedings he was like fabricating IDs
using their photos off their green cards
and making a fake Washington State
driver's licenses checking their credit
scores so he's going through these
people and removal proceedings and
trying to decide like where to exercise
prosecutorial discretion and like on the
side checking their credit score to see
you know what kind of credit card he
could get in their name oh my yeah and
and so one of my friends a colleague
he's a big boy a guy and he's tried to
FOIA all the communication between you
know these two individuals or you know
other members of that office and
he's been totally stonewalled of course
and so you know there's just no
accountability and it's a it's a rotten
rotten agency for sure and now on top of
all that the Justice Department is now
instructing the immigration judges that
they will now be doing this from like
remotely with videos and no interpreters
which that should be pretty that should
make things run pretty smoothly right do
you have any questions I don't follow
you a question thank you for coming
right so there's these you know
preliminary hearings where you go and
you sort of give them in you know
advisories and and you take applications
and things like that and apparently they
want to just have like a video recording
of somebody saying you're in removal
proceedings and here you're here are
your rights but not have interpreters
there so that the respondent can
actually communicate with the court
which is you know if you're represented
if you're able to come up with the money
to hire a lawyer or you're being
represented pro bono you should have a
lawyer who's able to communicate with
you but a lot of people can't afford it
and so the immigration judge essentially
has to act as you know as an advocate in
some ways of the respondent and by
informing them of things asking them
certain questions making sure they've
you know screen them for potential
relief and that sort of thing and when
you take the interpreter out of the the
equation you know we're just at a point
we're one step away from like let's just
not even have a court so yeah it's
pretty crazy but you know this is it's
been going on for a while and and it's
good that people are paying attention
and hopefully we can start to hear some
actual like proposals and solutions from
these candidates who are running so
mmm yeah thanks for taking my call
appreciate the call
