[Music]
let's go right to this it's breaking
folks John Hickenlooper Hickenlooper
former Democratic governor of Colorado
former governor of Colorado raised he's
former governor right yes
he i think his his jumping into this
election proves my point that the that
we're talking about like a very very low
cost low barred entry here there's
something going on with the phones okay
and he's either looking for somebody to
be somebody's I guess VP although I
don't know why someone would pick him as
VP but Booker Hickenlooper 2020 yeah I
guess in saying it but here he is it is
it is shocking to me I mean this is
genuinely shocking I mean this is almost
like this is almost like the most
radical thing I've seen in this election
right that somebody could actually say
this on national television and not be
laughed off the stage at this point I
almost think like this is almost like
criminal behavior if you're like you're
a Democrat even to if we had speech laws
in this country right this is the type
of speech that I think should actually
be made illegal here is Hickenlooper
he's on what is it the this week was
stuff this week is Stephanopoulos and
here is his prescription here is what he
is picking up on what's going on in the
country now let's let's put some meat on
the bones your elected president you
come in Mitch McConnell Republican Mitch
McConnell still the head of the Senate
they still have majority what's the
first thing you do with him
can you work on together well you know
just like anybody people are responsive
to people that they think respect them
and they feel heard I learned this in
the restaurant business when someone's
angry you don't you know fight back
along the road argue with them you
repeat back their words and if Mitch
McConnell car if I got came into when I
come into office I would go to Mitch
McConnell to his office and I would sit
down with him and say now then what is
the issue again and we would talk and I
would continue to speak back to him
sounds silly right but this works this
is what I did with the suburban mayors
and they hated the city of Denver you go
to any metropolitan area in the country
the arguments between the big city mayor
and the suburban mayor's they're almost
endless we're the one place where this
has got gotten done and I think it'll
work in Washington then this is such
sheer insanity and now I know there's a
market for this from people who don't
follow politics and aren't aware that
Mitch McConnell made it his lifelong
mission on day one to make sure that
Obama did not get reelected literally
said this fine that's your I certainly
been working good to make sure that
Donald Trump doesn't get it reelected
that Mitch McConnell who was willing to
essentially destroy the Senate so that
Trump would get elected in 2016 the the
naivete I mean if he believes it if he
doesn't believe it then you know he's
just an all an outlier but I mean to
actually believe that the problem is
somebody hasn't sit down with Mitch
McConnell and not called him names or
overheard yeah Barack Obama really just
that being of a guy I'm gonna get in
there and I'm gonna listen to Mitch
McConnell's feelings I mean thank you
for validating my feelings
I feel heard I guess well you can have
that Supreme Court back back what were
we talking about Supreme Court listen
you guys can I have Clarence Thomas
because I feel like I've been listened
to today Hickam Hickenlooper sits down
with McConnell
McConnell just breaks into tears you're
the first person who's ever come here
and called me Mitch hug it out he goes
to take a selfie with him and Mitch
starts crying because no one's ever
asked him for a self you're the first
person to take a picture of me not
ironically compose me so oh my god I
just can't believe is he a millionaire
yeah he has a successful chain okay
craft brewery wait a second who is
working on his campaign that is telling
him this is he must have a lot of just
his own money he must be self-financing
something and then boom that's it of
course
yeah he's telling a similar story to our
friend Howard Schultz and this is a new
I don't think it's new but it's a
subcategory that I've been enjoying this
time around is businessperson getting in
and telling them how their business
practice will be the best way to deal
with government because I want like a
weird business person getting there I
want like a like a cattle farmer to get
in there and be like well you see when I
I have the cow I wanna stick my hand and
its ass and I just grab on to the organs
that's what I'm gonna do with it
yeah government's just like a restaurant
or maybe government's like coffee shop
he honestly the if if I leave this show
like the other job that I feel like I
want would be go to really wealthy
people and tell them they should be
president and that I'm the guy who can
make it happen just and see if I could
last like six months just going like
yeah just I mean I you know what the
best part about this would be if Steve
Schmidt is also working for him too
because at that point you double-dip
