there's a real infrastructure on the
right to create social media memes and
you know tell us the significance before
we go back into sort of some of the
structure and some of what's going on
there and and how the left is if there
is any type of I don't know a similar
structure on the left
what's the the importance here I mean or
what is the the speculation as to the
importance because it seems to me that
it is there has been an ongoing
transition it is not a full transition
but as someone who is part of a
generation that grew up without social
media spent I think what will ultimately
be the majority of my life without
social media but works in a business
essentially now YouTube is as important
as is terrestrial radio it's at least to
to my business and to my living has an
awareness of social media I feel like
we're at a point where the right
understands this is where the future is
and I mean that in terms of like means
of communication but also where that
where where young people are and they
are investing in this infrastructure do
you have a sense that there's any
appreciation of that in the broad
institutional left I don't think so I
mean I shouldn't say that I may be
changing because I think that there are
a few people on the left to recognize it
it's a difficult problem for them to
solve because the left doesn't trade in
this kind of you know at the left prize
itself I think on facts and the truth on
some level and they're not they don't
make very good memes because they're not
interested in misleading people as much
I think
and so they it's not something that
they've focused on but I think that you
know it could change you have Alexandra
Acacio Cortez who has turned out to be a
pretty fantastic social media presence
for the Democrats she
it says she doesn't mean but she's very
good on social media and I think it's
proven that you know proven to the party
that this is something that maybe they
should be doing but again it's you know
take somebody with a gift for it I think
the bigger problem is that a lot of
these memes originally started from
these very right-wing and occasionally
you know white nationalist groups
basically on 4chan that you know the
joke is that they're a bunch of guys in
their parents basement smoking weed and
that's your meme those are the meme
warriors and they are not very
politically correct and they cluster
together and reinforce each other's
ideas about race and affirmative action
and gender and all of that stuff and so
that culture it's not something that
naturally feeds into the Democratic
Party and it's also very fickle it's
kind of interesting the Andrew yang
who's coming who's kind of come out of
nowhere as a potential presidential
contender this year the the meme
warriors like him and so they've been
meaning Andrew yang into you know at
kandacy into a presidential race which
is strange because he you know it has
nothing to do with white nationalists
but they're supporting him on some level
on these you know this political field
and so it's kind of a it's a little bit
difficult to harness but I think that
the Democrats aren't really even
thinking about it at this point unlike
say President Trump who understood from
very early on how potent these things
could be you saw him in 2016 retweeting
a lot of these memes that came out of
like all right you know the cesspools of
the internet and but it worked for him
well talk about that as that brings up
Jeff Gaza and my my good friend Mike
Tsarevich who I should say also full
disclosure got me fired for a couple of
days from MSNBC and then and then didn't
but he Jeff jeiza
and this Mike Serna vich organized
something that you write about called
Mogga 3x what is that
and with Houten's with whose help did
they get that bad organised it's funny I
can't say that I fully understand what
that was myself on some level because it
doesn't really exist anymore it was
really short lived but they tried to
organize they tried to harness those
meme warriors who are out there on
Reddit and 4chan and other places and to
drive them to promote President Trump
and they they organize things they
actually had a meme generator I think on
their site at one point to get people to
try to make more memes and to organize
to use it to organize flash mobs to
support President Trump and they managed
to I think they also set up a lot of
bogus Twitter and social media accounts
so it's hard to know how many people
were actually involved but there were
tens of you know there I think there
were something like 10,000 social media
accounts tied to this and they were all
just you know hammering away with you
know promoting memes that all promote a
president Trump and you know attacked
Hillary Clinton I think and it was
thought to be pretty successful well I
can tell you I know what they did with
those 10,000 BOTS
after the election I can I can assure
you I had a first-hand first-hand
experience with a lot of those BOTS and
in many respects that's what I think
made certain of it at least a
short-lived successful media social
media troller all right so with with an
awareness how much do you think like
institutional support like so they've
set up institutions I know that TP USA
is now a very well funded organization
millions of dollars annually is their
budget are is there other outfits that
are getting funds and presumably like
you know who knows if this stuff is
coming from Foster Friess if it's coming
from the Koch brothers if it's coming
from you know other what do you have a
sense of like who is funding these
things
well I think you hit several of them the
people who fund TP USA I saw this there
was some meme training at students for
liberty conference last year that was a
liberal libertarian organization and
gosh I can't remember who funds them but
it's a lot of the same characters you
know the Cato Institute and the you know
Foster Friess was a start-up money I
think for a teepee USA and the Koch
brothers and the oil and gas industry
have definitely piled in with their
stuff but I think you're going to see
more of this because the thing about the
right is that the infrastructure already
existed they already have like the
Leadership Institute and these other
very established organizations that do
nothing but pluck kids out of college
and train them in conservative ideology
and politics and so it for them it was a
natural segue to go from that into you
know social media training and there's
nothing like that on the left there is
no equivalent of TP USA on the left and
so it you know they're the the people
the Conservatives are starting from a
much they got a head start on this one
indeed well let me just say for the
record someone wants to hire me as a
meme consultant happy to to do that if
there's any any folks out there looking
to expend that cash but this is going to
be a major battleground in the future
and important to have a sense of of how
it's growing on the right Stephanie man
answer thank you so much for your time
today I really appreciate it
