touch on this really briefly and I guess
this is just sort of a button for
yesterday where Nathan Robinson outlined
all the ways that Brett Kavanaugh a lied
and lied and lied and lied and lied and
lied and lied again um in his Senate
testimony from things that you know it
seems like he could have you know to the
sort of you know lying about drinking
game names and pushing code rule Atika
trilogy about his stomach and so on this
is something that's been reported that's
far more serious I don't know the
stating of the reporting of it right
this moment but this is as of this
morning at NBC News has revealed the
text messages suggest that Kavanaugh
wanted to refute a click users claim
before it became public and this refers
to the New Yorker story by Jane Mayer
and Ronan Farrow and Deborah Ramirez's
allegations about him
I believe rubbing himself in her face at
Yale I'm quoting now from NBC News texts
between burcham and Cavan and Karen Yass
Yass ah yes er a savage both Friends of
Cavanaugh suggest that nominee was
personally talking with former
classmates about the Ramirez story in
advance in New York or article it made
her allegations public and one message
Yossef said that cabinet asked her to go
on record in his defense to messages
show communication between Cavanaugh's
team and former classmates in advance of
the story now this is of course in
contradiction of what Cavanaugh told the
committee about these things being
sprung on him that was a word he used a
lot and not having familiarity with the
cases before they were published and
released so this once again underlines
just the fact that this guy just lies
quite a bit if purgers perjures himself
criminally accountable perjury if these
text messages are confirmed
Berchem texts meant the text with the
yarra savage shed light on Cavanaugh's
personal contact with friends including
that he obtained a copy of a photograph
of a small group of friends
and in 1997 wedding in order to show
himself smiling alongside Ramirez ten
years after they graduated let's
actually play this clip briefly from
Grand Central Terminal is it an image or
a banner drop we don't have it okay
there were protests across the country
yesterday the count is obviously still
not sure these were people at Grand
Central Terminal in Manhattan unfurling
a I can't
it says Cavanaugh is a rapist believe
survivors Cavanaugh's really believe
survivors there's also stop Cavanaugh
and a number of other side there were
also some good banners that were very US
socialist feminist I think some of them
said like no feminism without socialism
and capital X it are yes II there we go
no feminism under capitalist that was a
Luke J Walker from Twitter Luke J Walker
from Twitter
