[Music]
speaking of Venezuela earlier we played
a clip of John Hickam Hickenlooper for
whatever reason unable to say that to
answer the question that he was a
capitalist I mean I think he's
self-evidently is I mean I I don't have
much of a problem saying that I am a
capitalist I mean I sit here and run a
business and still have a fairly robust
critique of capital capitalism I would
say probably more so than John
Hickenlooper angles and William Morris
were also technically capitalists yeah I
would imagine somebody sorry if I was
being pedantic earlier I just think it's
important to make the distinction
between yes I uphold the system of
capitalism and yes I have the class
position of capitalists within
capitalism I live like a capitalist
every day John all right well that being
the case so Howard Schultz having seen
John Hickenlooper I guess basically come
out of some type of strategy session
where he's like why can't I get any
attention from anybody except for Joe
Scarborough and his advisors going John
just listen it probably won't come up
just don't say that you're a huge
capitalist I mean ironically that'll
probably be his most popular media clip
of his entire campaign it certainly will
be and and I'm sure the guys who are
basically on his payroll are going
that's the way we want you to play it
John we set you up for that perfectly
that's we got you super viral clip and
nailed it so Hickenlooper is afraid to
say that he's a capitalist for whatever
reason because I honestly don't know
what he what Lane he thinks he's running
in in the Democratic Party but Howard
Schultz weighs in I guess the
self-proclaimed not the brightest guy in
the room
Howard Schultz
by saying even if even a successful
businessman and entrepreneur like
government governor Hickenlooper can't
openly support capitalism in the
Democratic primary it's clear this is
senator Sanders party now and I would
say from your mouth to to charge of of
the Democratic Party's years but let's
listen to Howard Schultz pretend like he
knows what's going on in Venezuela
because that's the talking point du jour
you define socialism can i define
socialism yeah
well interestingly enough they like you
know it's interesting that you would
laugh at that I think they're they might
be laughing because the person asked the
question is listed as a German I was in
her was in German just a German posit
incidentally you know as someone who is
a performer and has been in situations
where you have to think on your feet and
whatnot what you're witnessing is
someone who doesn't know how to answer
this question and he can't I mean this
is what's fascinating to me like you're
going out you've been on 60 minutes
you've been on The Today Show
you've been on here like every single
possible there is probably no one in the
country who has bought his way on to
more media over the past month and a
half let's say whose whole agenda is to
say the Democratic Party has gone
socialist so they can't possibly
represent you know the members of the
Democratic Party and you jut you haven't
even come nevermind the right one or the
wrong one you haven't even come up with
your line about what is socialism like
how do you like this is a guy that we're
supposed to entrust with the with the
country and he doesn't even have the
forethought to go out there and say oh
I'm critiquing the whole basis of the
critique of the Democratic Party is
they've gone socialist I haven't figured
out how to define it yet I haven't even
thought about it long and
- literally like you can come up with
any definition of socialism you want and
present you could be wrong but at least
you'd have an answer and this guy
stalling go back it's just unbelievable
this is exactly what like this is this
is what happens like if you ask you're
like a teenager like what whoa what's
going on in this room uh-oh
hey I forgot to tell you I need that
money for for the field trip no no I
asked you what's going on this room oh
did I tell you uh did you see that car
accident on on flat but you know this is
what all right so good because the
person asked the question is listed as a
German I was in her I was in German just
a German oh well if you if you want a
good description for socialism I think
just look at Venezuela posit
incidentally aside from that not being a
good description but that was not the
cut the question wasn't what's a good
description of socialism it's what is
the definition of socialism what is it
like this is the worst example of some
like like like literally junior high kid
who doesn't done his homework soon as
you'll assume you asked yeah that's a
good laughter and I will fight you I
answer for me but this is what this is
why Thatcher has the whole that's when
you run out of other people's money
right like you developed something like
that come up with some type of like dumb
catchphrase instead of like I'm gonna
fish around and the oh I remember
hearing Venezuela on the car radio so
what did Charlie Kirk say yeah exactly
he should hire some highly paid
consultants to help him with his
campaign yeah no kidding I think just
look at Venezuela
it's a you don't like that yeah cuz at
all buying a buying time we do not we we
don't want a government takeover of our
lives we want the freedom of being able
to pursue happiness in America the
pursuit of happiness we will not be
independent
we want our free enterprise independence
we bring sustainable capitalism has
created more jobs has moved more people
out of poverty and created the greatest
system in the world which is America
what is it none of this makes any sense
America is not a system it's a country
capitalism is the system this is just it
is stunning you know what it really does
show you honestly you can make a lot of
money in fact it may even help you to be
a C student Howard Schultz is the
biggest C student I mean and you talk
slowly it's like you read like you're
thinking about things he reads to digest
versions of like Malcolm Gladwell books
it's on yes is reading if anything he
shows the flaws in a system that will
let you become so wildly successful
while being so intellectually and
curious that being said most see
students I've met are a lot cooler yeah
I don't mind I don't mind you know not
very bright people making money I don't
that in and of itself is not I don't
mind success by not very bright people
that's fine it's just that this guy's
not capable I wouldn't trust him too
honestly to lead me out of like a like a
brothers and sisters will restore the
Queen will get rid of the pursuit of
happiness
it's a goddamn just perfect no does it
need to be refined yes do businesses
have a moral obligation in addition to
making money yes but stop
absolutely fundamentally wrong there is
nothing nothing that obligates a
business to do anything on any moral
standards nowhere nowhere in the
existence of any business is it written
into their charter I mean they can claim
that is but they have no obligation
obligation is something that is imposed
upon you
from outside of you there is no
obligation on any business to do that
you can get a special thing that says
I'm a c-corp or whatever it is like I'm
a you know a G Corp I do good things but
that's just a voluntary that's just the
way that you want to organize it most
corporations including Starbucks have
one one obligation and that is to their
shareholders which is exactly why you
need extensive government regulation as
to what they can do because otherwise
they will only fulfill their primary
object they're their primary objective
any business today that is in business
just to make money is going to be
shallow it's not enduring you're not
going to attract and retain great people
but those businesses that achieve the
fragile balance between profit and
humanity and understand that's the gifts
of business is to lift people up and
create opportunity for everyone that is
a system that I embrace that is a system
that I'm for and anything that has to do
with things that suggest that everything
is going to be free and we're gonna live
in a world that is that is inconsistent
with the heritage of the country is
wrong it's not gonna be finished it's an
extreme position and it's just not who
we are it's not who we have that is the
longest non-answer Amy like I think I've
ever witnessed you know from a guy who
is should have no problems just saying
socialism is this and that's why it's
bad well it's interesting because even
he admits that profits and humanity
exist in some kind of opposition to one
another right right cuz it does I mean
that is that is also like great school
obvious necessar there's nothing in the
Charter when you get when you sign up to
become a corporation there's nothing in
there that says incidentally you have a
moral obligation to do well by your
community if you did have half the
things we talked about in this program
will be completely irrelevant
I'm just you know it's great that is yes
exactly it's like he's like there's a
little bit of a rocky start and for some
reason these idiots didn't get Venezuela
but when I really started talking about
who our country was another thing he did
there is and I'll keep noting this is
that mister like we can't be polarized
we all need to come together and of
course there's no moral difference
between supporting medicare-for-all and
kidnapping children is still base for
everything he said is predicated on D
legitimizing assent like the Citizenship
and patriotism status of anybody to even
like the marginal left of him this isn't
our country this isn't who we are like I
don't necessarily think that he's stupid
right I don't want to be making like so
kind of ablest IQ based argument I think
he's lazy and that's different I don't
want to make an IQ before he's
definitely he's so self-satisfied and so
lazy it to not even come up with that
answer right like he might have an IQ he
might have a good IQ but he's stupid is
how I'll put it let's go skip Varney for
a second I want to go that this is
