we're talking about Donald Trump's first
rally of the year I know this I mean
what are you where do you sit on this
question of how much should we be paying
attention to it because there's a lot of
people who say that the reason why
Donald Trump won was because you know
Cable News played all his rallies and
people talked about him so much he gave
him so much attention how much of that
do you think is true and and if so I
mean is it different when we're actually
mediating his speech as opposed to just
presenting it or are we just in a
different era and people's perspective
on him is different so when we talk
about him now it's not just as a freak
show it's as a very real freak show you
know like what what like what's your
sense of that yeah it's a serious freak
show I mean I remember I've been looking
back at my writing when he you know
because we just had the four year
anniversary of when he came down the
escalator so you know a lot of us who've
been writing about him since then went
back and looked at what we were saying
and I think there was a sense at the
time this is a clown show I mean that
the day he came down the escalator
you know dr. ben Carson was leading in
the in the polls and he was talking
about how you know the United States is
very much like Nazi Germany I mean he
said that you know that that was where
we were and so he did seem you know what
they covered him like a freak show but
it isn't a freak show he's the President
of the United States we can see the
results of what he's done and and the
horrific kind of consequences of what
happened and your question is a good one
I mean how do you deal with somebody
like this I mean he's not as I said in
the earlier segment this is not politics
as we've understood it before this is
something different and it's true that
underlying what he says this sense of
grievance that's a long-standing
conservative you know sort of appeal
which is you know we are we are under
siege that's a traditional conservative
appeal that all this modernism and
change in all this you know whatever is
destroying the fabric of society and
we've got to fight back you know that's
that's that's certainly nothing new in
that but it's the way Trump does it it's
this this kind of it
very much I mean he's the most you know
extreme demagogue that the United States
has ever had at this kind of level of
politics and it has created this world
in which his followers live and you know
for people like you and me I think it's
important that we keep our eye on this I
mean we have to watch it because it's
definitely and it's real I mean there
were a lot of people there
I was the twenty thousand you know
person Arena was full I mean I don't
know that there were hundreds of
thousands waiting outside as he always
says but you know there were plenty of
people there and they were very
enthusiastic
so this following of his is real and it
doesn't appear to be going anywhere it's
important to watch this but as for the
media I honestly don't know
I mean Fox News covered it covered this
rally CNN sort of cut back and forth and
they had analysis during the rally and
MSNBC didn't cover it at all and maybe
that's the way it should be I mean I
don't know maybe they each have their
own mission or have their own way of
going about it and of course they're you
know the I think the press has gotten
better about pointing out the lies and
the absurdities of what he's saying but
you know we've had two and a half years
of that nothing has budged those people
they still in fact I read in an
interview in a series of interviews in
the in one of the Florida papers they
interviewed people in line that thing
last night they just believe what they
want to believe he's been great he
solved these problems he's building a
wall he's you know putting the rest of
the world on notice
you know he's dealing with immigration I
mean he's you know in their mind all
this stuff that he says that he's
successful and that everything's going
great
they you know they believe it I mean
that they believe what they want to
believe and each of them seems to have
their own their own sort of discrete
issues that they care about abortion
well he's the greatest he's saving us
the court you know he's he's done it
well in that case it's actually true he
has absolutely true but you know on the
other stuff it's just kind of like it
you know whatever they want to believe
so you know I'm not quite sure what it
will take because it does appear that
that they are you know that their
relationship to him is not a political
later he's kind of there I mean he is
like a superstar hero to them and and I
don't know how you change it I mean I
honestly I also you don't know that it
can be changed so you know the politics
of this seems to be you've got to find
another way to actually dislodge him I I
could not agree with that last sentiment
more I in fact not only do I think that
it's impossible to shake these people's
faith in Donald Trump I honestly I just
I just it's not going to happen
I think it's it's increasingly clear
that it's not necessary to do so
that that there has to be a different
way of the Democrats winning I think
2018 frankly showed that there was we
had record-breaking turnout for
Republicans but also record-breaking
turnout for Democrats and and we ended
up with the Democrats winning the
largest victory as measured by sheer
votes right we have gerrymandering now
so the you know how that goes through
that black box is a little bit different
but in terms of sheer votes
Democrats won a and I mean a massive
victory and what I like to do is we
should take a break in a moment but in
the next hour I'd like to talk about a
story that came out this week that
Democrats are starting to beware I guess
and then this way we can talk a little
bit about 2020 because Joe Biden had
quite a week maybe not the kind that he
wanted or maybe it was frankly he's just
maybe doesn't realize what he wants or
whether what he wants is actually good
for his candidacy but there was also a
major story this week about how it seems
to me you know there's two ways to look
at it either the Democratic leadership
in the Senate in the house is completely
flummoxed
and they have liked it it reminds me of
like a pilot who's lost sight of where
the horizon is or they are just so
adamant about making sure that there is
an ideologically very narrow set of
choices available to the American public
but they they don't know how to operate
either one of those scenarios it seems
to me we've got to take a quick break
when we come back or I should say if
you'll join me in the next hour we can
talk more about this but it's very it's
stunning and we will discuss it then I'm
Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be right back with more and
Heather will join us in the next hour
