[Music]
that's absolutely right and yeah Joe
Biden has basically on is out there
today or yesterday I guess in his
announcement yesterday in in in
Pittsburgh calling himself a union man
four days after having a fundraiser with
one of his top sort of bundlers who is a
partner in a law firm that is an
anti-union law firm who talking when he
announced this he was talking to a bunch
of guys from the afl-cio bunch of guys a
bunch of women I guess and they are all
dealing with massive pension cuts that
was a function of an Obama era law that
was the multi-employer pension reform
Act of 2014 and it was also a bill that
rolled back some of the dodd-frank
consumer protection regulations yeah I
guess sometimes he can get too much of
that it also lifted limits on campaign
contributions to national political
parties the measure allows sponsors of
pension plans who can demonstrate their
in declining or critical financial
condition to cut promise work or
benefits in order to remain solvent
members of Teamsters Local 249 who Biden
spoke to are facing up to 30 percent
reductions in their retirement benefits
so here is a Bernie on Anderson Cooper
arguing that Joe Biden's proclamations
of being a union man needs to be taken
with a rather large grain of salt maybe
actually close to a Salt Lick
obviously a critical organized labor is
critical support in in a Democratic
primary are you concerned that that
Biden can make inroads there that Biden
has a leg up there well look I'm running
against I think 19 other people so I'm
concerned about everybody but I think
when people take a look at my record
versus Vice President Biden's record I
help lead the fight against NAFTA he
voted for NAFTA I helped lead the fight
against PNTR with China he voted for it
I strongly oppose the trans-pacific
partnership he supported it I voted
against the war in Iraq he voted for it
so I think what I hope Anderson what
this campaign is about and I got to tell
you I like Joe Biden Joe is a friend of
mine but I think what we need to do with
all of the candidates have a
issue-oriented campaign not personal
attacks but talk about what we have done
in our political lives what we want to
do as president and how we're going to
transform our economy so that it works
for all of us and not just the 1% I mean
in many respects it's gonna come down
and this is gonna be maybe the this will
be the final chapter of my blame the
electorate book it's gonna be a you know
function of just like how you know deep
is our voters digging into on issues
that they care for I mean obviously Joe
Biden by saying I'm a union man is going
after the same people that you know
Bernie Sanders is the question is who
you know how deep are those those voters
going to look into their accomplishments
and it's you know it's across the board
I mean it's you know um you know Pete
Buddha good urge or Beto Rourke can say
you know he's he's a champion of
immigrants but it's really you got to
dig a little deeper to see like what has
he actually done
in terms of protecting that trade is a
really good area to focus on because I
think that my sense not just a polling
but those trade agreements there's a
very big sense of the direct
relationship between those agreements
and the harm that people have felt
particularly in the demographic that
they're both talking to in those clips
and I think some of the issues with
Biden are huge and he should be
relentlessly hit for things like the
bankruptcy bill obviously but I think
the trade agreements are very much like
in the DNA and the lived experience of
those places and I think that it's a
great place to hit him on hard it's also
like what issues do people actually care
about because okay in the primary I
think it will be a big liability that
Biden has been on the wrong side of
things like busing minority rights
women's rights like all of that stuff
and he has not been a real progressive
in the general election um we're gonna
see them making two different kinds of
appeals to the swing voters because
there are swing voters who voted for
Trump last time around because they are
socially conservative maybe they're
racist maybe they're sexist all of that
stuff and there are swing voters who
went for Trump's economic populism and
we're gonna find out which one of those
has more pull not but not to mention all
the people who don't normally vote which
are obviously gonna be more towards
Bernie because they skew very poor well
we're gonna see what well you know who
drives that and in the primary it's
going to be interesting to see and and
frankly you know in terms of you know
people's motivation in terms of of
policy you know seeing Warren down where
she is in terms of the polls is not
encouraging in terms of what motivates
people's votes I think that trade has an
advantage in terms of like it it it it
it speaks to something beyond just
policy I think it speaks to like a kind
of broader sense of what's happened to
certain places in terms of geography
economics
that's a way that's sort of that's how
Trump used it and I think it kind of has
the opportunity to bridge those things
because obviously I mean for better for
worse most people are not gonna dig that
deeply into policy but they're gonna get
senses and sensibilities of things and
instincts and arguments and I think
trade is a good
