[Music]
hi how's it going Matthew from England
Matthew from England Matthew what the
heck is going on in your country I don't
understand it any of it well am I
allowed to swear yes if you do it with a
British accent and the transcripts can't
pick it up go ahead well I'm sure I
forget it's a actually it's
it's a little bit embarrassing really
it's the second time I've I've lived in
a country that a the premier has been
found to be breaking the law by the
highest court in the land and my green
card comes through soon so maybe I'll be
three three there you go congratulations
Oh green card from the United States
that's right yeah you certainly bring
someone I said so what is uh was that is
that what you were caught in to just
tell us that year
you are the new Andy Harbinger well and
well yes not really no I was just
calling in basically first to give props
to my girl great a Sundberg
unfortunately I'm a public servant so I
can't be joining in on the climate
strikes but she's I think she's an
embodiment of maybe an energy that was
there at young people but she's also you
know her personality has amplified her
energy it kind of comes soon enough you
know we need we need a lot more pressure
basically as as a Tory you know who
would probably disagree with but he's
very small politician by the name of Ken
Clark said is on climate change
sadly politicians don't lead they will
only follow where the voices go and sort
of artists and the public have to put
serious pressure on politicians and
businesses to just be making these
changes yeah I agree
I think she's been very inspiring to a
lot of young people too and I think you
know with something like this you don't
really see the impact of it until you're
some distance away in terms
time to see what is inspired by it but I
appreciate the call and I'm now going to
play a clip that gives you a sense of
what the right is doing in response to
Greta thumb burg she we played the clips
of her yesterday chastising the UN
basically saying like you know don't
don't come here in condescend don't say
don't get all sentimental at how cute it
is that a sixteen year old girl is you
know come across the ocean this is not
about you know this is not a feel-good
movie of the summer this is about you
people doing your job so that I don't
have to do this type of thing and in
addition to the right blaming her for
anxiety rates in Europe this is the
attack they're going to take here
michael Knowles he's really desperately
trying to create a name for himself in
the in the bench bureau world of
right-wing talk another failed Ector it
he's another failed actor I mean let me
play this way like it arguably I'm a
failed actor I was so much more
successful than a Michael Knowles and
when I went into this I did so thinking
I was only gonna do it for six months I
was still turning down film roles and
still writing scripts and I was in LA
shooting a TV show when I got called to
do this I've seen Michael Noel's real
and it was not a bad actor and he wasn't
doing anything it was all you know sort
of like a home movie type of stuff or
small you know probably student films
but the guy didn't have the wherewithal
and I think it was probably smart move
on his part but here he is
desperately trying I mean how do you
push back on an incredibly articulate
brave sixteen-year-old who is trying to
draw attention to climate change
whose basically you know has just told
the UN your your delusion of of
perpetual economic growth is just that
how do you push back on this well of
course you you do the same thing you do
in regards to everyone else that you
look down upon as a conservative black
people Latino people women who speak up
they're all being used right that is the
formulation and in fact it's also the
formulation of white nationalists I the
Jews the problem of the Jews their race
traders and they are getting the black
people to do their bidding well this is
part of that Michael new Noel's tries to
set the predicate for Greta Thornburg
has no idea what she's doing she's being
manipulated it matters because the
climate hysteria movement is not about
science if it were about science it
would be led by scientists rather than
by politicians and a mentally ill
Swedish child who is being exploited by
her parents and by the International
where you so what you're seeing here is
a political movement and a religious
movement and it's fulfilling a religious
and political goals of the left but it
isn't doing very much for science Chris
you've had a visceral reaction to that
go ahead yeah I mean you're a grown man
and you're attacking a child shame on
you she's trying to attacking it'll
ethics right am i right relax skinny boy
I got this okay you're attacking a child
you're a grown man have some come not
I'm attacking a television maybe on your
podcast you get away and say whatever
you want cuz nobody's listening you're
on national television be a grown up
when you're talking about children she's
trying to save the planet because your
president doesn't believe in climate
change and kids need to take to the
streets to worry about their future you
are despicable for talking to her about
her like that you should apologize on
national television right now I think
the international left and her parents
who are exploiting a girl with many
mental illnesses
first off okay great so we don't need to
hear any more about this so uh she has
Asperger's which in no way would suggest
that her parents have the ability to
manipulate her to believe that climate
change is a problem it is you know I
think it's conceivable that
evidence-based commentary right her
intrepid miss in in facing people on the
world stage may in some way be a
function of her Asperger's that may help
her in some way in that and then that in
her in having that type of guts but it
the idea that you would get up and say
that she's mentally ill that's why she
cares about climate change and that
she's being exploited is it's is pretty
shocking now of course we know what
happens to scientists who go in the
forefront of this you know ask Michael
Mann who was just buried and I think he
just won his lawsuit actually but I mean
the the idea that now they're saying
well what about the scientists and it's
all the hysteria this is this is what
like you can track from denial to
denying that it's man-made - well
they're over like they're getting so
emotional about it
Michael Knowles is no longer going to be
on Fox News I wonder how long that is
going to be but Fox News announced that
they they just big loss yeah that he
crossed the the one apparently a
standard they have there does he know
how many people are living with a mental
illness of some kind like it's it's a
ballista in addition to everything
of course of course he's trying to make
it like she has no
city it's it is simply like how
desperate do you have to be to push back
on this and it is it is really basically
the same they need to come up with this
because they need to come up with like
how is she being manipulated she's -
she's too old she's shown that she has
too much competence to sort of say that
in general this is like this she has no
idea what she's doing she has some type
of mental illness meanwhile has said
that Michael Knowles is not welcome back
on their network they won't book him
again according to according to Fox now
we'll see how long that lasts but maybe
they should also just keep watching the
rest of their network because Laura
Ingraham still has a show on there I
don't know how many advertisers she has
she couldn't let it lie either now to be
fair to Fox their president is about to
be impeached or at least to start to go
through the impeachment process they may
not want to talk about that so it's a
little bit easier to attack a young
woman that is I would say if you could
find the Bible to Fox News and boil it
down to one command one commandment as
to making it is always find a fee a
young female villain here is Laura
Ingraham fulfilling the first Fox
commandment world is waking up and
change is coming whether you like it or
not I anyone else find that showing a
time of tribulation has come
a test is at hand the final test
I can't wait for Stephen King sequel
children of the climate there you go
comparing Gothenburg to children of the
corn Wow
glass houses fascist Stepford wife
indeed that's pretty good I mean it's
all just part of what they need to do to
address this it's pretty stunning it's
pretty stunning
