[Music]
but first we will start with this Donald
Trump Donald Trump in England joint
press conference with Theresa May I
guess it's the last time they'll have to
spend two at a time with each other
it's hard to know which one of them is
probably happier Donald Trump just
kidding turning more and more into a
weeble weird to see him I don't like the
side it's even more disturbing and he
has no idea what he's talking about he
doesn't it's it's really shocking but he
stumbles on what is a I think a deep
agenda here it is he's asked in a press
conference about the NHS and in the
context of any type of trade deal now of
course in this situation following a
brexit we don't know if it's gonna be a
hard brexit or a soft brexit or no
brexit or we really have no idea but
it's gonna happen in October but we have
no idea because it was supposed to
happen in what like in in May but the
bottom line is in the event it is a hard
brexit or a fairly hard brexit just a
heart breaking the other countries
making a deal with England may have a
lot of leverage and there is talk
amongst White House of folks and
probably in the conservative movement
that if we can leverage the destruction
of the national health system that the
British have all that'll be good for
free-market capitalism
and so I don't know if Trump knows what
he's talking about here or not because
he doesn't seem to know what the NHS is
he has to ask Theresa May
mr. president Frances Ellie from The
Times do you agree with your ambassador
that the entire economy needs to be on
the table in a future trade talk a trade
deal including the MHS and Prime
Minister EU tempted to take the Prime
Minister president of the world and
stick around for a bit until a trade
deal is done I think we're going to have
a great trade deal yes I think we're
going to have a great and very
comprehensive trade deal
I can't hear him service beyond the
table look I think everything with the
trade deal was on the table when you
when you're dealing and trade
everything's on the table so NHS or
anything else there a lot a lot more
than that but everything will be on the
table absolutely okay but that's the
classic it's it's like yes he's an idiot
and it's hilarious and yeah it's totally
on the table I mean going back to even
this is an area where and it's a useful
distinction some of our arguments cuz
the Blair government put way more money
in the NHS that was a shift just labour
but he started to introduce private
services in the NHS and Cameron kept up
that process and a lot of people who
supported brexit on the market side they
absolutely seized an opportunity to
bring in companies look at this is how
this dynamic works - is that trumps
becomes the vehicle for people in the
British government or just in British
politics who want to privatize the NHS
the Trump becomes the vehicle for this
right and so that there is cover for
British politicians depending on who it
is let's say Boris Johnson maybe to say
we have no choice we have to just chip
away it's not a big concession but we've
opened the market - you know whatever it
is that now however it's actually pretty
smart the way they're doing that and it
shows the extent to which they're
populist rhetoric was so hollow all
along like if you talk to working-class
people who voted for brexit they say one
of the reasons they voted for it is
because the NHS was underfunded and they
didn't have enough money to cover
native-born citizens and now we're just
seeing that that's absolutely not the
reason why these exits here Paul I
always use the example you've got punk I
always use the example just to echo when
you know fill in like the day after
within literally 24 to 48 hours it was
either Nigel Farage or Boris Johnson or
both who had been running around the
country saying this amount of money goes
to e
half that could go to the NHS right and
I immediately were just like yeah we
said no good yeah it was a hypothetical
aspirational great book by zero books
called how to dismantle the NHS in ten
easy steps which people should start
reading and arming themselves
particularly the UK
