[Music]
I'd say we do this maybe you do this
like once a month maybe where you know
we have someone booked and some big news
drops and we decide to push the guest
because it would be weird
on some level not to address the news of
the day and actually it's the news of
Friday Friday night when the robert
muller investigation or at least that i
guess specifically the Muller
investigation came to an end the report
was filed and I don't know if this is
gonna be the biggest show the longest
show we've had or the you know the the
most dedicated show we've had to the
Russian investigation we've talked to
Marcy Willy wheeler a couple of times in
the past I think about at least in some
part of the Russia investigation now
there are also you know multiple other
investigations going on that came out of
Muller's finding other criminal
activities in the course of his
potentially criminal activities in the
course of his investigation and we now
at the very least have a sense of the
breadth of the Muller investigation and
it was pretty narrow and he clearly
dished off a lot of stuff to the
Southern District of New York and I
suspect also provided some information
maybe for the attorney general's office
and in New York State conceivably other
other agencies that we just not aware of
but in the context of this investigation
it appears to be over and the Trump
folks are saying that it totally
exonerates Donald Trump that is
[Music]
unlikely and one of the sort of tells
that it's probably unlikely is this clip
from Devon Nunez on Fox this morning
this is a very very odd perspective to
take on an investigation that has taken
place that clears you're the person that
you are surrogate
okay so congressman you talk about being
obstructed by the Department of Justice
the FBI and your investigation of the
situation but what about president
Trump's ability opens I should remind
you the Devon Nunez was the guy who
jumped out of his car in the middle of
like a 10:00 p.m. at night I don't know
if people remember this story because he
got a call from the White House and ran
physically ran to the White House and
got ahold and intercepted some material
back that now who knows what that was
about
I guess we will never know but just to
give you a sense of who Devon Nunez is
as he was the chair of the Intel
committee for two years as a as the
Republican leader on that committee if I
all the documents that you were in
pursuit of he has the ability to do that
he has not done it do you think you
still should absolutely that so the mole
report you know a lot of people wanted
to say you know we can just you know
burn it up I mean it is a partisan
document so there's gonna be a lot of
calls for that and the Democrats that we
got to see the underlying information
what we really need to see is what was
the FBI's involved it with fusion GPS
who were they who did they know about
what what and I'm sorry I don't want to
gloss over this for the viewers but
fusion GPS was essentially the Hillary
Clinton campaign they were hired by the
Clinton campaign so we need to see all
of that we need the fibers fully
disclosed
we need everyone that Moeller talked to
including his interactions with jerome
corsi who you just had on the show so he
wants to
earn the report that supposedly is
exculpatory for the president that is a
very very odd reaction well you just
want to be fair
to that report when a rep adieu you
don't want to rub it in I mean if you
read a whole report about how ethical I
was and how everything was so clean then
it just makes the whole thing just it's
already a very sensitive time for people
don't want to boast there's a lot of
prescriptions getting refilled there's a
lot of molar effigies being burned and
actually don't been there before yeah
been here before don't rub it in now
understand no one has seen the Muller
report at this point except for probably
the president United States well let me
put this way no one has seen the report
that we are aware of except for the
president United States and obviously
William bar who is the Attorney General
and rod Rosen Stein who is the I guess
the Assistant Attorney General the
formerly acting Attorney General least
in the context of this of this case so
we don't the question is will the
underlying information in the report and
frankly the conclusions of the report be
released obviously there's some stuff
that has to be redacted because it's a
grand jury information and and the DOJ
has regulations it regards to that but
we to the extent that we have even seen
any words from the Muller report all
we've seen is in the context of with a
little bit of ellipses and changing of
the capitalization
which is an indicator indicates that
we're seeing actually like things
somewhat out of context in a letter
written by William Barr who the last big
letter he wrote regarding the DOJ was
when he was not at the DOJ where he
wrote a 19 page brief on why the
president cannot be indicted for
obstruction of justice
and without having seen any of the
underlying evidence so there's a lot of
question as to whether he should have
recused himself particularly on the
question of obstruction of justice if
you are secular literally against the
idea of obstruction of justice for the
president then it's very hard for I
think folks to take your assessment at
face value that there's no cause for
obstruction of of justice but we're
going to dig into this today a little
bit there's a couple of things to point
out
I mean frankly you know from the very
beginning if you've been listening to
this show of the of this investigation
and prior to that it's been my
understanding you cannot indict a
sitting president and further this was
going to be a political process and
there was going to be no way a
Republican Senate was going to vote to
convict on anything so there's in that
regard it's a not a surprise I think to
the extent that I'm surprised by
anything in the context of this report
is that it was so narrowly tailored at
least to the extent that we understand
what he was there to investigate and
that we haven't heard of that I find it
hard to believe that some reason maybe
we just didn't hear about it that Jared
Kushner and Donald Trump jr. and Ivanka
Trump were not we're not in mean maybe
they were we just never heard about it
but was never reported as far as I know
that any of those three sat down and
spoke to Muller and even the president
supposedly wrote a couple of questions
answered a couple questions by writing
so I'd be very surprised if those three
were not interviewed in some
particularly given the scope of how many
people were interviewed but we'll get to
that in a moment
