[Music]
so Alex this this concept of
billionaires assuming they have no
ideology and appealing to this notion of
like I'm just gonna be it's gonna be
strictly competence for me hmm and I'm
just coming in and we're gonna we're
gonna put all of people's opinions and
desires like like first of all does this
guy get into the room if he says leave
your egos outside like he can even like
walk in but aside from that this concept
of no ideology in politics right like
you were you were talking about noticing
something about what bad out and Pete
Budig a Buddha judge say are there
favorite books and it you can't build
too much on this but it is an
interesting observation yeah cuz there
we we hear a lot about how and they're
both extremely well educated and they're
both clearly very intelligent but they
they talk about the books they love and
people who profile them talk about
Beto's giant bookshelves and all these
other things and they all they only talk
about novels they only talk about
fiction and like Pete Buddha judges
favorite book list just came out today
or yesterday and it was 10 10 novels and
you know Beto's favorite book is The
Odyssey and and everyone talks about you
know and I but so the actual detection
that not totally cuz they talked about
presidential biographies we were the
only or the only other thing I hear
about bado reading which is like but
like they're never there never
mentioning like they're never mentioning
non-fiction books never mentioning
political books books about like actual
problems facing the country you know
things like that because if I when I or
yeah going on or it doesn't have to be
that they're all reading like you know
Michael Moore you know a lying Liars you
know yeah total but like there's a lot
of books that baby looks like did you
there's was sick burn by Al Franken had
Sean Hannity
I've formed my politics but the idea
that you want to be President I mean
like okay there's two there's two
possible scenarios here and in in the
the implications are not terribly
different but one is that they they
worked up a list of books beforehand
which and that they were it wasn't just
their favorite ones it was like each
book I mean it almost in some level it
would be political malpractice not to
contemplate like what each of it what
these books are going to here think it
was purely cooked up though I bet they
would have thrown at least one or two on
that signified to some of the modern
political concerns for like the
Democratic primary well but here's the
thing that I think it maybe they would
or maybe they would it doesn't almost
doesn't matter because the the that idea
is still representative of like they
want to their promised as candidates in
some level is the the the polarization
the the Shrum and Drang or whatever
that's called the everything that Donald
Trump represents like how engaged you
have to be in politics yeah yeah this is
I represent a release from that yeah
totally yeah
I mean I think that I think that's it
and I think the idea that so this is if
this is the audience you're trying to
pitch your campaign to it is the the
idea that oh we can go back to caring
about Wolf Hall and we can go back to it
we can go back to talking about our
favorite our favorite novels and not
having to read the Washington Post every
day or not or even like we don't even
have to we don't even have to read like
the new Jim Crow and we worry about that
you know is a big appeal it does to a
certain part of the Democratic yes if
Hillary were president we'd be at brunch
right now yeah yeah I mean on some level
like that is I I just distinctly
remember that was the big that was the
big takeaway when Bill Clinton was
elected right after 12 years of Reagan
Bush and it was really just like 12
years of Reagan is what people felt
everybody was just so excited to not
have them in office and
then like we could don't have to pay
attention to politics anymore and that's
basically what happened yeah and I guess
it's gonna be interesting to see if that
works yeah I mean again it's funny
because I do I feel like that segment of
me so maybe that segment of the
Democratic base is like features a lot
of people who donate to candidates which
I sort of lean towards thinking but I
certainly don't I certainly think for
the majority of people voting for these
guys or women hopefully uh the the
majority of the people voting are not
are not part of that demographic
they actually have problems they want
addressed I think but like the the
people are sort of pitching their
campaigns to are definitely the ones who
are like our material problems are much
smaller than our sort of psychic
problems with how the country is being
run right and and I I think that there
but there's also you know you can also
look at the polling of like how many
Democrats want compromise yeah yeah and
that has gone down yeah and I think that
the question is not so much just about
compromise the question is about like
how how invested they are in politics
yeah and how aware they are the dynamic
because I think it you know like a
reasonable person would say like yes do
you need compromise right right how
these things that sound in a normal
degree of context are normal mature
responses actually insane good versus
actually understanding what the
situation is actually what's really
interesting and why I feel like bado
feels like a throwback in a lot of ways
because he's he is he's framing
everything in these because it used to
be that was how Democrats just talked
where they were you would ask them
what's the biggest problem facing the
country today and they'd be like well we
can't come together we can't you know we
can't come together no blue America no
red America right now but if you you're
about your mouth what boy but if you if
you asked I feel like if you asked
Democrats now what are the biggest
problems facing the country they're not
gonna say well we can't come together
they're gonna they're gonna name actual
material things for the most part all
just people who really liked our
freshman year elite class
I think there's also me I think though
there's among some of them it's it's not
can we all come together but can we also
can we like get back to expertise it was
like a new version of that that I see
kind of manifesting in a way oh that's
not new it's not new but it's a
different version can we all that was
about Ruth eNOS yeah they were totally a
bush thing with like we got it we got to
get right well what do you think I think
that is a also a standard I think that
is like I mean look
Democrats want good government mm-hmm I
mean and as nebulous as that term is
right they just like they I think there
was always a sense particularly with
like you know the the billionaire class
and sort of the conventional wisdom like
we all agree I think like the the good
faith conventional wisdom pushers we're
like we all agree on what the problem is
we're we're arguing about how to address
it yes and I think it has become clear
to more and more people that we don't
agree on what the problems are and
that's really ultimately what politics
aren't right like coming up with the
solutions is when you when you bring the
solution people first yeah you are
ignoring the fundamental reason why
politics exists this is the thing that I
feel like the the argument people on
sort of our side have been having with
the centrist for forever now is it is
they their insistence on well we all
agree what the problems are we have
different ideas to fix them and you can
look at the entire history of how we've
done health care policy in this country
and say like do we agree with what the
problems are at home no don't clearly
don't agree with what the problems we
don't agree what the problem is with
immigration no nothing and I don't just
mean left and right I mean I think
across the board we don't know any type
of like consensus on what we should be
doing in regards to immigration
globalization globalization I don't know
that we have on trade I mean I'm trying
like I don't know could you we're doing
on monetary policy I mean
yeah I just in there's one way to to
figure that out it's through Paul yeah
right like it's it's not in like well we
have an empty chair right here - right
the American people represents the we
all check their egos at the door and
we're gonna figure out what the problem
the solution we don't even we don't know
what's the problem what do you know
problem
chair hasn't said a single word about
that a problem that we just in here
that's why we leave that chair open for
the American people and I'd like the
status quo say nothing and that's what
is so Fasil about what it but you know
shelters doing it'd be fascinating to me
to see like if being on Fox gets him
some Republican support yeah and I can't
help but think that like that
at Burton and Schmidt were like you got
to go on Fox first yeah because that way
it makes it look like you're not going
after the Democratic Party even though
we already told everybody we they kind
of they kind of already gave the game
away which was interesting strategically
to just tell everyone
oh yeah we're doing this because we're
it's we're threatening them in case they
they nominate Bernie but uh like a
because obviously there's an act there
is some slice of the Republican
electorate that is basically the Evan
McMullen crowd that's right we boy we've
had enough of this guy maybe Evan ballin
could be his running mate that would be
a power ticket because actually I can't
wait to do a lot of work actually cuz
cuz Evan McMullen really puts to bed a
lot of ideas about like the intelligence
of CIA officers that are savviness
and Howard Schultz is a walking
demolition squad of CEO confidence
although I have to say we were saying
this on TMDs the other night because we
always do that Steve Kubek sound drop
for basically everything remember they
keep it simple guy the guy with no neck
from Diamond Resorts International oh
yeah yeah it's like an extra in
showgirls now he was on with Stephanie
ruhle like eight months ago saying
everything that Howard Schultz is saying
like being like I'm gonna cut the money
off don't don't mention billionaires
anymore he would be a way better
candidate than how
Schultz because he's an everyman Oleg
art this is his style would be so much
more relatable the funny thing is we
were already living in the world where
the American people decided they wanted
to put a businessman in charge right we
are already living in that world they
did not choose Bloomberg or Schultz the
American people said yeah you know you
know what a business owner CEO type
should be in charge of that one right
exactly we rejected Mitt Romney who's
that same guy I mean this is why you
know that that was George Bush right the
CEO president and there is I think more
I think there's probably more broadly
speaking more appetite for that on the
right yeah I mean or you know Center
right
maybe the center left as well but I
don't know I don't I don't know yeah be
curious I'm sort of fascinated now about
who Howard Schultz might pick for his
running mate that's gonna be worth the
price of admission make it simple we
have another we have another another
