you all know right I mean this is pretty
basic stuff but why global warming will
increase the severity of storms like
hurricane Michael right wait I mean I
don't need to well there's always a
chance we have some conservatives
listening and if we do by any chance
have any listening please by all means
call in six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty we'll try and get two
calls a little bit early today if we can
but this is pretty basic stuff the way
that moisture gets up into the air is it
evaporates from bodies of water and if
the water already is warmer than well if
the water is warm then the ability to it
evaporate is actually increased you will
notice this if you boil some water and
put a glass cover on the pot you'll see
that the water actually evaporates and
hits the top of the pot the lid well
when the waters warmer that means that
sends more water and up into the into
the air and of course also heat creates
energy and then you get a more powerful
storm that whips with more weight slow
down there's a there's a relationship
between energy and heat that's true
that's true
so science report up in here yeah there
you go
well I mean this all has a book where it
it actually just I think it's like the
Magic School Bus and it it talks about
how you know the water cycle and they
come in December it's gonna be pretty
cold around here yeah I guess there's no
global warming as soon as we see any of
the but with that said I know that
sounds a little bit condescending but I
want to give you the President of the
United States on his response about the
IPCC report this
is the United Nations enter
Intergovernmental report on climate
change and it involves hundreds if not
thousands of scientists across the
country croc sees me crossed the globe
and we mentioned yesterday obviously if
you listen to the program and you did
not decide to check out and you're still
with us you heard yesterday that this
report is a pretty dire and we have
about ten years or so if we are going to
in any way mitigate the implications of
the globe warming and so but you know
Donald Trump took it all in stride and
apparently thinks that someone that the
report is actually just maybe he takes a
little too literally when he hears
people saying it pinks paints a dire
picture furious
[Music]
I posit one second for those of you who
are listening he's asked the question
are you aware of the climate change
report that was issued by the IPA CC
here in that he responds I want to look
at who drew it you know which group drew
it because I couldn't give you a reports
that are fabulous and I can give you
reports that aren't so good but I will
be looking at it absolutely I can't even
understand that first of all it is the
IPCC so it's the intake government panel
on climate change
so that's who drew it I don't know what
drew it means well they give him all of
his reports in cartoon form that's right
so all I see what you're saying he's
like I got someone drew a picture
literally drew a picture and it's I get
a look at it I get to see who drew it
and in one picture the Sun had a frowny
face but didn't I have another picture
where the Sun was wearing sunglasses you
have to weigh the evidence I imagine it
is like someone drew a picture of a guy
walking on a street and there's like a
manhole and down at the bottom like
pointy things and he's about to fall in
that's the way I would have represented
that to the president but there's no
Barra lago is worth more money than
buckingham palace yes we'll see i think
about things so that's less than
encouraging
