[Music]
oh speaking of of how conservatives are
not all hateful and whatnot here's some
here's some merch on the jordan peterson
site and we'll just there you go you can
check out the new lobster collection
merchandise this is the public
intellectual who's selling their lobster
shirts official merchandise lobster
collection let's see what else we got
well I wonder how that transition off
patreon is going yeah I wonder it must
be going pretty good we're gonna sell a
lot of lobsters this is lobster t-shirt
this is Jay Cruz and let's see what else
we got here
oh here looks set zoom in on this one
here we have Jordan Peterson oh this is
wonderful this is Jordan Peterson taking
a picture on his tour was this in
Australia or New Zealand New Zealand in
February so just a couple of weeks ago
before the mass killing of 49 Muslims at
two different mosques and there's Jordan
Peterson posing for a picture now look
this happens you hear about this all the
time right people go and they pose for
picture and they pull off a shirt or
they open up their shirt that says like
you know whatever down would trump and
I'm taking a picture with Trump this is
one where there is no indication that
there is another piece of clothing
around there there is a shirt that says
in very big letters like look I wear
glasses it's conceivable to me that if I
didn't have my glasses on I don't know
why I wouldn't but if someone walked up
to me with the shirt that had small
writing I wouldn't be able to read it
but I could even read I am a proud
Islamophobe and then a long litany of
things like pedophilia rape wife-beating
homophobia misogyny it goes on and on
and on now maybe Jordan Peterson didn't
even look at that shirt but it's very
hard to believe isn't it
I think it's quite how amazing would it
be and there's no doubt he saw this
shirt in my mind unless he's maybe you
know Jordan Peterson might have drank
some cider or something
before I tell you what his his
perspective is like I'm not going to you
you be you you do you mean you you do
you man I'm not going to I'm not going
to in any way censor this but the thing
is is that what is about that
position is you are not embracing free
speech by putting your arm around and
taking a picture and posing for a
picture with someone like this
you are literally embracing the notion
that being a proud Islam afford is
something to be proud about also Jordan
Peterson Jordan Peterson has a
thoroughgoing Ubu of perspective we
wouldn't know who he is because he would
have had thrown a tantrum about
transgender students and he would be
teaching at Canada and he wouldn't be on
our show of course it is I mean it
really is stunning that this guy's not
held to account for this I don't know as
he come out with any statement any any
statement or shred or no pretending like
he didn't see it no he's proud of think
of you know I would love as if there is
a montage of videos of actually all of
them like even like sam harris being
like you know take this the wrong way
but the fact Dave that you're a complete
 and I'm able to sit here and
compare as reclines at the Ku Klux Klan
and I know that not only won't you push
back but you probably might not even
know what the Klan is is really helpful
and then maturity appears and just like
you're gay so I get to come here and ran
about gender all day and you know push
back and that's super helpful I like
some of the responses on on reddit this
guy says pretty sure when Peterson does
events like this people either pay for
money for a meet and greet pass and a
picture or if he's doing free pictures
they wait in a very long line so he says
a either jbp didn't see or notice a
shirt as he was probably rapid-fire and
photos with many people or he saw it
probably internally rolled his eyes but
understood that this dude just waited in
a long-ass line and it's easier just to
take the photo and move on to the next
person yeah I'm sure he had a problem
with the shirt in his
it's just a cringy meme shirt that's
what this guy says I don't know what
actually happened either was at some
point like you're you're doing the
simplest explanation is he saw it and
didn't register anything and took the
photo because that's what the available
evidence is the the the the most factual
and obvious conclusion is I mean unless
that we can't find it for whatever
reason is that he knows this picture is
out there and doesn't feel in any way
obligated to say I regret that I took
the picture with that guy I was gonna
say he got Apple contamination and he
couldn't see for a while but also that
probably all right let's he says it's a
word created by fascists Islamophobia
that is so how he said previously so
just a to see oh that makes sense
I see what are you saying
