[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of
history at Manoj University in Melbourne
I think I messed up
mohnish not enough okay and author of
red meat republic a hoof to table
history of how beef changed America
Joshua SPECT welcome to the program
thanks so much for having me on
ok so just the the era that we're
talking about you follow this basically
starting from the 1800s through the
early 20th century right yeah but just
tell us why why why beef why beef as a
way of what that tells us I guess about
the way that America was developed
particularly the sort of the political
economy yeah I think that's that's a
great question and you know at first to
the why beef when I started started
writing this book was I was just curious
about it and then what I discovered as I
looked more and more about how beef was
produced that it tied into all these big
stories at the heart of what it means to
be American but also at the heart of the
American economy so we think about the
stories of the American West cattle
ranching is obviously everywhere we
think about this roof Cowboys they're
essentially cattle workers as I talk
about them but also the model for big
industrial agriculture is pioneered by
meat packers often working with beef in
Chicago so I see is a set of four firms
headquartered in Chicago you can think
of Chicago is kind of a Silicon Valley
of its day and they remake both
agriculture in the United States but in
a way industrial production they pioneer
things like the assembly line and offer
them a disassembly line okay so let's
start with this notion of the are you
there yep oh sorry let's start with the
notion of of the cattle ranch
and you know the you write that
basically beef becomes a or meat becomes
a tool for conquest in some ways and
also a justification for one we explain
that dynamic yeah I think you've gotten
to the heart of it so if you think about
the kind of Far West in the United
States if you think about places like
the Texas hit Panhandle I'm sorry
professor we're having a little bit of a
drive professor excuse me we're having
just a little bit of problems if I could
just get ring you back we just have a
little bit of trouble on that connection
sure thing
oh but folks bear with us bear with us
on this not sure what's going on but
hello hi alright hopefully that's better
so I had asked you you know you had you
characterized beef is both a for
conquest and a justification for
conquest and by conquest of course we're
talking about the the the genocide and
the displacement and of Native Americans
at this time yes I think that's exactly
right and what I mean by that is that
for much of the American West it was a
it was an area considered initially in
particular way too dried to farm and so
at times in the mid 19th century it was
a place you might want to cross over to
get to somewhere like California but it
wasn't quite sure what you could do with
this land and at some point Americans
started to look around and they saw the
Bison they saw lots of bison thriving
and they wanted to hunt those but then
they started to look at their cattle and
they thought you know we could graze
these on a large scale and just replace
these bison with our cattle and all of a
sudden they had an economic reason to
use the land they had a way they could
make money out of it and to them this
was a kind of higher use for the land
than say either hunting bison as
American Indians were doing or the kind
of highly mobile agriculture they saw so
they both wanted to make money out of
cattle and they viewed that as making it
legitimate to see the land from American
Indians and they would not have been
able to do this without the rise of this
kind of range cattle industry who were
the Veii in this instance and and to
what extent that they have like other I
mean we can you go into a little bit of
the sort of the perhaps the other sort
of like economic reasons why they would
want to settle I mean it just seems like
on some level they're looking around for
you know a solution to a problem that
isn't there unless that problem is how
can we exploit more how can high amass
more cash right well I think the
motivations of these people is kind of
hard to figure out I wrestled with this
as I wrote the book so I tell the story
of a woman named Susan Newcombe was born
in the Midwest
and as a teenage bride moves with her
husband to the very remote part of Texas
and I read through her Diaries and I try
to understand well what are they doing
here what is their plan and to an extent
there was an idea that moving to a place
like that could give you a fresh start
you might not have had you know you
might have been a second or third born
in the Midwest not not getting the
family farm you could kind of create
your own land but you know so first a
lot of these people were engaged in
things like hunting's they're hunting
the Bison and we see a lot of crossover
between kind of small-scale cattle
ranching and bison hunting and we just
see a lot of attempts to basically play
out the logic that had happened in the
East Coast the United States right the
whole logical United States was based on
acquiring land for farming and once your
area gets settled up you kind of move
farther and farther west and eventually
got to these dry areas where you had to
embrace something like cattle ranching I
see
and then so following that sort of
that-that-that-that change that took
place there tell us what the relevance
of me.how reservations sort of played
into this dynamic well one thing that I
thought was interesting is I thought
there was a kind of straightforward
story of basically a violent story of
the United States military essentially
seizing all this land for American
Indians kind of opening up a vast canvas
that then settled by American citizens
what I actually see happening is a kind
of on-the-ground small-scale process of
people moving into places taking land
and kind of fighting back and forth so
early cattle ranchers are almost like
paramilitaries in some places then
towards the end of this process they
create this reservation system where the
majority of land is taken by the United
States many different American Indians
are forced onto these very small parcels
of land and so I thought maybe that's
the end of that story but what you
actually see is that the means for many
of these American Indians to support
themselves off the Bison they're gone
they're forced onto this land that they
can't really farm they have no way to
support themselves and so the United
States government starts supplying them
with beef handouts rations and many
times the lucrative contracts for these
hand
come from ranchers so this reservation
system becomes an early subsidy the
ranchers then see these American Indians
who are relying on you know what they
call handouts or rations at the time and
they say look these people can't support
themselves what we've done here is
justified so they look around and see
this reservation system it both
subsidizes them and justifies what
they've done to them so there's sort of
like a classic self licking ice cream
cone we put them in a position where
they can't make they cannot sustain
themselves and then say their inability
to sustain themselves is exactly why
we've had to put them in this position
exactly and of course you see that kind
of dynamic all the time with
dispossessed and marginal populations as
a justification for the more powerful
and how like how does that just happen
it mean to people just sort of like
develop that as they go like I mean how
how planned is that notion that's it
yeah that's a fascinating question and
when I thought about a lot I'm to some
extent there was a big picture plan I'm
more see it though as often if you look
at what's happening in these kind of
remote forts and outposts what you
actually see is they mostly want to just
avoid conflict but all of their
assumptions in ideology matches the
assumptions and ideology of these early
ranchers so whenever there's a conflict
with American Indians they obviously
side with the ranchers and farmers and
so it's a kind of piecemeal process but
it all aggregates and matches up in kind
of their big-picture assumptions about
what is justified and behind everything
is the assumption that we're using this
land productively therefore we can claim
it right I've heard that somewhere
before actually in my discussions with
modern-day libertarians looking back on
on on why their property rights trumped
the indigenous people's property rights
but then how interesting so moving from
that that that era it we move into this
sort of era of like which ends up being
a sort of a false start on some level of
corporate ranches explain that dynamic
and where are we in terms of
I'm at this point okay so in our story
we're kind of we're talking earlier in
the ninth two centuries or talk in 1840s
1850s 1860s but the story really takes
off after the American civil war ends in
1865 and so some of this has happened in
the 1860s and 1870s and by the late
1870s 1880s investors from the American
East and as far away as places like
Scotland say you know we could try to
turn this ranching thing into big
business so they move in with lots of
money and they look at that you know
they see a hundred herds of a thousand
cattle and they say we can make this
into one herd of a hundred thousand
cattle and were you dealt with hundreds
we deal with thousands or tens of
thousands and so all of a sudden this
becomes the hottest new investment of
the 1880s everybody is starting up these
ranches you see these kind of
millionaire Playboy's from from places
like England moving out west and they
they this is kind of their like toy
business but you also see this running
on very sound business principles the
problem is people are a little too
exuberant the story we see often times
in history of American capitalism and
everybody basically is over investing
making bad deals and the whole thing
kind of blows up so the big corporate
ranch doesn't really take off because
there's this big boom in cattle and
there are some disastrous winters in the
1880s and at the end of that story just
when this is all falling apart this boom
and bust cycle there's these firms in
Chicago that start to think about how
they can slaughter cattle in chicago and
distribute the meat fresh all around the
country and when everybody's going out
of business they're buying all their
cattle and all of a sudden these small
companies in Chicago turn into global
behemoths in the late 1880s okay so we
said let me let me just stop there and
just so we should also say like this
period of time is I just remember this
from as a kid watching Bonanza and the
Ponderosa right this was basically the
story the Ponderosa on some level right
they were cattle ranchers yeah and and
so okay so what where is when all these
people are coming in
you know presumably after the the Civil
War and they're coming in they're
pouring all this money like where's the
market for this like who is eating this
this beef and how and how right at the
okay at that point yeah I mean that's a
great question so basically most of the
cattle or there's a lot of cattle in
Texas and this is there's cattle all
across the US but the kind of surplus of
cattle in Texas is the key to this story
so before the American Civil War there
had been some ranching in Texas and
Texas was linked with New Orleans east
to west the American Civil War basically
ends that trade because the Union
doesn't want that happening and all of a
sudden of these cattle just accumulating
in Texas doing their thing right grazing
reproducing and during the american
civil war in the 1860s all these cities
in the north are getting huge and
they're developing a national market
chicago is a big city now new york is
getting even bigger boston and so
there's all these hungry people in these
cities in the north and all these cattle
and places like texas and kind of remote
areas in the west so as of right now
there's no way to really link those two
but these these big ranches realize hey
if we can move cattle quickly from Texas
or Wyoming to Chicago we can get rich
and so that's that kind of story you're
telling me so this is where you get the
kind of famous cattle drives of the Old
West moving hundreds of thousands of
animals to places like you know Kansas
to get them into the rail lines into
Chicago and then in Chicago presumably
they go into the slaughterhouse and then
they get sent to the east is that the
idea yeah so in in the early part of the
story Chicago is just kind of the center
of the rail network east so the animals
go alive to Chicago and then they spread
out alive to cities around the east
coast of the US but starting in the
1870s these these favi business people
in Chicago start trying to figure out
how to make a refrigerated railcar
essentially a moving refrigerator it's a
it's kind of a disaster at first they
crash a lot they try to hang the meat
and it swings too much and the cars
topple over but eventually they work it
out and all of a sudden instead of
shipping these live animals all around
the country
which can be expensive they can do
everything in Chicago centralize all the
business and very quickly and cheaply
send it everywhere fresh and that's how
these businesses capitalize on
everything that's happening out west to
take a kind of takeover GlobalMeet from
Chicago and so you end up having this
dynamic where because the corporate
ranch has got too too big I guess and
then they end up basically dispersing or
they they had too much I guess liability
one one you know bad Blizzard can
destroy their business yeah the the
slaughterhouse has become the
essentially have like a monopsony I
guess and they end up controlling the
market and therefore dictate both ends
of the supply chain right where you know
what they're gonna pay and and how much
they're gonna extract as it goes east
yeah I mean you've got it exactly right
so the technical thing would be say they
have an oligopoly oligopoly so they are
kind of there's three or four firms they
control selling the customers and buying
now the less technical Texas version of
that is to say they have both ends of
the string as people in the period like
to say and what that means is basically
they can they can capture all the
profits so they they bankrupt they go
around the United States on the customer
end and bankrupt all the local people
and so they control the whole supply
chain there and because the ranch is the
big ranches have failed they can the
meat packers of shadows kind of dictate
what they want to the ranchers because
the ranchers are all small and
relatively scattered and so they become
a behemoth and this mobilizes all sorts
of political conversations about whether
these Packers are too powerful should
the government do something maybe should
they break them up which is a bit like
debates about tech companies today but
this starts a whole conversation about
the relationship between business and
government and there's a couple of at
that point well it's interesting I guess
is like the the the the quote from
Sinclair Lewis he was trying to appeal
to people's hearts and missed and hit
stomach the idea buildings and Claire
Upton squints and Claire sorry that the
idea being that he was concerned about
the the plight of workers in this and
ultimately what really stuck with people
was the sort of the quality and the
safety of the meat right so that why we
get at that around this time we're now
around the federal Meat Inspection Act
right yeah so so basically what happens
is you know there's a story we can tell
about the Chicago slaughterhouses it's a
story of kind of business genius and
innovation in a lot of ways they pioneer
what looks like the assembly line and
Henry Ford in his memoirs said he got
the idea for the automobile assembly
line from Chicago although they called
it a disassembly line because they were
taking one animal carcass and making it
into all sorts of different things right
and that could be a story of innovation
right they come up with his breaking it
into tasks but it's also story of
incredible labor exploitation because
when you break things into individual
tasks very specialized ones it doesn't
just magically make people more
productive it enables you to work them
harder right so you have people who set
the pace so you pay a little more to
work extra hard you can train people and
overwork them because you can replace
them easily and so this is the
slaughterhouse becomes this site of
incredible exploitation and Upton
Sinclair becomes curious about this and
studies it and he's the kind of
socialist revolutionary so he writes the
jungle the story of this immigrant
families toil in Chicago as this
precursor to a revolution but along the
way he talks about contamination quite
graphically talking about it you know a
finger falling into a vat talking about
animal feces contamination and because
that's so visceral to people who are
eating things that really becomes the
way that public starts to mobilize and
if you think about it business doesn't
want to be regulated in terms of Labor
Standards but they're happy to work on
sanitation issues because they want to
restore consumer trust in their product
and so they quite quickly realize that
this kind of Sanitation is a problem
they can you know solve to encourage
people and that's how we get that
problem
and we should say also that that
specialization of the workers completely
diminishes worker power right because
they become literally a cog in a in a
machine yeah and so what we see I mean
the the the in my part of the story I
argue all this action happens between
about 1880 and 1900 or 1910 and there
are attempts to unionize but there's a
legal regime and in the kind of
government that's not very sympathetic
to organized labor and so they can't
effectively unionize in the key story
I'm talking about now in the 20th
century meat packers or meat packing
workers do unionize but already their
baseline assumptions about the kinds of
jobs they have are so kind of eroded by
that period I write about and so yeah
worker power is quite limited during
this period and and then once we get
into that that's sort of like that's
that the the the state regulating both
the sort of the health requirements and
the hygiene and best business practices
I guess following that there becomes
sort of like more questions about
antitrust yep so I like to think of a
key actor at the end of my story
is Teddy Roosevelt so if we talk about
Upton Sinclair as a revolutionary Teddy
Roosevelt is kind of the perfect
politician to tame capitalism which is
kind of what happens so he is very
suspicious of big corporations but he's
also suspicious of organized labor and
you know what he sees as socialism and
so he says in order to kind of save
American capitalism from itself we need
to regulate it so he accepts huge
centralized meatpacking as kind of an
inevitable development but he says we're
gonna you know act to regulate them and
prevent them from engaging in practices
that are too predatory or from
cooperating too much and so he does
things like he invest he organizes an
investigation of the meatpacking
industry or as they called it the beef
trust when the meat packers try to say
we're not colluding we're all going to
form one gigantic company they say no
you can't do that and there's all sorts
of court investigations starting to
limit their power but in all of this
they accept that big centralized food
production in
necessary to the world we live in and
that continues to today so I mean what
is the so I mean how much of this is
sort of unique to to to me as opposed to
just sort of the the development that we
see I mean is where is meet relative to
other I guess products or commercial you
know things like we're you know because
obviously you know we have this story
that scholars have been looking at in
terms of cotton and it being you know
closely tied into slavery but the
implications of the cotton in terms of
the economy of the entire country not
just the south but even but of the East
the Northeast and around the world to a
certain extent the cotton because of
that dynamic of slavery and the free
labor and McGinn z-- to drive everything
like what where it is beef where does
meat where is meat like I guess rate
relative to cop within that sort of
ecosystem that's interesting I like to
think of it maybe as the questions of
the early American economy and its
exploitation and how it works and
markets cotton is is is kind of the
product to understand that I think in
the late 19th century excuse me beef
ends up being the perfect product to
understand the challenges of the late
19th century American economy and that's
in part because it's so complicated to
produce and distribute so the fact that
they want to distribute it fresh people
like fresh beef as opposed to some other
meat products they might be cured
because it has to stay fresh from
Chicago to New York or Chicago to Boston
or Chicago all the way to London there's
all sorts of challenges businesses face
in coordination similarly because cattle
have to be produced far away their rural
animals there's all sorts of questions
of coordination to get the animal from
say Texas or Montana to Chicago and all
these challenges mean that the meat
packers are figuring out these
complicated questions of supply chains
and distribution
that create a models that then are
copied in all sorts of industries right
so they figure out how to efficiently
slaughter animal without its spoiling
and pioneer the assembly line they
figure out how to distribute fresh
products which then becomes important to
distributing fresh fruits and vegetables
which oddly the meat packers actually
control in the early 20th century and so
all these challenges that the beef
packers kind of pioneer the solution
that then gets taken up by other people
and that's why I think understanding
misters American beef is so important
what was driving the demand for me I
mean I understand like it's just I guess
my sense of that era was like Oh meat is
a is a luxury you don't you don't you
don't see it that much I mean obviously
because of the challenges you're talking
about but I'm trying to guess I get get
a grip on you know the I would imagine
that someone in that era particularly in
the mid 1800s sees like look at this
massive country and if I could put
railroad tracks down everywhere in this
country I could own like everything I
could I could you know go in and
speculate on real estate because I have
control of the over over transportation
I could speculate on in real estate all
across the country
I could I could look at destinations I
could look at places that we're gonna
have to pass through but I need
something to send by rail and I need a
commodity and in terms of like going
east-west you know and I'm I'm asking if
this is if there's if there's an element
of this I like beef seems to be the
thing but there isn't a market for beef
how do we do how do we juice this thing
I get me how much of a market was there
was this something that like we're going
to you know figure out how to downscale
beef I mean because we have a version of
this right in the early 70s when the
Nixon administration basically said
we're gonna subsidize corn which is
going to make everything cheaper in
terms of frayed and that's going to put
more money in people's pockets and it's
going to help the economy
etc which is going to help the you know
all these industries I mean of course in
the mid-1800s that wasn't that there
wasn't so many different sort of layers
into making that determination but how
much of of it was like we're gonna use
beef as the thing that's going to sort
of open up we're gonna create a market
with that but it's going to open up all
these other markets for me hmm well I
think I think that's interesting I mean
I think on that from the viewpoint of
the railroads the funny thing about the
story is in terms of this fresh beef
slaughtered in Chicago the railroads are
initially very skeptical they don't want
to get involved because they have such a
good trade shipping live cattle all over
the US and so they forced the meat
packers to develop their own ideas their
own refrigerated rail cars and all of a
sudden when that takes off the meat
packers are holding all the cards so in
a way they become more powerful than the
railroads but but to get to your point
about why me you know I've thought about
this a bit because I kind of wondered
well you know say they start producing
all this beef presumably they got to
convince people to eat all this meat or
to want it right and what I realized so
I started reading about what beef kind
of meant to people is that for most of
the people who were immigrating and
coming to the US already living in the
u.s. in this period they already had a
pre-existing preference for fresh beef
fresh beef in a way was a special
occasion food and so they were you
people were used to eating it on feast
days or special kinds of holidays for
special occasions and so what that meant
is if you could provide them with this
thing that had been expensive so they
only had it on special occasions if you
could provide them that cheaply they
would want to turn that special occasion
food into an all the time food and so
the story and consumption becomes this
occasional food becoming a dietary
staple and higher and higher
expectations in terms of quality and so
that just ensures that as much as you
can produce this in the late 19th
century people are going to consume it
now as we saw a beef production
consumption rather Peaks in the 1970s in
the US and has come down some but
through that period just anything you
can produce people will want it and that
kind of makes the distribution of beef
which is bulky and heavy a perfect thing
to distribute in the national rail
network
and so where does that leave us now I
mean when we're looking at the story of
sort of the I guess the political
economy where where is where is beefs
future and what I mean I guess what
lessons can we learn in terms about the
way that decisions were made going
forward I mean the labor stuff seems to
and we're gonna play an interview next
week about the the car industry and so
many decisions about logistics were made
basically to to diminish the power of
labor right it doesn't feel like that
was as conscious of an effort in this
instance because it the the labor was so
sort of in some ways except for in the
slaughterhouses removed in terms of the
process of which stuff was being built
but or I should I mean delivered but I
mean how much of that is what is the
lesson we're learning from this I think
there's kind of I thought about this
some since since finishing the book and
I think there's got two key things I
mean the first is that labor is a major
issue in terms of the slaughterhouse and
there's all sorts of fights in my period
and you still see it today I mean with
these recent raids by ice on these
facilities in the south so still kind of
marginal labor is important to this
business but but as far as lessons today
I think the key thing we see with
industrial food and it's pioneered in
the beef industry is that low prices to
the consumer become an overarching
organizing principle and a justification
for things are done so when people say
hey this is exploitative of Labor or
this is destroying local environments
and communities people from the industry
say well that's what we have to do to
provide cheap beef and because the whole
system is organized around that then any
change to that system is in fact going
to raise food prices and making food
unaffordable is not exactly a good
policy solution so I think one of the
insights is that changing these things
is going to make it more expensive and
that ties into a much broader question
about a more equitable society
so beef will become more expensive and
people need to be better
to afford it and that in terms of go
ahead no I mean so I mean is that is
that used as a as a mechanism to to
prohibit reform I mean it sounds
definitely yep so in the 19th century
mitre and then I'll tell you about the
present briefly the 19th century you see
that people are investigating Philip
Danforth Armour
one of the biggest meat packers and he
basically says you know we have to do
this if you want to feed the urban
masses feed the common laborers he said
at the time these are the rules we have
to play by and that's how he avoids
regulation today if you think about
increasingly in debates about the green
new deal where people are saying we have
to think differently about beef
production basically often critics of
that are saying you know that they're
coming for your hamburgers they're
saying you're not going to be able to
afford your hamburgers anymore and that
turns a kind of consumer concern to
deflect a criticism of how its produced
and so you see that parallel even today
that's fascinating and and do you expect
more of that I mean where do you see the
future is that or is that basically it
we need to if we're going we're at we as
a society are gonna have to make a
decision
yep well I think the other point though
so we even so that is a concern about
all sorts of industrial production and
commodities the other thing of course is
the environmental impact I mean all the
evidence suggests that society needs to
reduce its meat consumption dramatically
and that has to happen over time but in
the short term we have to think about
the impacts of that and so the worst
cases in terms of climate change is
deforestation in Latin America and while
American beef production is kind of not
directly coming from that there are
potential trade deals that are happening
between the United States and Brazil
that could put some of that meat on the
American table there's a whole
conversation about beef and climate
change that I think we have to be
thinking about now that my characters
weren't thinking about in you know 1880
the book is red meat Republic a hoof to
table history of how beef changed
America Joshua spec we will put a link
to your book on majority dot F M thanks
so much for your time today I really
appreciate it thanks so much for having
me on
