[Music]
we know and it has been repeated that
the Amazon is a core fulcrum in the
Earth's planetary system we already know
that we're in ecological crisis this is
b-roll of the fires in the Amazon now
it's very important to note and I just
want to say here I mean look and also
how the fires are affecting cities in
Brazil it's very important to be real
here that this is a political project
this is inseparable from the balsan ro
government this is inseparable from the
u.s. backing of things like lava jato
The Wall Street endorsement of jr.
balsan ro the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation on the day that bolson ro1
put out a tweet saying you know he's
controversial but great business
opportunities so it's extremely
important that we frame and understand
what this is which is that jr. bolson ro
along with the Republican Party is the
greatest threat to human survival on
planet earth right now that this is a
political decision this is an eco side
and a global ecological threat and it's
also absolutely a form of ethnic
cleansing of the Brazilian indigenous
communities and that there is a long
policy set which implicates the Obama
administration that DOJ Wall Street
mining and agnus --is that lead to this
moment were in which is literally life
and death for the entire planet this is
a report from Brian Mayer he's a
reporter of course for Telesur and also
co-editor of Brazil wire which is the
indispensable Brazil resource everybody
needs to read reporting from Sao Paolo
yesterday on the fires I'm standing on
the north side of Sao Paulo where the
entire city is engulfed in smog as it
has been since Monday in a weather
phenomenon that's related to smoke
coming up from the Amazon rainforest
where thousands of fires are currently
raging now every year in the dry season
in the Amazon region small fire
and ranchers slept practice
slash-and-burn agriculture techniques
they burn the the scrub on their land
and it creates nutrients in the soil
it's not good for the environment but
it's hard to convince them to stop doing
it but what's happening this year is
different President jarba Naru is giving
out signals to the big loggers and
agribusiness companies that they can
invade natural parks and indigenous
reservations and chop down trees and
burn whatever they want and so there's
huge fires out of control animals are
dying and the risk is that if he
continues acting this way there could be
a phenomenon called die back in which
the entire force could burn down
uncontrollably if it reaches a certain
point of deforestation and some
biologists are predicting this could
happen by 2030 now if bolson arrow stays
and power acting this way
the odds are that this is really going
to happen and since the amazon provides
the world with 20% of its oxygen it
would be a catastrophe
jay-ar bolson ro is the greatest threat
to human survival on planet earth right
now um and but you know by extension
obviously the United States government
the corporations that have backed him
and this needs to be understood
politically it needs to be understood
economically and will certainly get back
to you know the latest about the in
political imprisonment of Lula but
everybody who first of all backed and
orchestrated this process and then
uncritically covered it has a direct
stake an implication in something that
literally threatens the future of the
entire planet and is a crisis a profound
crisis in Brazil right now several weeks
ago an indigenous leader was murdered
this also correlates with regular
shootings of activists and organizers in
Brazil ongoing threats legal and
extrajudicial against Glenn Greenwald
and just two weeks ago or a week ago
Mariela Franco's wife her widow went to
go visit Lula in prison Mariela of
course was assassinated by a cartel that
a lot of report
skin linked to the bowl scenario family
so that's what's happening and it is a
matter of utmost urgency we
