[Music]
Fran from Philadelphia did you see zis
ik and Peterson is happening in Toronto
the day before your la show I did not
see that I gotta tell you guys I that's
not gonna be good debate and I'm an I'm
a jejak defender I like Dziedzic I read
G Jack as a philosopher and watch him as
a philosopher any of course is an
entertainer but he I suspect that what
will happen on that debate is that G
check will go to realms of abstraction
and theory that honestly I don't think
Peterson is equipped to talk about they
might action and then G Shack will find
points of agreement with Peterson
including ones that might end up being
actually very odious so I'm more a
debate that that Peterson will almost
certainly never have but would be the
revelation of the complete emptiness of
his rhetoric on economics and politics
would be would be the Richard Wolff
conversation and he's totally ducked out
of that and dismissed it and that would
be a conversation that would deal with
your making all of these claims and it's
all salts and eachin and metaphysics and
this and that but let's talk about
modular goon let's talk about policy let
and and you know I don't even think it's
I don't even know if Jordan Peterson
would suggest that he really even does
know anything about those things he's
making you know category claims and and
if he had to deal with somebody who was
actually you know relevant the field it
would not go well but I think those
Dziedzic is brilliant Dziedzic is more
analogous in terms of you know they
could spend 30 minutes talking about
Goldilocks and you know Peterson will
say it's the it's the you know it's the
way of finding you know virtue and home
tasks and jejak will suggest that it's
an affirmation of late capitalist
ideology and you know on it will go
