[Music]
so the eye leaves me with two questions
but probably more one is do they like so
they're they're stuck in a in a specific
mindset right that is that that the
Democrats have been trapped in I mean
you know back when people were really
debating whether you know we could call
ourselves liberal or progressive right
nobody was identifying as a Democratic
Socialist we're you know Bernie would
the the most media Bernie would get
would be to coming on air America
frankly it may be occasionally democracy
now the these people are stuck in this
mindset do does it inhibit their ability
to also wage politics in this era in
other words like the the same sort of
fear that they're driven by that makes
them sort of ineffectual in many
respects and and and not up to the
moment and this is something that we
complained about you know you and I
could have had this conversation in 2006
right in 2005 we probably did about how
Democrats were not being strong enough
in the face of of Republicans that they
were afraid of their own shadow that
they had learned the wrong lessons that
they they keep trying the same thing and
it keeps failing you know now of course
we have another you know decade-plus
worth of evidence to this effect but
does their this mindset also inhibit
their ability to win this internal
battle I mean I think it's at odds with
a growing set of the caucus and and
maybe the best way to answer that is
with something concrete and it's around
this con this whole controversy on drug
price
so last year lloyd doggett who's a
progressive who is now the chair of the
Subcommittee on health at the House Ways
and Means Committee he put together
legislation allowing for direct
negotiation of drug prices in Medicare
with the pharmaceutical companies which
is banned right now per that 2002
legislation we were talking about
earlier and and what he said is you know
my bill has direct negotiation and if
they can't come to an agreement the the
government can commit compulsory
licenses of these drugs that and and
give them the manufacturers so that they
can set you know make a generic version
that will compete and and and that's
sort of the whip hand for the government
to say okay if you don't want to
negotiate with us
we'll just take your license and and
we'll whole will put put a generic
version on the market so Primus
apparently agreed with that for a little
while and then when Democrats got the
majority he changed and he went with a
new concept that is involves third-party
arbitration so the drug companies will
put a price up for and this is only for
certain drugs drug companies will put a
price up Medicare will put a price up
and the arbitrator will choose one or
the other that's his new plan and it
undermined this work that Doggett had
been doing for a year getting a hundred
and twenty-two
co-sponsors in the House of
Representatives on his bill so now
there's this open warfare between some a
process has gone through for a year with
outside groups and people within the
progressive caucus and and and among
House Democrats and window prime
minister kind of big-footed in and said
no what we want to do is this
arbitration and I'm
work directly with the Trump
administration to try to find a bill
that they would support so I mean right
there you see sort of how this will how
this affects policy and how this in some
ways inhibits policy because now you
have this this huge fight among within
the caucus on something that both
parties have said they want to do which
is lower drug prices and you know I I
have another follow-up piece to that
coming out very shortly that I I think I
won't scoop myself on but there are
other implications of this that in
involve stakeholder industries and how
Democrats are aligning
I mean Primus the Primus Pelosi faction
is aligning with stakeholders in this
fight so where does that all I can say
on that well where does what where does
the I mean surely the leadership of the
Democrats in the house must realize that
they won on health care right and that
they're going to need an issue going
into 2020 and are they just aren't
thinking that like it'll be enough to
say we're going to we're gonna
marginally help Obamacare get better I
mean is that going to be the pitch in
that we're going around the edges like
we've you need somebody to nibble around
the edges of Obamacare where your party
this is what they're pushing I mean
they're saying we want I mean the
legislation they rolled out earlier this
year is for marginal improvements to the
ACA on this drug pricing thing they want
a solution that pharmaceutical companies
and lobbyists appeared to be more
comfortable with this arbitration idea
rather than compulsory licensing on
everything on health policy which as you
correctly suggest is what one Democrats
backed the house they have you know
sought the incremental option over the
wider range it's it's the modular deal
that's what we're going
for them the marginally better deal I'm
the marginally better deal and you know
it's maybe maybe 10 years ago that that
actually you know I mean that that's
kind of what the ACA was right so it
kind of made sense because it was the
the center of gravity in the house was
closer to that that that idea but but
it's a new generation and and that there
just aren't you know there there are a
lot of House Democrats that just aren't
on board with this go along to get along
approach okay so let's I mean give me I
want a really clear died vision of how
much of this is a new generation how
much of it is pre-existing members of
Congress who are more to the left but
but but a certain sort of subset of of
New Democrats are just they're
dispositional II their ID maybe their
ideologically similar maybe to a little
bit to the left but they're
dispositional II much more aggressive
and much more convinced you know much
more bold I guess really for lack of a
better term and so how much of that like
give me a sense of how what the dynamic
is there right because you know a guy
like Pocan has been in there for a while
right and and Menino guys like Jim
McGovern have been in there for a while
but it's unclear to me like where a guy
like Jim McGovern who is saying like
yeah they don't worry about the pay-go
as much because it's just you know it's
just to provide cover we could always
get a waiver like you know he's clearly
I think his politics are in the right
place but I wonder if his sort of like
disposition for lack of a better term is
in the right place and to the extent
that there's that dynamic between these
these two different groups
is there anybody emerging as a potential
like a legitimate potential leader and
you know I know like people listening
this audience were saying well you know
AOC but I'm
about somebody who has enough experience
and enough relationships in there to
sort of like lock in a vote but also is
you know progressive well I mean I first
of all poke and mark Pocan has only been
in the house since 2013 so not super
long and and the same goes for millage I
ball and who I think of 2016 maybe is
when she got elected and and those two
this year became the co-chairs of the
Progressive Caucus and a lot of this
reflects that change over so prior to
this you know keith Ellison was a head
of progressive caucus Raul Grijalva had
a leadership position there lynn woolsey
even going further back at a leadership
position and uh I I don't think I'm
speaking to out of turn here by saying
that the old guard of the progressive
caucus wasn't didn't didn't have a
terribly strategic mindset in terms of
trying to advance their interests
Manasseh ggressive with leadership they
weren't as aggressive with their own
members I mean you know and even to this
day there are members of the progressive
caucus who are also in the New Democrat
coalition which is kind of crazy but
Pocan and Jaya Paul have taken a
somewhat harder line you saw this last
week when Democrats tried to pass a
budget resolution that would have given
more money to defense spending than
domestic spending and progressives led
by pokken and Jaya Paul said no we want
parity between those two buckets of
spending and we're going to block this
bill on the floor if you bring it up and
ultimately they had to scuttle that
because if they would have put parity on
the floor the New Democrats probably
would have blocked a bill on the floor
so the the the larger point is that
there is a divide in the party uh there
are two to almost equally robust
factions the New Democrats and the
Progressive Caucus who are at odds on
they have sincere disagreements on on
policy and can you quantify that I think
how many are we talking about in terms
of like actual numbers
I think the Progressive Caucus is
something between 90 and 95 members and
the new Democratic caucus is something
between 90 and 95 members well I mean
you're talking about almost the entire
caucus in one of those two coalition's
so and yeah so when we hear when we hear
the d-triple-c come out a couple weeks
ago and say right if you in any way as a
vendor right if you're someone who's a
campaign consultant or you're somebody
who like I make signs for for
congressional campaigns or I do
fundraising for congressional campaigns
or I do media buys for congressional
campaigns if you are one of those
contractors and you work for someone who
is a challenger in a primary you will
get cut off from being able to get any
general election gigs from the
d-triple-c which is like basically I
don't know I'm trying to think of what
the equivalent is it's like you know if
you Sam if you go on any of the you know
if you go on any podcast we're not gonna
let you go on you know you know go on
radio or something like that you know I
mean to the extent that there's any way
any question about that is to what
degree is that just incumbency
protection which is all the d-triple-c
is anyway right so what degree is that
ideological like are they going to black
fall a vendor
works with a potential primary
challenger to Rashid it to leap right
which which is likely because she is a
Palestinian American who represents a
largely african-american community and
in fact there was a sort of a split
between votes for several different
African Americans in that primary that
was the race to succeed John Conyers and
that's why to lead came on tops you've
got a plurality but not a majority of
votes and if one african-american
Democrat went against her they would at
least have a fighting chance of winning
that primary so is the d-triple-c you're
going to hold to that it would would
they blackballed someone who worked with
a challenger to Rasheed's lead Morell
Hahn Omar RA OC or is this just about
progressive challenges to incumbent
centrist Democrats so that's the
question that remains sort of to be
answered but you know once again there
there's this divide and leadership is is
clearly on the side of the more centrist
faction of that divide and it's led by
Wendell Primus who has this sort of
reputation as a liberal lion but it
comes out of a very narrow world view of
what it means to be a liberal so that
that's the best way I can describe when
you talk to some on the on the more
progressive side do they is I mean how
pointed is this where are we in the
understanding of this dynamic amongst
House members and what are they talking
about as what's the next step
I mean is there because you're telling
me that they're a little this leadership
is a little bit more strategic so they
must have assessed this problem and
their plan is to do X Y & Z over how
long well I mean it starts with the fact
that
I'm able to get quotes on the record
about a staffer to Nancy Pelosi I mean
that the the unprecedented nature of
that is it should be should be
understood by by everybody I mean mark
DeSaulnier is a member of the
progressive Talkies representative out
here in in California said on the record
you know there are some people on staffs
who start to think that they have to
protect democracy from elected officials
I mean that's a pretty that's a pretty
stark statement that he was he was
making about about the role of of these
member staffers who sort of get too big
for their britches so I think I think
being open about this controversy is is
a first to say that there's a debate
here there there's a divide here there
there are people who are frustrating
progress and here's who they are that
bad you know
that's that's a first step now obviously
Pelosi is which people somewhat I think
don't remember closest term limited now
she cannot seek another term beyond I
believe 2022 as Speaker of the House so
obviously there is going to be a lot of
factional fighting over who will succeed
Nancy Pelosi but you know certainly that
can be an area where this divided ten
can be managed in some way I know that
that there's this thought that Hakeem
Jeffries is being groomed to be the next
Speaker of the House because he he took
the position that Joe Crowley had before
a OSI defeated him I that someone like a
jayapal or a Pocan has designs on
perhaps becoming speaker and and using
their support within the press of caucus
do that you know we're a couple
elections away from
having ultimately to see what that
decision is going to be but what happens
in 2020 on the on the presidential side
who is the leader acknowledged of the
party by by the vote of the people is
going to play a role in that and and you
know these these things will play out
but but the fact that this is so out in
the open is a departure from I think the
strategy of previous year
