[Music]
that is really devastating before we get
to Lula so jr. bolson ro is in office
now at this point last week actively
commemorating the 1964 coup that deposed
a democratic government that brought a
military hunson power that murdered
countless indigenous people tortured and
murdered others and if you actually read
there was a really powerful piece I
think was actually in The Washington
Post of Paulo Paulo Coelho quello he
wrote he's the famous Brazilian kind of
spiritual writer he wrote The Alchemist
he was tortured as a young man by the
Brazilian regime and if you read his
essay on that his editorial that's one
of the most sort of disturbing things
you'll read balsan ro who dedicated his
vote for the impeachment of the former
President Dilma Rousseff and that
illegitimate impeachment that judicial
that legislative coup which has set the
political stage along with the u.s.
support for the entire crisis that
Brazil is in he dedicated his vote for
that on behalf of the man in the
military who tortured Dilma Rousseff
Dilma Rousseff was a guerrilla fighter
fighting against Brazil's military
dictatorship so bohlson arrow is in
charge and it's very important
particularly as this goes out because
it's been a disastrous first couple of
months he's extremely unpopular there's
huge pushback against the efforts to gut
the pension system and there's also just
the fact that this guy's an
international embarrassment
there's the stories about his families
you know certainly we don't know all of
it yet but they're definitely on some
level literally connected with the
cartel that assassinated the incredibly
important young leader Mariela Franco
and so and and and nobody likes
on a PR level you know the fact that
this is a variant Li anti LGBTQ
government the fact that this is a you
know a buffoonish government and it's
considered sort of uncouth to be overtly
pro coup and that's why actually bowls
and arroz vice-president was a former
military guy and to the far right has
been triangulating against him in some
ways and sort of undermining some of his
public statements and and it's very
important that as this spills out that
people remember that the Wall Street
Journal endorsed this candidate that the
Brazilian judiciary that has acted in a
totally politicized in illegitimate
fashion against President Lula who would
have almost certainly beat balsan our
own inverted this catastrophe the
oligarchs in Brazil the the the
interests of US and Canadian
corporations that have massive interests
in Brazilian oil timber and agriculture
they supported this happening and they
were gladly able to overlook the fascism
and the buffoonery because of the
opportunity for greater privatization
and capital accumulation and they might
pivot off of this as it becomes more of
an embarrassment if it keeps going down
this trajectory and I just want to say
there and there is a history of
assassinations of movement leaders in
Brazil right in the beginning of bolson
arroz time a couple liters of the
landless movement were machine-gun to
death and what just happened on
Wednesday was that a Brazilian
environmental a leader a major leader of
the indigenous community Sonia
guau guau Jadhav Jarrah and apologized
as always for my pronunciations and I'm
quoting now from tellus or an indigenous
leader and vice presidential candidate
for the socialism ok uh Sonia
Guadalajara who is an indigenous leader
and vice-presidential candidate for the
socialism and Libre leadership party
confirmed Jorah hing goes death and
jorik j√∏rgen tengo Guadalajara was
murdered in the state of Murano in the
Brazilian Amazon they suspect that Jorge
was killed and quoting again from
jealous or by illegal loggers who
operate in the territory of Gwadar ax
and the people renowned for their work
as guardians of the Amazon and she and
now I'm back to Sonia who said the
murder was part of a sequence of deaths
and murders in the quota in the logging
dispute according to data from the
National Institute for Space Research
INPE 70% of Murano State has been
deforested guardians of the Amazon is a
group of men of the gorge ahora people
who decided to fight against illegal
loggers themselves in the face of
government inaction they patrol their
territory in search of outside threats
and when they find loggers or hunters
they destroy their equipment and detain
perpetrators and deliver them to the
police
later quote-unquote now from that tell
us or report now we know that bolson ro
has removed protections for both the
Amazon and indigenous people and the
entirety of the Amazon is on the
chopping block and of course it's an
environmental story because if you
actually radically DeForest the Amazon
that will affect global environmental
patterns but it is also something akin
to a genocide aleph eart of the
indigenous people there so it goes
without saying that of course the Trump
administration supports this and of
course Steve Bannon is connected with
these people and of course all of the
worst oil companies and every other type
of nefarious corporate interest from the
Western order supports and is connected
to these things but it's very important
to remember that the Brazilian judiciary
we'll get to in a second in prison Lula
which helps set which helped finalize
the stage for this and it's very
important to remember that the New York
Times and The Guardian did credulous
absurd reporting on this it's very
important to remember that even some
progressive YouTube hosts thought that
this lava jato operation which was the
politicized a war against the left in
Brazil was somehow a great blow and anti
corruption and still have not apologized
or made amends
attempted to do any new work on Brazil
even though supposedly they're so
concerned about us interference and the
Obama administration and Clinton and
Kerry State Department's actively
supported the do J's collaboration in
these efforts so they all share part of
the blame for the catastrophe of the
bolsa Nara regime and this is another
major piece of this on April 7th
Lula de Silva was the former president
he governed Brazil from 2003 to 2010
will have completed his first year in
prison he was put in jail without any
material evidence by a independent and
prosecutor Sergio Moro who was
incidentally now the Justice Minister
for Jerry Belson ro Moro leaked phone
conversations and wiretaps illegally and
attempts to humiliate Lula and Dilma and
other Workers Party leaders and the
entirety of the conviction of Lula is
based off of testimony and there is ZERO
material evidence for what by the way is
also an exceedingly nothing crime even
if it were to have actually taken place
which is literally repairs on a
middle-class apartment by the beach
after Lula was president this is in a
country that has a massive that has
politicians literally in bed with mafia
cartels who are not in jail the former
president Michel temer was arrested for
four days on very serious and infinitely
more documented charges and was released
after four days in prison meanwhile Lula
has been held in solitary confinement
with no evidence and against all norms
and protocols of every type of legal
precedent let's play a clip this is
actually and this really is painful
because look Lula chose to not go into
exile and he chose to even hand himself
into prison even though this was
obviously a totally corrupt and
politicized process and this was the
final rally he gave before handing
himself in notice the fact that the
social-democratic
union leader who helped lead Brazil out
of the military dictatorship in the 80s
and took 40 million people out of
poverty when he was president is the one
who's actually talking about preserving
the Constitution here
you think they woman dr. Gibbs I'm going
to attend the mandate and so they won't
say that I'm a fugitive hiding myself
that I'm going to let them know I'm not
afraid I'm going to prove my innocence
there has been ample proof offered by
him as legal team but it will not make a
difference in the current rotted corrupt
leadership of Brazil and several unusual
and extrajudicial moves including by the
way a decision last spring that was
handed down by a lower court that should
have immediately released Lula in fact
there was a couple of hours where he
wasn't released Sergio Moro the same
prosecutor to put him in jail without
evidence who's now balsa na Rose Justice
Minister held him there actually just
illegally ordering a court order the
Brazilian military around this time also
sent out a threatening tweet about
releasing Lula I'm going to quote
briefly from Vijay Prashad who has a
really good piece out called you can't
have democracy when you put the truth in
prison which is on a year-long
anniversary of Lula being in prison
Brazil's former president Lula will
clock a year in prison this week it's a
bittersweet anniversary not just for
Lula not just for Brazil but for the
idea of democracy
what did Lula do to deserve this time in
prison and indeed what is his successor
Dilma due to be impeached so
aggressively a few years ago according
ahead a little bit Lula and Dilma
represent the side of history that says
that the powerful should not be allowed
to do whatever they want and when they
do and when they do what they want they
should not be allowed to get away with
it Lula and Dilma unlike the others
became heads of government he's speaking
about other political prisoners in other
parts of the world became heads of
governments and head and as heads of
government they pushed agendas that
rattled the old order but they didn't
break the bars all they did was drag
some of the sequestered wealth from
Brazil's wealthy and try to moderate a
society that has been deeply unequal for
500 years they tackled hunger
corruption illiteracy and indignity the
problems in Brazil remain fierce and as
any reasonable person will attest Lula
and Dilma went after them with honesty
and reason the United Nations pointed
out pointed to Brazil as an example of
the country that was able to eradicate
hunger a visit to federal university set
up under lullo's government showed that
it was possible in terms of the
provision of higher education for
oppressed communities all of this was
out of the question
Oleg Archy wanted their country back the
viciousness was with which Dilma was
impeached in april 2016 is an indication
of the oligarchies disregard for
democratic norms and hunger to restore
power to themselves brazil's president
jerub-baal scenario trump of the tropics
was then a legislator he dedicated his
vote against Dilma it's a to the kernel
to man a brilliant au straw the man who
tortured Dilma in 1970 during the
military dictatorship just briefly more
lula was a force to be reckoned with
lula was arrested because it was clear
that he a force of nature was likely to
win the presidential elections in 2018
last week 464 brazilian lawyers all
highly respecting their professions
signed a statement asking for the
release of Lula Lula they said did not
receive the rules of due process his
defense team was not able to work
effectively and the facts of his
complicity were not proved beyond a
reasonable doubt
Lula the first president from a
working-class background they broke had
pushed an agenda on behalf of the poor
which quote may be one of the reasons
that explained his arrest
this also is a really good book from our
books
luiz inacio lula da silva the truth will
prepare prevail why I was condemned
which have loop interviews with Lula
right before he was taken to prison
outlined the political situation and an
explanation of the corruption of the
Brazilian judiciary with regards to his
case and look you know there's that
Corbin story and I don't you know I
don't know
if you elect somebody like Bernie
Sanders as president I don't know but
put it this way it's not gonna end with
like the vicious stupidity of someone
like dana Milbank you know if you come
into power in a society that is
fundamentally set to favor a small part
of the population and you challenge that
even an incredibly moderated way and
even in Lula's case he was aided by a
commodities boom so people are actually
getting richer you are going to
profoundly offend that order uh and he's
a political prisoner because of that but
I think there's implications for the
rest of the world and certainly
something to watch with things like
capital flight Azzam low attempts to
chart a different but in some ways
analogous trajectory yeah none of these
fights are going to be one with the
placing of any single person in an
office never and particularly in
developing countries and places where US
has a dominant int you know influence
it's our responsibility to speak on that
you know there was the letter on this
that was released a couple weeks ago
signed by many members of Congress it
included the fact that Lula was barred
but there needs to be a lot more on this
and including very specifically on Lula
we need to be in a position where if a
Democrat and obviously Sanders would be
the most likely to do this but frankly
any Democrat they need to be pushed on
this in the primary this has big
implications for foreign policy across
Latin America and a u.s. role there and
we do not want a repetition of Clinton
Obama policies in Latin America and
there needs to be extreme diplomatic
pressure put by the United States to
release Lula from prison period
