[Music]
so the the fundraising numbers were
released today and end of the quarter
nothing as big as as Barack Obama in q1
of 2007 but different constraints
obviously more candidates running this
time around with with a greater ability
to fundraise so the pie maybe a little
bit bigger but there's a lot more people
who are saddling up to cut the pie and
eat it so but the big and have we heard
betos fundraising numbers yet no well we
know the totals of his yet but Kamala
Harris announced yesterday that she
raised twelve million dollars from more
than two hundred and eighteen thousand
individual contributions in the first
quarter of 2019 somebody can do the math
as to what each donation would would
amount to Harris of course had raised a
1.5 million in the first 24 hours and
then Bernie and then Beto ended up
crushing those numbers I guess 98
percent of Harris's donations were under
$100 interesting well that's also like a
weird that's a you got to dig into that
I want to see those numbers / parents
arrested for truancy well here's the
thing I mean and look this stuff gets
overblown like there were nine hundred
thousand contributions made to Bernie by
five hundred and something like twenty
thousand people the average donation was
twenty bucks but you've got people
basically who made two contributions you
know four hundred and fifty thousand of
those people more or less four hundred
made two contributions which pushes down
the average number of contributions in
blah blah blah but I mean look people
know the broad contours of this story
and and so you know people getting
caught up in this five hundred thousand
people though is a lot of people to
donate to a campaign twenty percent of
those are new from I guess from last
year I mean excuse me last last go
through so he's picking up people
they're obviously still I think two
million people donated to Bernie at one
point or another last year so they're
still you know and at one point five
million people extant can't anticipate
that all of them will choose Bernie
again this time because they were
choosing him because he was one of two
choices really last time so who knows
but the bottom line is Bernie got big
numbers people waiting to see what betos
numbers are and the real import of this
ultimately will be how long will
candidates stay in the race how long
will they be able to afford to stay in
the race the you know these numbers in
some ways have more importance to a
Harris or a Beto because they've got to
make a case to big big donors in the
primaries and Bernie obviously won't be
doing that and so the numbers that war
that that excuse me the Harris and Beto
do at this point and Warren just you
know said goodbye to or finance chair
because she will not go after big
donations and I think he probably is
like well I can't do my job then I need
to go I work on a commission and so I
need to go somewhere else but for those
people who are going to ultimately need
more money from big donors three to six
months from now what they get now
has a lot of relevance so you know
Bernie's gonna be in the race until the
end folks and that's clear here and it
does not appear that he's gonna be
raising so much money that it's gonna
scare other people out of the race I
don't know that that could have ever
happened so you know I don't know at one
point like box office numbers became
like the the most important thing in the
world and these fundraising numbers are
important but they have you know you got
to put them in context as to what they
actually mean and Bernie's going to have
plenty of money to raise to run the race
that he wants to run and it's just a
question of how much money are the other
candidates that are you know in many
respects trying to be the the anti
Bernie or the non Bernie candidate so we
shall see but here is Bernie Sanders and
he was at the was this the that the what
does it weed the people yeah the We the
People Town Hall this was yesterday and
Bernie basically explains that this
policy of so-called right to work in
other words where which fundamentally
kneecaps
unions and really prevents workers from
their right to organize in many respects
yeah he's done with that legislation
that we've introduced says in America
workers have the constitutional right to
organize that's called freedom of
assembly and therefore in that
legislation we outlaw the ability of
states to pass and maintain
right-to-work legislation
there you go what Sam that is really
that's clear that's especially important
because we're kind of close to getting
federal right to work right now
right or as I like to call it right to
work for Less I mean on someone's I like
to call it right to work for less I mean
on some level I think we have a version
of that that came from the Supreme Court
I mean this is this is going to be I
mean this is part of the problem is that
and and there is we're going to see and
I'm already seeing this say like on the
antitrust level more and more written
about the the technical assessing
whether this stuff can actually be done
without a broad-based legislative you
know support because judges are going to
shoot down a lot of this stuff and those
are all I think valid points but
second-order points you need to first
have a political leadership that has the
will to do these things and the
intention to do these things and then
they need to make the argument not only
must they appoint judges and and whatnot
but then they need to make the argument
that it requires more legislation than
we we have currently and so to a large
extent I've read these articles I may
talk about them but in the final
analysis it's a second-order issue at
this point it's it's it they're
perfectly valid arguments but from a
political standpoint they're largely
irrelevant because the prescription to
deal with this stuff is basically the
same you need to have elect people to
office who have the will and the policy
to do these things and don't forget also
he's gonna need a ton of grassroots
support for all this legislation like
yes Megan Day said the other day in
order to get anything done this movement
is going to have
to keep going it's gonna have to expand
and get more intense and perhaps you
know we're so far away from even seeing
the contours of what things are going to
look like in the general election and
who knows you know what happens if
someone like Bernie gets into the
general election in terms of what it
does for for the grassroots but before
we get there
