see this Jerome Corsi just to watch
looks like he's having too much to us
Jerome Corsi is on the Eric Metaxas show
which is on a scene on TBN and it is
just amazing the like I said like the
ocean of right-wingers that get just
what abyss but here he is talking to her
own core see now I don't know it's
conceivable that it was like 103 degrees
in the studio and that's why Jerome
Corsi is pouring sweat he could also be
having a tough time as of late he's not
a very nice person and so I couldn't
wish this type of anxiety on someone who
deserves it more probably have to
thought my head here is Jerome Corsi
talking about the interrogation he's
going through by the Muller
investigation I'm gonna give you another
chilling moment here Aaron szalinski was
the youngest of the prosecutors very
arrogant guy the one who done the lead
had done all the work on me said he read
all my books and listen to all my live
chats and he's fun something gives me a
lecture he says dr. Corsi you take a
fact here and effect there and you weave
them in lies and you're not like us you
don't know the difference between truth
and false and I'm sitting there I'm
stunned you know why I'm stunned first
of all he said that my work is all
political in the objects - what do you
think some you know a nutcase because of
my political views but I'm saying I
didn't I should have said this to him
but I thought it's in the book silent no
more I said mr. szalinski you don't have
any idea what you just reminded me of
and said I doubt if anyone will Rick
when Jesus Christ is being interrogated
by Pontius Pilate Christ says I am the
truth I am the way whoever follows me
will follow the truth and in all punches
Pilate asks him
what is truth and there's Olinsky is
telling me he's the arbiter of truth
Wow that is a really bad analogy so if
we were to understand what Jerome Corsi
is saying I'm like Jesus and I sort of
perceive this lead prosecutor as the
Saul Alinsky and Emperor yes I got to
tell you I'm not a Christian obviously
but it would be a profound letdown if
Jesus so I think as we understand him is
pretty great for a variety of reasons
actually it was just like this like
ambush bravest who like should have been
nailed on a cross by the movies right
imagine like you just say the world is
big sweaty fat all right so I show to
the body changes your character we are
still convinced that Pontius Pilate was
not born in Rome Pontius Pilate or stock
for Galilee without documents let's free
discal yay that feeling you get when you
and leave a conversation and think of
all the things you should have said or
what it was and that's why you should
buy my book because I wrote that in my
book I missed that total Doug
opportunity to compare myself that would
actually be a great a great memoir all
the things I should have said and that's
a spirit did Mueller investigate exactly
no joy a jerome corsi when he is
indicted that's going to be fun to watch
