[Music]
we mentioned North Carolina even Kris
Kobach apparently now is recognizing
there could be something wrong with the
election in North Carolina Democrats
ninth district yeah and so Chris Hayes
had on his program I guess his last
night the North Carolina Republican
executive director this is Dallas
Woodhouse's he Layton Woodhouse's
brother or something like that or no no
no no different guy
well there is like two brothers but no
that's Brad Woodhouse okay okay so who
are the wood houses so the like a
brother team that started sighs yeah
it's a good sign all right well anyway
so Chris Hayes had on last night the
North Carolina Republican executive
director and remember the Republican
Party in North Carolina has basically I
don't know what the numbers are hundreds
of hundred thousand some odd have kept
people off the voting rolls have
depressed voter turnout all ostensibly
based upon voter fraud and this is the
only real case that they've ever found
and this is not voted for it is
electoral fraud here is a haze you want
to cite something you said in the days
after the election where you said in a
phone call we are trying to keep
Democrats from stealing the
congressional race from Mark Harris now
that's obviously an incredibly loaded
charge that you made do you want to
apologize for that or take that back or
just changed in well no cuz I made that
call to donors of the North Carolina
Republican Party which you're not one of
I feel sure but if you would like to be
where 1506 Hillsborough Street and
Raleigh North Carolina no but I think
this your your position was this is a
sort of made-up scandal and the
Democrats are out to try to steal this
out from under our noses we won 905
votes there they're refusing concede
that proved to be wrong right I mean you
get out of your skis there was actual
apparently criminal activity okay I
would say there are a lot of different
things going on here the ground is
shifting under our feet you know I don't
think you can excuse the Democrats on
the State Board of Elections that all of
a sudden dropped this on our lap after
no election protest was filed after mr.
macreedy conceded the election after no
recount was called for and after all of
the local boards of Elections certified
the race we have never seen that wait a
second though wait and sir if I can just
if I can just finish this one point I
will adjust and at the same time the
state is engaged in a very difficult
negotiation and fight over the control
of the Board of Elections that I know
and so and so the Board of Elections
that's walking out the door simply comes
out and says they're not gonna certify
and at that time really don't say why
okay let's put that - this is imagine
this guy going like you didn't find that
the money was missing from the bank
until they gotten away in the Gatto a
car and they'd already crossed the
bridge and paid their toll and then all
of a sudden they gotta come back I'll
call it lilly Ledbetter what I mean that
that I what that is exactly what the
court said in the lilly Ledbetter okay
Lilly Ledbetter was woman who was
discriminated against on pay for 20
years yep and she found out about it
years later and said I want my back pay
I was doing the same job at this other
guy and he was making all this more
money than me and the court said well
you didn't find out about it in time so
we're not gonna do anything and they and
Congress had to change the law so so
timeliness is a thing but I don't know
that it's a thing in this context when
there's obviously fraud and well when a
Board of Elections did not certify the
rate that's the point right
certifications must be laid aside we
have cleared the deck of all the
potential like rampant fraud that could
have existed and oh we found some before
the certification I can this one
say like okay you serve you two years
and then you know three years from now
they go hey wait a second there was some
or even when there a sitting congressman
I think that the statute of limitations
has not run out when they have the race
has not been certified that's the whole
point of the certification his arguments
were sort of all I was lying to my
donors not everybody I like that and I
almost do my job yeah man what do you
want anyone give me some money and I
know propaganda show right I mean what
do you bear shits in the woods I don't
know what to tell you that's how you
talk to donors I don't know what you
want from me I will buy alex jones pills
Chris the hell you think well David Dan
it has been a real honor and pleasure to
have you in studio always to be good in
new cedar auditorium there we go yes and
the massive yeah you can see that we
actually got some fans the rafters or
balcony but David thank you much for
coming on I hope most everyone I think
who listens this program has purchased
your book a chain of title very good and
here they can find you where do you like
to send people to your tumblr or sure so
David and Tom blur in your tiny letter
and tell me one tiny letter comm slash
David Dan is my bi-weekly to twice a
week newsletter that's only twice a week
usually twice a week that includes links
to everything I write about you know
there's a little bit more theory going
around on this program there you don't
actually exist well you're just the guy
they send in are you saying I'm a crisis
actor
I mean look I've noticed you had my love
I've noticed you had headset on the
whole time you've been here that's true
you could be just somebody's like I'm a
replicant one person I'm saying they're
cooking a guy in a van down the street
you know listening to the show
feeding you information as part of the
team route cfpb they're all they're all
like this cyrano de bergerac suave
personable handsome face of a shady
collective exactly I think this is
serous funded like traveling van out
there with like 14 reporters the
communications van and they're just the
guy they send out to actually front it
we're gonna see David like a cop we're
gonna see him in the IBM Watson
commercial they found Dane it's deep you
know now that I'm off the show I can do
my normal accent this is like the Bourne
Identity
[Laughter]
