charity run with
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Thursday February 21st 2019
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live to tape steps
from the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on the program
today Kathleen
Ballu assistant professor of history US
history at the University of Chicago
author of bring the war home the white
power movement in paramilitary America
yes ladies and gentlemen you may not
know it but we have a bit of a problem
in this country with extremist
extremists white supremacists it's
actually a really heartwarming story of
of different white supremacy groups that
put down their differences and came
together and created a whole new
movement in the 80s so listen for all of
us what a special time the eighties
right how much it's like almost every
horror that we now deal with in some way
was a function of maybe that's an
exaggeration but eighties tough year for
American politics
90s not not that great the arts I guess
not so well nevertheless fascinating I
actually had a joke I don't know maybe
that's not appropriate we're on vacation
right now so I could I can tell this
show let's see the the joke was back
when I was a stand this is an early
early stand-up joke for me fact I think
they were all early they were all not so
great but the joke was something to the
effect of like I guess I was doing a
character you know I guess it was
actually it must been during the early
90s when oh it's interesting it hadn't
occurred to me but maybe this was a
function of this of what what she's
talking about
yeah I was aware that there was a rise
in the number of white hate groups and
the joke was something to the effect of
like I used to be a member of the you
know new White Liberation Front but I
left them to join the free white power
front the new white liberation front
just had a you know bad dental plan
trying to figure out like why and they
didn't you know they were a little
chintzy on the on the picnics I was
trying to figure out why you would
create new white hate groups oh and the
other was like oh yeah and white the new
white the Liberation Front
didn't hate Puerto Ricans enough that
was basically the joke but I guess
actually it occurs to me now in
retrospect this there was a dynamic that
was going on that was real and Kathleen
Kathleen Ballou has written about it the
white power movement and parodies area
America folks if you remember you'll
have access to the deep archive pick
that Brendan has pulled out for you
today if you're not a member you can do
so by becoming a member at joined the
majority report calm it is your support
that makes this show possible quick
break and then bright back with bring
the war home the white power movement
and the paramilitary and paramilitary
America
Kathleen balloon
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program assistant
professor of US history at University of
Chicago and to author of bring the war
home the white power movement and
paramilitary America
Kathleen blue welcome to the program
thank you very much for having me
okay let's start I want to start in in
1979 in Greensboro North Carolina and
and then I want to go backwards you know
to to maybe a little bit before where
you're the main thesis of your book lies
but just so that we get a sense of the
sort of disparate I guess factions
elements movements that make up
organized racism I guess in the country
I don't know how else to say that but
tell us about this event in in
Greensboro North Carolina in 1979
because I don't I don't think it really
remains in the popular consciousness
very much you're right I think it's a
great place to start too because I think
that the Greensboro shooting which I'll
describe in a moment is important both
because it represents the formal
beginning of what I would call the white
power movement which is a alliance
between different elements of white
supremacist and far-right groups that
had before that been disparate so I'm
talking about Klansmen and neo-nazis
radical tax protesters later racist
skinhead groups and others who are kind
of brought into this wide broad-based
social movement but I think is best
thought of as the white power movement
so Greensboro is also important because
it is the closest historical cognate to
a lot of what has brought this movement
back into our public discourse so for
instance when we think about the
altercation altercations in
Charlottesville Virginia that garnered
headlines very recently the
historical cognate event is Greensboro
so what happened is on November 3rd 1979
a organized group of white power
demonstra white power gunmen including
both Klansmen and neo-nazis opened fire
on a leftist death to the Klan march in
Greensboro they killed five people
including four white men and one
african-american woman and also injured
several other people and they
immediately escapes the scene police
were not on the scene and in three
subsequent trials the judicial system
kind of broadly failed to do anything
meaningful about that violence Wow okay
so we have that event and this notion of
of the white power movement essentially
being an umbrella movement I guess for
these disparate groups of I guess white
supremacist I mean how would you because
you know I guess I mean we think about
in a non academic sense you know when
they say why power I think oh yeah of
course we've had white power movements
throughout you know since post since
reconstruction I guess I mean maybe I
guess before then too but ones that were
sort of like a little bit less supported
by the the structure of society on some
level but give us a history in the
context of your thesis that much of
these more militant versions of white
supremacy are a function or at least in
some way a function of our our foreign
policy sure let me circle back around to
war and foreign policy at the end of my
answer because I do you think it's a
good idea to stop for a minute and think
about terminology I think you're right
that what we
call these groups and how we think about
them is is load-bearing in the sense
that it really shaped the kinds of
response that are then available both
within public discourse and in other
ways so let me just start with the term
white supremacists the people that I
write about definitely are white
supremacists and in the sense that they
believe white people are superior many
of them also believe that white people
are in fact the only humans and that
other people are either descended from
animals or from Satan when they're it's
a long story but that is a belief that
comes from the political theology called
Christian identity there's a lot of
other kinds of dehumanizing ways that
they think about Jewish people and
people of color but the thing about
white supremacists as a terminology is
that much of American society is white
supremacists especially in the period of
my study but going into the present
there's a lot of structures in our
society that has been described as white
supremacists by historian legal scholars
there's a lot of white supremacy that
does not go so far as my actors the
other one that comes up a lot that's
been in in all the Twitter feeds
today is nationalist or white
nationalist and that's probably more
correct for the people that I'm writing
about in the sense that from a political
science definition they are white
nationalists they're advocating for the
the identity and strengths and
preservation of a nation the place that
this gets tricky is that after 1983 the
people I'm writing about don't think
about that nation as the United States
there's kind of an implication when we
talk about white nationalism that it's
like an overexertion of patriotism right
and you might think about the first KKK
marching on the National wall and mall
in Washington wearing their robes and
hoods but with their faces plainly in
view that's not what this is after 1983
the nation that is imagined by white
nationalism is the Aryan Nation they're
thinking about a transnational group of
white people and how they can seize
terrain militarily just
and vanquish others that's not about
patriotism that is about a direct threat
to the nation of the United States so
the white power movement I think is a
better name for this because it is more
radical and it is also I mean not for
nothing what a lot of these activists
called themselves um but it also returns
us to this other question about the
impact of foreign policy and war upon
racist mobilizations and vigilante
violence mobilization in the United
States you know let me just let me just
ask you to pause right there I want to
circle back to that but I just want to
you know clear up the nationalism
question a little bit because it is it
is every day on this show we hear
someone arguing about beat well
obviously the president - right I mean
how much of that stuff and I know this
is a little bit of a tangent but
obviously we'll get back to the to the
thesis which which I gotta say I think
is fascinating but this this concept of
the nationalism that we're talking about
particularly after the early 80s is of a
non-existent or a sort of a almost a
civilization of people but white people
and it is not necessarily have specific
national boundaries per se they have a
vision of you know finding they're in
exile on some level and they're they're
you know they're in the diaspora I guess
and they're looking for their their
country but how much of that like when
we hear civic nationalists versus white
nationalists versus nationalists how
much of that is we're just trying to
hide the ball um I think that that is a
question that has gotten very complex in
our current political moment um and I
was a historian what I want to try to do
is look at what we can learn from the
past okay I think that white nationalism
which is what I'm writing about is very
clearly this this anti state impulse in
the period of my study it is very
clearly a
of people who see their racial identity
as far more important than their
national identity and are therefore
attempting to create race war and
overthrow the government in order to
further the good of race and it's not
just through race war they do this
through all kinds of ways and I mean one
way to really think about this vividly
is I think the group that people many
many people are familiar with is Aryan
Nation which is the compound in Idaho
where a lot of these groups meet up in
the summer and also is its own community
Aryan Nations is that means
transnational white group you know a
transnational nation of white people
that's what that means and their
intention is to connect with people in
Canada and South Africa and Europe and
Australia in order to create a white
world now how they get there is a sort
of feat of imagination especially given
that they're confronting the most
militant super state in world history
but they do this through everything from
migration and campaigns to have more
white babies and drive to you know
support those white children and white
families all the way up through race war
this is a broad-based social movement
around not only white identity or kind
of the role of whiteness and American
life which is of course something we
could talk more about but it's about
this very radical approach to attempting
to unseat the nation okay so I'm sorry
that's very unclear I mean unseat the
the federal government right okay with
outside of your portfolio you know and
we may have to wait 20 years to ask you
that question about this moment in terms
of the way that nationalism is being
used alright but let's let's go back to
that concept of how our foreign
entanglements bring you know I guess
part of the returns of that are the the
increased militancy amongst white power
folks yeah and and this is another place
where the term white power could be
instructive to us because actually the
corollary term is probably black power
we have a lot of history historical
work about how Vietnam veteran coming
back impacted leftist mobilization
not only after Vietnam but through
American history and it turns out that
the same thing is true on the right you
see up searches in vigilante violence
and in these kinds of group formations
not only after the Vietnam War but after
every major war in American history so
when I set out to write this project I
was wondering if I might find something
like a Rambo story simply a return story
about disaffected veterans wreaking
violence after homecoming it turns out
it is not at all that simple and that
what's happening is both sort of a very
small but instrumental number of
veterans who do share military skills
and strategies after homecoming meeting
a whole bunch of civilians who are also
militarized by the project of warfare
those write rises in violence appear
across all strata of American society
after warfare so it's not just men it's
not just the age group of people who
have served in combat but all American
civilians get more violent after warfare
that violence is then mobilized by this
kind of political formation and in the
period of my study has some very
specific ways that it's shaped by the
Vietnam War okay and and and before we
just get to the Vietnam War we can see
examples of this in following World War
one we see a rise in the Klan in the
1920s we've talked about at least that
rise on this program with several
authors but that is that's a specific
time for that rise right I mean it's not
is it are there other factors that play
into it there because I mean clearly
we're you know post-reconstruction we
can see that that that push back but
we're still 20 years out from that and
you know when we see this rise and I
think it was something like at that
point six million card-carrying members
essentially the Klan in this country
that's a lot of people at a time
I think you know the population was a
hundred million in the in the country
yeah it's a huge number of people and so
part of the thing to understand about
the Klan is that we're never talking
well we're really talking about a
centralized organization or about a
completely coherent single group it is
often a constellation of local groups so
when I talk about these major membership
surges you can see that one way to see
so of course there are other factors
that push and pull these memberships up
and down right but when we think about
other factors for instance economic
stress or immigration or racial animus
nothing aligns quite as neatly as the
aftermath of combat with those major
membership surges so while those are
others those factors do matter they play
a major role I think what historians
have often missed is this other element
of sort of the relationship between
military activity and warfare and the
aftermath of that kind of violence in
the domestic space so the way I got into
this project is actually from the sort
of from the testimony and writings of
people in this movement all through this
archive I kept encountering this idea
where people would say something like I
killed communists in Vietnam so why
wouldn't I kill communists in the United
States this is a profound slippage of
meaning right it collapses Homefront and
battle it collapses different kinds of
communist enemies it collapses time
between peacetime and wartime it also
muddies a whole bunch of different sort
of discourses especially in regions like
the south where communism worked not
only as sort of a straight up and down
political signifier but was also invoked
to sort of serve as a code word for
policing racial norms for policing labor
agitation for policing interracial
relationships so all of these things get
boiled down in a really interesting way
to be about an extension of military
service which they're talking about is
patriotic
and that sort of discursive use of the
war I think is what I'm trying to get
out in the book now there and and you
you specifically focus on the
post-vietnam era but before we get to
that specifically to what extent does
the nature of the military escapades as
it were impact the the nature of that
you know that that blowback that comes
back to the states because I mean I know
that that part of it is you know Vietnam
is at least you know within the 20th
century the the the experience of
Vietnam and the the experience of that's
when they returned was somewhat unique
in terms of the way that we perceived
ourselves maybe you know the actual
battle itself I'm sure was you know
equally horrific but there was there was
a difference in sort of the I guess
qualitatively of the experience of the
United States in that war how much does
that implicate absolutely well its
enormous and and I I think that so I
think the Vietnam War in particular does
several different things first of all it
makes possible the unification of
different ideologies on the right so
Klansmen and neo-nazis before the
Vietnam War have a really difficult time
getting on the same getting in the same
room and sort of sharing resources and
creating friendships with each other
because of the legacy of World War two
still being such a huge shaping factor
so Klansmen who see themselves with
patriotic don't want to align with
Nazism because a lot of them fought
Nazism in World War two after Vietnam
there's this whole new narrative that
can bring people together in a shared
struggle against the government and part
of that is made possible to by the way
that not just people in this fringe
movement but many people felt betrayed
by the government during Vietnam partly
because of the way the war was waged
partly because of the
the failure of the nation to sort of
respond to veterans as they came home in
ways that were were sensitive and were
meeting people's needs and partly
because of the way that both of those
things were narrative eyes by the
political right after the war was over
um the other thing that the Vietnam War
does that's different than these earlier
surgeons is to dramatically escalate the
kind of strategies and weapon such that
the civilian casualties are just
astronomically higher and of course my
book concludes with the largest of these
which is the Oklahoma City bombing in
1995 which killed 168 people including
19 young children the scale of that
violence is much different than say the
scale of the violence of Klansmen who
are confronting civil rights protestors
in the 50s and 60s so part of that is
because of the tactics and strategies of
the Vietnam War and here I'm thinking of
plastic explosives like c4 but in other
places the people in my in my book are
trying to use things like anti-tank
weapons and automatic rifles
semi-automatics and military-grade
machine guns and surface-to-air missiles
and a whole bunch of other technology
that is from Vietnam in order to
escalate the impact of what they're able
to do and when civilians are in the
crosshairs this is very very concerning
so if I so if I understand you the
difference between say the rise of the
Klan in the 20s and the rise of white
power you know in the in the the 70s and
into the early 80s as you know as a
blowback to Vietnam is in in part the a
that the when the Klan came back I mean
part of it is that you're militarized I
guess and so the idea of coming back and
sort of organizing and being you know
having some measure of violence for a
narrow set of people but also the
society brought a broadly speaking is
more I guess amenable to sort of
militarization because everybody's been
on a war footing as it were
the big difference is that after Vietnam
there's a certain amount of
disillusionment and in addition to the
distance that we have that was you know
keeping neo-nazis and Klansmen apart
there is this sense of like giving up on
the US government and in a more space to
imagine a a white nation exactly and and
part of what so part of it is that the
war comes home and so the war that these
activists are trying to wage reflect the
Vietnam War in its shape and symbols and
tactics and part of it is that after
1983 this whole movement is calibrated
at overthrowing subverting and unseating
the federal government so the Klan of
the 20s is in many places
indistinguishable from the state local
government efficient like 10% of the
state of Indiana was in the Klan and a
ton of elected officials and as I said
before they were marching openly on the
mall they did Church picnics it was a
very mainline and organization civic
organization yeah and I mean when I
teach this to my undergraduates part of
what I always try to underline is how
much people in the time of the second
Klan were just interested in joining
stuff so the founder of the second Klan
was also in like the Masons The Odd
Fellows the Knights Templar and I think
the Pythian and also in three different
churches I mean like you just also just
liked to be in clubs and that current of
sort of what was popular runs through
all of the second Klan the eighties plan
is oriented towards 80s pop culture you
know what it is to be cool and appealing
so they're into paramilitary training
camps and camouflage and armaments and
that's also sort of how the Vietnam War
shapes broader Society but this
revolutionary turn is very significant
because it's not anymore about vigilante
violence in which the Klan is sort of
working to support status quo power or
to support the state they're aimed at a
full scale
or throw of the federal government and
as I said this is an imaginative beat
because of sort of the impossibility of
the task one important movement book the
Turner Diaries calls this they say it's
like trying to assassinate an elephant
with a gnat right it's it's about a
totally asymmetric a project of trying
to unseat the government and how they
imagine this will be possible as part of
what I'm trying to document in the book
as well and how much and you mentioned
that the sort of the technological
advance is you know carried over to how
much was the nature of Vietnam in that
the civilian population was perceived to
be an enemy in a way that in World War
two and in World War one
and even I think in in in the Korean War
there was a sense that Oh to the extent
that US soldiers are there they're there
to liberate and they and and and and
certainly in in in World War two you
know which it's it's other white people
for to a large extent how much did those
play into it and also the idea that we
lost Vietnam or at least there was you
know there was there was a perception
that we lost as we laughed how much did
that also play I think all of that is
important and and let me just quickly
say that that what I'm saying about the
Vietnam War here is going to be about
the way that activists in this fringe
movement told the story of the war right
rather than a judgment about the war
itself because the Vietnam were also
engendered all kinds of other social
movements right like including
Liberatore and leftist movements
including sort of pan racial I mean many
people in Vietnam tell stories about
overcoming their own racial prejudice
and the lifelong friendships and things
like this right and that's perhaps the
more quantitative view of the Vietnam
war but if you look at a white power
movement the story that they're telling
is definitely about government betrayal
and lost and about the people that they
lost in combat in Vietnam
and how this shows the sort of the great
wrong of the of the state itself and we
see the impact of that kind of discourse
in events like the Klan harassment of
Vietnamese fishermen in the Galveston
Bay Area in nineteen thirty 1980s in
1979 and 1981 where Klansmen trained
local white fishermen in paramilitary
camps to harass Vietnamese refugees and
and they do things like set on fire a
boat painted USS Vietcong right so
they're specifically saying that these
refugees represent the Vietcong and here
they are now in America ironically most
of these refugees are in fact people who
had served in the South Vietnamese
forces and who had been American allies
and and for that reason had to flee
after the Americans left but the way
that the Vietnam War frames out that
conflict is very very clear and there's
one picture from this time period of a
planned rally where they burned that
boat where a man is wearing a Klan hood
made out of camouflage fatigue material
so this becomes just ingrained into what
they're doing from kind of the
post-vietnam moment forward and so you
you break down essentially there were
three sort of periods for this I guess
this movement in that that one you're
talking about is in the late seventies
early eighties where there's this
consolidation where long old prejudices
between neo-nazis and KKK folks are
dispensed with and I imagine that's also
sort of generational if I'm you know 25
years old and in 1979 I'm not so
sensitive maybe did the Nazis on some
level as as I would have been if I was
50 I guess or 60 or 70 at that point I
think that's right and and so they're
finding common cause what how does how
does that consolidation happen and then
take us into that revolutionary period
and what what instigates that
revolutionary period yeah and this is
this is critically important this is one
of the things that I think history can
of where history can help us to
understand kind of what we're seeing in
the present moment because the
Revolutionary turn doesn't happen under
a kind of leftist regime the
revolutionary turn comes in Reagan's
second term in 1983 and it happens
because people in the movement are
really frustrated with what they see as
a failure of electoral politics to
deliver the kind of radical change that
they want it's a moment of kind of
coming to terms with the idea that what
they want can never be achieved by the
political system and therefore it's time
to go to war that's one half of it the
other half of it has to do with simply
kind of readiness they have by 1983
built a series of paramilitary camps all
around the country
they've been amassing weapons and
materiel for this kind of a project they
have a a movement it's a fictional book
but it can't become kind of a a movement
loadstar of ideological organizing
called the Turner Diaries that gives
everyone a way of strategizing what
they're doing and then they have two
huge strategic breakthroughs in 1983 one
is that they begin to use early computer
message boards under the name Liberty
meant to disseminate both movement
objectives like you know hit lists and
assassination targets and also movement
cultural materials like personal ads and
you can tell how important this is to
this movement because they when they
robbed millions of dollars from armored
trucks what they do with the money is
distributed to groups all around the
country so that they can buy computers
and then someone goes around training
them and how to use these networks in
other words a lot of people think of the
white power movement is going online
after or near the Oklahoma City bombing
in the early 90s to talk about things
like storm front this movement was
already online in 1983-84 so they've
effectively been using social network
activism and you know long before the
beginning of Facebook they seemed like
they were part of the the development of
it frankly it sounds like exactly how
many people are we talking at this point
let let me circle right back to that the
other huge breakthrough in the early
1980s is the implementation of a
strategy called leaderless resistance
which is what we would now think of as
self-styled terror the idea is that you
can have one or a few or even like up to
six actors working in a cell who can
carry out movement objectives without
communication with movement leadership
or with other people in the movement and
this strategy is implemented actually
because there's so many FBI and Bureau
of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms
informants that have gone into movement
on a circles during the civil rights
period so the idea is to fool the FBI
informant um and it's a sort of stymie
court prosecution but I think the long
legacy of that strategy is that the
result has been that this movement has
tried very very hard not to be
understood as a movement it's trying to
disguise itself such that there's never
an opportunity to organize public
understanding of white power violence or
public opposition because it appears as
and it continues to be portrayed as a
series of lone wolf actions so going
back to your question about how large
we're talking about um this is directly
related to the question of leaderless
resistance because what leaderless
resistance means is that you're not
trying to turn out 3,000 people add a
cross burning or a rally right what
you're trying to do is locate you know
six or twelve or forty-five people who
are prepared to dedicate their entire
life to the movement so large numbers is
actually not the goal after 1983
nevertheless what we're talking about is
perhaps best thought of in concentric
circles right so in the 80s there are
about 25,000 people in the inner circle
and those are people that I've just
described who are dedicating their
entire lives to the movement and they
really do they homeschool their children
they marry within the movement they
often have their religious services and
if their marriage counseling and their
rides to and from the airport all of
that stuff is within the movement and
then outside of that there's another 150
to 175 thousand people who are activists
who purchase materials who show up at
events who who do things within the
movement outside of that there's an
circle was about 450,000 more people
those people don't purchase the
literature produced by this movement
rightly they don't buy the clan
newspaper but they read it regularly and
we might imagine that this goes on right
outside of that there's a larger circle
of people who would never read something
that says like Klan newspaper but who
might regularly agree with some of the
ideas that are presented in one
especially if they're brought up you
know in confidence or with a friend um
so we see that this the center the
concentric circles sort of work both to
bring people in towards the inside when
when it when they locate people that
would be good operatives and they were
to disseminate ideas out into the
mainstream it's almost like a it's like
a sales funnel on some level I guess
yeah and so okay so once we get past so
we're not talking about the six million
in that we were in nineteen twenty but
we're talking about a far more militant
group of people who I mean when you say
that they start using a liberty net and
put out lists of people who need to be
assassinated do we have a sense of like
how many people they actually
assassinate it sure I mean I get into
this in the book um it's very difficult
to think about a full kind of I don't
know casualty or death toll for this
kind of violence because um you know
doing the recovery work of piecing
together these actions is very very
difficult they do carry out several
successful assassinations I think the
thing the one that people have often
encountered is the 1984 shooting of Alan
Berg who is a radio discussin in Denver
1984 they assassinate various state
troopers who are trying to apprehend
them they fascinate sort of enemies of
the movement people who run their mouths
too much and people like that along the
way the big one is the Oklahoma City
bombing and again we're talking about a
hundred and sixty-eight people there now
that number had sort of the historical
context is important because um
168 people after 9/11 doesn't sound like
a lot of people but we have to remember
that the Oklahoma City bombing was the
largest deliberate mass casualty event
on American soil between Pearl Harbor
and 9/11 so it's a hugely significant
event it's a huge number of people in
historical perspective and in still an
event that we as a nation have not
really sort of metabolized into our
understanding of public history I mean
stunning if we had had a I guess a
pro-rated response to Oklahoma like we
did to 9/11 right I mean it's it would
yeah I I feel like one could sit down
and write a whole I mean a book on on
the implications of if we responded to
that threat in the way that we responded
to the 911 threat or it would have been
it would have been nuts for indeed and
so so for me as a historian part of the
thing that I'm writing about this book
is not just the existence of this
movement but sort of how we lost sight
of it because we knew about this as it
was happening right this everything I
write about in this book was covered at
the time I mean like these events appear
on the front pages of major newspapers
all around the country different
reporters are piecing bits of it
together as happening which is
incredibly impressive reporting a lot of
it enters public discussions like the
Greensboro acquittal is even made into a
although very deeply unfunny it's made
into a Saturday Night Live sketch people
are talking about this there's there's
footage of the Klan paramilitary camps
on like the morning news magazine shows
um so how did we wind up with this mass
disappearance of our sort of collective
knowledge of what this is and I think it
has to do with the deep failures of sort
of the deep failures of judicial process
in the 80s that predispose people not to
investigate and not to understand these
acts as part of the movement but rather
to let them stand as sort of
quote-unquote lone wolf silence but is
it but is it just judicial I mean
because
seems to me and this where I think like
you know that dynamic is instructive for
what we see today that not only is it
judicial but they're you know Ronald
Reagan is president at that time and my
sense is and I can't spa you know point
to the specifics that maybe maybe maybe
you can where he has people in the
Justice Department who are not quite
sensitive to these issues and I may be
understanding there and I mean we
certainly saw the push back five or six
years ago when the Justice Department
tried to put out a document saying we've
got to watch out for groups ostensibly I
would imagine we're you know talking
about these folks or at the very least
wait what they've mutated into that
there is a very strong political not
just represented by one party I mean I'm
sitting here with a with a New York
Times article that says a Virginia
police sergeant this is from the two
days ago suspended after anti-fog group
identifies white nationalist ties just
even that disposition towards it like
well they didn't I mean earlier it had
said tied to white nationalists the
after Antonia ties them to white
nationalists well of course antov is not
tying that to white nationalists they
are exposing yeah the white nationalism
right that would be a documentary
project I would think them I mean so I
mean like there's yeah there's several
different things going on there one of
them has to do with the you know it's
yeah and this is a very tricky thing to
quantify it but okay so part of this is
about the system not being prepared to
interested in or capable of really
reckoning with white power violence and
the change that would have to do with
juror education prosecutorial mandate I
mean there's all kinds of levels where
something would have to change to really
deal with this
so I mean one example that comes to mind
is that I document the extensive sort of
theft and obtaining of stolen weapons
from military posts and
burries by these groups in the late
1980s despite that and despite the
declarations of war that many of them
had signed against the federal
government many of them continued to
serve as active duty personnel all the
way up through the early 1990s there
wasn't a prohibition against this so
some of these things are at the level of
policy or judicial decision or sort of
like system level things we can change I
think there are also individual issues
in terms of you know politicians who are
not as worried about this kind of
activity as perhaps they ought to be or
people who are white supremacists
themselves who rise to positions of
power I think that's part of it too I
mean the other thing that this directs
our attention towards is the multiple
processes of paramilitarism that have
shaped American society so one of the
events that I talked about in the book
is the siege at Ruby Ridge Idaho where
ATF snipers end up killing members of a
white separatist family the the Weaver
family who are holed up at Ruby Ridge
during that siege a group of skinheads
attempt to resupply the Weaver family
with weapons and there's a photograph of
an ATF agent arresting one of the
skinheads
down on the ground the arresting ATF
agent and the skinhead are wearing the
same camel fatigue uniforms because the
same arcs of paramilitary organizing
that has rippled through the white power
movement have by then also shaped
civilian policing military structures
and other components of American society
I mean the this movement is drawing
people from prisons which are also
responding to state violence and and
perpetuating it there's all kinds of
ways that this is rippling through the
late 20th century fascinating all right
well the the book is bring the war home
the white power movement and
paramilitary America Kathleen Ballou a
fascinating book and thesis and I guess
it gives us a sense of at least we can
see a trajectory as to where we may be
heading in the future thank you so much
today I really appreciate it thank you
