[Music]
this is pretty good so as you know Ilan
Omar the other day had comments about
Barack Obama which you know if you've
listened to this show over the years
will would not come as a surprise to you
the we had plenty of critiques for Obama
in real time we had many guests who
particularly in the run-up to the 2012
election who and I I disagreed with this
perspective but certainly we aired it on
this show in on many occasions that
Obama was was actually the the more evil
of the two evils because people it was
harder for people to understand the
implications of his policies now he
moved to the left to some extent in his
second term but nevertheless Omar Allen
Omar had said we can't only be upset
with Trump his policies are bad but many
of the people who came before him also
had really bad policies they just were
more polished than he was and that's not
what we should be looking for anymore we
don't want anybody to get away with
murder because they are polished we want
to recognize the actual policies that
are behind the pretty face and the smile
she talks about the droning of countries
around the world on Obama's watch the
beginnings of the caging of kids at the
u.s. MEC Mexico border this was not a
practice Trump took it to a different
level but this was not a practice that
that started with with Donald Trump and
the hope and change offered by Obama was
a mirage so people caught up with her I
guess it was Fox News or who is it that
not sure who caught it was far
everything as Fox News and the question
was that Fox News is trying to ask
oh it's Obama and Trump are the same and
it's it's I don't know you know it's
like I think basically we have just a
crop of younger more savvy
Democrats who are able I mean there's
their politics is one thing but it's
also just sort of their ability to not
be cowed in the same way that the older
generation of Democrats were by the
existence of a camera and a microphone
like there is not the same legitimacy
offered to being on television or being
in a newspaper like the the the the the
media world has flattened in some degree
in terms of like what is constituted
intimidating or prestige well it also
helps when they don't have to equivocate
right well that's but my point is that's
why they don't have to equivocate well
no and that's why they don't acquire not
doing this hypocritical dance of like
yes you can have the things that you
want we would love to have single-payer
health care but the Republicans won't
let us things like that yes but but
there is there is that that does not
explain why they are as free to say
certain things which others might say in
in private and here is alon omar
exhibiting that
think and equal to what is human the
other is a truth she's asked Obama and
rub the same itch cuz that's silly to
equate the two one is human and the
other is not an answer Yas Queen
she's so great that's awesome Ilhan and
again that's not that's not the ability
to do that in that context has nothing
to do it's not tethered to ideology
we've had outspoken you've had outspoken
you know Joe Biden in some respects is
outspoken his politics are garbage but
the idea of addressing something like
that and being able to sort of just be
that sort of fluid in unflinching
because the they don't care well frankly
though on and on just like the pure
media level I mean that is one of the
highlights frankly of Joe Biden's career
like he helped cap Rudy Giuliani when he
was like he's walking and they stick a
mic in his face and this was definitely
still a period of time where everybody
was like oh that's Rudy you know and he
just said everything he says is a noun
verb in 9/11 right that punctured him I
mean like that actually mattered so it
is it is and it's one thing I'll do that
after you've been a senator for thirty
years or whatever it is it's another
when you're like six months in as a
freshman and you're being attacked from
all sides and you're just like I'm gonna
go out Obama now she's the best she's my
Khaleesi a she's the best I'm a
appropriate all of the liberal feminist
buzzwords all right folks
