[Music]
actually let's do we have this one I
want to get I want to do know Miki real
quick there was a debate last night in
New York City this Public Advocate race
is first and foremost important for New
York City obviously but this is New York
City legitimately has national in fact
global implications no Mickey Const we
know her she's a great candidate she's a
real progressive she's got some
incredibly creative ideas about how to
use this really unique office as sort of
public accountability but also almost
like a sort of massive investigative
journalism fund and she's talking really
smart really shrewd democratic socialist
ideas and refusing money from the real
estate industry which is of course
enormous ly dangerous and harmful in New
York as it is everywhere else and here
she is talking about what's happening
with the MTA blame privatization blame
or blame austerity blame lack of
investment blame lack of redistribution
and thank the workers and labor unions
who are still keeping the thing running
while Andrew Cuomo and others have
undermined it here she is talking about
what should be done for the MTA I
believe in the municipal ization of the
MTA i I do think that the city should
have more control but it shouldn't all
land in the mayor's hands that's the
problem with this city when you look at
the MTA board there are political
appointees you have a real estate
developer on the board of the MTA who is
best friends with the governor if
somebody doesn't live in the city who
admitted to not taking bets as ever that
person is deciding our livelihood the
lifeblood of this city is being starved
let me say that again the MTA is being
starved of resources they are
intentionally not putting money into the
MTA what I believe is for the reason of
privatizing it
it's an old scheme starve the city of
its infrastructure don't tax the wealthy
to fund that infrastructure and then put
the costs on working people who are not
only
out of their homes because they're being
rezone by these developers but now it's
harder for them to commute to work which
could cost them pay or worse their jobs
so we need you on at the MTA and we need
to municipal eyes it so the whole city
has power over its lifeblood wisconsin
for right now though given the
governance structure should the city be
giving more money to the that they
should be taxing these developers amazon
and and the oligarchs or who are buying
up real estate left and right and using
our buildings as the cayman islands for
their bank accounts boom contribute to
and vote for no Micky Kant's can we get
do you mind looking up that's in a
couple of weeks voting day that's a big
race and I want no michi out there front
and center talking about the oligarchs
using New York City real estate like the
Cayman Islands and yes there's not a
single problem that can't be solved by
taking back money from Amazon and other
oligarchs the MTA is just one of many
Tuesday February 26th get out there
let's make it happen no Mickey const the
New York City Public Advocate all right
Billy our excuse me be silly ampere are
as insightful question AOC the
Republicans said they were implementing
a policy that was beneficial to the
country it wasn't and now you're saying
exactly the same thing yes I mean that
was again I'll give you the you know
I'll give you the how are you gonna pay
for a question fine whatever it's boring
it's kind of hacky but sure but the
Republicans who just lie as a matter of
essentially I mean maybe not in the NPR
world but I mean a pretty broad public
record the way of endless I mean we've
already seen them lie about various
wealth redistribution to the rich tax
packages and how they've worked out the
I mean the closest analog we have to
what she's talking about in a
microscopic form would be the 2009
stimulus and then of course historically
the New Deal which still today takes
people out of poverty so I mean just
idea that you're drawing that analogy is
just beyond ludicrous cuts to versus
infrastructure spending I mean it's just
yeah it's embarrassing
it's I mean these major media companies
are pathological with this stuff like
they can't these people cannot learn the
lessons that they need to which is why I
mean historically speaking we've
probably talked about this before but
19th century it was all partisan and you
know ideological news basically and I
think there we need more of that because
of how how much these sort of
mid-century
news companies like the mass culture
like the major networks and those things
they were for a different time and they
the harmful effects I mean this is
what Chomsky made his bone right on but
like like I good riddance to him I guess
as well no I I agree I mean not and and
the function of aggressive objective
reporting which is already which is also
by the way profoundly underfunded by
these same incumbent corporations is a
separate function but yeah the whole
editorial line and below get rid of it
support people like us honestly it's
better period
