so reports out today that the big border
deal that was supposedly coming has
already basically watch it dissipated
Democrats are not planning on
negotiating on behalf of daca daca
recipients basically because they don't
trust that Trump would actually provide
a permanent fix in any way right that he
will not follow through on a deal you
know a lot of times we think of these
things that like well they'll sign at
the same time and but we have a lot of
instances where for instance Mitch
McConnell has made certain promises to
bring up certain legislation and whatnot
and then it just goes away and it's not
a story because you
nobody's gonna read a story that oh that
didn't happen period end of story
or people read about it but it's not
gonna be on cable news when that stuff
never happens it's gonna be mentioned as
an afterthought and the Democrats simply
do not believe that Trump is a good
faith negotiator which i think is a
fairly rational response and so they
won't make this deal in the meantime as
we know because the Supreme Court has
not taken up any of the daca cases we're
in a situation where doc of folks are
protected for at least a year it's still
I think a horrible position of being
incredibly stressful there still makes
it much harder for a daca recipients to
function on a day-to-day basis in our
society but the the imminent threat of
deportation is not there at the moment
same to the TPS case still tied up in
court so I think the the idea for them
from the Democratic perspective is we
have some leverage here there's no
reason to trust him to do some
thing that we don't think he's gonna do
and the fact of the matter is the
Republicans got destroyed on this
shutdown they got destroyed they
realized that they caused a tremendous
amount of suffering frankly in the
country stress amongst hundreds of
thousands of workers there are tens of
thousands of workers who are not going
to get their their pay back I think
there's an attempt in the in the in the
house to pass a bill so that contractors
will get back pay but when we talk about
contractors in this instance what we're
talking about are janitors maybe
cafeteria services at places like the
museums in the city or government
buildings in Washington DC
those folks folks who really probably
need it as much if not more than any
government people affected by this at
this point will not be getting back pay
that may change so it turns out yet not
just a vacation and I don't know how
they're bridge loans worked out that
they were able to secure from their
friendly banker down the street
who they've done all this business with
so willing to give that money so at this
point Trump is going to have to decide
whether he will declare a national
emergency or not my guess is they're
just going to sort of like pretend like
none of this happened because in three
weeks there will be something else that
we'll be talking about that is so
unbelievably ridiculous meanwhile people
are starting to dig in now that we are
in a situation where we just went
through the longest government shutdown
we've ever experienced where we have
some places in national parks that will
never recover for generations they're
talking about Joshua
Tree National Park where you have people
who are going to feel the impact of
having no money for that month come in
for probably months it'll probably take
a year for people to sort of recover
from that situation and not have it be
something that they're dealing with
paying off credit card bills worrying
about you know dealing with the
reshaping things that they had jiggered
around because of anxieties government
agencies probably won't recover for
another 18 months in terms of contracts
that had to be put on hold deadlines
that were missed
etc etc so now that we've gone through
all this the question becomes as
Republicans are now too afraid to engage
in it again rightfully so whether Donald
Trump will declare a national emergency
to build the wall people are starting to
look into his claims of why there needed
to be a wall and I think Rachel Maddow
talked about this first a couple of
nights ago but we have a CNN clip that
basically looks into this movie Sekar Oh
- I guess ot√°rio it's kario - and and
sees that a lot of what Donald Trump has
been saying about the border seems to
have come directly from this movie it's
a great film let's watch this clip their
prayer rugs in the film the president
tweeted about prayer rugs found on the
border from a story in the conservative
Washington Examiner which quotes an
anonymous New Mexico rancher who had no
evidence of the prayer rugs the film
also features terrorists paid drug
cartels to bring them into the country
on the president's mind people are
pouring into our country including
terrorists we have terrorists week or 10
terrorists over the last very short
period of time 310 these are very
serious people that what appears to be
the president's accidentally or
willfully misunderstanding a customs and
border patrol statistic that ten
suspected terrorists on average are
blocked every day from entering the u.s.
mostly by flying at locations or what
and then there's duct tape the president
has that on his mind too they NAB women
they grab them they put tape over their
mouths they tire the hands they have
tape over their mouths electrical tape
usually blue tape does they call it ten
times this month to counted the
Washington Post taping them up women are
tied up they're bound they have women in
the backseat of the cars with duct tape
all over the place the president claimed
women art duct tape shoved into vehicles
driven across the border and sold those
who work everyday trying to protect
vulnerable immigrants from sexual
exploitation say duct tape isn't a thing
we have a database of 1,435 indictments
and we went through all the indictments
and we found 26 cases that involved
kidnapping we did a search on duct tape
and we found one case of 1044 435 cases
that mentioned duct tape and that case
was an American not a migrant in looking
at all federal trafficking cases most
victims are US citizens only about a
third of trafficking cases are foreign
nationals and the vast majority of them
enter the US with legal visas no duct
tape what Donald Trump is missing with
this sort of fictional account Hollywood
version of human trafficking is the dire
cases that do exist in the United States
including cases of forced labor and
forced prostitution
one other highly dramatic possible
Hollywood fascination the president has
those coming across the border have
better cars and equipment if he was law
enforcement they have the best vehicles
you can buy they have stronger bigger
and faster vehicles than our police have
and then ice has been Border Patrol has
it doesn't exactly engine Sicario film
CNN and many news agencies have asked
the White House lets that I mean this is
what got me will what kind of vehicles
are coming in do you think that well did
you watch the documentary maybe you
should do you research before you snark
now oh he will watch that movie if they
can keep him up through it because there
is a lot of freak people out with a
spoiler but the enemy might be within
that trophy it might be actually you
know this is like a fake on a fake on a
fake and the White House clearly
understood that there was a problem here
and but I suspect what it is is that
like you know Stephen Miller could be
just sitting there and describing this
to the president as a way of getting on
board this could be like the wall right
which was just a way for him to remember
to bring up immigration wall will always
laugh loudly about immigration something
there was something like that his mind
around it it's perfect when did they
take 20/20 after years over that
apparently Vaux
saw an email provided to them by the
member with the Border Patrol which was
sent as a request for information by the
assistant border patrol chief on behalf
of the office of Customs and Border
Protection Commissioner Kevin McLean who
was referred to internally as c1 and it
asked agents to reply within less than
two hours they wanted the response
within two hours it was the the text the
email the subject line was quick
turn around RFI taped up women smuggled
into the u.s. all we require your
assistance on a quick turnaround for c1
that was the Commissioner not done by
ice agents so the Commission's this
Commissioner needs is quick please
forward any information that you have in
any format regarding claims that quote
traffickers tie up in silence women with
tape before legally driving them through
the desert from Mexico to the United
States in the backs of cars in
windowless vans which is exactly the
language that Trump was using bonus
points if it mentions blue tape and
referenced the news article below for
further info that news article was a
Washington Post article asking where are
oh here it is Trump stories have taped
up women smuggled into u.s. are divorced
from reality
experts say so they were looking for
anything that would in any way refute
the idea that Trump's stories are
divorced from reality and it appears it
appears that he did not that that
request was not fulfilled or I'm sure we
would have heard about it they would
have already been a there would have
been a special announcement from the
White House
blue duct tape and maybe Nancy woods her
ms-13 lovers to do that to her but other
Americans don't there there's a story
here the same guy who wrote the speech
where he was quoting Bane from Batman at
the Republican convention you remember
that it's this is the same stuff
something's going on there somebody's
figured out like we can just tell the
old man a story from the from a movie
and he'll just buy it he's not seeing
any movies I can't watch the violent
stuff I don't watch movies I have too
much work to do it's executive time
power from one administration to another
or from one party to another but we are
transferring power
Washington DC and giving it back to you
the people for too long
a small group in our nation's capital
has reaped the rewards of government Wow
oh my god we talked with uh Leslie Lee
the third from struggle session on the
anti Fattah this week and he noted that
part of the reason why resistance TV is
so bad is nothing could be funnier than
Trump is in real life and I think that's
very true it's tough to parody this
stuff
