so re in the last segment you told us
about these sort of travails of what
took place in North Carolina over the
past several weeks in regards to their
gerrymandered districts the opportunity
for stuff happening like in North
Carolina is limited to states that do
have their own state constitution that
where questions of equal protection and
in voting are are implicated in these
constitutions there's another of voting
controversy in Tennessee what's going on
there Tennessee is a state where
Republicans recently made it much harder
to register to vote they put up all of
these new barriers to registration
drives that could have actually
criminalized our registration drives
cause groups like the League of Women
Voters to shut down registration drives
there this was viewed as being in
response to 2018 when it's 80,000 new
African Americans are registered to vote
in Tennessee and then it was only after
that that Tennessee decided to make
registration harder and so a federal
court blocked this law and basically
said it would have a chilling effect on
voter registration that there was no
real evidence of voter registration
fraud or impropriety that necessitated
all of these different changes and that
you know once you have an unfair
election there's no real way to correct
it and so this was this was some rare
good news for voting rights that's good
stuff and let me ask you this in terms
of like how many states are there do you
anticipate and I'm still waiting for
someone to bring a case in Pennsylvania
we saw them redraw the maps for the
state Reps we haven't seen it in the
context of the congressional districts
as far as I know what are there other
states where you think that there's an
opportunity to see something like we saw
in North Carolina yeah there are some
other states I personally think that
that that is there there needs to be
more litigation filed in state courts
because
even before the Supreme Court said we're
not going to review partisan
gerrymandering a lot of state courts
actually have constitutions that have
better protections for voting rights in
the Federal Constitution does and and so
because there is no guarantee of voting
rights in the Federal Constitution but
some state constitutions have more
explicit language protecting voting
rights in there and so I'm surprised for
example that no one has challenged the
Congressional maps in North Carolina in
state court because the Congressional
maps are as gerrymander business state
legislative maps that were struck down
but I would imagine we would see we're
gonna see more litigation before the
2020 election but we're also kind of
running out of time I mean where it's
already September 2019 and course don't
like to do these things right before an
election all right what about Eric
Holder wasn't Eric Holder running I mean
wasn't there millions of dollars
dedicated to this and Eric Holder
supposedly doing this well no I mean
they are far they are Eric Holder's
group is filing lawsuits all around the
country but they're also doing other
stuff which is trying to win elections
and actually trying to elect Democrats
and so there for example focusing a lot
of time on the 2019 elections that
aren't getting any coverage in places
like Virginia that are going to decide
who controls the state legislative
process and then who controls the
redistricting process and play set of
off your elections and I think they're
trying to not only file lawsuits but
also work on electing Democrats down
ballot because I think the view is that
these down ballot races these state
legislative races in particular are
being overshadowed by the presidential
campaign even though you could argue
that these state legislatures have as
much if not more of an impact on voting
rights than who the next president will
be
by virtue of controlling voting laws and
also by virtue of controlling the
redistricting process that's why I would
thought they would be they would already
be on top of these lawsuits I mean this
is something that I feel like if Tom
Steyer just took his you know
presidential clothing budget probably he
could fund this entire operation but yet
this a vanity run I think it's far more
important to him all right let's just
turn our attention to the Supreme Court
you
obviously cover the court quite a bit
particularly in the context of voting
rights but one person who I would
imagine is fairly hostile to such rights
would be Brett Kavanaugh and there were
there has been the release of a new book
by some New York Times reporters the an
excerpt was released or I should say an
opinion piece by the New York Times this
week a lot of people are complaining
about the nature of the rollout but two
key takeaways one was Brett Kavanaugh
said if I had done what one of the
victims in Gale accused me of it would
be all over Yale everybody would know
about it and these reporters found out
that yes in fact it was all over Yale
and everybody did know about it
there was a second allegation presented
by a guy who was a former clerk of
Clarence Thomas's who claimed that he
saw a similar event where you know Brett
Kavanaugh drunken Brett Kavanaugh
basically exposing everyone to his his
member as it were and so what what's
your takeaway from this I mean is this
it I mean it seems to me that at this
point the only thing that these stories
have the ability to do is to edify the
move to reform the Supreme Court yeah I
mean it's it's obvious that there was no
real FBI investigation I mean everyone
knew about everyone knew this at the
time but the FBI was supposed to
investigate these these allegations
Senator Chris Coons for example told the
FBI director that there was another
witness to what went on a nail who was
very credible and the FBI didn't even
ever investigate it so I mean it was a
complete sham that they rushed to
confirm Brett Kavanaugh had there been a
thorough investigation there there was
probably no way in which he would have
been confirmed by an unbiased Senate but
I mean they rushed us through it was an
example of source they had a stolen
suite that they say they rushed to fill
with milk or such and
then they had a seat that clearly should
not have been filled by Brett Kavanaugh
and so now you really have I think two
illegitimate members of the Supreme
Court one who occupies a stolen seat and
one who occupies a tarnish see who
should have never been confirmed in the
first place an office he can go even
further back and you could look at
Clarence Thomas and the fact he probably
should have never been on the court and
then you can look at the fact that
george w bush lost the popular vote and
then named samuel alito and john roberts
oh i mean pretty much every republican
appointed supreme court justices
illegitimate in one way or another if
you think about it yeah that way or
certainly did not go through the normal
democratic processes and i mean i think
democrats have a deal something about
this because even if you elect a new
president you're still going to get five
justices on the court that can pretty
much nullify whatever that next
president does and i fully expect them
to do that and so i think we need to
figure out what to do at the supreme
court and we need to have some
conversations about changing it i think
we're gonna hear more of those going
forward ari berman always a pleasure
