come from an 8 for 8 area code who's
this where you come from
Sean could you stop talking in the the
cup that you're talking to could you
talk to us on your phone please sure
okay thank you
so I saw the interview with professor
Connell Anderson at the beginning of the
week
the others great stuff thank you yeah
yep thank you okay so I was thinking
about as a counter to some of the voter
suppression we're seeing as compulsory
voting how do you feel about that
what kind of hurdles would we have
effect on the Supreme Court well I mean
it could be the Supreme Court frankly I
mean I I think it could be the Supreme
Court I don't know I I don't know why
you couldn't pass I mean I guess you I
mean I guess you could structure it very
similarly to you know some type of tax
like you're subject to that you get a
rebate on that tax if you vote and I
mean if you can do that if you can
compel a you know if you can compel
people to buy private a private product
to actually expend money on on on health
insurance in in in the form of it being
you know sort of a a tax rebate
essentially your deduction if you get
the health insurance then I don't know
why you couldn't do that with voting I
I think compulsory voting would be good
if we if we combined it with moving it
to like a weekend and may or and or I'll
know and I should say also allowing for
early voting or perhaps you know voting
by mail so I'm I'm all for that that's
just removing all of the measures that
keep people from voting who would be
quite helpful on the way to their -
don't you think Sean is doing obstacles
to voting but yes no we're so we're so
far away we have like the opposite of
that right now appreciate the call Sean
appreciate the call I I don't see why
you couldn't do that at least it why
couldn't I don't make it a whole idea of
pointing it on the individual citizens
to vote I'm much more into the idea of
things at the policy level that make it
easier for them to do so you know why
not we compel people to pay taxes uh
yeah and I don't like that either like
it's always better to do things on the
policy level then on the level of
lifestyle politics or trying to shame
individual people or like coerce them
compulsory well but it's not that's not
life style politics at all and it's
definitely in a place like Brazil it's
not saying it should make it everything
that you should make a Dilma were
elected yeah you know it's not it's not
you're not making a choice you know
you're not forcing people to make a
choice in terms of let's say you're
compelling them to do something that is
like one of the obligations of being a
member being a citizen you need to pay
taxes you need to you need to get a
Social Security card you actually don't
really actually need to do that I don't
want to spend my time browbeating people
who don't vote it's not a problem you
don't do anything just legislation it's
simple it's you don't see what it's
gonna do for them but it agreed to
disagree well you you could and then
just pay a tax penalty I would be into
it if you could get an exemption if you
showed you participated in at least one
direct action that year
okay fair enough all right here's a
picture of me at a protest can't see it
too well there was about 20 of us and we
were banging drums can I not vote now
please
