[Music]
all right let's turn our attention to
Dave Rubin was beating his chest about
having a presidential candidate on his
show the other day and you know I guess
had occurred to me but maybe we should
have like done more of likely we've got
Bernie Sanders on the show I mean we
interview Bernie Sanders on the show
like a regular you and airily mentioned
you you literally like oh yeah also
Bernie shoes we have a special guest
right yeah you did but I realize like
you know from marketing standpoint maybe
one of the preconditions although
Sanders said don't be a good issue of it
well no the last two times we've had
Bernie on half the comments are like I
thought this was going to be Michael
right it's a joke genuinely think it's
good I will say this though Dave Rubin
had a Democratic presidential candidate
on when I had a Democratic presidential
candidate on they did not feel obligated
to talk to me like I was a child and
that's not a knock on well it's not a
knock on anybody it's not a knock on
Dave or Marianne Williamson because
there was some things that Dave clearly
didn't understand and Marianne was
explaining them to him quite well and
that's fine that's not that's just I'm
explaining a dynamic that's going on and
it'll be interesting to see how much
Dave absorbs from these exchanges a
tutor in yeah it is tutoring and I
thought she was very very gentle with
him about it and ill-intentioned
dim-witted pupil that still needs
endless patience well I mean that's oh
sorry um don't surprise me which one are
we doing is 10 or 11 first to attend
okay so here's the tenth now understand
well I start talking about Dave's once
clarification about reparations right
and he wanted a lot of clarification
about this because it's actually a
trigger point because we know that the
specter of reparations is the source of
all evil in our society right now and
with this hanging over us not climate
change or anything like reparations
reparations and free speech on college
campuses continue to be the most
pressing issues in America today
historically the institution for racism
yes Marianne Williamson the struggles
the sacrifices many of our ancestors
black or white I'm not saying we haven't
done anything
the issue is however at that point of
economic restitution has never been made
and the legacies of that economic
injustice have continued even to the
point where now we're sliding backwards
mass incarceration was it for one second
I want to go back over this but just to
make sure that you understand what's
going on here is Dave is saying like
this is punishment for white people and
marianne williamson is saying no it's
not punishment for white people that the
institution of slavery damaged a
community in really it damages in two
ways right there is a legacy amongst
white people in the way that they view
all black people even if they were not
descendants of slaves this legacy
permeates we've talked to what was it
the roots of prejudice what was the name
of that book where you can pick out on a
county-by-county basis you could do it
this granular and look at the ratio of
slaves to white people in these counties
and then predict how these counties are
going to vote 200 years later so the
legacy continues on now we can measure
that with white people because they have
had political expression throughout that
time we cannot measure it with the
descendants of
slaves in terms of their politics
because they haven't had 200 years worth
of of of a political voice it's called
deep roots how slavery still shaped
southern politics you can check that out
so with that to see that it can be that
specific like you can actually measure
actions that were a function of a ratio
that existed hundreds of years before
broad themes that exist in society of
course they still remain I read that
book of course I mean we still hear
stuff about the blood libel right we I
mean I get news for you for look around
society stuff that happened 2,000 years
ago still pretty much resonate right
right exactly
so that's a one side of the ledger the
other side of the ledger is the
implications for people out of that
community when the when Social Security
excluded African Americans as a bank
shot by saying you know we're gonna look
at different professions or jobs I
should say that are dominated by African
Americans or for women for that matter
and we're not going to provide Social
Security there it didn't matter if you
were descendant of a slave or not when
the FHA red lines in terms of what
mortgages are going to be backed
following World War two they're not
looking are you a descendant of a slave
they're just looking at your you know
the the social construct of race and it
has implications we know that wealth
builds over time through property and so
if you're if you as a as a community
have not been able to gain wealth
intergenerationally because for most of
the generations that your your folks
have been in this community haven't been
able to accumulate wealth it's going to
resonate so this is all just sort of
like it's there no not to mention the
psychic scars that exist regardless
again regardless if you are directed a
sending of a slave owner or a slave so
she's trying to explain this to Dave and
she explains it him about eight
different ways over the course of like
25
yeah there's legacies of that economic
injustice have continued even to the
point where now we're sliding backwards
mass incarceration means we're sliding
backwards racial disparity in criminal
sentencing means sliding backwards all
these voter suppression acts because the
voting act Road and Rights Act was
chipped away up we're sliding backwards
so for me the issue of reparation so
first of all this issue of atonement I
have a faith leader this is what I've
done for 35 years so when I was doing
ritualized apologies from white people
to black there is turbulence there's
turbulence under the under the under the
waterline you know if you go to Germany
have you ever been to Germany hell if
you went to Germany 30 years ago you
really felt all the Holocaust guilt and
it's amazing how much has been flushed
out now because the generations did the
right thing and that war was over in
1945 civil war was over in 1865 and we
are still at the effect of this
underlying stuff that we we move on from
one generation to another but some
figures apologize okay well do you think
there's a little bit of a risk in sort
of I mean a couple of times you're
referencing the genocide of the Jews to
slavery seems like a little bit of a
slippery slope there no I don't even
know how we can say that actually and I
say that as a Jew if you ran up much on
slavery yeah we're talking object
slavery day I mean nobody's in a contest
nobody has a monopoly on human suffering
this was object slavery million and also
if you started slavery in 1619 and you
had two and a half years two and a half
centuries and then at the end for there
were 4 to 5 million enslaved people do
you realize generation after generation
how many millions of people we're
talking about right right I'm well I'm
not diminishing that but you can also
talk about the extermination of 6
million people in the amount of people
that never lived because of that that
would be alive or your ancestor
from well any from Russia who had never
given anything and came here whoa wait a
minute wait a minute but the Germans had
paid reparations that's kind of my point
the fact that Germany paid reparation
Germany has done full-on Maricopa
Germany has downfall on Maricopa nothing
short of full-on Maricopa
okay there's a lot to unpack here that's
sort of can we just nope but the that's
sort of my point exactly
well I mean I don't know where to start
here because this is this is a
fascinating exchange in many respects
like I don't know what that means with a
slippery slope I mean if you start
comparing genocide two generations of
slavery
I don't know how religious Davis but
every year my family gets around the
table and we discuss the slavery that
Jews went through 2,000 years ago
well actually was close to 4,000 years
ago now that I think about 5,000 5678 I
don't know what it is somewhere around
there five seven thirty nine a long time
ago it's called Passover we have a
holiday to talk about that there are
broad implications that we make about
that slavery this is an
intergenerational slavery we're talking
about in this country that's the only
two hundred and some-odd years old not
to mention I would add that unlike in
Germany after the war Mary Williams is
right they the there has been a massive
national effort over decades to
internalize this maiya culpa to pay
reparations if you go to Israel every
taxi that you drive is a mercedes benz
every bus that you get on is a mercedes
benz and that's because the german
government basically sent a bunch cars I
mean there was other forms of
reparations yes but I mean it's just
indicative it's indicative
how public they wanted to make it to she
also just really quickly I think just as
importantly in some respects she also
made the point of being central in the
education system as well yes without a
doubt and and she says they've been able
to expunge that the slavery ended in 18
at in the Civil War the suppression the
government suppression of African
Americans you know I don't know where
you draw that line is it you know with
anti-miscegenation laws is it but
certainly deep into the 20th century I
wanted to make a purely legal as I'm
talking lease you shouldn't write it
would be 1964-1965 purely legalistic
although there are states nowhere
anti-miscegenation laws and it passed
that to the 90 but then you talk about
policing and and she mentioned this
about our criminal justice system where
there's sort of like institutional not
necessarily legal discrimination and
never mind societal I mean so there's an
ongoing process and maybe part of the
reason why we haven't been able to sort
of and I don't know that we'll ever
fully but as a society her argument is
we need to have this to move on we need
some closure to be able to move on that
doesn't mean you just walk away from it
but also we you know we have incredible
said school segregation we're talking
about this so she's just talking about
the this to to Dave and the idea like
I'm not sure where does the slippery
slope go after slavery for a couple
hundred years in this country I mean is
it really is it slippery slope to talk
about Native American genocide or is it
just that like if we provide reparations
for the discrimination the slavery
institutional legalistic for black
people do we have to do it for the
Native Americans and then if we do it
for the Native Americans what about what
about Japanese internment and my answer
to all these things is yeah why not well
also she pointed out I believe in the
interview and I was less formally that
there has been some restitution to
victims of the Japanese internment and
young reagan-era yeah all time yep and
on the Native Americans to say the least
are you kidding me I mean there's also
present policy sets that just does write
African Americans it's not necessarily a
slippery slope it's just like it's just
a slope you want some more on the
reparations conversation yeah let's just
uh listen a little bit more I mean it's
just it's also just not lose sight of
the fact here though these are really
important really deep things and Davis
is touched he's over in the head he's
overloaded by ideas it's it's almost
like now in my lifetime I've certainly
seen the ways in which racial issues
have gotten better but at the same time
you see how certain things are unwinding
almost getting worse and so we that
really feels right to you that feels
like a media make up to me I don't think
racism that's why I was so thrilled when
I heard you make that statement I don't
think most Americans are racist most
American bases but I don't that's not my
experience it's not my belief but what
is my belief is that the average
American is woefully under educated
about the history of race in the United
States and that's why I find and I find
it's in very white states I find it in
New Hampshire and Iowa with people
standing up applauding the idea why
because I go through the timeline two
and a half centuries of slavery we took
have an abject slavery here then another
hundred years of institutionalized
violence
what do you call lynchings if not
domestic terror what do you call Ku Klux
Klan if not domestic terror
institutionalized white supremacy and
segregation this was violence
perpetrated against the people 350 years
because it was a hundred years after the
Civil War before the Civil Rights Act
350 years of institutionalized violence
against a people that's longer than our
country has been in existence so the
idea of a of a of an economic
restitution by the middle of the 20th
century this was considered just
civilized behavior and and that is what
advanced countries do do you worry that
as someone that comes from a sort of a
spiritual he
of this that the collectivist portion on
this we just sort of have an impasse do
you worry that that that sort of
collectivist guilt makes people feel
guilty about things that have nothing to
do with them and what what the damage
that that could do to people that have
literally nothing to do with it doesn't
have to talk about this within a slavery
context or a holocaust context but just
sort of collectivism as a general rule
that it makes people attach emotions to
themselves that have nothing to do with
them as an individual no I don't and
that's never been my experience I've
been doing this for many years people
are smart Dave people are smart there's
no guilt there I know I can't say I feel
guilty personally that's not what's
happening but I can see that my country
has this is a long and torturous
relationship between blacks and whites
in America it goes back to the very
beginning and relationship is a journey
between people and between peoples and
that journey of healing and journey of
reconciliation makes a difference
because Germany has done the right thing
you feel in a generation of young
Germans so much guilt flushed out
Holocaust guilt has been flushed out
that's what we're talking about we're
ending the Gil we're talking about
getting past this torturous a phase
that's lasted 400 sin right but also in
a weird way then they opened up because
they have this sort of residual guilt
still they opened up their borders and
let in a million and a half people that
then have you know sort of all sorts of
other problems your topic integration
and financially you you just made a
connection between those policies and
left over guilt from the Holocaust I'm
not I'm not sure every German or every
German scholar a German politician would
agree with you about well I don't think
everyone would but I think many would
they're all right so if I understand
this Dave does not want to have
reparations because it will create guilt
in people and his evidence of that is
that Germans feel guilty not because of
the Holocaust but because of the
reparations and therefore
are letting in immigrants so is Dave
wheezing is Dave arguing that Germany
should not feel guilty
there should be no vestige of guilt at
all whatsoever about the Holocaust this
is actually interesting because of
course look he's not bright and he's
just following it is a serious right
right oh you don't think that excuse me
pardon me I happen to think that I know
you about most respect for Dave but I
think in in in right wing is a
right-wing circles that have like
neoconservative arguments actually these
polls are very strange because there is
the first move he makes which is that to
even talk about another historical crime
in the same context as the Holocaust
that somehow offensive right wrong right
that's right right and then there is
this other thing which is that the
people who actually are applying those
lessons whether it be to a refugee
crisis or to upholding standards in
Israel Palestine are liberal soft heads
who aren't like in the real world so I
actually I see this argument on the
right controversy this argument the
right argument that he's making is that
it's unfair to people who were not
involved yes because this collectivist
reparations is gonna implicate me Dave
Rubin and I'm gonna feel bad and it's
gonna hurt me personal and then the
second part is and then we'll support
things like Syrian refugees and not your
city now I'm going to make a it's gonna
make us react and do things that are too
nice yes yeah I'm not saying don't feel
bad about the Holocaust but it's a bad
example to use Germany because he was
just arguing moments ago that what they
did was so bad that you can't even
include slavery in the conversation
absolutely but be errant bear in mind
right wing people who say never again or
have so warped it that they literally
mean like never again therefore no
Syrian refugee rights
but see that's what they mean for Mamie
right that even yes they don't mean it
as a global standard of upholding basic
humanity for everybody I mean I that
that exchange is fascinating and I and I
would like to I mean I wouldn't you it's
impossible for me to imagine ever voting
for Marianne Williamson and I'm you know
for president but I would raise money to
have her go around and talk to right yes
yeah I think there's also I just also
think in this exchange I think what's
funny is I just saw and I think Ronald
Reagan pointed this out on Twitter but
but apparently Dave admits in the
beginning of the interview that he
didn't know who she was until the debate
so now I'm guessing that he clearly and
she didn't do great in the debate you
know I like her but she didn't have a
good performance clearly he thinks like
I get to I get to pretend that I'm
open-minded by having a Democrat on and
also she's a maybe I could run circles
around a dope from a debate oh she's a
lot Wow way to say smarter than you
