[Music]
now look we haven't talked about
Christian Gillibrand's run for office on
this program since probably the day that
she announced and we're not alone I
think everyone has not talked about her
campaign since the day that she
announced but it's not necessarily a a
statement as to who she is as a person
or even as a politician necessarily it's
just that it's hard to see a reason for
her candidacy in in light of all the
other candidates that are running but
with that said not as bad as Beto who
actually could have something else to do
that would be helpful for the things
that he's ostensibly running for but be
that as it may we have a bunch of
Democrats who have gone on to Fox News I
think that the I think there's an
argument that they shouldn't be doing
this I think there's an argument that
they should be doing it I don't feel
terribly strongly about it when it comes
from two people running for office and
particularly specifically as a group
doing it but they all have felt
obligated as they should
taking the opportunity to crap on Fox
News and in various different ways
Kristen Gillibrand decided to do that
and it's interesting I don't recall the
other candidates off the top of my head
Budda judge Sanders has anyone else
appeared on Fox News Democratic
candidates getting the pushback there
she gets here now I don't know if that's
just because like they can't allow this
to happen this time they realize a
pattern or they realize a pattern or if
it's like it'll be easier to do this
with a female candidate because I
certainly know Fox's formula those older
viewers those older male viewers
of to see younger women get admonished
on the on I mean they they that is a I
can I can assure you that is a city porn
for them literally a formula that is
like that is what they call in the
business of macro so I don't know if
that's what what was going on here but I
thought Gillibrand did a pretty good job
and I thought Wallace was about as
Craven as I've seen him in a long time
on this here it is that Fox News
townhall Christian Gillibrand
and Chris Wallace is hosting and I he
must have been somebody must have said
to him like look if you want your bonus
this year you better do some work for us
as Chris said I am a retired nurse
pediatrics actually so I dealt quite a
bit with preemies what I'm asking you
senator is what is your position on late
term abortion or last trimester
abortions well thank you for serving our
community and helping our babies
particular our preemies who deeply need
the medical care they have my view on
women's reproductive freedom is that it
should be a woman's decision to make
these most intimate life-and-death
decisions for themselves a woman should
be able to decide when she's having
children how many children she's having
and under what circumstances she's
having and what we have created
unfortunately is a false choice and a
false narrative and Chris I want to talk
about the role that Fox News plays in
this because it's a problem I can tell
you before President Trump gave his
State of the Union Fox News talked about
infanticide there's an aside doesn't it
doesn't exist senator I just want to say
we brought you here for an hour we have
given you we're eating you very fairly I
understand that baby to make your
credentials with the with the Democrats
who are not appearing on Fox News you're
going to attack us I'm not sure it posit
for one second I want to go back respect
no not nothing close to this I mean this
is this is unprecedented with these but
I mean think of what he's stipulating
here that his unsaid as he says
we invited you here as if like they want
it both ways if Fox we're just a news
organization like as if they've really
gone out of their way to prove that
we're not partisan that we have you here
well why do you need to do that like
it's not like a news organizations like
it's a favor right like no can you
imagine like NBC saying like we've done
you a favor by allowing no of course not
no but it would be weird for them to
think it's only because everybody knows
in the universe that Fox is has been
will be basically the Republican
communications arm and so the fact that
they invited her here is a big
concession on our part we're even
getting in trouble with the president
and so just go back a little bit cuz you
know that's that stuck out but good then
maybe to make your credentials with the
with the Democrats who are not appearing
on Fox News you're going to attack us
I'm not sure it's frankly very polite
when okay I will do in a polite way
but it's well I just I just think why
don't we instead of talking about Fox
News why don't you answer Susan's
question the debate about whether or not
women should have reproductive freedom
has turned into a red herring debate and
what happens on fox news is relevant
because they talked about infanticide
for 6.5 hours 6.5 hours right before
president Trump's State of the Union
mentioned it 35 times that is not the
debate of what access to reproductive
care is in this country it doesn't
happen it's illegal it's not a fact and
I believe all of us have a
responsibility to talk about the facts
the facts are that women in this country
have had a constitutional right for over
30 years to make this fundamental
life-and-death decision and this
president has emboldened legislators in
30 states to begin to criminalize that
decision criminalize the decision
whether or not and when you want to have
your children criminalizing the doctors
with a 99-year sentence if they are
offering abortion services and providing
the care that women need
why should male legislators across this
country decide when you're having
children how many are children having
and under what circumstances I don't
understand it it's a human right it's
about having bodily autonomy it's about
being able to control your physical self
it's undermining every human rights
civil rights that we could have so let
women make these most personal decisions
for many people it's a moral decision
for many people it's a medical decision
so why can't they make it with their
doctor with their families with their
husband based on their own faith how
they believe and what they feel it is
that woman's right there you go I mean I
it might have also been worthwhile for
Gillibrand to say you're a pediatric
nurse do you guys commit infanticide do
you think that's legal
how many infanticides have you write
exactly I mean but it was interesting
that Chris Wallace was like that
motivated pathetic I mean it could be
that they had to do it they had you know
I mean Bernie was more gentle about it
but he dunked on them and the only judge
who to judge what I'm saying is it
escalated with each step so there must
have also been a signal from the top of
like you know the next candidate that
comes out here and reminds us that we're
a fascist propaganda organ you better
you know and also goes to his whole self
concept that he doesn't you know cuz
clearly he's invested in the idea yeah
that even though he's on this horrific
propaganda network that he shouldn't be
subjected yeah of questioning but so we
made I just think about reticles what it
is extraordinary though to just say like
it because she's made the point well
that it's not just like you're promoting
anti-choice policies you're lying in the
most extreme
again flagrant terms hours a day on the
highly rated cable cable news network I
think that does have some effect on our
politics well but it got a very good
answer out of her I must say like I was
impressed with the performance that she
gave I think a lot of people see her as
kind of an opportunist
who goes wherever the wind blows and
that may be true on some issues but not
on this one right no I agree
[Music]
