[Music]
that rich speaking of which the calls
for impeachment are becoming stronger
saw polling that the idea of an
impeachment inquiry is now growing Fox
News did a poll the other day that
showed the majority of people want an
impeachment inquiry maybe a plurality
wants an impeachment inquiry where he is
booted and gone but then there are
others who just want an impeachment
inquiry it is gaining popularity I do
not buy the theory that you hear from
some people that Nancy Pelosi is just
being strategic about doing this again I
call your attention to her appearance on
Jimmy Kimmel where she claimed that
impeaching him and then having it go to
the Senate where he would not be
convicted would make it impossible to
prosecute him criminally after the fact
that's absurd
maybe she misspoke but that's a very
specific thing to misspeak I think she
definitely does not want impeachment but
it does feel like sometimes the ship
sails regardless of whether you're on it
or not and one of the people who's
helping push that ship from the docks
I bring you one of the one of the like
one of the rock stars from the new
incoming congressional class of
Democrats definitely in fact I would say
like an indie group that is building
more and more underground momentum Katey
Porter of California here she is
on a video she posted to Twitter the
other night hi I'm congresswoman Katie
Porter today I wanted to speak directly
to the people of California's 45th
district there's been a lot of new
in DC and then the press about
impeachment so I wanted to share my
thoughts with you I've spent hours
reading and analyzing the Constitution
articles written by leading scholars and
the 200 year history of our democracy
and its system of checks and balances
after weeks of study deliberation and
conversations with Orange County
families I've decided to support an
impeachment investigation of the
president I have not come to this easily
I come to this decision after much
deliberation and I know deeply what this
means for our democracy I didn't come to
Congress to impeach the president
I ran to use my decades of consumer
advocacy to help Orange County families
I ran to fight back against big pharma
and outrageous prescription drug pricing
to help families with the crushing costs
of child care and to take on the
affordable housing crisis hurting our
community and I will continue to do
those things and much more but when
faced with a crisis of this magnitude I
cannot with a clean conscience ignore my
duty to defend the Constitution I can't
claim to be committed to rooting out
corruption and putting people over
politics and then not apply those same
principles and standards in all of the
work I do I've reached a point of
clarity in my decision Congress must
continue the work of Special Counsel
Moeller in his report and public remarks
director Muller emphasized that under
current law he did not have the option
to indict the president but despite the
limits of his authority the special
counsel was clear that he could not
exonerate the President and he presented
extensive evidence of obstruction of
justice that requires continued
investigation by Congress the
administration has refused to respect
the rule of law they have ignored
multiple subpoenas they've directed
current and former high-ranking
officials to disregard summons to
testify and the president has continued
his efforts to spread mistrust of our
law enforcement contempt for our
journalists and false information about
the law director Mueller's findings
basic uncontested facts the question is
not whether a crisis is in our midst but
rather whether we choose to fight
against it I've been a congresswoman for
five months now and serving you and my
country is one of the greatest honors of
my life
but I came to this position as an
attorney at a law professor a mom to
three amazing kids and as a patriot and
I will continue to draw on that and on
our love of this country and its
principles as we navigate this trying
time I mean it's she you know there's
there's literally I think like two or
three freshmen Congress women who have
been in Congress for five months who I
think could could walk into the
presidential race and maybe win I mean I
think she's one of them I think she
could theoretically
her ability to present stuff that anyone
else virtually anybody else would be
demonized over I mean it's like how do
you I'll tell you who you'll never see
on Fox News his day Bono
they will never ever play Katey Porter
on Fox News because they would they need
a lot of time before they figure out
what the angle is here um cuz she looks
like I think like their mom or their
daughter I mean the you know on that uh
you know everybody watched set I mean
she looks like she just came out of you
know like suburban home in Ohio or
something and then just says like I you
know this is the most reasonable path to
follow and and look she's right there's
a multitude of things that you could
bring up in impeachment hearings
regarding Donald Trump everything from
obstruction out of the Muller
investigation I actually think that
there is
enough evidence to make an indictment of
some form of collusion with the in
regards to the election
one could argue soliciting a foreign
government for help that they knowingly
knew could happen is a violation of of
election law
nevertheless certainly stuff with the
census question there was new reports
out today
they found emails that showed collusion
between a Republican operative and
members of the Commerce Department
specifically about the census and the
Commerce Department has argued in court
that they had no contact whatsoever with
this guy so there's there's a myriad of
things that can be brought up and I
think Nancy Pelosi someone in the
Democratic leadership needs to start
introducing the idea that it is
Congress's job to look at impeachment it
is the Senate's job to convict and if
they don't convict and they don't even
look at the question
they are shirking their responsibilities
you impeach Donald Trump because you
must hold them accountable because you
must fill the vacuum that would exist
over the next 12 months and you impeach
Donald Trump because it's really an
impeachment of the Republican Party and
you used their refusal to even address
the question which is exactly what they
will do they will refuse to address the
question they will pretend it's not
happening and the way you define this is
before you even start the impeachment
inquiry you set this up we have our job
they have their job
you set it up so before the thing
becomes highly politicised because it
will be before the Republicans in the
Senate say these are the Democrats doing
this you set up the dynamic you've got
to set up these pins before you knock
them down and that's the biggest failure
that Nancy Pelosi has she should be
setting up like the this dynamic of I
know people feel it's the houses job and
certainly it's the houses job but if it
was the house where to do this it would
be the sentence job to convict and they
can choose yes or no because Mitch
McConnell will not have a day's worth of
hearings on this because he knows if he
did it would be a problem so they should
be setting it up right now that it's
within the Senate's rights to look at
this and not convict because they won't
even do that and that failure is where
you get your political advantage from in
my estimation
