[Music]
Elizabeth Warren had her townhall the
other night um Sam played the main
takeaway yesterday abolish the Electoral
College excellent she's a hundred
percent right I'm glad she's putting
points on the board like this and I
think this was a pretty good answer on
white supremacy as like an actual
security threat and again on one hand I
want us to kind of introduce way less
securitisation discourse into our
politics in general the other hand
obviously things like Christchurch or
Tree of Life synagogue are white
supremacy based terrorism anything since
the election of Donald Trump the number
hate crimes has increased and white
supremacist have become more emboldened
online and in public what are your plans
to unite the country oh good thank you
for that question you know it starts
with the fact that we've got to
recognize the threat posed by white
nationalism white supremacists posed a
threat to the United States like any
other terrorist group like Isis like
al-qaeda and leadership starts at the
top and that means you've got to call it
out
and then when you call it out as
president of the United States you've
got to use the tools available to you
and that means get the Justice
Department when they break the law to go
after them with full prosecution that's
what I can do I think that that's a good
answer I think she also mentioned the
stuff Obama was doing with the DOJ and
police departments in another part of
the town halls okay that's good because
this was a connection that I was gonna
draw it has to be a part of a whole you
know again it's a very weird balance to
pull off because I generally think that
the you know obviously something like
the Department of Homeland Security is
an enormous ly problematic thing whose
power and access I do not want to expand
but obviously to the extent all of these
agencies have power and have a role to
play in legitimately disrupting crime
and terrorism
obviously right-wing and white supremacy
terrorism needs to be at the center of
that because that is objectively what
the biggest threat is right now inside
the United States and in fact of course
has been historically but in addition to
that you need to connect it to a whole
broad sweep of police violence of racial
discrimination policies and violence
across the board particularly with
regards to law enforcement that's the
dialectic he needs to pull off but
that's great that she connected those
themes and that's a good answer here's
the problem with Elizabeth Warren she
keeps equivocating on Medicare for all I
and if you listen and talk to somebody
like Jamila missioner who is one of the
premier scholars have Medicaid in health
care in this country while balancing
this nuanced and brilliant history of
the compromises of things like the New
Deal in the Great Society I asked her I
said you know what do you what do you
think about the Sanders and Jay Paul
bills and you know her basic perspective
was if these bills get passed we are
light year like Americans are in another
planet in terms of better off and the
only concern that she has is the
robustness of long term care and both of
these bills
so the point I'm bringing up by saying
that from a serious scholar and a real
humanitarian like that frankly is
single-payer is in some respects the
compromise and the only valid
conversation the only mount valid moral
conversation you have about this I think
valid political conversation you can
have about this is the extent to which
you are going to fully fill out from
from mental to dental to every type of
conceivable care universal health care
and completely get rid of the parasite
HMO insurance company model . . so on
the merits this is so disturbing that
she equivocates about this and then the
politics how she understands politics
bernie totally understands in order to
pass any type of even remotely
progressive program you need a totally
mobilized society and so when she
equivocates like this it's like is she
thinking about that mobilization or is
she thinking about some wonky
negotiation process and that's a big
concern for me so let's play that here's
a question about medicare for all yeah
all right senator warren thank you so
much for being here this evening and
your tireless advocacy for universal
health care as a supporter of universal
health care and an advocate for
organized labor i do worry about the
current bells elimination of private
health insurance
oh yeah as that would eliminate the
private health employer base plans that
so many unions have advocated for so
clon question can you explain how
medicare for all would be better for
workers and simply improving the
affordable care act okay so it's a good
question let's start with our statement
that we should make every time we start
to talk about changes in our health care
and that is health care is a basic human
right and we fight for basic
and then let's put these in order
because I appreciate that your question
starts with the Affordable Care Act
let's all remember when we're talking
about what's possible let's start where
we are and the difference between
Democrats and Republicans right now
Democrats are trying to figure out how
to expand healthcare coverage at the
lowest possible cost so everybody is
covered Republicans right this minute
are out there trying to repeal the
Affordable Care Act they've got a
lawsuit pending down in Texas where
they're trying to roll it back what they
couldn't do with a vote they're trying
to do with the courts HHS every day is
doing what they can to undermine the
Affordable Care Act so we're talking
about health care in America right now
the first thing we need to be talking
about is defend the Affordable Care Act
protection under the Affordable then
part - let's make the improvements that
are what I think of is the low-hanging
fruit for example let's bring down the
cost of prescription drugs
there are lots of ways we can do that we
can import drugs from Canada where the
safety standards are the same that would
cut costs dramatically negotiate classes
under neck hair that would cut costs
dramatically and I've got a proposal to
help bring down the cost on generic
drugs which could be about 90% of all
prescriptions so let's get those costs
down and then you know what you're going
to hear from a consumer advocate and
that is we need to hold insurance
companies accountable and that means and
then when we talk about Medicare for all
there are a lot of different pathways
what we're all looking for is the lowest
cost way to make sure everybody gets
covered and some folks are talking about
let's start lowering the age maybe bring
it down to 60 55 50 that helps cover
people who are most at risk and can be
helpful for example to the Labour's
plans
some people say do it the other way
let's bring it up from everybody under
30 gets covered by Medicare others say
let employers be able to buy into the
Medicare plans others say let's let
employees buy into the Medicare plans
for me what's key is we get everybody at
the table on this that Labor's at the
table that people who have to buy on
their own everybody comes to the table
together and we figure out how to do
Medicare for all in a way that make sure
that we're going to get a hundred
percent coverage in this country at the
lowest possible cost for everyone that's
our job
so look okay all of the stuff about
prescription drugs that's great
in fact she didn't even mention her most
interesting plan which is government
producing its own drugs that's actually
a great proposal that's fine she's wrong
uh the midterms were the vote on
protecting Obamacare and those of us who
are a hundred percent Pro Medicare for
all and understand that is the only
moral and policy answer . period that
Obamacare made great strides mostly on
the coverage end it was the expansion of
Medicaid and then it was a row but it
was essentially consumer protections now
I could tell you it which is also really
important and I could tell you if you're
on the exchanges yes
it's of course better to possibly figure
out a way to have health care than not
but it ain't good and if you're in many
different categories of people even with
subsidies paying a lot of money for
crappy private plans and you think that
that's durable first of all the
companies will always push back and
always eat their way out of obligations
because they're parasitic their business
model literally is built on taking your
money and then denying you care that's
how the profits work and then on top of
that even though the Republicans of
course are liars and their alternative
is worse and horrific and obscene and we
pushed it off in 2017 they'll always
have a talking point as long as they're
a 10 I in the beginning of Obamacare
I'll be transparent I was so broke that
I still the financial calculations did
not make sense then I got some point
where I kind of figured out look I do it
I'm not thrilled like that that actually
hurts me financially what I have to pay
and what I get ain't nothing yeah it's
ridiculous so we were you're paying for
a card if you're on any of these
programs yeah like our worker provide
our job provide it at this point that's
it or if you're on Medicaid it's
ludicrous and that's me and that guy
it's a very weird question because okay
you have employer insurance lovely I
thought you're a union organizer and
you're aware that jobs are like this and
like this and like this and one of the
biggest agreements even around Obamacare
was people like Nancy Pelosi of all
people saying if we decouple your
ability to have health care from your
job you'll have more freedom which is
true so so you'll negotiate other things
or even supplemental health insurance
like they have in a lot of countries
right so it's a very weird question so
so first her timeline
just off we and I I accept those of us
who are Fuhrer Bernie did this perfectly
Medicare for all's the long-term goal
the short-term fight is is fight the
Republicans effort to destroy Obamacare
right now and until 2020 and certainly
if Democrats win Obamacare is protected
unless the courts do something insane
which is a holder set of questions so
wrong timeline and then the bottom line
is is that it is not about a negotiation
it is not about this and that at the
table it is about these companies do not
provide value and every single category
of conceivable human being in this
country needs full complete no nonsense
no point-of-contact health care
and all so quickly it's in we do know
how we can get there the Sanders and Jay
Paul plans are real plants they may not
be perfect as nothing is perfect but
those are not goal setting bills those
aren't like a paragraph that say
everybody should have health care
those are detailed scored out plans for
how you do this and they're the bare
minimum they're both good bills
particularly to Jay Paul bill that's it
the way she says the goal is to try to
get everybody covered as cheaply as
possible like how does she think that
sounds appealing because it's clear what
is gonna suffer in that calculation it's
gonna be what you define as covering
everybody right hundred percent cheaply
as possible is not my goal here right
and it doesn't fit like I don't know
what Lane she thinks she's playing in
she's got a genuine claims to
progressive and moral leadership why is
she compromising that on health care it
makes no sense this sort of hedging
towards well we got to be able to
deliver something once we get into the
room it's like you're not in the room
yet so go in as aggressively as possible
and she was somebody sort of leg up and
she set this contemporaneously she was
someone inside the obama administration
saying what the hell are you doing so
she already knows this i it's very
peculiar to me all right a few more
items
