[Music]
here's our buddy
Charlie Kirk going on Fox News now I
gotta be honest with you I don't know if
Charlie Kirk has used the invasion
language he has there you go
I'm sorry
I wonder if now Charlie Kirk is going on
there he's gonna be talking about why
they engage in mass shootings there I
know this about ego anxiety we're off
the master goons how is that it yeah I
thought that was why he was arguing that
that's why they engage in that that the
yeah so he's gonna come up with why why
are these young people because he's the
young person expert why are these young
people engaging in mass shootings and he
can't say I mean why is the guy who's
afraid of an invasion of immigrants
engaging in mass shootings he can't get
up there and say oh that guy's doing
that because I didn't say there's an
invasion enough he can't say that
he needs to find some other reason maybe
it's because there's being so much
anxiety that young people have it has
nothing to do with college debt it has
nothing to do with living in a situation
where they're not going to do as well as
their parents
I remember having anxiety about school
shootings when I was in high school well
I mean let's let's hear what Charlie
Kirk has what why he thinks they're
doing it one other topic of concern is
the environment so much talk about
global warming and climate change and
stuff like that Vogue magazine has a
headline how to talk to your kids about
eka Eco anxiety and they define it as
Eco anxiety is a specific type of worry
or fear focusing on environmental
destruction it has been at a serious
level enough to interfere with their
life posit points I get it actually it
doesn't say it's been
at a serious level it has to be at a
level serious enough to interfere with
their lives to be an actual an actual I
mean because like look if you're a 12
year old kid and you pay attention to
even glancing checking the news you'll
see that like Oh July was the hottest
month in the history of the world that's
not good but here they're gonna mock it
maybe on some level they're gonna say
it's it's it's a it's a fake anxiety
it's been created manufactured what do
you make of that well first of all I
really find it hard to believe that
there are five and six year olds that
truly have anxiety towards the
inevitable alleged destruction of our
environment but if that actually does
exist then isn't it the people on the
Left that are saying the world's gonna
end in 12 years it's their fault that
these children actually have this
anxiety if it is true isn't it the
people that are saying we only have 10
years left to live again this is
something that is just so based in fear
mongering and demagoguery the idea that
children are having some sort of anxiety
that the world is going to end in 10 to
12 years which is anti science and is
just not true whatsoever but there again
you look at the left look what they're
trying to do they're trying to make it
seem well it's for the children why we
need some sort of green new deal or more
government control over our economy
there's no doubt kids have worries and
anxiety Mike just last night one of my
boys is worried about whether he'd be on
the team with the other two boys in
basketball camp this morning what does
that just families it's schools are
reinforcing this Eco anxiety too by a by
being obsessed with the climate change
that's exactly right and unfortunately I
this is this is a really important point
elementary school children spend much
more time focusing on climate change and
the environment than they do in American
history you will have fourth and fifth
graders true that will know much more
about pausing for one second I cannot
tell you how many times the right has
complained about actual American history
being taught to people
I mean well Charlie kind of hints at
what kind of American history yeah the
good kind of American history American
history you will have fourth and fifth
graders true that will know much more
about the idea that the world will end
in ten years
1776 the war of 1812 the Civil War
Abraham Lincoln or the beauty of the
American Founding and that that that
right there can answer the question of
how these radical ideas are actually
able to spread in our society when you
spend far more time on the idea that
this was going to end in ten years which
is totally false and not not on the
history of our country all right so he's
never in the context of the shooting
okay that's a great segment the idea
Aling anxiety the idea that for fourth
graders or fifth graders now charlie
doesn't get this because i mean there's
a problem you have when I think you're
Charlie's age is you don't really you're
not you don't remember what you knew at
that age and you're not and you haven't
had your memory refreshed by hanging out
with people that age which is probably a
good thing that he's not but having had
a recent fourth and fifth grader and
expecting another one to be a fourth and
fifth grader and about four or five
years I can tell you that they you know
do things like read the internet and see
the reports and study things called
Natural Science and if you're teaching
science and you're not talking about
global climate change then you're not
doing your job you're not teaching
science now what's interesting though is
that Charlie does understand the
implications of fear-mongering like for
instance if you told everybody let's say
you went and told a group of kids who
are in fifth grade there's an invasion
going on we're being invaded I suspect
that they would freak out
here is Charlie Kirk just well to be
fair this is seven months ago liberal
hypocrisy he writes tear gas was used at
least once a month from 2009 to 2013 to
deter immigrants at the southern border
under the Obama administration the left
is outraged when our Border Patrol
agents protect our country from a
violent invasion but only if Trump is
president well on some level certainly
the use of tear gas it wasn't used
the exact same way but the use of tear
gas certainly something that people
should have been pissed about of course
I don't remember charlie Kirk praising
Obama for using tear gas and plenty of
people on the Left were outraged by both
of those things yes
but the idea that we're involved in a
violent invasion I think Charlie has
figured out probably why some people are
inspired to commit those those domestic
terrorist attacks inadvertently he may
have I agree with him that we should
teach you know a American history more
in schools for instance like about that
founding of the country that was so
beautiful for instance who would have
the slaves preferred to have won that
war not America and and and then you
know as long as we're doing the Civil
War we could do reconstruction and we
could do the end of reek and we could do
Jim Crow that would be fun to hear about
well don't go overboard you don't want
to make the kid look they're anxious
enough about basketball tryouts bro they
want to know about stroke and we want
about structure they want to know about
the plantation economy and want to know
whether about yeah we can Alaska Paul's
winter what about spring sport you're
gonna bring Sven Beckett down and you
listed kids that would be awesome women
take some time to understand that our
country is fundamentally disease but
then the other part is gonna be that
your world is you kind of exist so daddy
would like to apologize for bringing you
into this world which is going to do you
see did you pick them up in your arms
and their babies go oh I'm so sorry
yeah they won't raid the Social Security
trust
I did see loves company I did
specifically tell them like daddy's
gonna be a little bit annoying I'm
giving you a heads up right now and if
you don't like it then you're gonna have
to
figure out some other way to survive a
or the Long Island Expressway exactly
