[Music]
and I spoke to treat a Parsi who will be
on ring of fire this weekend briefly
about this and we have and he literally
wrote the book on on losing an enemy
about the negotiations that led to the
Iran deal and the implications of it and
we have seen over the past month
first the designation of the Iranian
National Guard
the Iranian the Kurds force I guess it
was as a terrorist organization
we then see the movement of another
carrier group into the Straits of Hormuz
and I think it was just a day or two ago
the waivers on some of the sanctions
that were granted expired
there will be more waiver sanctions
expiring soon and the theory is this is
that Donald Trump may not want a war
with Iran but he also didn't like the
Iran deal because Obama did it he may
see a war with Iran as being a hindrance
to his re-election campaign because he
supposedly ran on against dumb Wars
however there is a complete vacuum in
the White House and in the executive
branch in terms of voices that might
because you'll recall there was a lot of
people in the administration who were
trying to get him not to leave the
Iranian deal those voices are all gone
they were ineffectual there is no
Secretary of Defense we don't have one
we see more and more people leaving the
Pentagon those are the people who would
say hey
we can't win a war with Iran what you do
have is John Bolton in Mike Pompeo who
are probably telling the president this
is what you need to do to look strong
and the only thing that I could say is
in terms of like like an analogy here is
Bolton is trying to put this on
autopilot
it's like he's taking a brick and he's
tying it to the gas pedal of a car and
he's saying it doesn't matter it doesn't
need a driver now this is gonna go
forward so we're gonna put ourselves in
a position where something will go wrong
and it will force some type of conflict
that will spiral into a war because John
Bolton is a lunatic and this is
something that he this has been his
project for decades now here's a senator
angus King from the Armed Services
Committee I think not speaking
forcefully enough if you want to prevent
this type of thing because King has got
to convince at least some members of the
Republican Party that this is not a this
is not good for them electoral II so
that somebody walks down the street and
says to Donald Trump hey I'm not sure
that John Bolton is the guy you can
trust here I know he was on Fox News and
all but here is uh here's angus King
don't usually read things on television
but I want to read something that I
think may put this into important
context this is John Bolton in in 2017
two years ago just before he became
national security adviser he says the
outcome of the president's policy review
should be determined that the Ayatollah
Khomeini's 1979 revolution will not last
past its 40th birthday which by the way
was this past February the declared
policy of the United States should be
the overthrow of the mullahs mullahs
regime in Tehran the behavior and the
objectives of the regime are not going
to change and therefore the only
solution is to change the regime itself
and that's why before two
thousand ninth we here will celebrate in
Tehran you take that sentiment and add
to the fact that we've drastically
increased the sanctions on Iran we've
just declared the Kurds force a
terrorist organization we're moving
carriers I have this creepy feeling that
this is weapons of mass destruction in
Iraq and that there's there motions
toward a confrontation with Iran that it
would be it would be a very very serious
conflict when I was over there hang on
one second oh you don't think that Iran
poses a threat to US interests in the
region because if you're making the
weapons of mass destruction comparable
posit for one second
posit for one second like you know
there's a lot of qualifications to that
statement right
you don't think Iran is posing a threat
to US interests in the region like first
of all it's pretty dubious as to what
our interest in that region are in the
first place second of all it is pretty
dubious to say that they're necessarily
expansionary as opposed to involved in a
surrogate war with Saudi Arabia and
nevertheless there you also have to
argue that there's no other means in
which to contain Iran's aspirations to
the extent that they have any other than
being able to sell their oil can I just
add to I mean just how unbelievably
dangerous and stupid that framing is I'm
just gonna quote briefly this is Paul
pillar and lo blog he's a former CIA
analyst and he says basically naked
aggression as a means of starting such a
war it's a piece called Bolton's war
maybe too much for even Bolton to pull
off so the strategy has been to try to
pressure and go to Iran into doing
something anything that could be
construed as a causes Bela belly so like
just even the frame of that question
leads directly to the scenario they're
trying to set up I would also have you
more dangerous I mean I would also add
you know the idea
that Bolton and Pompeii are going around
saying we're getting a lot of chatter
that's it there's a lot of chatter like
well it was the reporter from CNN who
did that credulous Lee yesterday the
same reporter who fed the Iraq Intel
right chatter bars Barbara Starr yeah
there's a lot of chatter out there
I mean it's we can't be specific about
it and it turns out that the chatter was
literally an Israeli report that laid
out possible things Iran could do
that's not chatter that's a rival
speculating as to what could happen but
here we go this is the way you this is
the way you if you don't march to war
this is the way that you back into a war
it would be it would be a very very
serious conflict when I was over there
hang on one second you don't think that
Iran poses a threat to US interests in
the region because if you're making the
weapons of mass destruction comparison
there weren't no I don't want to go that
far clearly they're they're a malicious
actor and they have Hezbollah in Lebanon
and and they're affiliated with Hamas
I'm not saying they're good guys by any
means but the question is are we taking
steps that are going to lead us toward a
war yeah are we taking steps is going to
lead us towards a war and I think that
answer is yes and also just even like we
need to start having an honest
conversation about Iran which is like
does do are their internal human rights
abuses absolutely they pale in
comparison to Saudi Arabia but sure they
exist and we should be able to talk
about them that's fine then there's like
the fact that yes actually Iran I think
along with everyone else has played a
questionable role in Syria but they're
synchronized with us with us against
Isis and in Yemen
they've were barely backing a group that
Saudi Arabia has used as an excuse to I
think at this time you can use the word
genocide as to what's happened in Yemen
so even just like buying that I mean
see what Iran is doing is there foreign
ministers flying to China and Europe and
India to try to preserve the greatest
diplomatic success of our modern time
