so Michaela you are running in
Maryland's 5th district against Steny
Hoyer he is I you would probably know
more than I how long he's been in
Congress he's 80 years old I would
imagine he's been there for decades yeah
he's been there for almost 40 years
almost for almost 40 years like multiple
eras ago frankly he has used that time
it's my understanding correct me if I'm
wrong he's used that time to not only
obviously to ascend in the the party in
terms of he was whipped for a long time
and now he's number two to Nancy Pelosi
but one of the strengths that he had was
that he could raise a lot of corporate
money because of where he's from and
therefore it freed him up to go and
raise money for other people and to a
large extent that is how he garnered his
power you are not going to raise a lot
of corporate money relative to him give
me a sense of what that disparity looks
like right now yeah so our campaign
they're strictly grassroots we don't
take any money from any corporate tax
and so far we've raised over $70,000 but
all of our contributions are from small
donors typically with the average
contribution of about $20 per person now
my understanding is that Steny Hoyer has
raised somewhere around six hundred and
fifty thousand dollars in just a hundred
and eighty five dollars of that six
hundred fifty thousand is from people
donating less than two hundred dollars
in my is that correct because I'm
reading that in a in a news story in
BuzzFeed and I just that number is
stunning yeah less than two percent of
his donors are our small donors wow
that's
crazy alright well tell us a little bit
about the 5th district
what like who are who lives there who
are being ostensibly represented they
must all be if they're all being
represented they must all have a lot of
money because they don't seem to skimp
when it comes to to to contributing to
him but give us a sense of who lives in
the 5th district yes so the 5th district
is comprised of the working class it's
60% white but our district is completely
gerrymandered it's been rumored that
steny hoyer actually had dealings and
the drawing of our district and so in
our district it's kind of a mix so we
have some city type areas we have
suburban areas we have rural areas and
we also have coastal communities like
such as like beaches on the water so our
district is very unique and and so when
you when you travel around the district
what do you what are the problems that
you think people have that I guess
inspired you to run yeah so in our
district and I'm pretty sure this is a
national issue the number one concern is
health care because people are uninsured
and underinsured people are going to
medical bankruptcy and our health care
is being treated as a commodity and
another thing that worries people are is
also climate change everyone is
interested in the Green Deal because we
do have coastal communities in our
district and it's only amazing that our
district has not been completely
destroyed by a natural disaster but it's
only a matter of time before it does if
you don't act now another concern of our
constituents is affordable housing
because our districts affordable housing
is pretty much a myth and so that is a
huge concern especially amongst the
renters in our district
so you you've got an issue set there and
and and so you know when you go around
like when you talk about and I want to
get to you you your personal story
because you have a pretty unique one for
someone running for Congress and and and
and frankly that's you know I think in
some respects is becoming more and more
common for people to have unique stories
when they are challenging but before we
get there I mean what is Steny Hoyer I
mean if you mentioned in terms of like
housing issues you've mentioned health
care you've mentioned climate change
where is Steny Hoyer been on these so
study warrior does not I'm sorry I have
a little bit of a cold
no problem II where doesn't matter does
not support Medicare for all he does not
support a green new deal he doesn't even
have a plank for affordable housing on
his website at all so no one knows where
he stands on that issue and they're on
the issue of criminal justice reform
which I didn't speak about before I
would say he's also on the wrong side of
that as well even though he came out
with a statement today on Facebook
saying that he wanted to move forward
with decriminalizing marijuana but he
just wrote a letter to a constituent on
August 26 of this year saying that he
believed marijuana to be a gateway drug
and was hesitant on legalizing it on the
federal level Wow
and so I mean what do you anticipate is
I mean how does he deal with this I
guess maybe you've just explained it I
mean you know I've seen the reporting
that said that he referred to like
marijuana is a gateway drug guess all of
one month ago apparently he's had a some
type of reeducation or some revelation
which you know good for him but I mean
is that the me
how does he go how is he won re-election
for 40 years when he seems to be so
completely out of touch from the
concerns of the district uh in my
opinion is complete its name recognition
I mean he's been in office for so long
he's been on our ballots for so long and
so you know people are just like oh okay
that's Bennie Hoyer you know he hasn't
had I don't I want to say a credible
challenger I don't think ever that's
actually going to make him run for his
seat so he is already he was always safe
and I think now he knows he's not safe
and that's why he keeps with flopping
with these decisions such as the one
that he just changed his mind off the
legalization of marijuana and also
yesterday he finally came out in support
of impeachment of Donald Trump and I
mean I want to take a break here in just
a minute or two but I'm curious as to
when you see these type of changes I
mean does that give you a sense that he
is you know conscious of the possible
threat to his seat absolutely and it
also makes me not trust and way more
than I already didn't trust them because
it's like now you're not even being
genuine like you're not doing this
because this is what we want you're
doing this because you feel as though
that your position is in jeopardy
interesting and how much do you would
you think that the the folks like
himself as they look around at what's
happened you know with AOC and with the
other challenges I mean how much is that
is does he think that like there's a
chance for this to happen in my district
um I would say now it's obviously that
he thinks that it's a very likely chance
that it would happen in this district I
mean if it's showing and his stance on
policy now I mean just alone you know
with his stance on legalizing marijuana
that alone showed
like okay he's paying attention you know
like he's starting to get worried
I imagine the district has changed quite
a bit and the issues that people have
changed quite a bit
how do you go out though and there's a
huge disparity and money you do not take
corporate PAC money steny hoyer I feel
like not only does he take corporate PAC
money it seems to be almost exclusively
big donors for him I mean almost if he
had if he had made a proclamation
I'm only exacting big donor money I
don't know how he could get more
statistically but how do you go out
there when you have a guy like Steny
Hoyer you you explained to us in the
last segment that a month ago he was
telling constituents that pot that pot
marijuana was a gateway drug yet this
week he comes out saying oh we should
decriminalize it and obviously you know
you don't have the resources that he has
in terms of getting your broad message
out there how do you compete with
someone like that and win to be honest
it's all about the ground game I mean
anywhere is probably never had to knock
a door in his life he's probably never
had to campus or bomb Bank so for me
it's all about going out to the
community it's also about increasing
voter turnout and getting involved with
politically disengaged communities
people who like the political system
doesn't care about them and I was one of
those people you know and for me I have
kind of an advantage because I do
resonate with so many of the people in
my district and so in a sense I've
already begun to gain trust
because I'm not a typical politician
that's where that I just call myself a
politician but it I'm not a typical like
politician I'm not a difficult candidate
that will run for Congress and so when I
go out and I talk to people in the
community and they see that I'm a
regular working class person and I told
them my life story everything that I've
been through you know that that shows
people hey like we can trust her you
know you don't be don't have to worry
about her straying away and you know the
courting legislation on behalf of
corporations Oh God give us a sense of
that of that personal story of yours
yeah so um my story and which is one of
the reasons why I decided to run was
because of my story and seeing how you
know our system and if we say that
they're broken but they're actually
fixed they're working exactly how they
were intended to for the people that
there weren't at it for specifically our
criminal justice system in which I was
actually incarcerated for driving on a
suspended license which is a jailable
offense here because I could not afford
to pay traffic tickets and when that
happened to me I started to realize that
you know these issues were systemic
issues because I initially wanted to
become a psychologist and work with
people who were in prisons and juvenile
detention centers but as I got older and
I started to see how the system really
was and I was incarcerated for driving
on suspended license and seeing women
that were in prison that were stuck in
jail because they couldn't afford $50 to
pay to get out is when I realized that
it was a systemic issue and I decided to
use my life experiences and I decided to
use my frustration to turn it into
legislation because I think that that is
something that we need people eval
how old were you when you were
incarcerated
I was 2014 so she I was 24 so you're 24
years old you have a number of what was
it parking violations moving violations
yeah that so you didn't turn your
blinker on when you took a left or a
right or you you rolled through a stop
sign you get a you get a fine you don't
have the money to pay it and so you get
thrown into jail like it's debtors
prison and the implications of having
that
criminal record are what I mean does
that prevent you from from from sort of
like moving forward with your life um in
a sense in a sense of kind of because I
have employment but it is hard like
especially like recently I was trying to
look for another job and because I have
a security clearance all this stuff pops
up on my record all my background checks
the driving all suspended license I was
also incarcerated for possession of
marijuana when I probably I think I was
about 19 or 20 years old and even though
I was not convicted of the possession of
marijuana I was charged with it it's
still on my record and I still get asked
about it today which is unfortunate
because that's something that now we're
talking about legalizing and here it is
still on my record and I'm being asked
about it right and so do you I mean so
are you counting on on sort of a just I
guess the fervor of folks who realize
like they have an opportunity to be
represented by someone who deals on a
daily basis
with the same type of issues that they
deal with on a daily basis exactly
because that's literally everyone in my
district I mean I feel like everyone
kids resonate with getting some type of
ticket or you know just life happening
to them like maybe you know you forgot
to pay your car insurance that's part of
it you know maybe you got a ticket for
not having car insurance or you know I
feel like everyone can just wear the
make with life happening period and like
I said that's everyone in our district
so of course that is completely what I'm
counting on is people realizing that we
can lead from our firsthand experience
like it's okay to have someone not and
you know an entrenched incumbent in
office it's okay to have someone in
office that's just like us because
that's how we get represented that's how
we get hurt and that's how he gets me we
just have about 45 seconds left I mean
when you're out there like what is it
that you're looking for obviously
you're not looking for big corporate
donations what what do you need to win
this race since we are grassroots we
definitely definitely always are
accepting contributions any dollar
amount any dollar amount is okay any
dollar amount matters if anyone wants to
make a contribution you can do so at
Michaela 2020 comm slash donate and I
imagine also you guys are looking for a
lot of volunteers if you're living in in
that district yes also we are always
looking for volunteers because we are
putting together a very strong ground
game so the bigger the team the better
so BQ canvass and get the word out with
you phone bank and get the word out but
it's definitely going to take the power
of the people that make this work and
what we're like what is the locale there
excuse me like what are this major
cities if people are listening they
don't realize they're in the fifth
District yeah so the fifth district is
parts of Prince George's County parts of
Anne Arundel County all of Charles
County all of Calvert County in all of
Saint Mary's County
well Michaela Wilks it's been great to
talk to you good luck with your campaign
and wish you all the best
