[Music]
come from a seven one six area code
who's this where he come from hi this is
amber from western New York hello amber
from western New York hi I'm calling
it's actually on the abortion around
that conversation so I historically have
been pro-life and my plan is to vote for
Sanders or Warren I love I would love if
she's still there
and I'm just trying to figure out so
with my friends and it just on a broader
appeal level with the worry that the
subject of abortion will reelect Trump
like what space there is for appealing
to people who are more on the leading
pro-life I mean I remember a
conversation you guys had with someone a
couple weeks ago talking about how a lot
of black voters tend to be more
conservative in that element and
everything without asking people to
obviously on the pro-choice side to
compromise their position and I don't
know how much space there is argument I
mean how much space do you think there
is I mean III my my sense is is that
that you know look there's been attempts
in the past in fact Hillary Clinton back
in 2004 somewhere around there 2003 was
attempting to soften Democratic rhetoric
and maybe position when it comes to
abortion rights and frankly I think it's
just one of those things that is that is
not that is just interactive art yeah
and yeah and I think look you I think
you're right
abortion if not directly certainly via
proxy with that open Supreme Court seat
brought in a lot of support Trump that
wouldn't otherwise be there the only
thing I can say at this point is that
maybe that can be mitigated by the fact
that it's 5-4 and it's going
b54 I mean you know maybe a changes if
Clarence Thomas gets hit by a bus three
weeks before the election but I mean but
aside from that I mean I think you know
largely this you know and obviously it's
gonna be played up but I just don't know
that there is something to neutralize
there I I just I just don't know what I
don't know what you would say that would
be satisfying to someone who is you know
the a lot of the people you know will
say the the rhetoric that essentially
like you know no one likes abortions but
it should be or I personally am not in
favor of abortion right and and I I
don't use that kind of rhetoric because
you know right
nobody likes ya nobody likes
tonsillectomies either frankly but
they're important and they're helpful to
people and and so but if you know I
wouldn't I wouldn't know I'm mostly just
hoping that the broader moral appeals
that have to do with Trump and even like
other pro-life things and like you're
saying like lowering the number of
abortions and more progressive policies
that work towards that and then just
things like the putting kids in cages
and things like that will help overwhelm
that for some people the abortion issue
and be able to vote be able to vote
professedly based on that I have a few
thoughts on this so yeah so first of all
you could I mean I don't know if this is
gonna work on most people but you can
argue against the actual belief that
people have that abortion is murder
maybe some people will try and change
their minds most people probably won't
but I think the idea of skepticism of
certain religious beliefs is something
that the left has ceded too readily to
 like Sam Harris and we need to
take it back that's probably not gonna
work on most people but maybe also I
mean you can make the case that
abortions are going to happen no matter
what they're going to be desperate
people who don't want to be pregnant
anymore
the difference that the legality makes
is is it going to be safe or is it going
to be dangerous so you can argue along
those lines and I think frankly the
elements of miscarriage and the scrutiny
that can go to that can get to a lot of
people there's a lot of I mean
miscarriage happens to a lot of people
across the board and it's something that
I know a lot of people who if you're
more inclined to think of a fee is
having personhood then theoretically
maybe a miscarriage can have a different
kind of weight in your mind I know
that's personal and it has an issue
across the board anyways but I feel like
when I want to emphasize to friends that
like okay but you had a miscarriage and
if you then on top of that had to go in
to like all of this scrutiny about
whether you actually were secretly
having an abortion and all of that well
let me ask you this were you ever a
voter who voted on that issue
exclusively yeah you were and what what
changed your mind
yeah well there's so part of the thing
is I'm not that old so I didn't have
that many elections to like dive B and I
I'm in New York and I was an independent
so I couldn't vote in any of the
primaries so a lot of those elections I
didn't have as much time to like dive
into those things and I figured okay
well this is but I guess mind important
issue to me thought that was over
yeah I guess my point is this is that
like I don't think it's I don't think
it's really I mean the the only argument
that I think that is effective in terms
of like getting is is not arguing over
the issue of abortion I think that
people are just sort of like either
emotionally decide I think like you
could say are you willing to send
doctors and women to jail if they have
an abortion and because like that is the
only way to carry out your policy
otherwise otherwise you know that's the
decision that you have to make I mean
that's what separates this sort of like
I think B but beyond that I think the
only other thing you can say is like I I
think the best argument frankly is like
look it's already the Supreme Court is
already
I four and and abortion rights are going
to be what abortion rights are gonna be
and they either get taken away right
well my point is is that I don't know
that someone who believes that abortion
should be illegal can be dissuaded of
that idea the the only thing I think
that can be done is that they can be
convinced that that doesn't have to be
your voting fulcrum that doesn't have to
be your litmus test because that is
already a foregone conclusion now I hope
that it isn't but we know the the person
we had on today basically said it's
that's a done deal
roe v-- wade is done if not and and so
that's an effective argument it seems to
me the only effective argument at least
in in short to mid-term that you could
make to someone who is is that I'm not
gonna try and change your mind about
abortion I'm just gonna tell you you
don't need to vote that doesn't have to
be your single issue anymore because
you've already sort of won that well
another thing though that I think is
important to remember with a candidate
like Bernie Sanders is the left takes a
much more expansive view of reproductive
justice than you might hear from
traditional liberals so reproductive
justice doesn't only include the right
to have an abortion but the right to
have children if you want to and
adequately care for them right and when
people have that right protected that
will lead to fewer abortions down the
line so that is just as important right
I don't know that frankly people care
about that because the number of
abortions in this country the number of
unwanted pregnancies Perdiccas gunned
down and and in so I just no I mean I
just think in terms of efficacy like you
know people trying to chemo and really
that's why I like my you know my
suggestion is just like don't try and
change their mind on the issue just try
and change their mind on wait what
what determines their vote what that
makes them vote yeah yeah appreciate the
call cool thank you
