[Music]
ellen:oh mara continues to hopefully I
mean the best-case scenario with what
she does to all of these ghouls and
goblins of the right wing is just shoot
a bunch of cortisol in their bodies they
continue to freak out about her this is
in a segment and we'll get to the
Netanyahu reelect shortly but you just
had a prime minister who is formalizing
ran a campaign on formalizing an
apartheid state in contradiction of any
type of law if you take that seriously
any type of sort of basic human progress
that we theoretically supposed to have
sort of achieved and this segment turns
into a meltdown about alon omar talking
about the atmosphere in this country
targeting Muslims after the terrorist
attacks of 9/11 and Brian Kilmeade is
he's a he's worked up all right
meanwhile let's talk a little bit about
congresswoman elon Omar she was last
month at an event supporting care which
is the Council on american-islamic
relations and there's soundbite we're
about to play for you that has got some
people upset because of how it
trivializes September the 11th the
greatest terror attack in our nation's
history which was conducted by
terrorists and here she is talking about
how Muslims in this country are
scrutinized these days and then listen
to how she describes September the 11th
far too long we have lived with the
discomfort of being a second-class
citizen and frankly I'm tired of it and
every single Muslim in this country
should be tired of it
here was founded after 9/11 because they
recognized that some people did
something and that all of us were
starting to lose access to our civil
liberties some people did something like
an unprovoked attack killing people in
the back on thousands of the Pentagon
and you know that flight 93 as well as
in the World Trade Center really there's
some few people did something you have
to wonder if she's an American first she
could Dan Crenshaw tweeted this out
first member of Congress to ever
describe terrorists who killed thousands
of Americans on 9/11 as some people who
did something - unbelievable
it is unbelievable and can you imagine
if she was representing your community
you are and you were in her district how
embarrassed you must feel today many
people are upset because they just said
she was flippant about it some people
did something it was a attack that
changed that changed our entire country
I wrote that someone tweeted this out
they said some people did something
sounds like a bake sale but it does not
really sound like a terrorist attack
that killed 3,000 people and altered the
New York City skyline forever so as a
Muslim American you should be more
outraged because they sallied your
religion in the name of religion they
kill Americans and still do it on a
daily basis there's so much to pick
apart here and what I find that ironic
is is part of to pick apart is you know
and I'm so burned out on all of these
tone conversations but these are the
people that are all you know oh my god
people on the Left here - upside they
need to take a joke by the way sometimes
that's true and sometimes people are
reaching for straws and trying to you
know I get with when we get clips like
that of right-wing figures saying
something that's like okay that's
slightly and elegantly put but we can do
better than that
they built a whole segment on a primary
point which is objectively true which is
that Muslims were both targeted and
focused on by state agencies through
policies like the Patriot Act as well as
through vigilante violence after nine
eleven so groups needed to form to
protect a persecuted category of people
that had nothing to do with the
September 11th attacks that's what she's
talking about this is also on the heels
let's just the third thing of a couple
of days ago a guy being arrested with
plans to assassinate her as they
continue to try to amplify the
conspiracies and nonsense about her and
then that brings us to Dan Crenshaw I
will never forget here's a good example
of some of an of an unceasing I can live
with I don't care that some guy incident
live made a joke about his eye patch I
do not and if you do care and if it was
offensive here's what you do
on the next weekend update' you say hey
maybe that joke was in poor taste I'm
sorry
although by the way check out our back
catalogue of every single joke we did
about David Patterson the entire premise
of which is he's blind okay that joke
went on for years I apologize not let's
give a national program a platform to a
fascist member of Congress and here Matt
what we have up on screen here Dan
Crenshaw Allah alongside a few other tea
party people I can't remember any of the
names off the top of my head but some
not great people was a member of as Mike
Michael says the oldest and largest tea
party group here's I'm just gonna read
from Mike Michaels the oldest and
largest tea party group on Facebook
would like to congratulate Daniel
Crenshaw one of our tea party group
admins for his impressive win in
yesterday's Texas district to run off
dan will easily win in November and is
going to make a superb congressman now
another tag manga another post you might
like to see from a Mike Michael's here
to say would get an idea of what this
what the moderators you know I would
like to an idea of what kind of ideas
were being exchanged how well was this
administrator Oh here's Mike Michaels at
least the KKK was white supremacy run by
whites now on the other hand the BLM
vermin is nothing but black supremacy
with white masters so that's just the
type of people that Dan Crenshaw likes
to hang out with there we go
and so he gets to be synced and this is
another I mean but again this is a
perfect example if you want to take the
the angle
of Dan Crenshaw Dan Crenshaw is a
far-right extremist who was part of this
group who ran on the wall who ran on a
pure Mogga platform some I don't even
remember who was it was a Pete Davidson
made some eyepatch joke about him
honestly I'm sorry okay cares be an
adult who cares but because of of a
certain set of sensitivities this guy
and again it's totally it isn't like hey
I'll issue an apology sorry about that
one specific joke or I'll do you another
one okay dan Crenshaw can come to studio
I'll apologize to him and then I'll say
hey am i bad sorry due to a mock your
eye patch incidentally why are you
running on white supremacy maybe you'd
like to answer that on Weekend Update so
who knew booties you know this is this
is a micro version of the Samantha B
Glenn Beck thing it's like this
incredible weird contradiction inside
certain types of liberal and centrist
types where this is extraordinary
uptightness and oversensitivity but then
at the same time a total inability to
see what certain people are for who they
are and this guy is someone who is out
trying to exploit uh and and demonize
alon omar when she's getting when
someone was just arrested for trying to
assassinate her and you're clutching at
and you're reaching for straws for her
an inelegant phrase in a speech on an
important issue which you're on the
wrong side of yep the speed with which
they pivoted from the topic at hand
which is Islamophobia and muslims being
unfairly targeted to UM 9/11 was really
really bad and it was done by muslim
terrorists kind of implies that the
muslims in this country he deserved what
happened to them after 9/11 i don't
think it kind of does it all directly
does yes it's also shows like how
everything these people say is a hundred
percent projection right because Ilhan
omar never even said the dual
loyalty thing they only said that she
said it and you know that's because they
were thinking of saying it about her
Virginia's Corey Stuart Lee on the
subjects Pierre was another one of those
admins of that Facebook page down
Crenshaw when asked about this was like
I barely even knew I was a member that
how is this news so he doesn't think he
should ever I have an actual legitimate
question here because I don't do this
dual loyalty stuff for anybody because
it's mostly just nonsense in general
even when marshaled against other
because it's just the wrong way of
framing the issues I he could say hey
are you lobbying for the Emirates that's
like an actual question but Dan crunch
had you do loyalty to the Confederacy in
the modern United States and that is
like my legitimate question to most
frontline Republican leaders it's a fair
question also you know the mention of
care and people call that a terrorist
organization not according to the State
Department one that is associated to
this according to the State Department
is the one sub Cork is affiliated with
but Dan Crenshaw doesn't seem to be too
worried about that no I don't see no
wonder we don't see any tweets about
that wonder how Dan crunch is making the
selections of which terrorism alleged
terrorist ties he's upset about
I know but by all means establish an
Instagram friendship with him and
definitely apologize if you ever been
rude to him a comedy show that's really
crucial really strategic I mean I mean
in ma I mean honestly like look let's go
absurd for a second the equivalent of
this is some you know being absurd
drawing a direct parallel calm down
but you know SNL of 1930s Germany oh my
god Hitler's mustache is so disgusting
you know my feelings and I'm a veteran
okay why don't you come on Weekend
Update we can become pals
they were also eyepatch Nazis too all
right
that's true yeah I mean you gotta ask
yourself are people being systematically
discriminated against for having eye
patches in this country I think the
answer is no sure and again it's not
even like if you want to apologize do it
cool that's not even like the point is
the it first of all it's a joke and that
in general I'm sorry
calm down but
other point is like the Gulf in between
a throwaway joke and we're gonna go all
the way to flying this guy into New York
and making his his his most prominent
outside of right wing echo chamber media
exposure is oh look at this nice veteran
that's budding repeat davidson after
Pete Davidson made a joke about his eye
patch yeah that's how that's what they
did that's how he's like they're white
supremacists add to the mainstream
that's it and then all of a sudden that
turned into a nothing story to a very
real story or sorry I'll say white
nationalist oh yeah no I don't have to
invite Dan Crenshaw here to apologize
well I'm just gonna say nationalist so
you know we can really be in the clear
