a lot of clips here's Mitch McConnell
who of course of course he's going to
see whatever Republican judge he can get
on there of course he is was this
predictable of course it was
I made this prediction two and a half
years ago Mitch McConnell's gonna put
every single judge he can do on there in
any way he can and guess what there's
not a single thing that can be done to
stop him he no longer recognizes blue
slips there's no longer any filibuster
here is Mitch McConnell mm-hmm senator
you you had your legacy on judges with
President Trump is gonna be terrific any
constitutional judges appointed to the
court if another seat opens on the
Supreme Court you're gonna push that
through absolutely
you know the precedent that people
ignored back in 2016 but I made the
decision not to fill the vacancy during
the middle of presidential election was
who controlled the Senate that's right
you know you have to go back to 1888 to
find the last time a Senate of a
different party from the president
confirmed a vacancy the Supreme Court
that occurred during the presidential
election makes sense mm-hmm
we will still control the Senate next
year if there were to be a vacancy of
course we would fill it you can almost
see him almost crack up in that there's
a moment there we almost cracks up it's
probably because the look of belief and
acceptance on the face of the Fox and
Friends one of those is Dan bond Geno
guy I guess got kicked off of all the
NRA to get booted from NRI TV first off
there's no such thing as constitutional
judges that's a made-up thing isn't
every judge supposed to be
constitutional that day I
there's no judge the best judge in the
world wouldn't say like I'm
constitutional judge that doesn't make
any sense it's just a made-up term that
means nothing just combines two words
you could say patriotic judges it's also
a made-up thing
McConnell knows he's full of crap of
course he is
well he said the American people I mean
just to specify he wasn't always saying
this he was saying let's let the
American people decide right absolutely
it's you know but he found his you know
talking point that is going to satisfy
the the boobs who watch Fox and Friends
but the bottom line is elections have
consequences this was completely
predictable of course Mitch McConnell is
going to break every rule or norm or
whatever it is to get people to get in
and part of the reason is because
Republican voters are okay with that far
more okay with it than Democratic voters
and I say that as a regret Democratic
voters should be just as upset just as
willing and in fact just as demanding of
whoever Chuck Schumer whoever it is to
go in and do whatever it takes to win to
be politically expedient if you will
that's what politics is it would be very
nice if we were living in an era where
there was Senate comedy and they all you
know went and took a fits afterwards you
know a hard day on the floor of the
Senate and said you know we're not gonna
push on this one because it's not the
right thing to do it's your pick and
well we're just going to return things
to normal
doesn't that sound deluded doesn't the
idea that someone could shame
Republicans at this point
sounds diluted it does doesn't it this
is from a tweet joy Reid apparently
asked Joe Biden how he'll
get his agenda past Mitch McConnell
quote I know you're one of the ones Joe
Biden said who thinks it's naive to say
we have to work together but Biden goes
on to say you can shame people to do
things the right way
well idea that Mitch McConnell could be
shamed in any way is either so diluted
or such a lie that the person who utters
such a thing should either be kept from
harming themselves or from harming
others this is so cynical so far from
the truth that Joe Biden must know or
Joe Biden has maybe he never had him but
has completely lost his marbles one of
those two things has to be true he
either knows he's telling a massive lie
or he has completely lost his marbles
and I think he knows he's telling a lie
that's why he says like I'm going to
address your critique before you say it
and I know that's your critique because
everybody knows that Mitch McConnell has
not an ounce of shame but it's amazing
it's amazing this is and I mentioned
this earlier that somebody was arguing
with me on Twitter like hmm you don't
believe in hypocrisy as a principle or
anti hypocrisy you and Joe Biden sitting
together in a swing that's that's those
are the two people there that's that
those are the two people who argue for
hypocrisy people who are fundamentalists
and people who are artists and
those artists are usually in
the center they're just corporate
centrist unbelievable unbelievable I
want Joe Biden to say this again on that
debate stage and I hope there's somebody
on that debate stage who is willing to
say to address Mitch McConnell because I
don't know that there is I don't know if
Bernie is going to say that Bernie's not
the one who's gonna you know necessarily
target Mitch McConnell Bernie's probably
not gonna go after Joe Biden I don't
think he might but I don't think so
well Bernie has been targeting the right
to a large degree like maybe in
anticipation of the general and building
a case for why his political vision has
the best chance of beating back this
kind of right-wing populism that's
taking over the world right now I think
Bernie for the most part it's very
reluctant to go at individuals and I
don't know that it'll go at Biden this
early and the I doubt it question is
will there be anybody else up on stage
saying like what I heard you say about
Mitch McConnell and I don't know if
there is they're all gonna focus on
Donald Trump maybe if they try to get
Bernie on his you supported a challenge
to Obama what do you say about that if
you don't like Obama so much and Bernie
can just say well Joe thinks Obama's
better at or Joe thinks he's better at
Obama than Obama is right you know
you're bad when I'm siding with Joe and
read against you there you go I can only
imagine the look on her face that
prompted him to address her critique
before she uttered it
you
