[Music]
dr. Carlson of course is under siege
these days because of the myriad of
problematic things he said that were I
think you could argue racist in terms of
folks from Iraq they were certainly just
grotesque and of course his misogyny and
of course a tough month for him because
he had Rutger Bregman on and refused to
put him on because Bregman was
questioning the premise of his most
recent populist turn Tucker's been so
desperate that he actually had to have
Gabe Rubin on to defend him and when you
the best you can do is to get to Dave
Rubin on to defend you you know you've
got a problem so he turns to Heather
McDonald who is Heather McDonald
she's like a I think she made I don't
know if she if she coined blue lives
matter but she wrote the book on it yeah
yeah she her most recent book is anti
diversity took the diversity delusion or
something like the diversity delusion
that's wonderful that's my book on cops
and so here she is talking about how
that bribery scheme of people probably
similarly situated to Tucker and
probably for that matter Heather
McDonald what is really at the basis of
that country we are paying for these
institutions they're in no sense private
none of them I think to Hillsdale and
Grove City everyone else takes federal
funds so why shouldn't we know why do
they hide from us how they make these
decisions well the main reason is
because of the size of racial
preferences that's what they are don't
want anybody to know understand what
what the question is here we give
federal funds to these private
institutions why why why is their
admissions process not transparent and
we do know there have been multiple
lawsuits as to opening up these
admissions processes to make sure that
they don't provide quotas
for affirmative action and but yet
everything else is completely opaque
incidentally maybe it's just a
coincidence that there's probably never
been an occasion where someone has
donated a million dollars plus to a
university where their children did not
go there if they had children I mean I
would be very curious to see that
statistically what percentage of donors
to a university who have children who go
to college don't get into that school I
would place it somewhere around 0% but
that's not what they're hiding what are
they hiding folks well she's going to
tell you it's that they're their hotbeds
of diversity well the main reason is
because of the size of racial
preferences that's what they are don't
want anybody to know the fact that if
you're applying to Harvard being black
gets you a four times greater chance of
being admitted than anybody else this is
much greater than legacy preferences I
mean the first off the idea that there
is concern about that when these people
are all you know all these institutions
are on the record of saying diversity is
actually a is actually an attribute that
we want in our institution that it
actually adds to the educational
experience aside from the fact that I
think this is stated directly the you
know this is the ethnic diversity of the
undergraduate students at Harvard
University you have Asian white is 40
almost 44 percent Asian 17% non-resident
alien 12.3% Hispanic Latino is ten point
eight percent black or african-american
is 6.7% ethnicity unknown is nine point
two percent legacy students make up
around fourteen percent that's weird
because that would be a number that is
higher than oh well I guess she could be
saying like any non-whites
right any non-whites our mayor higher
than the legacy that's hawkers a certain
point it's just all the same right well
that's the thing it's either you know
you're either white or you're diverse
right under her auspices and so all the
non-whites you are on one side and the
legacies aren't another it's not even
bring up all the other selective
pressures kids go through on their way
through high school exactly that's right
I mean this has always been like yeah I
mean me I I think the context of the
starting line by which you could even be
in a position to slightly benefit in a
ultra relative context you're
eliminating 99.999% of the story that's
impressive though to go on there and
push that super impressive and
characteristic
