[Music]
Donald Trump down in a rally supporting
Dan bishop in North Carolina's ninth
district if you're in North Carolina in
your ninth district go and vote ladies
and gentlemen there's going to be a low
turnout special election despite the
fact that the president comes into town
because it activates the Republican
voters and so Democrats have to be
activated equally by his existence there
of course he came in too cried the voter
fraud by Democrats in a district that is
literally holding its election because
of such rampant voter fraud perpetrated
by the Republican candidate that and
this is this is clip number one or is
this number two this is a number one
here's Donald Trump this is the
Republican playbook I told you there's
two things that the Republicans done
they have cut taxes for wealthy
millionaires and billionaires
corporations so regulations can tack on
there too and and they have they have
rolled back a lot of regulations that
protect people that is true and and they
also are at every moment they can
demonizing immigrants refugees people
brown-black anybody boy fact sanctuary
cities but Queeny supports sanctuary
city policies that force prisons and
jails to release criminal aliens
directly into your neighborhoods get out
go ahead go into the neighborhood
going what's your neighborhood where do
you live Rutherford County okay so how
do you feel about having them release
hardened horrible criminals into
Rutherford County I don't think so
but your whole state it's honestly can I
be honest it's crazy what's happening
this whole thing with sanctuary cities
and you go to California which is so
many sanctuary cities they don't know
what's happening out there you have
people that want to get rid of those
sanctuary cities they just aren't able
to do it with the people that get
elected a lot of illegal voting going on
out there by the way a lot of illegal
voters
yeah a lot of illegal voting going on
out there now as opposed to here why
we're having this special election this
stuff sells it really doesn't matter
what he says to these people I mean this
is and I said this yesterday but we're
gonna hammer this point whenever there's
an opportunity the Republicans
understand there is a finite number of
people who will ever vote Republican
that means regular Republican voters and
people who if they vote will vote
Republican
and they basically are activated by the
same set of issues it's just how much
doesn't reach them how visceral is it
when it reaches them particularly those
who are less inclined to vote it's more
of a visceral reaction when Trump goes
down there and talks about these same
things it gets their blood boiling they
go out and vote
