meanwhile let's turn to the other half a
dozen important stories that took place
yesterday the Mick Mulvaney this is the
quid pro quo or the no the other one the
g7 one okay yeah let's I mean I guess we
could start with the g7 and one wonders
if I don't know here it's hard to impart
to the Trump to Trump and the
administration like some type of
strategy but I think tactics wise the I
think it's fair to say that Trump
understands like it doesn't matter you
could just keep putting stuff out there
and if something's a little bit less
controversial I'd rather have people
talking about this than that and we'll
get back to the that but this is that
Mick Mulvaney went out and did his press
did a press availability and they don't
do many press I mean we don't see this
anymore right there's no more there's no
really well he's a chief of staff number
one right so but we don't see even like
White House press briefings really
anymore and so here's Mick Mulvaney
coming out to talk about the fact that
the White House did a rigorous search
for where to hold the g7 summit and
through their rigor and a series of
vetting committees and analyses that
they ran they found that the best
location that could exist for the g7
would be at would be in Florida in fact
at the coincidentally the Trump Doral
hotel that have been used by past
administrations there's a long list of
the accommodations on site that the the
ballrooms bilateral rooms a number of
rooms the photo ops the support hotels
that are there the the proximity to
cities and airports helicopter landing
zones medical facilities etc
so we use the same set of criteria that
previous administrations have used we
started with a list of about a dozen
just on paper and we sent an advanced
team out to actually visit ten locations
in several states we visited California
Colorado Florida Hawaii Michigan North
Carolina Tennessee and Utah we got that
list down was on students just under ten
and the advanced team went out to visit
those and from there we got down to four
finalists that our senior team went out
to to look at they looked at I think it
was one in Hawaii two in Utah and in
Florida and it became apparent at the
end of that process that Darrell was by
far and away far and away the best
physical facility for this meeting in
fact I was talking with one of the
advanced teams when they came back and I
said what was it like and it said make
you're not going to believe this but
it's almost like they built this
facility to host this type of event and
any of you have been there you know that
there's there's separate buildings with
their own rooms separate and apart from
each building so that right when you
country can have a building another kind
you have another view folks could have
your building for the press and
obviously the common areas are going to
be perfect for our needs down there
again anticipating your questions how is
this how is this not an emoluments right
yeah that's a good question actually I
would start with that one
how is this not an emoluments problem I
mean I wish we had footage of the look
on the on the reporters faces as he's
saying this and they're all just going
like are you laughing did you hear the
point where someone he's cracking up
when this happened I was I was at Fox
News ready to go on and then there was
another press conference and so I'm just
googling where's the Korra I wanted to
know who owned it cuz you know he
licenses his name out so I'm thinking
well it made me just like Russia owner
does China who the hell knows who
actually Turkey for all we know can own
it but then I when I was doing it just
in May there was a report saying that
Trump's prized Doral resort is in steep
decline according to company documents
showing where young as problems are
mounting how opportunistic I mean this
is I'm surprised he didn't have pictures
of like look at these kids having fun
there it's a family place and this is
it's basically an infomercial yes for
the hotel and I I mean do yet I would
like to see I mean I hope someone is
foiiowing for yo a boy oh boy oh boy
in all those trips that they took to go
check out all these different places we
sent people far and wide we said people
across the country we went from from sea
to shining sea to find the best resort
in the country and it turns out to be
Donald Trump's ride that's also in
decline yeah thank you
the other thing is this is a Golf Resort
and we know Donald Trump loves to golf
but I was just thinking about these
meetings like how many I know some of
them when they go to Camp David when
they've been at Camp David which is the
history traditionally you know they're
not recorded meetings but there is
something intimate and odd about having
meetings on a golf course and I was
thinking about that the other day like
he spent a third of his presidency on
the golf course meeting with people yep
it's I think it's hard to imagine that
they didn't do this as a way of sort of
distracting and changing the the news
cycle however despite the fact that it
was clear that Mick Mulvaney was up
there announcing that after a rigorous
search they were going to hold the g7 at
Donald Trump's hotel as a way of turning
the page maybe or at least getting the
news off of the huge disaster that the
turkey in northern Syria not to mention
the impeachment Mick Mulvaney apparently
from what I understand CNN reports that
he was not briefed about what to say
about the impeachment stuff and so he
was on a slightly different page than
the entire legal team of the
administration which has been trying to
argue there's no
quid pro quo here he's the acting chief
of staff yes but to be fair the legal
team is Rudy Giuliani and his five
detained associates well to be fair to
it's also JC clout and he I think had to
do the Drivetime radio show in Boston so
isn't that where he does it or something
like that but that's right
yeah here is Mick Mulvaney making what
we will call probably I think the
technical term is a boo-boo that he also
mentioned to me and past the the the the
corruption related to the DNC server
absolutely no question about that but
that's it that's why we held up the
money now there was a report of the
demand for an investigation into the
Democrats was part of the reason that he
it was on to withhold funding to feed
the look back to what happened in 2016
certainly was was part of the thing that
he was worried about in corruption with
that nation then that is absolutely
rolling the fondant yeah which which
ultimately then float by the way there
was a report that we were worried that
the money wouldn't if we didn't pay out
the money it would be illegal okay it
would be unlawful that is one of those
things that is that little shred of
truth in it then it makes it look a lot
worse than it really is we were
concerned about in our blue over at OMB
about an impoundment I know I just put
half you folks to to bed but there's a
there's the Budget Control Act impound
budget control impoundment Act of 1974
says if Congress appropriates money you
have to spend it at least that's how its
interpreted by some folks and we knew
that that money either had to go out the
door by the end of September or we had
to have a really really good reason not
to do it and that was the legality of
the issue
you just described is a quid pro quo it
is funding will not flow unless the
investigation into the into the
Democrats
ever happened as well we do we do that
all the time with foreign policy we were
holding up money at the same time for
what was the northern triangle competent
countries we were holding up aid at the
northern triangle countries so that they
so that they would change their policies
on immigration but by the way and this
speaks to it this speaks to an important
I'm sorry this speaks to important point
yeah their policies on immigration and
arguably maybe a has something to do
with sort of US interests harder to make
the case that asking them to pursue a
conspiracy theory that they think will
vindicate the president is really in
national interests but Mick Mulvaney
comes out says yeah it's quid pro quo we
do it all the time
and now he doesn't acknowledge and
nobody asked him in that exchange as far
as I can tell well how come he also
brought up barista and Biden in that
phone call I mean we know he did and it
would have been interesting to see if
Mick would be that far off the the
script however later in the day he put
out a written statement saying that no I
didn't mean that
I didn't say there was a quid pro quo
take it back Mick he's on the way out
right I mean no are they about to find
out him like he's not choosing to be on
the way out wasn't the rumor last week
that he was about to be canned no I
don't think so I think that was Rick
Perry I know too many to keep up with
guys but I wouldn't be surprised if they
didn't cut him loose after this on
someone this is a pretty major screw-up
for those people who want to argue that
there was no quid pro quo to have the
acting chief of staff say yeah of course
of course there was at this point and
also on top of that there's like a
thread of truth that it was illegal for
us to hold the mic I yesterday I did a
