[Music]
so having a one-note if you will story
maintaining a a consistent narrative is
hugely important I think to getting your
message out and sometimes that message
could be you know like in Bernie's case
it has evolved over the past 40 years
from you know two percent of the country
owns you know 80 percent of the wealth
to one percent of the country owns 80%
the wealth that is the nature of what's
been going on 40 years ago we didn't
have a billionaire class in this country
now we do but you also could be like
people to judge who's whose narrative is
a little bit less specific grassroots
mobilization mobilization moment and
there's a generational change message
that's resonating but now also comes to
the time where people press you on
specifics and you've spoken about how
values should inform philosophy and that
goes down to policy but when you say for
example those be a radical change under
a Buddha jazz presidency what does that
mean because a lot of people I think
have gotten to your message because it
feels ressure 'only moderate in some
respects well first of all tone it
really matters right so even as we're
contemplating serious and sometimes
profound structural reforms we can do it
in a way that doesn't make everyone feel
like our hair is on fire
look this moment should not be
underestimated in terms of its
seriousness I think in many ways we're
still under reacting but we don't have
to react to it in a way that alienates
others in a way that makes it feel like
there's such screaming that you can't
tell what's even going on around that
makes you a clear contrast to the
president so I want to both commend John
Avlon from CNN for asking for specifics
and then also forgetting his question as
soon as it seems to have come out of his
mouth I mean
he was so excited by that pants I gotta
give him credit he answered the question
what are the specifics and it's
specifically tone gave him like nine
different things he could choose to
respond to in that question and he
responded to the easiest one was like
why are people reassured by you weirdly
well it's mask off time for these people
well I mean and this is the the amazing
thing is that he's talking about the
concepts of structural reform he's
talking about the concept of there being
a fierce urgency of now
if you will just to borrow a phrase from
the last wonder where that came from
and changee candidate that we had but I
still have yet to hear like the
specifics but it's not just Pete Buddha
judge that talks with a little bit of
pablum in terms of his own candidacy it
seems to be a contagious here is Chuck
Todd holding a roundtable about the buzz
around mayor Pete with a guy named
Joshua Johnson who is where does he
write for NPR hey an NPR guy and Casey
hunt and you know it is amazing
Brendon well let's play this and then we
will discuss it feels like a setup what
you make up the rise of libertage why do
you think he's even if even if it's just
for a moment why do you think he's
having this moment because no one's ever
seen anyone like him before yeah
think about what made Donald Trump such
an unavoidable character on television
we were like I've never ever come and
honey come look to me like there's a
horse at a hospital but I saw that
juggling question too but it's also the
same thing that made Brock Obama so
compelling
we'd never seen anyone like him before
and there are a lot of interesting
candidates on the Democratic side I
think Hummel Harris still has a story to
tell she is formidable
I obviously Bernie Sanders is an
interesting character but people judge
kind of represents this amalgam of
personal traits that America has never
seen before so this early in the story
little strange I really like right and
they all in one kind he's an interesting
character like I'm not even looking at
policy or politics or the fundraising
piece is important though although I
think Donald Trump kind of broke some of
the rules but Pete's just like he's the
most interesting right now it's really
interesting you hear Marcos write him
off as just a small-town mayor from a
liberal college town yeah I think if I
were running against people at a judge I
would probably refer to him that way yes
but and I'm sure that you will hear
people do that if they yeah attacking
him if he seems to have already risen
beyond I mean office one thing that
Donald Trump showed us is that campaigns
have changed you know we used to care a
lot about what was on the front page of
the Des Moines Register and the way that
the media landscape has shifted it's
it's a sad it's a subsidy and I don't
take Iowans care I mean look I will
always read the Des Moines Register
whenever I'm in Iowa for the record
however it's become a national media
campaign to a large degree and if Donald
Trump is reality TV you know maybe keep
Buddha judges Game of Thrones and all
this other you know highbrow television
the other half of the country is
watching seriously to to to Josh's point
I mean he is clearly an incredibly
talented guy I mean breathtaking Lee
stupid
so first off that sound that that that
sensation you're feeling is the same
sensation you have when you're drowning
that is that that's what that's what
you're experiencing right now as you
hear that type of I mean Brendan had
asked me it's like the media didn't seem
to learn anything and I you can't
the media is never going to learn
anything the media is not in a position
to learn anything they're not interested
in learning what that thing the media is
there to make money
and there there are undoubtedly
individuals in every organization that
are going like hey wait a second
shouldn't we be paying more attention to
this and that like I don't even know
what that guy from NPR was referring to
like it's it's I suppose there is room
on a 24-hour cable channel to say as an
individual this guy's really interesting
but they didn't even get to that like
all they talked about it was like he was
like Game of Thrones that's what was
cool is that she came on and she was
like hey this has been tremendously
stupid and empty-headed and then Chuck
Todd did the weird look I don't even
think people I will care about they're
basically there anymore and then she
came on and she was just like wait for
it I think wait for it it's Game of
Thrones I thought is there there may be
a point and I don't know I would want to
talk to people who are actually on the
ground in Iowa and I don't know if this
is the case but it may be the case that
the media is no longer paying attention
to those issues I don't know if if the
candidates when they're going into Iowa
are talking about those things I would
be surprised that they didn't not and
they were not I mean it's a warning to
care about that as my point was getting
less attention well thank you that's on
saying the media may not be following it
as much but when when candidates go into
these rooms in in Iowa they may I
suspect they're getting those questions
certainly Elizabeth Warren came out with
a very ambitious agricultural
interesting though it's not like game
wit Roman look no I get that part but
it's even like if you're going to do
that type of coverage what is it that is
what what are the personal attributes I
think what the guy from NPR was saying
is that he's gay and married to uh has
you know has a same-sex marriage I think
nature and military and I guess maybe
that like is like perceived by Americans
as as being somehow at odds with each
other made I guess to a certain extent
because for a large a long time you were
not allowed to be gay in the military
and that may be compelling on the
Democratic side I also you know what's
interesting too and no one seems to be
saying is that yes he's a small-time
small-town mayor
you know Barack Obama had a year or two
of Federal Senate you know but was
barely before he started to run prior to
that he was a state senator so he has
some executive you know experience but
what's interesting is is that we've yet
to head into the debate when you have so
many people who are talking about
electability as to whether the fact that
he's married to a man whether we like it
or not is a liability in a general
election like one of the you know we are
only a decade out from when the
Republican Party I guess by the time
this election will be a closer to almost
15 years used gay marriage as a driver
of their electorate and the empty seat
on the the Supreme Court certainly the
evangelicals who came out ostensibly to
attack roe v-- wade it wasn't that long
ago before there was you know completely
praised city clerk and you know
somewhere in Kentucky who was refusing
to marry people but it's interesting
that that is what
and and maybe you know maybe the country
that would be great if the country had
had moved past this it's gonna be
fascinating to see if he if he continues
to rise in the polls and can sort of
like continue to where he's at
if what what what happens with that
thing and also I'm interested in hearing
more about his policies like he's
implied that he's wants to get rid of
the electoral college I think that's
that's good because it gives you a
slight sense of like you know what the
issue sets are but I haven't heard a lot
of specifics in terms of policy but the
specifics are he's gonna change the tone
and bring everyone together with tone
well I mean you know but that there's a
lot of people in the Democratic Party
who want that that's I mean that that is
the reality
I was also skeptical of universal higher
ed for reasons of that's not going to
cure inequality sort of thing right but
that's like you can be skeptical of
certain proposals but really what you
should be doing if you want to be the
proposal person is to offer a proposal
like the I can tell you this Barack
Obama won Iowa there's multiple reasons
probably why did part of it was because
he had he had implied and and maybe
promised some serious reform in terms of
Agriculture policy that he never
delivered on to Iowans but the other big
thing was I can't remember how many
weeks out it was maybe was three or four
weeks he said he there was a debate and
he referred to Social Security being in
crisis which it is not it was not in
crisis then it is not in crisis now the
fix of it is super easy it's no more in
crisis than any other budget in the in
the line item in the budget it's just
the question of whether we're gonna fund
it but he brought up Social Security
being in crisis and the idea that he
identified a problem that seniors were
very concerned about
they weren't concerned that social
security was was in crisis but they're
concerned about social security the idea
that he brought up a a problem in social
security indicated two people older
people in Iowa that he cares about
something that I care about and they
voted for him on that basis when in fact
he was basically starting down the road
to cut Social Security by cutting the
cost-of-living adjustments so people
have to be very careful now
people listen to this program I suspect
they're going to be a little bit more
you know specific and what their needs
are you know so here's one where we're
seeing that in a I guess this was just
today in Iowa he's calling for a tax
credit allowance for child care exciting
now my understanding is there is a tax
deduction at this point for child care
and a tax credit I think is an even like
you know is actually more one-to-one as
opposed to non you can actually take
that off of your taxes so that's it it
is a marginal improvement of course it
does not help you if you are not paying
that much in taxes as it were because
you're not making much but again it's
one of those sort of like he mentioned
like we may need some radical change
that is not the radical change but well
the tone sounds nice and I want to give
credit where credit is due for that I'm
just happy I can cancel my trip to the
drone music festival now because the new
segment we just watched like the the
level of the the Zenko in like level of
hollowness that I just witnessed I don't
know how my soul could leave my body any
more no matter how many drones I listen
to or how many
I take south don't insult thanks please
though everything else fair point
it's interesting how though how the how
the lane he's he's in we used to be very
heavy on showing how clever and
policy-driven they are and now it's sort
of shifted well the people are trying to
find where they're where they're
entering anyway you know he is offering
that sort of like I have the the on one
hand I have the safety of being a white
male where because there's some people
who convinced that a women cannot win in
this environment and that a person of
color cannot win in this environment I'm
not as clear I'm not as convinced
frankly but then he also offers like the
I think the desire for folks on the left
to have some type of social cultural
progress that as a as a gay man he
provides and I think there's a sense on
the on the left that like broad left
that and because he's a military man
he's going to sort of like offset the
potential downsides it's quite possible
where he's not one of those gays yeah
he's not trying to like abolish the
bourgeois family or anything it's funny
people harp on his sexuality because I
don't even perceive him as having a
sexuality like I picture like a
spreadsheet of tax credits where his
genitals should be well I mean I I bet
that that is not I mean I think that's
probably not a coincidence I mean I
don't I think that he probably I would
imagine you know growing up probably was
not terribly confident about being out
certainly as a politician I don't think
he was confident about being out I can't
imagine in the military he was terribly
you know confident about going out it
will be fun though to see him get the
same treatment at the right gave to
Obama like Obama was portrayed is this
like terrifying angry black man
separatist or whatever when he was just
like
nerdy normal person I feel like the same
things gonna happen to Pete buddy judge
if he stays at the game you know right
oh yeah they're gonna be they're gonna
be talking about her secretly wearing
chaps under his suit or something yeah
yeah he's just gonna go to San Francisco
the real plan they taped him for maybe
or maybe they'll do something like this
as was spotted in Iowa where a were
three protesters dressed up like Pete
but it äj-- and Jesus and I guess the
devil and this guy being a Buddha judge
was whipping Jesus on the cross as the
devil is cheering them on play this is
just insane no idea people like that
were so creative see we're in a lavalier
mic dude it sounds like it doesn't the
guy playing the devil is so in character
outfit is totally convincing Jesus is
just taking it yeah I mean I guess new
character in the works what's that like
it's time to end the the nuclear family
bring the Folsom Street Fair is the
White House when you are tearing apart
the family you do it with a tone that
doesn't freak people out but there's a
lot we tell people like hey mommy and
daddy not only is it okay from mommy and
mommy to live together and raise a
family
mommy and daddy can't live together
anymore that's gonna freak a lot of
people out so we need to do it in a
gradual way
