I think that the Trump administration in
there sort of like haste to coax
Democrats to into impeachment have given
more public evidence that the Trump
administration should be impeached I
mean don't you think you know like a new
chin with this whole thing with the
taxes is is just to me it's exhibit you
know a or B that there's a cover-up well
I mean look at what you're doing they
have not turned over one document I mean
I think that's still true I heard it the
other day and I assume that they haven't
turned over anything yet one document
that's been requested by the Congress
they're basically challenging the very
idea that the of the our separation of
powers they're challenging the
fundamental aspect I mean this if you
want a constitutional crisis this is
what we're coming to they're saying you
the Congress have no right to question
anything we do you just don't do you you
go do your little legislation and maybe
I'll sign it and maybe I want but that's
it that's your job none of the rest of
this stuff is your job it's not true and
in fact in the Constitution it pretty
much says that if you know if you want
to find a superior branch of the
government
it's the Congress not the president not
the courts I mean they are the ones who
are sort of the direct line to the
people and it was designed for them to
have these powers to kind of be the
overseers they're the ones who have the
impeachment powers of both the Cork's
and the president so I mean this is that
this is a direct challenge to that and
you can look to people like Bill Barr I
mean I think he's the the the the main
driver of their response and there are
others in the White House as well who
were doing this and a bunch of legal
thinkers far-right extremist types who
see the presidency as an imperial
presidency and they have for many many
years and they've been working toward
this and I finally found a president who
was willing to challenge all of it you
know who would just without question do
whatever sir made him feel good in a
moment and they could sort of guide him
through this so this is a very serious
thing this that you know it's telling
minuchin coming up there and just
defying the law just basically and with
the route with the lamest excuses you
can find
to doing it and basically taking it into
the courts were they also God that was
another thing I think that that may have
moved Pelosi off the dime a little bit
the the first court cases that are going
through one last week you know pretty
much indicated I mean they looked at the
the White House's legal
you know rationale and kind of shook his
head the judge didn't went now this
makes no no what you're talking about
here you know just know go back to
square one and basically said no this
isn't going to fly so there's a little
bit of hope I think on the Democrats
part that maybe the courts are going to
step up and and help them you know sort
of go through this process which is
clearly constitutional but there's all
these things I mean he's you know you
see people like minuchin getting up
there and just making the most you know
completely ridiculous arguments and
being defiant right looking them in the
face and saying you know how dare you
ben Carson
doing the same thing he clearly did not
know what he was talking about and he
was just being you know basically rude
and you know they looking at these
people going you know I'm reclaiming my
time you know it's completely a
ridiculous thing I mean this is not how
cabinet members behave with Congress
this is not how it works it's never been
how it works I mean it's beyond just a
norm breaking this is now challenging a
very fundamental nature of our of how
our governmental structure is supposed
to work there is a complete disrespect
for the Congress and you know I think
that is exactly one of the main reasons
why they have moved you know why by the
leadership in the in the Congress seems
to be moving because if they don't say
anything about this Sam if they don't
move on this this will be something that
will have fundamentally changed you
can't just turn this turn the country
back you know and say oh well that never
happened let's pretend that never
happened it will have happened
presidents in the future will have that
power Congress is going to be
permanently diminished it's their job to
protect that that's their that is the
fundamental nature of their their
oversight of article 1 of the
Constitution they have to do it and so I
think that's another part of it I mean
when you say that the the Trump
administration may have overplayed
and I think that's absolutely the case I
mean they're pushing it on a level it
just isn't smart you know it just is
kind of like wait a minute you could
play this game for months you could drag
this out and cajole Pelosi and Schumer
you know miss clear that there was a
dance that was available to them to go
back and forth on and each side would
you know sort of keep its base happy and
one or another and they could keep doing
it they're not doing it they're pushing
it as hard as they can pull know she's
kind of standing or going well okay
right and and I will say this that you
you know you make the sort of hell if I
would call it the ethical argument but
the constitutional argument in the
necessity and in the I guess the ethical
or moral argument in terms of holding
power to account and but maintaining our
constitutional like you say this is not
norms this is constitutional but I lost
lad just lastly we gotta take a break
that from a political standpoint you
also got to do it because if you if
Donald Trump is pushing the Congress
around like this it makes it makes the
Congress look weak and nobody's gonna go
out there and vote for weakness no one
just nobody's gonna do it and so there's
there's both a palete a political
expediency I think to it or at least
necessity to salvage like I say rock and
a hard place but there's also these this
moral and constitutional argument which
I think helps you in that rock and a
hard place but we got to take a break a
dick me if you'll join me in the third
hour we've got a lot of other stories to
talk about that don't have to do
directly with this and we will talk
about them when we get back in the third
hour in the meantime we'll be back with
ring a fire in just a moment
