[Music]
let's we gotta talk about the Amazon and
as I said earlier the door to talking
about the Amazon is well first let's get
an actual serious report on this this is
a sound from democracy now this morning
with an Amazon watch Andrew Andrew
Miller from Amazon watch explains the
stakes to Amy Goodman let's restart that
I Amazon watches Andrew Miller was on
something that wouldn't have happened
just five years ago just the fires that
we're seeing which of course are
incredibly visual and have really drawn
the world's attention to what's
happening but the scope of the problem
is is much broader really in terms of
the policies and the rhetoric of the
bull senado administration which is not
the first time of course that the Amazon
has been under assault and not the first
time that indigenous peoples have been
facing threats but we've really seen an
acceleration of and you know an
exacerbation of a lot of the symptoms of
course the fires as you mentioned are up
essentially 80 percent over the same
period last year
but we're also seeing other symptoms
like deforestation rates also being up
you know in a very terrifying way in
recent months and the pressures and
threats that indigenous peoples are
facing on the ground from the illegal
miners from the land grabbers from the
loggers so can you explain what volson
Otto is charging that NGOs are setting
these fires talk about the map of the
areas that indigenous people control
where these fires are well we've seen
10,000 fires lit just in the last week
so the map of where the fires are is
across the Brazilian Amazon and other
parts of Brazil actually but if you look
at the map of Brazil if you look at the
Brazilian Amazon from space essentially
in some cases you can see where the
indigenous territories are because
that's essentially where the trees are
still standing
you know so these fires are being set in
areas where people are trying to you
know want to carry out different kinds
of agricultural activities but as you
saw in the video they're also going into
indigenous territories and that's again
symptomatic of the broader policies that
we're seeing from the bolsa narrow
administration they have said in many
cases you know essentially they want to
open up protected areas and indigenous
territories to these two extractive
activities to the agribusiness lobby or
Tiger business activities there and so
again the fires are just sort of the
latest manifestation of those policies
and this is exactly right this is when
the Economist said that he had a lot of
innovative ideas this is what they're
talking about this explicitly and
precisely what the Wall Street Journal
wanted when they endorsed him and if we
look more broadly there is no question
that this is the broader context of u.s.
foreign policy towards deal Ajith
amaizing the Workers Party and making
Lula the Silvo political prisoner on
these are this is a new report leaked
documents to open democracy show
Brazil's bolson ro has has grave plans
for the amazonian for the Amazon
rainforest and this is specifically
about whipping up using rhetoric to
basically attack indigenous people
basically in a fascist you know grab of
land and resources bolson ro has said
things like Africans have hurt Brazil
he's regularly called for the stripping
of indigenous protections and you need
to have ethnic cleansing for ecocide so
that's the strategy of the balsan are no
government I love that bowl scenario in
response to a tweet from the Manuel
McCrone resorted to just ludicrous
pseudo woke language and accused him of
colonialism when really what Bolton ro
is is an agent a pure puppet of US
corporate in Canadian corporate
interests who's committing mass
terrorism and death in his own country
on behalf of those interests and well I
want to put one really important thing
in the story and then we'll get to the
fun part which we can all enjoy
the lava jato investigation which I've
covered so many times on TMDs in this
show and I hope people can increasingly
understand why because the stakes of
this have are the JR bolts Naro is the
greatest threat to human life on earth
with all of the supporters behind him
including the Department of Justice and
all of these various Wall Street
interests and so on if you supported the
giotto process in any way as almost all
of the press did you bear a
responsibility for this and there's a
really important move including The
Guardian New York Times watching post
jimmy dore it's true just a weird name
to end on that list well it's a weird
name but it's it's it's youtube so you
know people got to be more thoughtful
representative Hank Johnson has asked
the DOJ for answers on Brazil corruption
and the persecution of former president
Lula da Silva this is a press really in
13 caught people have signed this 13
congressmen I'm gonna read really
quickly
Rahul drew halva of Arizona Eleanor
Holmes Norton of DC Jared Huffman of
California Susan Wilde of Pennsylvania
Adriano s Pilat of New York Veronica
Escobar of Texas Ilan Omar of Minnesota
Deb Holland of New Mexico mark Pocan of
Wisconsin Jesus Chuy Garcia of Illinois
Emanuel cleaver of Missouri ro Khanna of
California have all signed a letter that
was led by congressman Hank Johnson of
Georgia this is what Johnson said in his
press release there's strong evidence
that Brazil's former president Lula was
the target of a highly political
operation involving the current justice
minister that was intended to keep him
off the ballot in last year's elections
which he almost certainly would have won
rep Johnson said we need to be sure that
the goj was not part of this tainted
process now we know from all of the lava
jato leaks that the process of
persecuting Lula was totally corrupt and
dishonest and Lula has steadily said
including in a new video yesterday where
he said Hillary Clinton does not like
Latin America that and Barack Obama was
not ready to be President and that
almost saying and also saying that if
they do let me out of jail they should
know that I am going to
do politics and campaign across the
country until the day I die
this guy is amazing he really is the
best political talent on earth we know
though that the whole process that was
implemented from lava jato and there was
clear I mean the DOJ coordination is on
the public record including giving fine
money to the lava jato team instead of
the Brazilian state that the timeline
correlates with the discovery of new oil
resources off the coast of Brazil that
was going to be held by Petrobras the
state oil company which the Lula Dilma
governments used to fund social programs
with and which now in addition to
everything else and all the other
destruction of lava jato has been
bankrupt and also cost numerous jobs and
significantly damaged the Brazilian and
Latin American economy so everybody
bears a consequence here Lula had a
double-digit lead those elections should
be annulled and he should be freed
immediately and everybody should be
calling for that now there's another guy
that had some thoughts about pulsar
neuro and that is you know I criticize a
lot of people but I've always maintained
this is the stupidest guy this is there
is no greater fusion of stupid and
Craven I absolutely would pick Jimmy
Dore and some type of game over this guy
yeah no one worse than this guy Dave is
the archetypal useful dumb guy
absolutely here's Dave Rubin reminding
us of his deep insight on jr. bolson ro
as your opinion on Brazilian Prime
Minister Boas our bowls are in a row can
we just play that again you haven't see
this before you literally have to just
not have paid attention to anything
whatsoever in the past like how many
years know that I had at mat to be fair
dave has been paying attention to the
important stuff you got to watch the
whole clip don't worry about pronouncing
his name there's higher priorities here
like I don't know terrorizing gay kids
and schools check it out is your opinion
on Brazilian Prime Minister
both our bowls are narrow regard and
there's a lot of things moving here
deforestation of the rainforest PS I'm a
Christian I bake you a cake though you
know I don't know enough about him but
it sounds like he really hates Marxism
and he's really pushing Brazil to become
more of a world leader and he actually
is for capitalism and he's trying to get
some of the SJW stuff out of the schools
I just saw a tweet by him a day or two
ago so on that front and as again I
don't know a ton about him that all
sounds good to me
and as a Christian I appreciate your
offer man that was a thank you for
playing that what a fantastic birthday
gift thank you we also just remind
everybody in terms of like that actually
even the bolson ro government itself is
apparently as major concerns that how
poorly received Brazil is in the world
right now Germany has cut off funding
for at least one program related to the
Amazon and Merkel and McCrone are
calling for a g7 meeting to deal with
what's happening in Amazon Lula was the
most popular politician on earth when he
was president and Celso Amran was called
the best foreign minister in the world
so in terms of like really making Brazil
better positioned in the world might
need to rethink that one dummy Dave the
funny thing to me is before he brought
up that he read a tweet or two from him
I was assuming that all he knew about
him was deforestation and his first
response to hearing that was well it's
great to hear he hates Marxist I mean I
basically was this was before it to be
fair I'm sure Dave this was several
months ago I'm sure Dave is totally up
on this and will clear his schedule of
really deep broadcasts that he has
planned about I don't know like
Olbermann Olbermann students like
protesting TPS or something in order to
deal with the fact that the lungs of
planet Earth are getting burned up I
have no doubt that Davis plan more
likely Tim pool is gonna be on next week
yes Brennan I think it's I think it's
important that we would make fun of Dave
on a day of mourning well that's a good
coin and what might be a day of mourning
for Dave Rubin is a day of joy and
celebration for most humans and of
course I'm talking about the death of
David Koch I like to point out once
again that today is my birthday
look I mean I think the I think that
just general principle always applies
which is like I you know okay this is a
great joke from our buddy comedian David
Feldman check out David Feldman show as
per his request billionaire David Koch
will be cremated along with the rest of
Planet Earth look we all know the Koch
brothers if you haven't yet go pick up a
copy of Jane Mayer's dark money to
understand what these people have done
going back to their father I mean these
are two you know they've so much to harm
American democracy so much to hurt so
many people create so much injustice
suffering and poverty but they did put
some seed money into this dynamic
company
my father said to me Wyatt you can do
whatever you want to in life if you just
make sure you do it well and you do it
with passion every day I go to the
office I enjoy creating the clothes
Diebold means to me be authentic be real
could be yourself be confident and
always be a gentleman but still have
that tenacity that no one can take away
from you
I want my shirts to be able to be worn
in the boardroom or in a discotheque I
[Music]
really wanted to create something that's
fun outside the box little trendy yet
really bold and interesting those shirts
Oh bends are you going to the disco take
it for your birthday this is my funeral
clothes oh my god are you honoring the
David Koch master flash mob at the
funeral all in white coat gear they're
not for everyone but you could pull it
off about $90 I spent a lot of time at
the boys discotheque yeah you know we
use the phrase trust fund baby of fairly
loosely heroism but when it comes to the
Koch brothers whose father made his
money building oil industries for both
style and which you know you could
excuse and Hitler which you cannot
excuse me that's right and they
literally have like this Nazi maid who
like made them go through all this
terrible stuff when they're younger and
they kill Moscow the whole if you read
about their made you will feel sympathy
for them and yeah it's a good thing to
talk about David Koch's their whole like
philanthropy was started because their
dad wanted you know I mean like a lot of
philanthropy to reduces tax liabilities
right and that's that's when you see you
know the David Koch blah-de-blah Center
which is all over New York City
everything is funded by the Koch sits
just because there'd reducing their tax
liabilities they don't it's like an fun
way for them to put their name on stuff
and not pay taxes right I mean for as
long as I've known who the Koch brothers
were I go through like the grocery
stores and I know to myself not to buy
Dixie Cups because they're owned by the
Koch brothers later on where the hook
world you have to like really you like I
don't think people didn't realize how
much the cokes are seeped into their
life and I mean just talking about name
is on on buildings in New York I'm
talking about literally go to your
grocery store they own a major paper
tower company where they are they bound
Dior's brawny which one under that I
can't remember I don't even know they're
one of those and there's a general
system georgia-pacific right that's them
yeah I think George but I think yeah so
it's yeah cuz coking this was either the
largest or second largest I don't know
if it's after Cargill ER before it but
private company in the world right and
they have and they're also I mean every
Mike Pompeo his whole career is a coke
project congressman from coke
congressman from coke all right let's
take a call
