[Music]
Daniel Buster how you doing thanks for
being here
I'm good man thanks for having me uh
last week in Vermont
the Sanders Institute hosted a sort of a
big progressive confab and there was a
lot of focus on Medicare for all on
environment labor racial justice the you
know core defining issues of a leftward
agenda but there was also an
international component to it Fernando
Haddad who of course leader for the
Workers Party was there in Brazil
Yanis varoufakis the celebrity former
Greek finance minister and they
announced this idea of a progressive
international which is really just the
idea of having much more kind of
communication and coordination between
left movements and politicians and
protected to potentially government's
like we have at least one down with the
inauguration of Andres Manuel Lopez
abidor in Mexico I would for it I mean
first I just want to get your kind of
basic take on that move and and what the
agenda looks like as far as reforming
international particularly their focus
is on reforming international financial
institutions democratizing the EU and
things like that so let me just start
with your kind of broad take on that
initiative I think it's I think it's
great and I think it's finally a breath
of fresh air after the post Cold War era
of essentially a dedication to u.s.
primacy it's really heartening to see a
mainstream American politician come out
on behalf of actually organizing and
developing ideas with people who are not
that you'd paste primarily in the United
States or amongst United States's
traditional allies so the questions that
remain I think are really what does this
mean in actual practice should for
example Bernie when the presidency what
would mean and particularly what does it
mean in terms of using the state
apparatus for transnational solidarity
building or whether this is more
something that would occur at a sub
state
a national level of organization and
going forward I just think that
highlights the importance of the left
distinguishing between what might be
considered the foreign policy of the
state using state apparatus is like the
military the State Department etc and
the foreign policy of civil society
using the grassroots organizations that
really transcend national boundaries and
how a political leader like Bernie could
could work between those but otherwise
it's fantastic first step towards making
a better world in the world that we'd
like to actually live in
we're gonna go basically kind of region
by region and continent by continent but
before we get there I mean speaking
directly to your point you have actually
said you have a you have a critique of
left-wing foreign policy thinking that
we grew up with and sort of predominated
since the you know people of course
rightfully dissenting about what I would
deem to be a frankly essentially
American genocide in Vietnam and in
allows Odia but you have a critique of
what has defined the left foreign policy
tradition of the past of since Vietnam
what's that critique and what's the
alternative you're proposing sure so I
think the critique is essentially not
actually on the substance of a lot of
the criticisms of American imperialism
and the awful American actions in
Vietnam and and of course elsewhere
throughout the world as you just
discussed a couple of days ago with what
George HW Bush did as head of the CIA
and then Nicaragua regards the Contras
in pardoning everyone so there's a lot
of horror to go around and I think that
the critiques did that were very good my
problem is only that the generation of
leftists that were politicized during it
after the Vietnam War oftentimes have
had more of a critiquing function than
an actual any actual pretensions to
governance so looking back of course
hindsight's 2020 but looking back I
think it would have been useful for what
might call that the Chomsky generation
to have developed countr institutions of
American foreign policy that would have
developed plans and ideas and and really
almost ideologies for what the United
States could do to actually make the
world less organized around America
hegemony and to make the world a more
just place I think for a variety of
reasons particularly Watergate and the
Watergate scandal had many leftists
understandably again to be very
skeptical of using state power for any
positive end and particularly the
horrors of the Soviet Union and as it
continued to wind down also made people
skeptical of state power and therefore
many less that's disassociated
themselves from governance and but I
think what we see now in 2018 is that
this actually isn't the most effective
way to enact the policies and create the
world that you want to see so what we
need to do is develop mechanisms in
which people who are ensconced in
institutions what might be left-wing
institutions are actually connected to
the grassroots as well so we're able to
have the recirculation process where the
elites are able to channel grassroots
ideas and desires into into policy
programs that are able to be implemented
at the state level and I think it's
really interesting because you're
actually creating I think in my mind
it's kind of a hybrid because you you're
critiquing this sort of exiting of the
potential of harnessing those
institutions for a radically different
way of doing global policy and one that
you know centers civil society one
that's built around sharing you know
solving collective problems of the
environmental crisis global inequality
you know rampant corporate abuse and
power the tradition and well is breaking
up us hegemony and foreign policy the
traditional concerns of anybody with a
conscience on the left and that and so
you're saying like we could use and take
over these state institutions to harness
and empower civil society in those
networks and what's interesting to me is
that you know those networks were built
in things like solidarity with Latin
America and the 80s against Reagan's
support of death squads and
dictatorships it was built in you know
the way the ANC had a global strategy to
harness civil society particularly in
Europe and the United States to apply
sanctions to the South African regime so
that there's some of what you're talking
about and building on already exists but
you're saying what if the positionality
wasn't just always on the outside
yes that's exactly right and I do also
want to emphasize that I and the
business is just the short-term goal the
medium-term goal would be to really
reform these institutions fundamentally
to make them substantially more
authentic erratic like the National
Security Council the Department of
Defense the CIA and the military are all
really fundamental institutions and it's
more about recognizing you know in the
classic Marxian sense one moment in
history are actually living in and you
put your history and actually living
you're actually living into your
advantage and this is not I'm not saying
that these are great institutions by any
means in an ideal world I think they
would probably mostly be taken down and
maximally and at the very least I mean
significantly reformed so that they
would be unrecognizable but it's just
the question of what do we do you know
today had the way the way that I phrased
it is how do we stop a drone strike
tomorrow that's a different question and
requires a different answer then how do
we totally reform the national security
state and I think both are worthy goals
and just we as lefties need to really
have different time horizons and change
our strategies accordingly to those
different horizons 100% so let's start
going region by region let's focus first
here with US policy towards its
neighbors primarily Carib the Caribbean
in Latin America but we could also talk
on the trade issue by including you know
Canada and this these supposed
renegotiations of NAFTA that we saw so
I'll break it into two parts one part is
you know today there's obviously a
resurgent far-right taking power across
most of Latin America with the obvious
major exception of Mexico and a couple
of people hanging on in Bolivia and
Uruguay but Argentina Chile and now of
course was balsan arrow coming in Brazil
there's this extreme far-right axis and
then obviously Venezuela is not in that
far right axis either although I went at
this point exactly call it I mean we
need to defend Venezuela from US
intervention
I would not exactly call it really a
member of the left in some ways right
now but that might be another
conversation this and John Bolton is
embracing these government's there is a
very serious danger of as an example US
military intervention or coup in
Venezuela and there's also you know the
sort of reorientation back towards
another kind of mass unmitigated you
know US corporate plunder of its
neighbors so actually let's get to NAFTA
second what what's the step right now
from this you know --left foreign policy
perspective of reorienting the Caribbean
and Latin America sure well I think it's
probably many of the listeners will know
I think a lot of the problems in the US
Latin American relationship just stem
from the fact of colonialism 500 year
old colonialism in woods and nations of
the North Atlantic and it what's
commonly considered the worst just
rapaciously essentially demolished these
societies through a variety of measures
and means so first of all it's not just
important to recognize that history as a
moral issue which is important in some
sense but also to recognize it as sort
of the deep historical structures that
we're dealing with so this is a region
of the world that the United States has
increasingly and forever really it
perverted in a variety of ways so the
question that I see it is how does one
develop a non-hierarchical relationship
where these the Caribbean in Latin
America is not just essentially used for
u.s. purposes both both economic
purposes and sort of the extraction of
resources and also political purposes as
it was during the Cold War and the war
on terror when the United States
variously supported right-wing regime
regime can demonized the lack so the
question is what what is a left-wing in
power
letme movement and power do with that
reality so I think the fundamental thing
that you have to do is reorganize the
hierarchical material economic
relationships that exist between the
reasons the regions developed some means
I'm not rapaciously extracting resources
and and this would I think have a lot of
problems like many of our foreign policy
problems also has a lot to do
with a changing domestic culture at home
so I think if we have a consumer
capitalism centered on the individualist
consumer it's going to be very difficult
to rearrange these hierarchical
relationships so what we have to do is
really Rican sieve about how Americans
view the very act of consumption from
which they had for which they have taken
so much from Latin America so that would
really be a first step I think a second
step would be doing and doing things
like building solidarity or at least
being vocally against something like the
imprisonment of Lula which I know you've
talked a lot about and that's it to be
very vocal that the United States is not
going to allow the the imprisonment are
not going to allow see this is difficult
because then you get into these imperial
relationships right at least it allows
not the right term right but that the
United States it will will come out
publicly and strongly against actions
like that and that really I think what's
important here is that like you said you
don't want the American state to really
do things what you do want and I leftist
movements within the United States to
build transnational solidarity so I
think in this instance you'd really want
to obviously renegotiate trade deals and
things along those lines to make them
less awful from Latin America but also
to focus at the sub state level about
working with leftists on the ground in
places like Brazil who really know the
territory and terrain and helping them
with with the privileged position that
American and find themselves in the met
American leftist find themselves and
just by virtue of living in the Metropol
of the Empire and so using the resources
we have on a grassroots level in Latin
America and really at a sub state level
because you don't want in my opinion at
least the American state to get deeply
involved in the region because in the
future when there's a right-wing
president that will allow for a lot of
very awful things to happen so you also
need to be aware of the limits of the
state to do what it wants in this in
this particular area of the world what
about the NAFTA question specifically
well I basically because this is this
also relates to the whole Angela Nagel
controversy about open borders right now
and I think it's a really difficult
question because you don't want to limit
the American leftist
imagination due to some basically
capitulated into the borders created by
capital so how do you adapt a
dual-pronged program where you have in
one hand help American workers and then
don't turn your back which I think we
absolutely shouldn't do on the migrants
are often migrating here because the
United States has totally disabled eyes
their region of the world for literally
centuries and and continues to do so so
I think that's the sort of policy that
you want to focus on have-your-cake-
and-eat-it-too policy because I think in
the world in which we live in there are
in fact enough resources to pollute the
politically distributes and not to both
American workers and the refugees who
are who are coming here for just and
important reasons and I'm personally
more of an open borders person than the
commune itíd States to come so so I
think you'd want to read individual now
sorry are you just I'm sorry are you cut
out for saying can you restate that
because I think that's really
interesting you work sort of a proponent
as I would be in sort of like almost
like a social EU model in Latin America
the Caribbean Canada and the United
States which would mean along with all
of these other dynamics we're addressing
with labor the environment and breaking
down the hierarchy of much more sort of
open borders oriented kind of
transnational stance if I understand you
correctly I yeah I think that's
absolutely right the way that's my
biggest long-term foreign policy goals
is creating like a true EU but
democratic organization at least in
North America is not including central
in South America and the question for us
is how do we do that without reimposing
us how the u.s. hierarchy on it right
where that it's not like the dollar is
the reserve currency and then everything
has to be pegged to what the United
States does and I think that's a really
important question that our generation
of lessons could examine going forward
definitely all right so then we're gonna
keep going here Europe yeah and so this
is this is really an interesting one
because this is the one that all the
people who promote the liberal
international order always point to and
I think it's important for leftist to
understand that the end of great power
war in Europe
is probably the greatest accomplishment
of the order that the the world ordered
that the United States set up after 1945
so I think the question we have to ask
is how do do we as leftists both is
should we again win power and just at
the sub state level help contribute to
the ending of a great power war in
Europe and I think what's important to
do is to recognize that first this is
probably unlikely giving the culture
that's developed over the seventy of the
last 70 years but we also need to think
about ways in which unless it's both in
and out of state could encourage the
democratization of the EU both in terms
of its policies and also in terms of its
economics I think what the European
Union has demonstrated beyond the shadow
of the doubt is that an anti-democratic
political structure will never receive
the type of mass public support it needs
to survive so I think that's the big
lesson of the EU since the early 1990s
so the question is how do we reform that
institution to make it more democratic
how do we encourage the acceptance of
even more refugees in Europe as
currently accepted now and of course the
United States could be much better about
that and how do we ensure that great
power war doesn't continue into the
future so what's happening now as France
and Germany are trying to sort of create
a central European power bloc to balance
against the United Kingdom on one side
and Russia on the other so what does the
United States do right and particularly
what does the United States do with
regards to NATO I tend to think it and
you may very well disagree reasonable
people could disagree that the United
States finally no longer continues to
have a serious military presence in
Europe and should basically stop funding
NATO and leave it up to the local people
there to decide while all the same
trying to encourage Europe through a
variety of diplomatic measures to make
the EU more democratic and to accept
more refugees yeah and this is actually
where as an example like you know things
that I wouldn't normally be particularly
excited about but I also again we are in
our specific historical moment I think
there is I think there should be a real
radical transformation winding down of
what NATO is but then on the other hand
that actually makes certain things like
when a guy like McCrone who I really
could not have more contempt for talks
about like a common European defense
policy
that's the type of actually intermediary
step that's going to be necessary to
unwind these sort of larger imperial
alliances you're talking about so that
actually is important there in my
opinion right I think it no III agree
completely and so the way is how do you
do this sort of technical thing in the
short term without losing term losing
side of the medium and long term goals
which is really you know dismantle
borders dismantle the military and
writings along those lines and just to
put a final button on it the United
States should obviously not encroach on
Russia's territory basically stopping
the sovereign territory of interest and
then there's larger questions about what
you do with the country like Ukraine but
that might be chef for another
discussion okay
