let's play that clip that reminds me we
have Gorka why doesn't anyone have
moderate Republicans to explain what's
wrong with their ideology that led to
Trump well I have all right we'll play
this one clip to say goodbye to you and
then we'll do one more I am folks what
do you do when you land you're traveling
you're out on the road and you land in a
distant City you go to the rental car do
you bypass the the counter and go right
to a car do you purchase an iPhone rig
so that your phone can shoot you as
you're driving in the car like literally
shoot you well if you're Sebastian Gorka
and you want to show off the fact be
bottom you've rented a Mustang this is
what you do I just landed in San
Francisco here to give it a lei lecture
at the Reagan Library my very excited
and I pick up my rental at my favorite
company of course it's a Mustang here it
is
so I just landed in San Francisco there
to give a lecture at the Reagan Library
some are very excited when I pick up my
to let my favorite company of course
it's a Mustang there you go
I need to start streaming an ad or what
what is he doing it's doing a quick
periscope hit or something that's like a
right-wing youtuber trope where they're
like driving in a car
let's get those hots do it it might not
look like much but this is how the
right-wing took over YouTube videos I
gotta get on that I guess I'm just
driving in my Subaru to the sube I
should have made one of those as we can
of course I'm in my Hyundai Elantra
we've got a rent-a-wreck and I'm driving
it I've rented a car of course it's a
Hyundai Elantra yeah
put the top down I'm planning to do a
video like that for aunty Fatih actually
so I better get on it there you go
