I even have time for another vacation
all right here's Ainsley Ann Earhart on
Fox John the she's on the small business
beat chickens as um she has friends who
have a chicken salad Emporium that are
very worried about the rise in the
minimum wage and here is a woman who is
closing our business because there's too
many homeless people relocating her but
relocating but tell us about the issue
you describe some of the disgusting
things that you have to clean up when
you get to work every morning go into
detail about that and why you actually
decided to move your business well when
I come into work I'm never sure what I'm
gonna walk into I've been broken into
I've had my glass broken I clean clean
up human excrement off of my doorstep
every week cups of urine things like
that and I do have compassion for these
people but you know they're sleeping in
front of your door and they're leaving
trash and they're turning over garbage
cans and I can't I can't do that anymore
yeah we showed some video of what you
have to clean up in your business when
it was broken into I was at dinner with
some friends from California the other
day and I said is this all hype is it
really as bad as everyone's talking
about since I live on you know the East
Coast and she said absolutely it is so
bad we have got to fix this problem if
you look at some of the stats it shows
how big of a problem that says
homelessness is a 19% since 2017 more
than 5,500 people are living on the
streets and this is the stat that really
shocked me in California you guys have
one-fourth of the nation's homeless
population living in California at least
last year in January of 2018 those
numbers were were released that's
incredible
1/4 of our homeless population lives
where you guys are yeah what's reaction
is it really as bad as whereas the media
is talking saying it is it is as bad and
and you know it's definitely a lot of
people want to say it's a housing issue
but it's it's a drug issue it's a drug
issue and there's what is the governor
doing to come
that drug issue I mean I'm hearing he
wants to offer a safe space is where you
can go and shoot up now absolutely um
you know I've spoken with a lot of law
enforcement in my area and they have all
have have the same answers their hands
are tied
they can't arrest them and a lot of
people think that arresting them won't
do much but it definitely will
Wow man there still is Orange County
stop athili I was a lead I was waiting I
mean lucky lady there is definitely a
problem there and it's very defensive
problem um can we part of it though
which I mean it's not the overall
problem but part was kind of obvious why
a lot of homeless people would go to
California I mean as opposed to
Minnesota Yeah right isn't maybe we
could do a little deductive reasoning of
course but the solution would be to
actually do programs to help people not
be homeless anymore it's not housings
not the issue drugs are the issue but
making a safe space for people to have
drugs and getting them to basically
become more functional in the context of
society would be a problem well that's
all these other ask them on vagrancy
charges and then what happens like we
were supposed to put them in there for
life I'm like what is the logically
implication and also the the point of
the injection sites is not I mean they
do need to do things about homelessness
but the point of the injection slice is
to stop the spread of disease right
which is like right I I mean maybe maybe
she's has the position of like the
general and that well but you all saw a
bird movie is like just the junkies busy
they're all so then end up developing
one-to-one contact with people you can
get them into programs you get them into
help yeah what the ladies are scared Sam
she's got a shop or the homeless guys
there Sam cedar here is uh on the AIIMS
hwv lit I live in California and study
policing home
is caused by urban redevelopment
gentrification and policing you need to
provide safe affordable housing for
people if there are drug problems you
need to provide support for them there's
just I love the idea that you can just
arrest these people and then it's
clearly a housing problem and not only
like do we need to build more houses for
like your public housing but it's also
there are vacant houses enough to fill
put every homeless person in it's a it's
a resource distribution issue
