call from a201 area code who's this
where you come from
oh she's scaramouche you come from the
hip are you doing a new podcast with
your wife I thought your wife had left
him now they reconciled what's up all
right don't worry about what's that
what's on your mind mooch oh well you
know a few things but I call that my
wish you guys a happy belated comment I
wanted to thank them that I was I was
really touched when you know that you
had that you took off work to be with
your children to Columbus Day to reflect
on the achievements of history well I
gotta say it was really have a
babysitter was the problem but you know
right of course we celebrate right we
celebrate right right but anyway there
is not hey you know what Sam we're both
gonna be a political did you know that
no I did not know that yeah I'm gonna be
there I checked the website I'm gonna be
there well that's very exact we should
we should we should hang out yeah we
should maybe we should get maybe a
couple times you me and me I'm gonna be
out there Brett Kavanaugh is going to be
out there we're going to celebrate
go go to the club pick up a lady right
of course that is already believe me
that it's already on the docket
absolutely without a doubt Thanks yeah
ma you you you're getting it in oh come
on come on please don't please tell me
you are parking that'd be fun sinem what
please please come please tell me that
somebody is polishing that beautiful
porpoise huh break my heart
let's see oh you literally didn't know
wasn't sure would I didn't I didn't Wow
Wow Wow right mooch take it slow with
this game a little bit yeah a little and
then but aren't you didn't you just
reconcile with your wife ah these wives
daddy here come on Sam
you ever do a double triangle excuse me
even do a double triangle a devil's
triangle I I did not know in fact I I
mean I play the drinking game yeah well
don't
well don't do it with breath oh he makes
eye contact it's weird but well you know
we'll get down we'll get some taco
pudding listen give it the old green
down let's let's try and all right
appreciate the call thank you very much
Anthony scaramouche gonna be at the
really makes the boots cross at the
genuine comedic yes pretty good
