[Music]
let's get into this last night I was on
Chris Hayes's program with Michelle
Goldberg and we were talking about
impeachment and this coming largely or
at least initially from an interview
that Nancy Pelosi did and and now I
can't remember where it it was done but
it was a print interview and she was
asked about impeachment
she said no I'm not gonna even bother
you know why bother with that guy
etc etc then she was asked about
impeachment
again on the hill and this is what she
had to say now now let's just for a
moment put aside the unless there's some
type of conclusive evidence right in
other words unless like we have Donald
Trump on camera and I have said this for
two-and-a-half years he will not be
impeached unless there is videotape of
him stark naked on the White House lawn
chasing around a little boy and I and we
can all conclude now that that also is
not true he would still not be in well I
don't and it's it's conceivable but and
last night Hayes like literally
questioned whether there would if there
was evidence that he had shot a man to
death would the Republicans impeach him
I would say no in the middle of fourth
avenue perhaps right indeed and so but
putting aside the fact that she said
conclusive evidence which I'm not sure
exactly how you get conclusive evidence
without any type of investigation short
of that scenario first off
to brag about not impeaching George W
Bush who not only lied this country into
Ward not only was involved in the outing
of a CIA agent for the sake of
maintaining that lie right that made
that understand that maintenance of the
lie protecting the fact that there was a
lie
is evidence of knowledge that they're
lying that's what a prosecutor would
look at like this is the state of mind
is proven by the fact that trying to
cover it up and that's what that was
that was an attempt to cover up the fact
that they had lied about the the the
potential for uranium yellowcake to be
there but then of course you've got
tortured there's there's a whole nother
in fact back in the day it's moderated a
panel a Town Hall John Conyers showed up
with a book ten inches thick maybe a
foot thick of possible impeachment
causes so to brag about that is
indicative of the fact that and then to
simply say it's a waste of time it's
divisive I think there is there's
certainly arguments as to why you would
not do this politically and it's
certainly predictable two years ago I
was not just saying that the Republicans
wouldn't impede wouldn't convict in the
Senate in a million years but that the
Democrats would much rather run against
a a wounded Donald Trump than an
impeached one but the problem with the
way that Pelosi is responding to this
ignores the fact that impeachment is
important laying down a marker saying
what Donald Trump has done in office
whether it involves the personal
enrichment whether it involves the
the campaign finance violations this is
all incidentally while in office whether
it involves the fact me the guy was nay
well identified in an indictment as a
co-conspirator where his co-conspirator
is going to jail in the next couple of
weeks for years so there is no doubt
that there is been criminality certainly
criminality that rises above the idea of
lying in a deposition about having sex
for years into office after the start of
an investigation about something that
happened 12 years earlier but forget the
tit for tat thing Donald Trump is in
office at least in part because of the
complete lack of accountability that our
government held folks like Steve
minuchin to but also the Bush
administration even if even if there was
an attempt to impeach Bush in 2007 and
it failed even if there was a move to
look back and provide indictments or a
commission to report back on what George
Bush did in office and set down a marker
and nothing happened to George Bush it
would have been better for the country
it would have shown that there is some
accountability for people who break the
law the and I do think that look I don't
think that the Democrats can impeach or
should impeach before the election and
and here's why the most compelling
reason in my mind is we all know that
they will not get a conviction in the
Senate and I balanced this against the
notion of accountability which is why
the rhetoric here is so important but if
they impeach Donald Trump in 2019 or in
the summer of 2020 and he wins
re-election they will not have a second
bite at that Apple and you will have
Donald Trump in office for four years
basically I think in his mind to his
death or as close as you can get without
the threat of removing him from office
with it gone so all bets are off I mean
this is as I said on Hayes last night as
a metaphor you need to keep at least a
bullet in the chamber because otherwise
you're in big big trouble if he wins
re-election because he's gonna know
there's no danger for him whatsoever
but the response by Nancy Pelosi should
not be impeachment a waste of time
impeachment divisive impeachments
irrelevant it should be we can impeach
because the Republicans are protecting a
lawbreaker and we will hold hearings and
we will line up indictments and wait - -
when it's practical to actually get this
conviction because he has engaged in
criminality and he must be held
accountable this is is crucial and it is
a huge failure on her part - to poopoo
the idea of accountability which is what
she's doing when she poo-poos the idea
of impeachment
yeah like shouldn't that be a selling
point for people to vote more Democrats
into the Senate maybe well I mean I
think from her perspective I mean I
don't want to argue the politics of it
because I think it could go either way
but it could also be an inducement for
people to vote you know to vote against
the Democrat to vote against Trump and
mobilize Republicans to vote the Senate
and the Senate's gonna be very difficult
for Democrats to get so I mean I think
there is a legitimate argument that
Republican voters can be at this point
motivated by stopping Nancy Pelosi but
you simply say you know don't use it as
a direct pitch you simply get the
narrative out there
that Republicans are protecting
law-breaking period end of story the
practicality of this is the problem you
don't go out if you don't have enough
police officers you don't try and raid a
you know a drug cartel and put everybody
in danger and that is where we're at we
know there's a law breaker we know where
he lives we know how to go and arrest
them the problem is the Republicans are
sitting there and they have more guns
and they're gonna prevent this from
going in that is a very good metaphor
he's basically Pablo Escobar
without the Horatio Alger story exactly
and he's also got this whole crew of
people over a part of a Republican Party
which breaks down the metaphor a little
bit but
