[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday April 8th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Darja
mall journalist author his latest the
end of ice bearing witness and finding
meaning in the path of climate
disruption also on the program today
Kirsten Nelson quits the DHS to spend
more time separating families meanwhile
Trump administration needs two years to
rene reunite those separated kids with
their parents
Trump administration designates the
Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist
organization and Obama refuses to turn
the page on his disastrous political
posture of the past and welcome our
upcoming constitutional crisis which
will involve Trump's taxes meanwhile
Bernie calls for Rhian franchising
felony prisoners US troops pull out of
Libya as violence Rises the Israeli
elections are tomorrow
and lastly dozens of administration
whistleblowers have been revealed to be
working with the house Democratic
Oversight Committee that could be
interesting all this and more on today's
program s ladies and gentlemen welcome
thank you for joining us this week a
little bit of housecleaning this we're
managing a daycare center here too we're
just we're trying to develop all sorts
of revenue streams at the program at the
moment
speaking of revenue streams I will be
heading to Vegas this week to ostensibly
cover the tort lawyer conference but in
actuality parlaying some of some of your
your support of this program into an
ability to get a brand-new set of
cameras and I've got that I've got it
down this time I'm gonna make it work
but I will be in Vegas on Thursday and
Friday interviewing tort lawyers about
various topics that are out there I
don't really usually know who I'm gonna
be interviewing until I get there there
are a couple of cases about
about trafficking apparently that some
tort lawyers are working on but I will
I'll have a better sense of who I'm
gonna be interviewing when I get that
when I get down there so just a heads up
on that meanwhile as a Kirsten Nelson I
mean this is probably the last time I
ever gonna say your name I guess their
Kirsten Kirsten Kirsten Nelson there's
two things that is it Nielsen Nielsen
sorry it's not important
yeah I mean the real reason why you
should know her name is because she's a
horrible human being
and we have seen her testimony multiple
committees over the years and there
should be no Reformation for people like
this this is it their careers have been
locked in she can find a job obviously
in some corporate structure but these
people they need to be held to account
there is no leaving the Trump
administration and getting a clean pass
there is no it was not my idea I was
literally just following orders
I mean honestly seriously here she is
just to remember she was bragging about
how well they're taking care of the
children back in June of 2018 we now
know that in at least I mean I don't
know how many instances make it
appalling I think one does but in many
instances the so-called family
separation which to be clear is taking
children from their parents this is not
I'm separating two adults who can then
pick up a phone and call or leave
wherever they are and find each other
they're not separating families they're
taking children from their parents and
here she is bragging two years ago - I
guess some Sheriff's this is the
National sheriffs Association saying
don't believe your what and again this
is before the stories of children dying
in their custody the stories of children
being lost children having no idea what
was going on all the stories of the way
the children were reacting under intense
stress because they're they've been
kidnapped
here she is bragging to the National
sheriffs Association that relatively
speaking are the way that we warehouse
these children is pretty good it is
important to note that these minors are
very well taken care of don't believe
the press they are very well taken care
of you know this as many of you have
detention facilities of your own we
operate according to some of the highest
standards in the country positive some
of the highest standards in the country
and really what and what are the
standards that they're they're competing
against other facilities that detain
children I guess for-profit prison right
we operate according to some of the
highest standards in the country we
provide food medical education all needs
that the child requests Wow it really
does sound like a guy that they just
nabbed after like having children tied
up in his basement for years you just
look always felt doom that does not
sound like morally different to me at
all
it's supposed to feed and give medical
care to children you right now that is
very least that's the baseline yeah what
do you wanted to say like other people
like Steve was proposing that we starve
them you're also supposed to do that for
animals in your care for that matter
here is Christian Nielsen's former press
secretary David Lipan talking
on NPR I can't imagine there's been much
that he got much pushback to his attempt
to sort of to make it seem like wow she
had no choice she did deep down she's a
good person when she defended the policy
that was so controversial leading to
family separation I mean did did you
think that you were seeing someone who
believed in that policy or who was
representing her boss my view is that
she was representing her boss and in
many ways again that that's the role
that the secretary plays remember to
that what what really started that that
policy or what led to that was the
zero-tolerance policy put placed by the
Attorney General so at the time I
thought that it should have been the
Attorney General that was baird having
to defend the policy and not the
Secretary of Homeland Security
here's why that type of excuse is such
BS because a we know that she could have
resigned like if you had any type of
moral compass and the Attorney General
says we're going to implement a policy
that's going to require your agency to
warehouse children in in red in a record
manner and we're going to not only
you're going to warehouse these children
they are going to be forcibly removed
from their parents you're then going to
label them as unaccompanied minors
because you have made them unaccompanied
you're then going to shuttle them to the
furthest reaches of this country in the
middle of the night at times so that
human beings who do have a moral compass
can't see what you're doing that's a
very good opportunity to say you know
what pass I think I'll resign like it
doesn't matter whether it was her idea
or
Trump's if you don't have I mean and we
have seen this time and time again right
look if he will have if she's not there
it's gonna be someone worse but
apparently it's gonna be someone worse
anyways and we've seen it time and time
again all the generals who were saving
us from Donald Trump well then why would
you ever leave then why wouldn't you go
public immediately the day after you're
out right I mean if you're being held
hostage there for the sake of the
country I can't quit because if I quit
horrible things are gonna happen on day
one we should have already we should
already be watching the multitude of
interviews with Christian Nielsen on
every Network talking about the horrors
she saw and her screaming to the heavens
like I'm gonna be the first witness at
the impeachment trials but we don't so
it's it's yeah and
what's with the quote-unquote liberal
media letting these goals come on to
rehabilitation yeah I wouldn't the NPR
has been the same as it always has been
it is a corporate mouthpiece to power
that's that's it they have never been
anything different and the way they
that's why they go there it's because
they know they're not going to get
challenged even less oh well if we go to
fox of course we're not gonna get
challenged but nobody's gonna take it
seriously
and if we go to any other network
frankly we might get challenged it's I
mean it's it's grotesque
she should be still she should be
shunned in in public it's it's really
disgusting to watch anybody who would in
any way help with the reformation of
these people what secretary thinks she's
gonna lobby for ah my guess is if I had
the guess she's gonna be working for the
private prison industry in some fashion
or another
just because she's she's well versed and
you know why she's gonna be doing it
because she wants to make it better for
the children
she doesn't lobby for it think of how
bad it's gonna be I am so proud of the
initiative that I started at the private
prison industry when we now have organic
milk for the kids
we paired we paired with uh with a major
organic producer and it's just wonderful
the kids just you could just the see the
looks on their know of at least three
instances when a kid had a fever and we
gave them medication for it diversity
program for the prison guards we were
able to have a coca-cola sponsor many
vending machines in the place now of
course they don't have cash mats all of
a sudden like huh Human Rights folks
reminder you want to protect your loved
ones with the peace of mind of life
insurance think you can't afford it
chances our selectquote can help you get
it for less than a dollar a day
selectquote comparison shops up to ten
highly rated companies including
prudential banner life Mutual of Omaha
and others to find you the company with
best rates for example select quote
could find you a 35 year old man five
hundred thousand dollar policy for under
19 bucks a month it's less than a dollar
a day a cup of coffee cost more than
that select quotes breakthrough
technology allows them to quickly match
you with the best insurance company to
find your best policy plus quotes are
free I've told you guys many times
before for each of my children that were
born I ended up getting life insurance
but I'm old I was old when my kids were
born and I'm older now get it while
you're young do you know if you're
anticipating the birth of a child or if
you have any reason to believe your
loved ones might need help if you die
that's what insurance is for and it is
believe me it's quite a relief and to
have an easier way of finding the best
rates
big difference selectquote could save
you time and money you can get your free
quote at select quote dot-com slash
majority today that select quote dot-com
slash majority for your free quote don't
put off protecting your family another
day select quote dot-com slash majority
get full details on the example policy
at select quote dot-com slash majority
your premium I'm sorry your premium
could vary depending on your health
issue and company and other factors not
available in all states check it out
folks also I feel like I don't even have
to do to pitch this to you but the New
Yorker represents the best writing in
America today both online and in print
New Yorker covers a full range of topics
including politics news international
affairs climate change popular culture
the art fiction food humor cartoons you
name it I don't know if a week goes by
when we're not citing a New Yorker story
not to mention New Yorker touches on
subjects that many readers may not have
previously put much thought into like
the world's diminishing supply of sand
or paper jams stink bugs I've actually
thought quite a bit about stink bugs
I believe the hunting shine of heirloom
beans yeah that was the bug that was on
Hannity New Yorkers incredible writers
included contributors like Ronan Farrow
was written breaking news and Harvey
Weinstein les Moonves some of the
biggest stories of the year in hell and
Rosner a James Beard award-winning food
writer who contributes essays and
reports on all things gastronomic
gastronomic am I saying that right
there's all sorts of stuff that you can
check out in The New Yorker I have been
wanting this story about a guy who I
didn't really know but uh the rise and
fall of a New York shock-jock
how Trump betrayed the general who
defeated Isis by robbed and right these
are just some of the stories that's in
there there's five scenarios for the
Israeli election
William bars choices by Jeffrey Toobin
Joe Biden and the perils of good
intentions we'll see about that
but all these stories hugely relevant
and of course I tend to focus on the
political ones but now our listeners can
save 50 percent and get 12 weeks of The
New Yorker for just 6 bucks when you go
to New Yorker dot-com slash majority
enter majority you also get an exclusive
tote as well as unlimited access to the
New Yorkers apps online archives
crossword puzzle New Yorker calm with 10
to 15 exclusive cite only stories every
day that's New Yorker dot-com / majority
enter the word majority check it out
it's sort of obscene 12 weeks for 6
bucks and you get the tote and give the
towed away as a birthday gift to
somebody I think that's what I'm gonna
do meanwhile this episode of the
majority report is being supported in
part by simple habit simple habit is a
mobile app that provides a massive and
diverse library of five-minute guided
meditations majority report audience
could try simple habit totally free for
an entire week when you go to simple
habit calm / majority we've talked about
the the various reasons why you might
want to start meditating it has over
2,000 guided meditations they're
designed for different parts of your day
and just about anything you might be
dealing with so you could use simple
habit to deal with mindfulness or
meditations for anxiety or for
depression or when you having trouble
falling asleep meditations for when
you're wanting to overcome
procrastination but when you just have
something important going on at work
meditations are designed you could
design for parents they have meditations
that are specifically for different
times during the day like when you're
waking up or your lunch break or when
you've just gotten home from work or
when you're going to bed different
people meditate at different times in
the day and this is the best thing about
simple habit from my perspective is that
you literally have
so many different types of meditations
and tell many somebody that are tailored
for the specific context in which you're
dealing with people try different things
with meditation simple habit is able to
cater to just about anyone regardless of
what your goals are regardless of what
kind of past experience you've had with
meditation it's the variety of these
meditations that sets simple habit apart
they just won the 2018 Google Play award
for best well-being app it's available
on iOS Android and web browser and
majority of port audience can try it for
free for an entire week by going to
simple habit calm / majority if you're
watching on YouTube we've put a link
below the video description if you're
listening we've put a link in our audio
podcast description all that check it
out
alright folks I'm gonna take a quick
break more when we return guard Jamal
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program dar Jamel he is a
journalist and author of multiple books
his latest is the end of ice bearing
witness and finding meaning in the path
of climate disruption dar welcome to the
program
thanks I'm good to be with you and I you
know but before you hopped on I I
mentioned to you that I thought I think
probably the last time we talked was
when I was doing some iteration of this
show on air America and you were in Iraq
maybe you were out of a rocket that I I
don't I don't recall but you were one of
the few journalists who had not who were
covering the Iraq invasion who had not
embedded with troops and I mean how do
you go from that type of coverage to
climate as you call it climate
disruption we'll get to why you call it
that way but well I had before I started
working over in Iraq as a journalist I
was living up in Alaska and spending a
lot of time in the mountains and so I
moved up there in 1996 and immediately
saw really dramatic impacts of runaway
climate disruption even then with
dramatically receding glaciers and
having it raining and Anchorage during
Christmas time and things like this that
were just huge anomalies and very much
out of the norm so the seed was planted
back then and then when I several years
later where I started working as a
journalist but started doing that in
Iraq all the while in the back of my
mind was what was happening and then of
course by then more and more studies
coming out more and more alarming
observations about what was happening
with climate disruption so the stage was
really set and then at the end of my
more reporting of course I was
completely burnt out on that and needed
a break and so that's when I decided to
make the transition so let's go into the
the places that you visited because in
some respect I mean it's a there's just
there's a similar dynamic here I mean
obviously you you backup your I guess
personal assessments with with data and
with with interviews with experts but
you're you're providing sort of on the
ground as it were sense of what's
happening let's start with Alaska then
and you you you write about Denali
tell us about your observations there
and what what are the the implications
of those well I I really book in this
book with my tie and fun Denali because
that's really where my observations
started and so I I made it a point to go
back to places like Denali that I had a
long term relationship with the first
time I was on that mountain was in 1997
and in the book I went back it was
nineteen years later was 2016 I went
back up there as a volunteer with a
National Park Service team doing rescues
and so what what I found was the Hilton
glacier the main glacier that you
traverse when you're going up a standard
route on the mountain had dramatically
had really lost the dramatic amount of
ice it over several decades actually
it's lost at least 30 feet of thickness
enormous volume of ice the toe was
receding dramatically and then even
higher up on Denali a mountain that's
only about 350 miles south of the Arctic
Circle and is the summit's just over
20,000 feet even that high there's
dramatic loss of ice and changing of
glaciers and things like rockball but
you have to worry about high up at
18,000 feet on the mountain an area that
previously we all had just assumed this
is a permanently frozen area and yet
there's areas you have to wear a rock
climbing helmet to protect yourself in
case of rock fall so so really dramatic
anecdotal evidence all over the place up
there the rock fall being I mean I think
that
as the ice begins to melt rocks become
we get loose I mean it's a that's the
the idea is that the that was not an
issue even a couple of decades ago
exactly yeah right rocks that had been
frozen into glaciers for millennia or
glaciers melting enough that rocks that
were on the ground but being held there
in place by ice did it existed for
thousands of years whereas was now
loosening up and then talk about the the
the implications of glaciers in in this
country in the lower 48 I guess I hadn't
really given much thought to the fact
that we have any and I guess we may not
for much longer that's right this is
where it gets even more dramatic so I
went out into Glacier National Park with
dr. dan fagre II he's a US Geological
Survey scientist and he said that in
Glacier National Park they are at the
current trajectory of melting and
temperature increases they are on track
to have no functional glaciers there by
2030 so that's a little bit less than 11
years from now and then he said
something that I also cited in numerous
other studies peer-reviewed studies
showing that at current trajectories of
warming and melting that we could have
no glaciers left anywhere in the
contiguous 48 states by 2100 so out here
where I live in Washington State
where we have over a hundred Blazers in
Olympic National Park alone hundreds of
glaciers in the Cascades these are very
very important for our water sources for
drinking and agriculture and ecological
services that they provide to other
species to think about these all being
gone and barely eight years from now is
is quite shocking alright what we just
walk us through that though the I mean
the the practical implications because I
don't think that people really spend
much time contemplating what function
glaciers play and how they play those
functions in various parts I'm obviously
not just I mean here but in the
Himalayas or wherever like what what
function glaciers serve so that we get a
sense of how this is going to impact
people well but once they're gone right
you mentioned actually a place that I
think I could use is the best example to
really underscore the point of the
dramatic human impact so the Hindu Kush
region of the Himalaya this is a giant
giant ice field with multiple glaciers
and it's the source of seven of Asia's
major river systems and that area is on
a pace of melting according to recent
studies that all that ice could be
completely gone by 2100
well that ice serves those rivers which
serve 1.5 billion people their drinking
water and irrigation water so if all
that ice and water go away where do all
those people go because you cannot live
somewhere where there's no water to
drink nor any water for your crops so
that that's a stunning thing to think
about so where do those 1.5 billion
people go and then what happens to the
places where they go is there enough
water there what is there going to be
enough food housing etc so very very
dramatic human impact and even out here
we've already seen them when in 2015 the
Olympic Mountains near by where I live
had six percent of the normal snowpack
glaciers are dramatically receding on
top of that so we had a statewide
drought declared by May of that year so
we had water rationing in the small town
where I live farmers on nearby organic
farms were really struggling to make it
make it to meet their water needs for
their crops and crops were being lost so
then we have food spikes and things that
go along with that another dramatic
example just very briefly I'll point out
is the Arab Spring many studies have
shown that drought across the Middle
East really set the table for these
dramatically spiking food prices and the
unrest and destabilization politically
that it caused in those countries and
many people believe that was the spark
that lit the fuse
that caused the Arab Spring i I don't
want to get too hung up on the on the on
the glaciers but just I mean explain I
just don't think that people are
conscious of like how it is that a
glacier provides that kind of drinking
water in the case of the Himalayas is
it's because the the glacier continually
is growing and shrinking in its normal
state but right now we just have it just
shrinking in which case this sort of
reserve of water is just going to go
away exactly so glaciers are always
growing and shrinking as you said
they're consistently getting fresh snow
every year that compact down and adds
mass to the glacier but at the same time
it moves and in its lower regions and at
its terminus it does melt out and then
that provides river water and ground
water for everything below and for
growing trees for animals and for humans
but with when you when you increase the
atmospheric temperatures there's less
snow falls on the glacier because a lot
of the time the winter precipitation
comes down as rain instead of snow so
that's a contributing factor to the
diminishment of glaciers and then of
course as you increase the temperatures
there's going to be more melting so it
starts literally losing mass overtime
and this is what I outlined in the book
I went out with the USGS team up on a
major glacier up in Alaska that they've
been studying for over 50 years in
tracking a very very consistent
trajectory of mass loss across that
glacier and in their entire benchmark
study program that covers glaciers that
are representative and regions where
they exist around the the entire United
States and so they're all on a downward
trajectory and this is in line with what
scientists are seeing globally that all
glaciers around the world are on a
downward trajectory and it's
accelerating and it's very disturbing
because they also refer to glaciers is
essentially the canary in the coalmine
with climate disruption because they're
now they're well along a pace of
exhibiting the impacts that we've caused
to the planet and they're sort of an
early warning indicator and
of that that's why this is disconcerting
I mean in some respects the the that's
basically what you did you visited
different Canaries as it were around the
the world it feels like one of those
Canaries was in Miami and you met with
or I guess he went around with one of
the the city engineers who was and and
also I met with the chief geologist at
the University of Miami tell us I mean
what I mean I think people understand
that Miami is built on essentially what
is a sponge and there is flooding is not
sort of an event as much as it is a
state of being now it's feels like with
Miami but but tell us what you learned
there that's right so I I went around on
in Miami Beach actually with the city
engineer at the time Bruce Malory and
they were actively raising the the
levels of many of the streets 3c2 trying
to buy themselves time to prepare to
mitigate for rising fees and he knew
that that probably wasn't enough it was
a temporary measure but it was better
than nothing
but it was already causing problems
because flooding is a part of daily life
there every time there's a high tide and
if you throw in some significant
rainfall and even a flooding event then
you're going to have big problems and
that's what they were already seeing in
Miami Beach where they were raising in
one area they'd raise the street three
feet but but then of course you didn't
you can raise the houses in the building
nearby one of these high-rise buildings
flooded and then the building owner was
unable to get insurance because their
insurance company then said well sorry
we don't have to pay you because your
ground floor is now a basement
so there's unforeseen consequences like
that that are already happening and then
over in South Miami I interviewed mayor
Phillip Stoddard and he talked about how
they're already having major problems
with as fees rise it's coming up
underneath the ground in the water table
and causing major problems in people
septic systems where literally every
time it floods or there's a king tide
then people are literally having raw
sewage coming up into their bathtubs and
back up into their toilets so you can't
live in a place where that's happening
so you've you've got a situation where
as dr. Harold Wanless the expert that
you mentioned who I interviewed at
University of Miami Coral Gables a
leading sea-level rise expert
internationally and he said just to cut
to the chase that we are locked in for
dramatic sea level rises that most
people have no idea coming he picked
apart reasons why the predictions made
by the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change are far far far too low
and he said look last time there was
this much co2 in the atmosphere
seas were tens of meters higher than
today and to be specific he said look
last time we came out of a ice age the
the to be atmosphere had a hundred parts
per million co2 higher content after
that happened and what corresponded with
that was a hundred foot feet of sea
level rise so if we do the math and I
asked him this question since we've had
a hundred and 30 ppm co2 to the
atmosphere since the Industrial
Revolution began I asked him dr. Lamas
does that mean then we have 130 feet of
sea level rise
they already baked into the system and
he said yes what what does that mean I
mean so people could theoretically right
now go and see where they you know I
imagine there's there's some site online
where they could find out just about how
high above sea level they are and if
they're at a hundred and ten they should
find a little bit of higher ground well
this obviously is going to take time for
that much ice to melt the thing is that
you look around it's in motion there's
no question about it dr. Eric rig no
lead scientist of a major study that was
published in the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences came out
just this January the study that showed
that melting across all of the Antarctic
has increased six-fold since just the
1970s people
New York Times quotes Antarctica is
nothing away in quote so it's already
happening obviously that's going to take
a long time but there are some dramatic
accelerations that we're seeing right
now the sleights glacier there is
melting away dramatically the Western
Antarctic Ice Sheet is melting away
dramatically and we're also seeing
dramatic acceleration across much of
Greenland so we are seeing this
acceleration start this is over a time
scale where maybe we'll see 10 feet by
2100 although dr. Lamas pointed to
another study that said we could we
could theoretically even see 10 feet by
just 2050 so we are talking on a
geologic timescale that's a blink of an
eye but long-term what this means is
that every major coastal city on the
planet is going to be underwater it's
not if it's wet right we're talking
right now for young people their
grandkids this is gonna be their
grandkids maybe their great grandkids
are gonna be rebuilt but in some
instances Miami it feels like you know
grandkids right at the least are gonna
be rebuilding or just closing down shop
there I guess well that's right and
that's what dr. Juan was pointed out
also as did mayor Stoddard as did some
of the other people in South Florida
that I spoke with when I was doing my
research that if we had a government on
a state and federal level that was
behaving responsibly and and really
reacting the way that they should given
the crisis that's upon us and what's
coming and what's already baked into the
system that they would be orchestrating
funding and managing and orderly
evacuation and relocation of essentially
all of South Florida all those people
are going to have to go someplace else
they're going to have to get set up in
new homes all the toxic sites down there
has to be remediated Turkey Point
nuclear power plant just out of Miami at
6 feet elevation has to be
decommissioned and shut down and all of
that moved to higher ground so you're
talking about relocation of millions of
people and all the businesses that are
there
and instead we see it's just kicking the
can down the road so many of the
politicians not even talking about this
pretending it's not happening
and certainly pretending that humans
aren't the cause of it and he he felt so
strongly about this but he called that
all the all the politicians that are
behaving that way he said look this is
criminal criminal negligence it wasn't
part of the problem on some level that
we have people who are that's just the
the the span in which of time in which
this is going to happen a couple of
generations three generations
we don't have people in power who are
going to be living that long I mean it's
it just feels like there it's easy to
escape culpability we're down now to the
point where I think politicians feel and
and frankly business leaders feel that
they can escape culpability if there's
you know if we're talking about a a
timeline of five to ten years never mind
one that is several decades to you know
a century or so you know that's a good
point and I suppose that's one of the
factors that they just think that you
know well this isn't I'm not going to
have to deal with this but you know
counter to that is look at what's
happening every summer now with these
increasing frequency and strength of
hurricanes and the flooding that comes
along with it and look at the damages
just to the u.s. infrastructure on
manual level are going up just about
every year now and if you will get a
long term trajectory that's unarguable
the flooding that comes along that look
at the wildfires especially across the
western US and and particularly
California I mean up here the entire
West Coast the better part of the summer
now we have smoke that we're living in I
mean it's it's right in our face all the
time and then the winter of course we
have these polar vortexes as the Arctic
continues to get further destabilized so
so these dramatic impacts are right in
front of our face already and it's I
it's pretty amazing to me that these
politicians are able to stay in and and
kind of perpetuate this crisis while
keeping the can down the road while
these impacts are already upon us he
also traveled to the Great Barrier Reef
what did you find there well what I
found there was extremely heartbreaking
I I had been there for the first time
back in 1995 if I remember correctly and
and I was back there in 2017 the first
week of what ended up being a major
coral bleaching event it was the second
major event of that kind
in as many years also coral bleaching is
what happens when the water temperatures
warm up so much that it's at a
temperature that the corals don't can't
survive in so the beautiful algae on
them that gives them their brilliant
colors they that's a food source for
them and as the waters warm too much
that becomes toxic the coral bin ejects
the algae so as not to die but then it's
starving to death and it's bleached
white and that's why it's called coral
bleaching and it if the waters don't
cool back down in time the coral will
die within three to three to six weeks
of that happening and that's what's
happening and so when I was there the
bleaching event was occurring and huge
swaths of the Great Barrier Reef were
bleaching out and between the event that
happened in 2017 I'm sorry 2016 and then
the one in 2017 and then another one
happened in 2018 over 50% of the reef
that bleached out had died during in
just those three years alone and then
right now we have you know record warm
temperatures in Australia again and this
is that you knows are the single largest
coral structure on the planet it's 1,400
miles long it's a World Heritage Site
and most scientists there and many of
the studies say that the Great Barrier
Reef is essentially in terminal stage
and it probably will not be around for
another ten years
so as you're traveling through
the I mean well lets I guess let's talk
about Stan Rushworth because at the end
of the day as it were you in many
respects you argue that we are we're
almost there like that that so much of
this has already baked into the cake
that really we need to figure out a way
in which to to mitigate this or I guess
I mean are we at like you know now the
plan should be how we going to adapt
what what what stage are we in this I do
believe that's where we are and you know
doing working on this book and seeing
all this firsthand and doing the
research I was confronted with dealing
with my grief around this and all the
the feelings with that on a regular
basis and so I ended up beating a Native
American elder named Stan Rushworth he's
Turkey and we started talking and he
started selling a lot of stories that
helped a whole lot so one of those is
that in western colonialist mindset we
we have rights what are my rights right
and but in indigenous cultures they
believe were born onto the planet with
two primary obligations one is to serve
and take care of the planet the second
is to serve and take care of future
generations and so no matter how bleak
things appear to be they do appear bleak
humans could even go extinct there's
been a lot of writing about this we are
in the sixth mass extinction but we
don't know for sure that that's going to
happen we do know that tremendous change
is baked into the system and there's
going to be a lot of suffering that
comes along with that but no matter how
bleak things appear if I get up each day
and I'm thinking about okay how can i
fulfill those two obligations to the
best of my ability to the planet to
future generations and I've got my work
cut out for me and I've got no shortage
of work to do and I I feel very very
strongly about doing that especially
when you look out you see these student
marches you see these kids walking out
of class
they get it they get it and so am I not
going to live my life to serve those
kids and be in the deepest solidarity
with them as possible and still do
everything I can to try to take care of
the parts of this planet that are still
intact and and these young kids that you
know they're born into a world that they
didn't create they're going to have to
live in it so what can we do to help
them I mean do you look at this stuff do
you think that there's there was there a
period of time where we could have me I
mean obviously you know I mean on some
level I wonder if human limitations just
from you know the inability to see that
far into the future and understand our
actions today implicate the future made
it ever possible for us to to do what
needed to be done well it was back in
the 80s when NASA scientist James Hansen
went before Congress and sound to be
alarm bell he really at that point blew
the whistle and said look we are
changing the climate of the planet if we
don't make some dramatic shifts right
now and how we are living and certainly
the economy we are setting ourselves up
for some big trouble and in the not so
distant future and if we had listened to
him then and if the US had taken the
lead as a leading economic country and
said look we have to change this entire
paradigm globalized capitalism is
literally killing the planet and if we
started making the dramatic changes back
then we thought we possibly could have
averted this but instead since then
everything has only accelerated at warp
speed capitalism has become fully
globalized and continues to be so and
you know if we if we're going to talk
seriously about mitigation the first
thing we have to talk about is an
entirely new economic paradigm ie not
capitalism because this rampant
industrial scale production of goods and
consumerism that is precisely what's
killing the planet in
and we should also say that the the
structure of capitalism also created a
lot of people who were doing their best
to make sure that we didn't listen to
people like James Hansen right I mean oh
that's right I mean right yeah the
system is set up to perpetuate itself
and we have this fossil fuel funded
denialist meme in the country and that's
exactly warned of the system I mean it's
over there's over 97% consensus about
human-caused climate disruption and less
it's 2.9 percent that either are
doubtful about it or disbelieve it it's
it's you know there's been some
excellent journalism out very very easy
to find for a long time that shows that
the vast majority of those doubters or
deniers are fossil fuel funded right and
so are you in any way heartened by
something like the green New Deal I mean
it's still just a a proposal and is you
know obviously getting a huge amount of
pushback and it's almost absurd that has
taken this long for just that idea to be
you know to exist in some or at least in
this more sort of tangible form as
something that ultimately could be you
know a piece of legislation but does
that give you any encouragement well I
think it's a step in the right direction
I think it's it's you know anything is
better than nothing at this point and
and anything that could potentially
mitigate this even a little bit as a
worthy action but my critique of it is
it doesn't go nearly far enough and it
still doesn't call for a complete shift
of the entire economic paradigm because
it's it's still essentially promoting
economic growth and jobs etc when in
reality I think we need to be looking
squarely the fact that the time for D
growth is upon us and we can either
start doing it willingly or it's going
to be forced upon us and I think that's
that's really one of my major critiques
the Green Deal but I don't want to be
too disparaging because that in other
things you know anything
moving in a better direction than what
we're going now is is important to do no
matter how fallible it is and in well I
think that's a good place of anywhere
Dar Jamel the end device bearing witness
and finding meaning in the path of
climate disruption thanks so much for
your time today I really appreciate it
my pleasure thanks for having one all
right folks
hard to have any kind of discussion
about climate change and not have it be
anything other than somewhat depressing
but I feel great right now yeah I like
the opportunity to live in a real life
sci-fi hellscape you know the I mean the
argument that Jamil makes in the book is
that they're just simply a moral
imperative so there is impetus to work
towards attempting to mitigate the
implications that climate change
regardless of whether it appears or to
be having results or peers that it might
have results was a big thing missing
from that any of you do oh man really
big pretty big dismissal of ideas well
there I just got to believe that if we
have ideas then we can innovate to get
there than the innovation petition would
start kicking in because you're
defeatist there's an article in
communism that I would recommend
actually called the uses of disaster and
it kind of goes with the premise that
like we're probably not going to solve
this problem before capitalist society
begins to crumble but maybe at least
when that happens it will create an
opening to solve it then and also
democratize the economy in the way that
we need to do the point being when there
is 80% less people on the planet and I'm
not being facetious here when there's 80
percent less people on the planet you
know how are we going to live at that
point I mean obviously we won't be here
but so
it's probably gonna suck yeah it's
probably gonna suck but the point being
that you know the the the it's gonna be
interesting to see how it's structured
after the fall certainly and that's why
I'm so interested in Posadas 'im name is
single govern there's gonna be a lot of
water it produced an overwhelming sense
of impending doom
people make fun of it works mad never
have I felt like I want to do more
primary election coverage than right now
hey and maybe we need a solution to it
that risks the imagination of a new kind
of possibility we have a climate
scientist thought about that we get that
discern or whoever the IPCC they should
talk to uh yeah well the IPCC is filled
with a lot of negative thinkers a lot of
people who don't have a sense of
possibility well folks we're gonna take
a break head into the fun half which I
know I say well geared more conviction
than I've ever said before will
definitively be more fun yeah this half
under your fun space you can support
this show by going to join the majority
report calm where and you will support
interviews like the one we just had
join the majority report calm and then
we let you have access to the fun half
so that we can at least go back to
distracting you and making you feel
better about things slightly better
about things as you go along your way
and attempt hopefully to do your part
and to to mitigate this sort of freight
train that is coming barreling down the
tracks and heading back to petty mediate
conflicts exactly exactly unfunny it
can't be all just the moral obligation
to save
the species is chin during the climate
crisis
also don't forget sorry
just coffee co-op featuring 30% off this
month you don't even need to use the
coupon code majority you can if you want
but it won't work but that's fine 30%
off try the different types of just
coffee never had the mr blend try it
never had the WTF blend skip it go check
out there's so many other blends of
coffee you Mazal dudes gonna be in the
next Batman movie doesn't need coffee
but fair enough
some people take in information like we
just took in and expands their range of
like empathy and input you're just sort
of like for everything for everybody
except for men help I just found out
yeah I know who wrote that movie had
dudes from Wooster guy wrote The Joker
movie anyways mr. Wooster is really
spreading its tentacles oh my god paw
sex paw Sox 2018 was the year the Bronx
mm Michael today is Monday yes you're
gonna have a busy day tomorrow very busy
day tomorrow oh and I should also say
that because next week I we're doing a
Sunday show on the 14th with a DOMA
kechi at you but tomorrow on Tuesday
Sonia Shankar is gonna join us she's an
Indian journalist and we're talking
about India's elections will Prime
Minister Modi get another term and
basically sort of end and or cancel the
Indian Constitution or will the Congress
party retake power we're gonna get to
that and then feel its Biederman returns
he's in studio we're talking about the
cumin on hit on the head of the Gambino
family benjamin netanyahu's fell son and
various other things that will be
amusing patreon.com slash t MBS
patreon.com slash t MBS and michael
brooks show on youtube well over our
first 38 thousand subscribers thanks
Jamie
this week on the anti Fattah
so excited we had on Brett and Bryant
from street fight radios it's been a
long time coming those guys are awesome
and it's available now early two days
early for our patrons and free for
everyone on Wednesday so if you've been
waiting to sign up now would probably be
a good time we also recorded a bonus
with Leslie Lee the third from struggle
session about the movie us so that's
pretty cool too Sean's a Sean's here you
want to say anything babe no okay you
think I did a good job thank you yeah so
check check it out folks it's a really
exciting week Matt angrist but you've
heard it before records all over the
place and that will continue
yeah the new literary hangover episode
has broken we can't download records
we've cost 2,000 listens for the Oscar
Wilde the soul of man under socialism so
breaking records all over the place and
so check that out yeah I couldn't find
my Wow how did you and David get to that
place in the discussion
well actually we talked about Oscar
Wilde's mom who during the the great
Irish Famine was a fairly revolutionary
poet with some pretty yeah that's
awesome and Oscar Wilde was great
Oscar well it wasn't just that he was a
great wit but also had another fun thing
Oscar Watts full name is Oscar Fingal's
of Flaherty wild and because he was
Irish so that some Brits some of the
hoity-toity Brits would say his full
name in the same style as sort of Barack
Hussein Obama
he's Irishmen yeah that's the funny
thing today you'd want it you'd want to
include that oh yeah and he did include
it like he gave it impromptu speech in
st. Paul Minnesota on st. Patrick's Day
and he it was very nationalist Irish
nationalistic it just sounds like like
frankly a better name than Oscar Wilde
yeah yeah
all right folks gonna take quick break
head into the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty
you
you
we're back it is the fun half of the
program and as you know ladies and
gentlemen we Jews have what is known as
dual loyalty as we live in America so we
carry around a US passport just because
we want to present as being American but
of course you all know that we as Jews
in America even though we're American
citizens get to vote in the Israeli
elections and really perceive our
leadership too we think it's funny that
there's US politicians but when it comes
to our prime minister or president well
Donald Trump knows who it is good people
but I stood with your Prime Minister at
the White House to recognize Israeli
sovereignty over the Golan Heights
concept I should tell you he was
speaking to the Republican Jewish
coalition I don't know Republican is
that a party in Israel the Republican
Party he also can't say Netanyahu no
it's very strange he's going through the
same thing not he think he has trouble
with that as well but there it is folks
just in case you were wondering Donald
Trump accuses all of us American Jews of
dual loyalty in fact that we have a
prime minister he's done this before I'm
quite convinced that he did this before
one chief
moneylender he's no one lends more money
than that guy they all look at him every
time they go yeah all the Shylock's they
meet together they say that guy lends
the best money don't look at me I've
voted for Israeli Jill Stein the best
what is this would the Republicans like
we should give them some solar panels do
not let them drive it doesn't look like
they spent a lot on the graphic design
budget no I don't get an Eric Eagle and
then just took a star David out of it
it's gonna be fun to see how much
anti-semitic garbage they're
going to be willing to eat and then
of Israel yeah
my guess is gonna be plenty let's go to
the phones come from a seven zero one
area code who's this where he called
from hey there's the Evy from Fargo
Evy from Fargo what's on your mind um I
was just reading like this article I
don't know if there's advice or what but
it was about um kind of alright people
on 4chan talking about appealing to
normies and I think with like the people
that were the guy that was calling in
about Jamie being a communist and that
scaring him and whatnot like I think
people on the left need to take that
strategy in mind that we need to kind of
like appeal to normies and so like I
guess just like for Jamie like on that
side the stuff that she says a lot is
kind of not appealing to normies you
know well I mean I don't think there is
anyone who can who is more appealing to
normies than me I mean is there is there
a more nor me person than me yeah well
this is why I like the majority report
because it does I guess appeal more to
that because I'm you give us a
descending order rating of Norma appeal
sir any I'd like this we you alright my
my to be one I'll tell you right now my
my Q rating with women I want them know
you don't want to hear about the Q raise
my Q rating with with normies is through
the roof there's nobody who has more of
a Q rating with normies that I would sir
pretend you're in a rating you're in a
focus group and descending order from
most norming to least Normie rank us
well I just think like um you know I'm I
am like
communist and whatever so like I want to
convince people you know some very more
radically left um and just like reading
that article about how people on the
right use these kind of innocuous little
points about you know whites and men are
being attacked you know just these
little talking points that can kind of
shift people further left I guess I try
to do that more often yeah I just don't
I just don't I think I think my point is
that I think we present pretty normy I
mean if I can tell you this that you
know the to the extent that we don't
have the audience let's say of a pod
save America that that's that's more of
a function of that's that's less of a
function of their politics and more of a
function of just their sort of the
pattern right right I'm not I don't I
don't mean specifically about the
majority report but I just mean a lot of
people are not left like like in like
music and art circles that like kind of
just take it as an aesthetic and like
that they're leftist and don't really
try to like reach out to a wider
audience and totally for that community
called out by name I will say that it's
oh it's never a good thing when the left
is a subculture unfortunately that is
the way it is in some parts in some
places in some parts of the country
right now and it's not it's a problem
and I'm always trying to think about
ways to to fix it but I think if you
want to talk about communist ideas I
think you underestimate their appeal to
normies like we just talked oh no no
yeah I've had like a really great surge
I'm talking to coworkers and stuff about
it and they're usually like really
responsive to it so it's just a matter
of like getting getting me those points
to people who normally don't hear them I
feel like I think
I don't know we got a bunch I appreciate
the phone call we got a bunch of emails
and I'm not sure exactly what day it was
but where people were talking about
while the mofos and the use of mofos and
I'm shortening it and I think it I think
that stuff does I think that is that
stuff does like scare some people away
it's silly it shouldn't but it does
and it is largely performative mofos
scares people that kind of language the
like the language okay mofo is well you
need to strike a balance right because
you don't want to condescend to normal
working-class people who aren't already
on the left you don't want to condescend
to a version of them that you have in
your head that say is not accommodating
to like trans rights or LGBT rights or
whatever because you know the working
class isn't just white straight men and
you know white straight men do have the
capacity to support trans rights so you
don't want to condescend to them but you
also don't want to like push ideas that
are you know maybe several steps ahead
in the chain you can't skip steps if
that makes sense to you but I really
like the way the guys at street fight do
it actually like they have people come
they have one day a week it's just a
college show and people call in and they
complain about their jobs they talk
about their jobs they talk about what
sucks about work and that's a real way
to build class consciousness without
getting into like any of the theory
bumbo jumbo yeah I don't know if that's
necessarily yeah I guess the theory is
part of it but it sounds to me like what
the caller's talking about is that there
is some desire to sort of to to have
left ISM be an identity and so there are
cultural accoutrement that people use as
a way of distinguishing themselves as
not being nor me whereas from a
political project perspective presenting
as normy as possible it's probably the
the healthiest way or the most effective
way to spread these ideas oh yeah oh
that it's not necessarily that there are
people Michael and snapping his fingers
like and I've also showing how it doing
I only be I only respond to the tinkles
I only respond to the let's stop doing
this respond to the tinkle because
that's loud and we just added a day left
way conversation but there's a little
bit I've add there's a little bit of the
you know I mean it's also the easy way
to explain that is just clean for gene
right I mean on some level right that's
the like how you don't know what I'm
talking about
oh Jesus protesters should be like
wearing suits and stuff yeah
Eugene McCarthy people the whole idea
was get clean for Jean it was trying to
get like the hippies who were supporting
secondly Billie Jean King also it's kind
of its kind of respectability politics
when you do it that way no she's like
the hippies that's exactly that's
exactly like the workers and the
factories were growing their hair out
while you know leftist we're trying to
get clean for Jean okay well that may be
the case but I'm just the dynamic is
present to society to to increase the
sort of trust from normies as a way of
spreading this ideology like the girl in
Ferguson and her prom dress
getting led away by the cops for
instance yeah I mean I think the
language like yeah I mean focus on
broad-based things that are relevant to
people and stop trying to suck them into
subculture their real actual lived
interests and that in that is across the
board I mean you know including areas
where we need to actually fight like
unhealthy societal consensus on but
don't turn it into a subject I think
we're all on the same page I don't think
we should go out of our way to make the
left a subculture ever but I also don't
think we should be overly focused on
like how we look and present rather than
kind of politics that we're pushing
because I would push back that there's
even like a normal person like what does
that even mean it means different things
to different people
am i a normal person I like oh no I have
you know I've got cat children I've got
feelings but well what do you when you
say Normie what do you mean well it
means different things in different
contexts and I try not to use it too
much because it's really kind of vague
unless I define it but in this context I
mean the way I would generally use it is
like someone who's not already an
engaged part of the left so anybody
who's not a leftist is ignore me
in that in this context sure okay like
when you're talking about appealing to
normal people why why do you need to
appeal to them because they're not
already part of the left right okay I
mean I think there to me it's just sort
of people who are mainstream and don't
spend a lot of time necessarily thinking
about these things don't aren't
necessarily wanting to engage because
you could have non leftists who are
highly engaged in politics like I
wouldn't call somebody who was like
deeply steeped in libertarianism to be a
Normie right I mean normal people who
don't spend their days and nights
thinking about politics well ideology
probably something to do with it too are
engaged with other pursuits in life and
don't necessarily politicize everything
right and that's different from
subcultures I think because there can be
like punk rockers who also don't care
about politics you know right and and
but I think that there if your punk rock
then I think you're open to sort of at
least alternative perspectives on you
don't think so oh god I mean how many of
the proud boys are hipsters who live in
Bushwick surprisingly a lot of them how
many would you say that but you didn't
listen to what I said alternative
perspective on things that is you can be
a white supremacist and that is a fairly
alternative
you know lifestyle choice to be going
out and hanging out with roving gangs of
of you know white ethno nationalists I
would say is alternative it's not
necessarily you know my alternative but
it it's alternative as opposed to like
I'm just hanging out and you know maybe
we'll go get sushi Friday night or you
know talk about the movie that's getting
all the the box-office acclaim minions
and so you know that's why I think like
Norma is not it's the idea that it's
specifically everybody who's not on the
Left doesn't make any sense because I
have a feeling that those proud boys
probably also talk about normies
definitely and they do it in exclusion
of themselves and so the idea is that it
inherently has to do with people who
just more or less and I'm not saying
this in a denigrating way but just go
with the flow
follow the herd don't contemplate
alternative ideas and there are
signifiers for those people that make
them a little nervous about things when
they don't see it maybe it's clothing
maybe it's haircuts maybe it's you know
the number of piercings or tattoos or
less I mean I think a too much nor
feeling like they're getting tricked
like thirty years ago into some weird
site where there's nothing to do with
their life and these subcultures have
become so mainstream that they're almost
meaningless at this point I mean people
used to say hipsters and now they just
say Millennials because hipster became
so broad as to be like any young person
I just think that that I think that your
perspective on it is is is a little bit
narrow I just think that like I did I
don't think that people even use I mean
maybe Millennials but hipsters like for
the for the broad population a lot of
they just don't there's just not the
savvy about these things and because
they don't care and so the idea is like
you know how can you go in to you know
your your fairly generic workplace with
your workers and you know present a you
know a corrective in the context of a
norm you know all the sick
fires that's that seem like a Normie
well I will say that um certain people
in anarchist circles have been talking
lately about how they need to stop doing
the black bloc and maybe do the grip the
gray block where they just like look
like everybody else
so that that might be one tactic I mean
two other examples are like you look at
the way uninjured artists and Rutger
Bregman for instance are able to get
into certain places and like just
detonate like truth bombs to a certain
extent in like Davos for instance like
it's because they present a certain way
that they're in that position the first
right going to the phone's come from a
509 area code who's this where you come
from
hey yeah Ronald Reagan what a Normie
yeah totally I wanted to weigh in on
Norma which is maybe the new I
don't know but so I I've talked before
about how I come from a religious
background and there is some value and
having you know clips of your show or
whatever that aren't littered in f-bombs
and things like that because it makes
people like me more comfortable or
allows us to share things with people
who you know if they're not solidly left
or right they're mostly just a political
right nor me but who are sensitive
normally so like my sister she hates
Trump because he's gross and everyone
knows that but she voted for Mitt Romney
for a Senate in Utah and I was like what
the hell
I said no idea though it doesn't no not
really paying attention and it's hard
when you are really involved in politics
so you're interesting to remember that
like that's most people and so there's
value in you know if you do a really
good interview on you know whatever and
it's presented in a way that's norming
friendly I get shared with somebody like
that who is suddenly thinking like
literally for the first time in her life
about something like
a universal basic income or whatever so
I think there's value in that but I
wanted to say real quick so you've put a
lot of thought into your set and but I'm
moving on from the other thing but when
you get this reverse camera of the rest
of whatever's going on there it's a
total disaster yeah I've been told that
actually I have been told that and we
got a condom this like a symbolic of the
just the general wage boss slave labor
type relationship whatever thing is
going on in the studio like is this a
deeper metaphor for what's happening
Sam is upfront he gets the lights in the
panel like so they're saying and then
everyone else is like in a closet that
looks like well the we're in a smaller
area but yes I understand what you're
saying
I mean I think this has been this has
been something that had been brought to
my attention and I am I've been trying
to contemplate how to make it better and
then I stopped contemplating for
extended periods of time and then
somebody reminds me again and I
contemplate about it for a while and
then I forget to continue to contemplate
so yes but that is that might be the
next classic Baughman yeah that might be
the next big project each year end up
doing one big sort of project because
you know the the grind of the daily show
is always sort of difficult but maybe
there's maybe we need to sort of like
make the other half of the set the
lesser half of the set as you as you
might imagine we call it around here
more printable get a ring light yeah I
don't even think it's fair to call it a
set it's just whatever is happening back
there yeah correct correct that's
correct you know yeah right yep
um that it I was gonna say real quick
just yeah I got one more thing so you
know you've been talking about how
people like their employer provided
insurance but every year I have to pick
a plan for my office we're talking about
that every day people with the appeal of
private insurance that they love that's
the problem with Bernie's not you but
this is like with the retort to Medicare
for all well people actually love their
employer-based and drugs but this is
like my least favorite thing to do every
year as an employer to go through these
plans because they're all terrible and
they're all really expensive and this
year I was thinking about it downgrading
because I'm a boss like you'd like I
don't care what the second half of my
studio looks like right of course to it
to a bronze plan and it was going to
save me like thousands of dollars so I'm
like spending this money in my head as
the boss like I'm going to do this or
pay off my student loans or whatever and
and then I felt guilty about it and but
the bottom line is like even for the
employer
it's a weird system that we have like
that's somebody on Twitter said that
employers like to provide insurance
because then we have greater control
over our employees like they depend on
the job more but I think that's
like most employers don't like providing
insurance because it's so expensive I
think bigger employers it may be
different with a bigger employer well I
don't know but the bottom line is like
all of these plans are terrible there's
no no the the only the only argument I
think that people would have in terms of
like why people like employer-based
insurance is simply that the their they
don't the first of all we have been
socialized to have
such low expectations for what
constitutes health insurance that I
think people are just like I have it I
just don't want it to get messed with
and all they got to do if you work for a
big company is just make your election
at the beginning of the year or whenever
the open enrollment is and I just got to
sign off it and then you don't really
think about it well okay I got to do
these co-pays or I'm stuck in this
network or I can go out and I can pay
you know out of network but and I got to
pay a bigger copay but the the number of
people who actually need it to keep them
out of bankruptcy is small enough that
they don't it's hard for them to
represent a political constituency when
they find out that like oh this is not
preventing me from going into bankruptcy
and that's the problem I mean that's the
problem it's like if fire insurance you
know it would be a little bit more
dramatic if fire insurance didn't work
let's say like that 90% of fire you know
or with some ungodly percentage of fire
insurance claims actually we're not paid
off that would be a little bit bigger
because the whole community sees like
you know oh that building caught on fire
and if people are you know their house
caught on fire they're not as you know
they're not embarrassed by it but it's
just not the same with medical insurance
and to the extent that we hear these
stories they seem far and few between
but you know you know there's prior to
the ACA over 50% of bankruptcies were a
function of medical cost personal
bankruptcies and I think the numbers you
know are lowered but not significantly
lowered right appreciate the call all
right
hey I did I did one quick question one
quick question no no let you go a few
weeks ago I just I literally just saw
this note scribbled on my desk a few
weeks ago you said that something like
sixty percent of people who drowned die
from embarrassment because they're
embarrassed to call for help
I'm just curious I don't how you could
possibly know that
I did not give a statistic but my
understanding from the experts are that
people when they're drowning do not do
not call for help until it's too late I
don't know if they've done I mean Google
it I don't know did it make sense we
meet doesn't make are they reporting
that they're there well if they're dead
they can't tell you that they were too
embarrassed to call for help
I didn't say drown to death Ouija boards
maybe people who just drown and they're
saved all right by Ronald Reagan well be
a little bit more clear maybe you should
take notes about your clients instead of
like looking on your desk like I mean
what kind of death situation there I
took this weeks ago and I found it you
engraving it into your desks a master
litigator at work
speaking of immigration attorneys Donald
Trump had this to say about people who
are and there's a story in The Times
today I think it was about it was over
the weekend about women in Honduras who
are subject to enormous amount of
violence and they're trying to get out
of the country I have the piece right in
front of me but on a daily basis we're
starting to see these pieces and
particularly in the context of cutting
aid to these multiple Mexico countries
as we have down there according to a Fox
News the idea like this is that black
mirror show right I remember remember
that one with it where it where the
where they the essentially the ice
people of that show we're given some
type of either drug or something to
actually see immigrants has literally
alien beings that they could then shoot
and
that's of course a metaphor but those
type of tactics are being employed right
now by the president United States I
don't know if he's conscious of what
he's doing or not he's just he may not
be but that's the de facto impact of
talking about people who have run from
their countries because they are fearing
for their lives or their safety or the
lives of their children coming to this
country to seek asylum knowing that
their chances of getting it are slim but
if they can get asylum here it is worth
it because of what they're running from
here's Donald Trump commenting on these
people but we're taking people out of
the country you wouldn't believe how bad
these people these are people these are
animals and we're taking them out of the
country at a level and at a rate that's
never happened before and because of the
weak laws they come in fast we get them
we release them we get them again we
bring them out it's crazy
the dumbest laws as I said before the
dumbest laws on immigration in the world
so we're going to take care everybody
we'll get it done yeah yeah the what
he's talking about is our Asylum process
that's what he's talked about fascism I
just think we could just underline like
you know exterminating about that that's
what it is I mean that is a that you
could stack up against any of the
highest dehumanization rhetoric of
Germany Serbia Rwanda that's it here is
uh here is more on that from Donald
Trump in front of the and this is really
reprehensible on some level even more so
because of the audience frankly he's in
front of the Republican Jewish coalition
leadership meeting
I'm not one of those people who believes
that because it says in the Bible you
should take in immigrants but if there
is a constituency in the past hundred
years that might be sensitive to the
idea of refugees of running from from a
situation that creates great peril and
harm and danger to your families you
would expect a Jewish coalition of any
political stripe to have that level of
sensitivity apparently not
when it comes to the Republican Jewish
coalition and obviously not Donald Trump
and the asylum program is a scam
some of the roughest people you've ever
seen people that look like they should
be fighting for the UFC they read a
little page to given by lawyers that are
all over the place you know lawyers they
tell them what to say you look at this
guy here say wow that's a tough cookie
I am very fearful for my life
I am very worried that I will be
accosted if I am said back home no no
he'll do the elastic asylum I'll give
him asylum he's afraid he's afraid we
don't love the fact that he's got
tattoos on his face that's not a good
sign we don't love the fact that he's
carrying the flag of Honduras or
Guatemala or El Salvador only to say
he's petrified to be in his country to
confront this border crisis I declared a
national emergency I mean like literally
possible Jewish coalition yeah like it I
mean it it really does like I you can
imagine this type of thing and like III
could see like making a movie like act
like a dark satire where you would put
in that laugh track during those things
as he's mocking people who are seeking
asylum and the idea frankly that he's
doing this to a roomful of Jews and they
are laughing is so horrific so horrific
I mean I don't know like what age these
Jews are but I know that Jews in my
generation many of our Hebrew school
teachers were survivors of the Holocaust
who would talk about how Jewish refugees
were turned away
yeah well Jews from your country after
country and the idea that he could use
this language about refugees is just uh
nothing believable it's stunning and the
idea that there aren't like frankly
teams of rabbis or Jewish leaders who
are not speaking out now
is it's a horror I'm not it's really
it's really a horror I mean - you know
how many times has it been pounded in
like never forget never forget never
forget never forget guess what they
forgot that is the very definition of
forgetting there was nobody who came up
with that slogan who thought this only
applies to Jews unbelievable I mean
really I just it's shocking it is sick
it is disgusting and there have been you
know groups like Jewish voices for peace
are very good on this and very prominent
on this but I think that this is also I
mean this is the politics of modern
Israel migrating home right and that
kind of fundamental shift in perspective
whenever again shifts from a global
commitment to protecting all categories
of people - never again means we're
gonna annex the world the West Bank and
you know pound Gaza yeah and that's a
not and obviously the Republican Jewish
coalition is the you know essence of
that position and it's just pure
ethno-nationalism there's no values
you're talking about
don't they convert the tragedy of the
Holocaust from never again for anybody
into a cudgel to beat people with who
don't support the actions of the Israeli
government yeah I mean I don't want to
make this about Israel here because I
want to keep it limited to the fact that
he's up there mocking refugees - a group
of Jews whose relatives could have
easily and maybe in some cases were not
allowed to come into this country
oh they're afraid they're coming from
Germany they're afraid look at them look
at them they're afraid they're very
wealthy they're lawyer they're a doctor
but they're afraid of their country I
mean Jesus Jesus the idea that half that
room didn't walk out going like that was
really offensive that is the natural
outcome of that kind of thing
they're Republicans if you want to just
keep it domestic they're Republicans
it's just unbelievable I mean really is
unbelievable that they're just laughing
and rolling on the floor in that room
yeah he was killing it
I also just even want to take a very
tangential point here too and also say
that like just you know people might be
fleeing countries for their lives and
they could be a man who is 6-3 and
ripped like this bizarre leg I
understand it I mean that's just like
bizarre physical ization of like well
obviously if you're a dude who's like
trim of course your life isn't in danger
well Willie Horton I mean no I don't
think everybody does George Herbert
Walker Bush Roger Ailes and Lee Atwater
when they went after Michael Dukakis
they put up pictures Willie Horton who
was a parolee I think in Massachusetts
and ended up killing someone a black man
but this is I mean the the idea of the
dangerous you know black man is coming
to get your family fairly well
established and old in this country used
by Republicans
I'm not Republicans by racist demagogues
probably at one time but back in the day
the Democrats also where the word cook
comes from yes exactly I mean this is
all this is you know this is as old as
American politics and so this imagery is
a big part of it it is the the whole
idea of like these guys kids these
aren't humans they're they're people of
color who look like they're tough and
mean like you're watching some you know
some 70s version of like you know your
standardized criminal element
you know that that Donald Trump probably
grew up on I mean it's the same thing as
he did with the central Central Park
five so it's all part of that same
monstrous other meanwhile alright well
let's go to the calm from a nine to five
area code who's this where you come from
um here's Daniel from Concord California
Daniel from Concord California what's on
your mind hey I'm just a moderator from
Bernie Sanders dankmemes - on Facebook
um and I'm just responding to your yes
Stephanie mercenaire I might be a
messing with her name a little bit but
we have over 400,000 members I'd like to
talk about memes oh sure all right so I
should just tell people because I didn't
interview Stephanie Mensa Murr on this
show I did on Ring of Fire and she was
writing about how the there is literally
an infrastructure in which to teach
people on the right a lot of it coming
out of turning points USA to create
memes in part I think to meet you know a
certain subset of people where they are
within social media as a way of
inculcating them into you know
right-wing worldviews but okay so you're
you're a rep from dank memes what's up
yeah um well I could respond to a lot of
points that she made like well um for
example that a lot of meemers are just
like in basements somewhere like making
these memes like that might be true for
the right but like in the less like
personally I'm starting to be a software
engineer the admin of our memes - the
studying deal lawyers so we're pretty
some pretty educated people and so I
mean we're just trying to make memes
trying to get some normies to adopt a
few of Bernie's positions as well we're
just trying to be appealing all right
well let me ask you this I think the
point of her piece though was that there
is an actual genuine infrastructure on
the right - that is funded okay that is
funded to create these like literally
you have an organization where
there is a you know there is a guy who
is sent around to train people on on
making memes and it's it's paid for now
I have no doubt that down some of you
you know you've you've created at least
some enterprise to do so but you know my
also my other presumption is that you're
not getting funded by any big left-wing
funders yes we are not and that's why
I'm I would love I would love to like
extend an offer to your listeners that
if they want to become a moderator and
help make these memes um free deduce to
a contact or admin and uh and get
enlisted in the meeting force yeah and I
think and and so wait so give the
address where what what's the website or
where are you where yeah the people do
just go on um just go on Facebook Google
Bernie Sanders dankmemes - and we have
over 400,000 members so we're probably
gonna be the first link that pops up and
so um yeah just message the admin if
you're a really good fit I know lots of
people who watch your show make make
memes about the show like video videos
and stuff like that they're pretty
pretty hilarious so I mean we will just
offer a supportive group to like help
this creation of memes and it's all
volunteer yeah and I think I think I
mean I think that's the the point that
she's making like the the write has
already institutionalized this and they
like they are providing literally
institutional support for this
generation of stuff I mean this is not
it's not terribly dissimilar story and
then then the most things they do the
same on the right in terms of like
YouTube shows and podcasts so but
alright I appreciate the phone call
we'll put the link or will write it up
in our did you move out of your mom's
basement sir we are now a high powered
calling calling from an 847 area code
who's this where you come from
- from Chicago Josh from Chicago a long
time no talk to you I wanted yeah
trace the call uh oh yeah no problem um
actually wanted to call and talk about
something I noticed about Bernie's
campaign so far okay and difference
between him and 2016 and him and now one
of the things I noticed you know this is
like a a warmth as something that Warren
is maybe influencing him on is he's much
more specific on his policies this time
around then he has been he was in 2016 I
think he was speaking more about
resolutions in 2016
Medicare for all in other things and I
think now we've seen a very specific
asbestos specificity in his policies
that is very different than it was back
in 2016 just he's talked about you know
different policies introduced like the
one where it will basically overturn
right-to-work it different states in
America like nationwide and I guess do
you think this is Warren pushing him and
making him a better candidate or am I
the only one in my crazy my the one no
crazy and I think I mean I think Warren
is definitely upping the you have to be
in 20 well but it's not it's not just
that Josh it really honestly it goes
back I mean I think Warren has had a
very positive influence on on all the
candidates and and I'm sure that it ups
the stakes of for Bernie in that respect
but it goes back to what I said a
million times in 2016 Bernie Sanders was
not running to win he was running to
push a specific message and it just
simply caught fire more than he
anticipated was so he did not have the
staff that one would need to build you
know a full complement of these things
and and he has built that staff over the
past two to three years and so I think
we're seeing I think what you're seeing
is is the result of that I mean I think
it really is that quite that simple I
mean there's a reason why he launched
his campaign by saying what's different
this time where it we're running to win
and you know that that's that's the
bottom line and I I guess that's all you
needed to hear cuz you there you go
this was a fun moment I love to watch
I'm both you know like I wonder a like
why is Howard Schultz deserve to be on
television so much
I guess he's is he is he official
candidate or is he still is he still an
exploratory committee stage he's still
if I run I mean come on guy I thought
CEOs were supposed to be decisive right
if this type of like wish washy
leadership is what you're going to
provide the country but I do enjoy the
fact that it gives the opportunity for
him to go around and have a bunch of
people build their brand on dunking him
and here's Ali Velshi who I you know
it's fun to watch do you get why some
people don't really think that you got
all the answers that you rich guys who
are I don't know told you that America's
bifurcated yeah somebody came to you and
told you that there's a problem be a
rich guy but I grew up in federal I'm
self made and I built the company that
employed over three million people in
the last 40 years and gave healthcare we
just go back you know what I also love
about this too is like these type of
guys this guy is so handled by
consultants that if you look at his
right hand he has been like it's as if
the vast majority of what this guy has
done has been spent in front of the
mirror making sure he doesn't point when
he talks he
it is like the it is the functional
equivalent of people have told me you've
got to get rid of your arms when you do
your presentation and I and I probably
should but there are techniques in which
people use to get rid of those arms
they call it up if you listen to Rush
Limbaugh for a politician particularly
one who has nothing nothing to offer
what they focus on is the mannerisms and
this mannerism right here where you take
your hand and you don't point but you
make a semi loose fist and make sure
that your thumb is on top and that's the
way cuz you because all the the
communications research has shown that
people don't like it when you point so
you do this and he is doing it with his
right hand and it's so it's it's
supposed to yeah I can't but it's I
can't help but focus on I mean it's
absolutely nothing but it tells you
everything you need to know about this
guy absolutely nothing tells you
everything you need to know I told you
that America's bifurcated yeah somebody
came to you and told you that there's a
problem because a rich guy but I grew up
in federal I'm self made and I built the
company that employed over three million
people in the last 40 years and gave
health care ownership and free college
tuition to every what you get when rich
guys have been getting to the
bifurcation conversation that I must
have been having for decades but this is
about a lack of leadership in a
government of two sides Democrats and
Republicans who are unwilling to face
the issues in solve America's problem
why do we have a twenty twenty twenty
two trillion dollar debt why don't we
have the health care crisis why don't we
have K through 12 that's not working why
is there standing in a world not working
because of both parties ideology uh none
willing to work together that's why I'm
considering running for president that's
true why is Britain bifurcated why is
France by forget why is Germany
bifurcated why were the Arab countries
bifurcated it's not actually about
Democrats and Republicans it's about
rich people who don't pay taxes who
don't understand that it's not about
charity it's actually about wealth
distribution right what if that's your
explanation why is they aren't
bifurcated wait a week tell we're now
going to talk about what's going on but
you're telling me
application economic bifurcation in
America is because of Democrats and
Republicans not agreeing on policies why
is Britain Byford talking about the lack
of leadership and understanding of the
fiscal responsibility of elected
officials to do the right thing for the
American join but that's because that's
not the answer in all those countries
yet the world is bifurcated I'm not here
talking about all these kind of you're
saying by forgetting is because of
Republican and Democrat policies and I'm
telling you it's a global issue wealth
concentration not actually about
political disagreement on policies do
you want to talk about each country you
want to put China up here we can cut
this any way you want right the deficit
on the task told this was gonna be other
tasks we were told we had to no other
company said we had to no other
countries I'm sorry this was not
supposed to be on the test I'm calling
my mother right now
Jesus is bilberry political and
disagreement on policies do you want to
talk about each country you want to flip
China can cut this any way you want
right the wrong will in America they're
wrong have the wealth of the bottom half
of society
how many rich people in the world have
the same wealth as the bottom three and
a half billion in society Oxfam says
it's only ten about twenty I didn't
create policies that we are now under
I'm here to tell you that I am looking
at the current situation economically in
this country and if you want to solve
the problems you have to have the kind
of leadership that cooperates with one
another and it's not steeped in ideology
okay I don't I don't understand how that
I'm really clear on how economic life
vocation works I'm concerned my friend
it's solving the problem right but not
agreeing is wild Germany's that has to
be one simple question
yeah should we be spending less than
we're taking in yes it's not a yes or no
it's yes or no it's really not if you're
in a recession and you are you need to
stimulate the economy and you have got a
return are not every question we're not
in a recession right but but the answer
in that case might be yes yeah so it's
not a yes or no question so suggesting
that how about right now that you're
talking on how about right now in this
moment in time when you just put up
these numbers about the economy going so
well
should we be spending less than we're
taking in we have to understand what
we're spending we don't answer questions
no I I'm actually answering it in a
nuanced way that doesn't suggest there's
a simple answer to to to these
complicated questions that that plague
our world okay in all fairness it's not
complicated to me I understand we have
such a robust economy I'm spending much
more than we're taking in and oh my god
you know he's too dumb and oligarchic li
insulated to be embarrassed but that's
the most embarrassing thing I've seen I
honestly felt like wow I feel like maybe
Ally should have said to Stephanie you
might not want to watch this
billionaires you may not see what's
going to happen with Howard Schultz is
allowed on television but just think
about it this way as a really good
advertisement for the fact that
billionaire CEOs could be really stupid
like Meghan McCain how are you going to
be talking about other countries I love
that excuse me just knighted State on my
on on on my set piece that I've worked
gives me I said president of the United
States not president of the France
Britain state right this is totally
unfair
I should be and this is so me I have a
psychological concept you guys might
like to hear about it's the
dunning-kruger effect in the field of
psychology the dunning-kruger effect is
a cognitive bias in which people of low
ability have illusory superiority and
mistakenly assess their cognitive
ability is greater than it is the
cognitive bias is a loser's of illusory
superiority comes from the inability of
low ability people to recognize their
lack of ability I guess he's he's up CEO
but without the self-awareness of
metacognition
low ability people cannot objectively
evaluate their competence I didn't know
we were talking about metacognition the
best part is that Stephanie ruhle I
think next was going to say like wait a
second you're not gonna be the
leadership of both parties how are you
intend to make these two disparate
polarized groups do what you want them
to do with that executive or as a third
party president with no constituents you
guys
I'm sorry come together we need to be
fair here as much as it's fun to dunk on
him I believe you're missing the empty
chair which symbolizes the unspoken
American people or something this is
just it really is true like the the
amount of like when he goes home at
night and he's announcing to his family
to the extent that I don't know if he
has won or not but just the you know
where to his dog like things went really
well for me today I definitely think I'm
really getting the sense I should run
because the folks over at blank made me
feel good but like I mean if you don't
you know like get a show on MSNBC mit
and Bill Burton well they like raid his
fridges they're just like oh yeah it was
great no not any more stakes in here
good you're literally just eating their
weight Howard this is let me just tell
you this is actually exactly where you
want to be I would say the best thing
that could have happened to you is that
Ali Velshi had said that to you in fact
I would actually maybe we shouldn't do
it another hit soon there but I like I'm
almost thinking you should do another
hit soon there but probably not let's
back off and you don't want to go to
that well too often but that was very
good and people don't like unfair stuff
so the way that you were just like hey
wait a second man I'm running for
president of America not you want to
talk about France that's like totally
out of left field that showed a lot of
decisive leadership pushed around by the
press here's the thing Howard the thing
I remember you did really well there as
you made it about America first but
without having to say America first and
that's what's so great about that I mean
you may have lost the Ali Velshi primary
but you won the the primary or the
people you can't see dude Oleg are won
the the primary of the people not in
that chair the empty chairs represented
in that room who aren't on the set the
oligarchs need to get it together and
run Steve clew Beck for president they
need it
everyman oligarchy it's exactly that's
been our structure
no bumps in the road our CC Howard
Schultz isn't able to deliver that
weight now that guy also was saying like
he's saying no but the police he was
saying it six months out from the
Democratic primary or the midterms right
where the Democrats did exactly not what
he suggested and had the greatest off
year election victory in the history of
people recording that but he still gets
to look like an extra hand showgirls and
be cool and he would be a much better
candidate to it is very very disturbing
right here the millionaire billionaire
word and I pulled them to stop it knock
it off okay but that is Howard Schultz
which is more direct like less filler
like that's Howard Schultz - all the
like motivational books Israel standing
on ceremony this is uh this is very
encouraging so here's a Barack Obama
well the the response is encouraging I
just want to remind you regardless of
what you think about Barack Obama the
Democratic Party under the era of Obama
was decimated the 2010 midterm elections
were so decisive and destructive now
granted there is a sort of a what they
call it like a secular trend where the
party out of the presidency loses but it
was huge huge losses in 2010 and Obama
may not be responsible for that but the
failure of any type of outside apparatus
to mitigate that loss is his failure the
Obama administration and the Obama
campaign starting in August of 2007 or
2008 I should say put the word out to
donors and you can go back and look this
up we were talking about
at the time put the word out the donors
you do not you do not donate to outside
groups you donate only to us and they
had Obama for America which was
considered to be a huge grassroots
organization that a lot of people felt
had an enormous amount of power and had
a lot of potential as a outside leverage
for the president and they purposefully
buried the entire organization and they
left the Democratic in in you can also
quote I got this as he's telling
Republican Democratic lawmakers in some
type of Democratic caucus meeting I got
this so he basically said don't worry
it's on me we have debilitated all the
outside organizations because we don't
want any type of dissent and I got this
and then 2010 happened and guess what he
didn't got it
Coby except not so here he is returning
to the hill not literally but
metaphorically to tell the Democratic
Party what they need to do Barack Obama
was great and telling the Democratic
Party what he needs do to win but there
is no evidence that Barack Obama is the
guy to tell Democrats what they need to
do to win particularly not now but also
the fact is not then either and this is
you know divorced from his policies just
as a political strategist very good in
figuring out what what works for Barack
Obama not so good at what works for
everybody else in the Democratic Party
the Democrats lost over a thousand seats
in state local federal elections how's
this looking Barack Obama was
he got it but not the rest of us but
here he is telling the Democrats what
they need to do - you got to slow your
roll now despite that what happened
that's basically the pitch on the other
hand I know from experience in passing
the health care law that I had to work
on in the United States that that was
not the ideal health care program that I
wanted to set up it's what I could get
at the time and if I could establish the
principle that everybody gets health
care and get 20 million people more
health care even if 10 million still
hadn't gotten it that's what I'm gonna
do now
and then I'll fight some more later for
the other 20% so to go back to the point
that was made by Conliffe what's true
for me when I was a president or an
elected official it's gonna be true for
you as well even within your own
organizations and one of the things I do
worry about sometimes among progressives
in the United States maybe it's true
here as well is a certain kind of
rigidity where we say ah I'm sorry this
is how it's gonna be and then we start
sometimes creating what's called a
circular firing squad where you show
it's shooting at your allies because one
of them is straying from purity on the
issues and when that happens typically
the overall effort and movement weakens
so I think whether you are speaking as a
citizen or as a you know political
leader or as an organizer whether you're
in the nonprofit space or in civic space
or you're in the political arena you
have to recognize that the way we've
structured democracy requires you to
take into account people who don't agree
with you and that by definition means
you're not going to get 100 percent of
what you want but you should take some
time to think in your own mind and
continually refine and reflect what are
my core principles because the danger is
if you don't know what your principles
are that's when you compromise your
principles away so you have to know
ahead of time here's what I'm willing to
compromise on here the things that I'm
not you can't set up a system in which
you don't compromise on anything but you
also can't operate in a system where you
compromise on everything
the problem with Obama's perspective on
this is that he may have had core
principles and I frankly I don't think
they were quite ambitious enough but but
nevertheless the point is different
people can have different core
principles but when you come in offering
the least amount or you come in offering
basically what you're compromise
position is in position in in your first
offer you are guaranteed to get less
than your compromise position that is
just like a basic tenant of negotiations
and it ends up being in many respects I
it puts into question where the core
principles work but isn't that what also
I think the core principles are in the
process not in the outcome I think that
reduces negotiation and having everybody
at the table that's the that's the core
principle he conflates
the concept of democracy would the idea
of what democracy is supposed to bring
about and so it's really just like he's
maintaining the that process I think is
a big part of it yes and it was not
effective I mean we got the Affordable
Care Act but there was a lot of reason
to presume that something could be done
in that space and he did not exert the
effort on various players that he could
have and I would add to that they meant
respects they they sold they sold it in
a incorrectly cuz it didn't really make
things affordable also how many people
does it take to make a firing squad
because what this sounds like to me is
more like Obama and the establishment
Democrats kind of throwing shade on one
person in particular so if anyone's
doing a circular firing firing squad
it's him and and na OC yeah but like
fewer people let's say there are fewer
fewer mainstream elected politicians
right now that are pushing what Obama is
portraying as purity politics and what
we understand to be practical because
we've seen market solutions to health
care and they don't work right right I
mean he claims it's a circular firing
squad but the shots are fired from
everywhere not just the supposed purity
folks I mean it was this g-way staff
that called progressives effing retards
right like what is the you know wow yeah
what are we nuts the other problem too
is like what is the basis of like where
these supposed preset compromises come
from like this is where Brad DeLong said
a couple of weeks ago right we need to
understand that we're not the point
people anymore because we lost right
right the the the the purity is on the
other foot right and the practicality is
on the other foot here is Katey Porter
one of those Democrats who was just
elected she was elected in a what was
otherwise a longtime Republican district
in California she in many respects has
been she hasn't gotten quite the
attention that some of the other
freshmen Congress people have but she's
gotten some she's considered she was
considered a sort of a Elizabeth Warren
protege in some respects studied with
her I think at Harvard and also was
heavily involved in the in the work that
was going on in California regarding the
financial crisis or I should say the
the financial crisis and here is her
response to Obama's worries about the
progressive of rigidity hurting
Democrats and I should say that last
clip we played of Obama was in Berlin
but he apparently had made a trip
sometime last week or the week before to
the to the hill and delivered a very
similar message
don't be so ambitious agree with the
president former president I mean is
this a problem among Democrats I don't
think we should be afraid of ideas and
have new ideas and I think we're gonna
if we're gonna energize the electorate
particularly millennial voters we
shouldn't be shutting down ideas and so
I think to the extent that has been
rigidity it's been rigidity around the
establishment I'm a freshman I'm part of
a huge freshman class and we're bringing
a lot of new ideas and a lot of new
voices to the Congress and I think
there's a certain amount of resistance
to that from the establishment so I
think that we should not be afraid of
having a dialogue and be afraid of
people disagreeing with each other
within the Democratic Party it's only
when it turns personal when it turns to
name-calling when it turns to dragging
down other candidates that I think it
becomes a problem but right now I don't
like the Congress has done that right so
here's the point and she's making and
it's one that we were just making is
that you have a circular firing squad
and what purity what what you know like
the the the idea is that the the
so-called center so-called moderates and
I say so-called center because there's
just no way to say that there they're
you know centered at least in terms of
the the American public but the
so-called moderates let's call them just
the left issue
Riteish Riteish leftist in in the house
their purity is pretty rigid you know
it's just a different type of pure the
product is slightly different and they
frame it as if the product is some form
of
of leftism and we're going to we're
gonna you know we don't need it to be so
pure but but the fact is is that that's
not the politics they have and so
they're being there they're having
purity test to it is swaying in any way
or divert diverging from what we have
been selling and pushing for an extended
period of time
this could be framed exactly the
opposite way but the way way Obama does
it in the way that we always hear this
done is as if we are the norm and
they're the difference once and we're
practically there ideological right
we don't have politics I mean this is
Howard Schultz's pitch to right like I
don't I don't have politics I don't have
ideology I just have can-do spirit and
get it done ISM common sense I just have
common sense in in in it get it done ISM
wonder if Dave Erb is gonna do a hashtag
walk back after hearing Katey Porter
talk about ideas yeah there you go blue
Katie puta did she said hey here's an
idea
what if Equifax but leasing information
in public was a good the way that Katey
Porter frames it is also really the way
to do it too because it then it just
she's using basically their language I
agree and it's accurate it's actually
it's like actually if you go to the
progressive side of that equation that
is where people are generating ideas
that are not reheated 80s and 90s plans
that are completely historically
out-of-date unnecessarily convoluted
repetitive and uninteresting to normal
people it's being of appealing to
normies ironically physician heal
thyself
NBC News is reporting that the US Secret
Service Director is out not sure what
that's about maybe part of the
Department of Homeland Security but I'm
not sure exactly why Auto 'pn up for
Bungie know the I mean do you get the
sense that like somebody in the White
House going like let's see if we can
have every single person in the
administration be acting like let's not
have anybody
that is actually doing the job looking
at in a permanent way let's go to tim
ryan launching his campaign in Ohio this
is a very odd pitch it seems to me but
and I what did this happen this weekend
the amount of news this guy gets is not
very much and he announced it on the
view ahead of you thought maybe he did
but here it is here's a Tim Ryan making
his pitch as to why he should be present
into our social media and they
intentionally my Posse trying to go back
it's you cut off the the partner he's
talking about Russia went into our
social media into our social media and
they intentionally try to divide us if
there is if there is an incident I want
everyone to listen to me here if there
is an incident in America that's
controversial about kneeling for the
national anthem or there's a school
shooting or there's an incident between
a cop and a kid you know who comes onto
our social media the Russians okay I
want you to hear this the Russians they
come into our social media and they spin
things to get us into these divided camp
and I have a theory about wow now people
don't quite get what's going on here
but I don't know cuz maybe it's cuz
you're too young but Bob Uecker who I
believe was a player for Cleveland at
one point was famous for being this type
of
of agitator in the context of of light
beer from Miller he would get in between
people who thought it was tasted great
or it was less filling and then he would
start arguments all around the country
this was happening Bob Uecker was a
robber
and that's what Tim Ryan is suggesting
that there is absolutely no disagreement
on things like black lives matter or
think you should have seen the I mean
our enrollments be level an association
meeting in Moscow where the Ferguson
cops look I don't want to bother members
of our community I don't want to harass
black teenagers and terrorize
communities into paying fines to
subsidize the rich part of town that's
not what my job is about you will kill
black teenager you'll get none but I got
it we will very very mean very
aggravating meme on Instagram and I'm
like I'm out there now with the tanks if
you don't do this we will mean Police
Department out of existence snapchat
Instagram both I think I think Paul I
think Ryan actually is a Glenn Greenwald
fan he's trying to set the tables for
before we run the interview on Tuesday I
was gonna say there really are people
this insane and demented well taken this
lets no doubt that there there are
people this insane demented but it also
proves my point like Tim Ryan like no it
actually does shock me though is like
here's a guy I mean he wouldn't be my
candidate obviously but like he
represents a blue-collar district in
Ohio he actually has some decent ish
stuff on like labor and blue-collar
issues and he easily could just say like
guys you gotta win Ohio and you got to
have a Labour message that isn't too
ambitious or alien it's like I'm saying
like you could write a script of a super
credible argument for him and and he's
doing this well maybe he also knows that
the that Russia stuff actually plays the
best with those type of folks that would
be true I think that like maybe as an
internal port are we at
I mean we have talked in the past where
you know I think guys like Manchin and
Heidi Heitkamp come from very right red
states I'd camp not so much anymore but
that in many respects the idea of this
Russian narrative I think gave them some
latitude in which to vote against the
president's priorities because it
resonated with with with their sort of
like red state America have no internal
problem racism nothing what we going to
do I think a Facebook post and then they
will get mad
I have no Jonas Cartman at that stupid
Americans I have no doubt that like
there are people on Twitter you know who
just try and instigate but I think that
like if that becomes in your opening
statement of your presidential run I
feel like you're not being super
ambitious I used to read Alice Walker
and I got in this dank mean bit I just
realised work Donald's right
I didn't notice it at first but Colin
Kapernick went to Moscow University for
college ball right exactly
I was like what what incredible did he
actually complete like NFL protests with
school shootings as just controversial
like commercial controversy NFL players
taking a stand against police murders of
black people oh my you know you schools
being shot up but I'm curious as to what
side it just feels being shot up was one
of the last places of conscious times
country no he was talking about about
about unarmed black people getting shot
I think he said no he's like school
shootings but but I'm curious as to what
he thinks like where is he on these
issues because I remember when the
President of the United States weighed
in on Colin Kaepernick and can't help
but think that the the Russian bot army
to the extent that they exist on Twitter
was not as effective as pushing this
narrative as say Donald Trump and the
entire you have media
Trump sucker-head I need to send out a
unifying message that condemns the
historic stain of racism now you will
not see you inhale see you lookin damn
Colin Kapernick is there a limit to how
many people can run for president at
once we're approaching it goes back to
the Central Park five as a Russian
operation did he say that no I like that
you thought it was conceivable I didn't
I didn't read that piece but it's not in
it's not completely no it's though
nothing would surprise me at this point
what tell me you see Coates doesn't get
so the Russians did that let's go Larry
Kudlow is out there and they are right
now the president is contemplating
better he's contemplating still
contemplating Stephen Moore who is the
right-wing hack deadbeat dad which you
know should not preclude you I
understand from being on the Fed and
managing money and whatnot but his
hackery I think is isn't enough to keep
him off or Herman Cain who do we have
that smoking ad did you post that no
Herman Cain who apparently is worried
that he's not going to be able to
sustain the vetting to get onto the Fed
but here is here is and I can't quite
understand why they that they can't find
anybody else but I think it's just like
we're gonna put a movement conservative
on the Fed and I don't know what it what
the theory is in the White House as to
why they would do these guys other than
like I want somebody who's a complete
crony and maybe there's a lot of people
are like you know can't bring themselves
to pretend like they're a crony of Trump
that would also be like suitable for the
Fed I don't know but here is a Larry
Kudlow saying that it's sort of trying
to I guess carry water for these two you
were not but let me ask you about
Stephen Moore he was a contributor here
at CNN he's clearly qualified to talk
about the economy on bankable television
the first guy to say that there's no
year so even
and advice take a listen to what he said
about his qualifications to serve on the
Fed board I'm kind of new to this game
frankly so I'm gonna be honest deeply
don't learning curve myself about how
the Fed operates how the Federal Reserve
makes its decisions he's gonna be on a
steep learning curve about how the Fed
operates and how the Federal Reserve
makes its decisions this is one of the
most qualified candidates in the country
yes he's a smart guy a really smart guy
there's nothing wrong with a little
modesty or a little humility you learn
the ropes pretty much every job I've had
out through the years you have to learn
we're both broadcasters I had to learn
to do it I don't know maybe you were
born into it we all have to learn we
know it I think Steve is being very
humble about this again oh my god Wow I
really want someone with a steep
learning curve I had to learn to run
this board that's true that's true I've
never really done something that right
stakes
not quite as high sometimes I left
Michael's mic down it's that's true and
I would argue like if we had introduced
this board on day one I think probably
nothing would have ever happened right
like you had to learn the other board
first stages yeah just imagine being so
privileged that you don't need to have
qualifications for the job before you
start doing the job I mean steep
learning curve trying to figure out how
the Fed works it seems to me to be a
little bit you might want to put him
like in the JV team for a while like
there's a curve and then there's a cliff
the best part of that though is Jake
Tapper trying to skirt over the past
that they had him as an economics
advisor on CNN for years right well he's
good enough to talk about it yeah
apparently and to completely mislead the
country about it unbelievable there are
people with college degrees who can't
get a job at Starbucks right now well
there's a big learning curve all right
let's take one more phone call sorry
folks I know we've got a lot of people
have been hanging on for all these folks
80
three minutes come from five-30 area
code who's this where he come from hold
on hello hello hold on a second
well probably not be there okay I'm
gonna have to go now I'm sorry been
waiting for an hour okay Wilson would so
talk okay I was trying to take you off
speaker phone so I haven't listened for
a while but is it too early to talk
about 2020 I have been all right what
would you like to I hope this is a troll
what would you like to say about 2020
are the paths gonna win the Pats gonna
win
yeah yes they are appreciate the phone
call oh do you mean that literally or
metaphorically oh he's gone come from a
605 area code you are the final call of
the day hi this is Paul from South
Dakota Paul from South Dakota what's on
your mind
so I'm in the hole like Democratic
misguided strategizing from
establishment Democrats to win over
quote-unquote moderate Republicans for
2020 sorry and also talking about 2020
but it's gonna be a little more
substantive they're really pushing of
course you know there are types of
candidates and one of the main talked
about they've seen especially with Judy
jigged and bado is oh wouldn't it be
nice to it won't want to be nice to have
you know like a decent man and the White
House got like someone who can speak in
complete sentences which yes
admittedly is nice but that's not really
the point but I was just thinking
I was at work this weekend and I had a
couple customers in line two grown
adults who were a couple like at least
in their forties we're talking to each
other saying hey did you see like the
new mean that Trump tweeted out this
week and I'm just looking like wow if
you really think you're gonna win over
these people by saying wow this is a
nice decent man no that's why they like
Trump is because he tweets out dumb me
they don't care about anything I don't
know one cares about that nerd so I
don't yeah like I don't get why that's
the thing like I was joking like you
know actually about Michael's Nation of
Islam Obama probably be the person
because it'd be their establishment
policies but he'd be a little bit more
overt in his rhetoric I mean I think
don't keep your name out my
mouth I think there are people as versa
I think there are people like those two
people who came into your business
without a doubt who voted for Trump I do
think that there are people who
certainly within the Democratic Party
and I would imagine there are some in
the Republican Party maybe less frankly
who definitely the idea of not having to
engage with politics and just sort of
saying like we got someone decent in the
White House decent like not like decent
as in like he's a decent human being
like a like an actual human being in the
White House and that's enough and I know
broadly speaking that they're going to
do politics that are like broadly
aligned with mine certainly to the
extent that I dig into what is happening
I'm not going to be upset I think that's
an appealing message to at least a
portion of the Democratic Party
I mean without a doubt I mean I think
the from the center to the left there is
a I think a fairly sizable amount of
people who are just like I just want to
elect someone who I think is a decent
human being
and they're just gonna go and not be
corrupt and just take care of things and
that's why I mean Barack Obama was a
hugely popular president with Democrats
and frankly pretty pop
amongst the American public and I think
to a large extent for that reason I mean
I don't
III you know I haven't seen specific
data on this but I bet that if you were
to poll the people who really liked
Obama that they wouldn't necessarily
point to specific policies or issues as
much as they would is like decent guy
good guy smart guy there would all be
these qualities that were you know nice
and so I understand why I understand why
they are running that way I think it's
not I mean it's conceivable to me that
that could beat Donald Trump to like I I
don't think that Donald Trump is this
sort of like didn't work lifetime though
well no but last time you had a
candidate who had 30 years of baggage
yeah you had a candidate who was under
investigation rightly or wrongly by the
FBI yep you had a candidate that was I
mean there was a whole you know there's
not just one thing that that sunk
Hillary Clinton but the callers talking
about peeling off Republicans right well
I don't think that there is you know a
peeling off Republican I mean if you
want to talk about sort of the broad
like oh I agree the broad well that's
what that yeah I mean that is what they
say in I agree I mean I think like
that's the Joe Biden strategy too right
we all agree on that I I but I agree
with the caller in general that there is
a subset of people that are way too and
and whatever all kidding aside of course
like capacity to like think and
problem-solve
obviously matters but like there is a
particularly amongst the media class and
I do think this is part of the reason
that there's so much juice around you
know Buddha gig or whatever is is just
this any obsession with credentialism
and testing well and I don't I think
it's societally usually unhealthy and
so not interesting for normal people
yeah for normies including not just
Republicans and I think for what it's
worth bite and you know Biden's not
playing that angle oh by right disagree
with you about a broader critique of
Biden's approach but I think Biden is
correct in that sense of like you go out
and you you know you buttons no no
Biden's playing the same the the the the
two broad categories we're talking about
here is like persuade people who voted
for Trump versus find people who didn't
go out to vote definitely those are the
two sort of like electoral strategies
that are that that are you know broadly
when you strip out ideology and whatnot
from and how you would achieve either
one of those you know tactics on either
side those are the two broad strategic
decisions that you can see in the
context of of this election and there
are people who are you know maybe even
to the right of like say Buddha judge I
don't know for sure but who are in the
more mobilization camp versus the
persuasion camp I mean you can cut up
this the this this these people in in
various ways and the persuasion camp is
the one that I think like gets the most
sort of like play from the establishment
broadly speaking because that usually
requires a smaller parameters of policy
options and it's really just more about
like how you gonna peel culturally and
this and that but I have a few issues
with this strategy actually like you're
talking about persuasion versus turnout
and I think usually it's more turnout
than persuasion like we've been saying
the media gives an inordinate amount of
importance to this small slice of swing
voters and if you want to look at the
number of people who don't vote it's
just more people at the end of the day
and it's also more working-class people
and people of color who sorry I care
about more a little bit more than people
who voted for
and so like but even like the moral
issue aside there's just more of them
but let's say that there is a slice of
swing voters who are working-class
mostly but not all white who can be
persuaded to swing from Republican to
Democrat because we've seen it happen
before you're not going to get those
people on social issues because the
majority of people in this country are
either socially liberal or socially
conservative and they're fiscally
centrist too liberal because most people
in this class people in this country
understand the need for stuff like labor
rights and you know health care can I
get my own personal history on life's
little I'll be real quick you know I'm
almost legal all right listen I'm sorry
I gotta go
I i I've it's 2:40 okay I'm gonna preach
a what's that call back okay appreciate
the call all right folks sorry got a lot
of people hanging on the phone gotta go
gotta do a pre tape sighted about the
pre tape is it a good one
Jonathan baller of the New York Times
who done this massive massive story on
the Murdochs oh that actually just
sounds super good alright folks know for
us for majority of course in the coming
weeks tomorrow I am on this program
Glenn Greenwald and I had a conversation
on Friday we will play it in the first
half of the show Michael will do the fun
half see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know son
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah
take it
[Music]
I just
the choice option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
