let's play this from Chris Hayes the and
I have yet to really dig into this but I
can tell you just from just being on
Twitter that Ronan Pharaoh's new book is
out I don't know if it's a quite
available yet it's about to be released
in it he details how the story that NBC
News quashed his investigation his
writing into Harvey Weinstein and also
that there are allegations against the
head of NBC
I think news it is a guy named Andy lack
and others at the top that they were
trying to protect Matt Lauer
and all this stuff was going down
actually around just coincidentally
around the time that I was getting fired
and rehired by NBC I just remember this
because we had done a video about Matt
Lauer I don't know four or five years
ago maybe more on his interview with the
Anne Hathaway and I had said at the time
like this guy's creepy there's a lot
more stuff here and that video obviously
that week just that I was getting fired
also happened to just go viral I think
we had like two and a half million views
but Ronan Farrow is has made some
serious allegations that are rather
damning for a news organization and
there was a lot of people who are
waiting to see if anybody at MSNBC who
in any other circumstance would have
Ronan Farrow on you know as soon as he
could get to the studios if it was to
talk about anybody else and they hadn't
and then last night at the close of his
show Chris Hayes did something that I
think frankly took a lot of guts to do
here it is in fact the insidious
destructive force of the path
least resistance is everywhere you look
only posi can't go back a little bit
listen it's only two minutes I mean it's
important to hear the context of what
he's saying because he goes on to
basically contextualize it I think in a
really important way over the last few
weeks as impeachment has dominated both
the news in the show I've been watching
with increasing horror and bafflement as
the NBA has enforced a kind of silence
and speech code on his players and
management for fear of offending the
Chinese government and Chinese
basketball fans after a single tweet in
support of the Hong Kong protesters by
Houston Rockets executive the NBA has
scrambled to lock down any other signs
of criticism of the Chinese government
hoping to preserve access to an
extremely lucrative and growing market
for the sport now of course this kind of
shying away from confrontation choosing
the path of least resistance quite
familiar in the news because it's what
so many republican members of congress
do every day when confronted with the
vile bigotry and rank corruption abuse
of power well the man is a head of their
party but it's important to note that it
is not limited to them in fact the
insidious destructive force of the path
of least resistance is everywhere you
look heck I feel the tug of it myself as
my own news organization is embroiled in
a very public controversy over its
conduct as you've probably seen in his
new book catch and kill my former
colleague Ronan Farrow contends that NBC
News slow-walked
and then ultimately killed is reporting
on Harvey Weinstein's sexual harassment
and assault because it was intimidated
by Weinstein and didn't want to cross
him most distressingly Farrell suggests
NBC News was worried about the
allegations of sexual assault and
harassment against Matt Lauer coming out
as a result of reporting on Weinstein
and desperately wanted to avoid that in
pharaoh's view he was unable to break
through what was effectively a
conspiracy of silence from NBC news
management now NBC News vigorously
denies this account the president of NBC
News Nowell Oppenheim called Farrell's
book a conspiracy theory in a memo sent
out today citing an internal NBC
investigation that concluded that the
extremely upsetting allegations against
Lauer were
known internally at NBC NBC is called
any suggestion it did no false and
offensive Oppenheim and others have also
maintained since pharaoh's departure two
years ago the Weinstein story was never
broadcast because it lacks sufficient on
the record sourcing even after NBC
supported Pharaoh's assignment for seven
months one thing though is indisputable
Ronan Farrow walked out of MBC news
after working on the Weinstein story and
within two months published an
incredible article The New Yorker that
not only won a Pulitzer but helped
trigger a massive social and cultural
reckoning that continues to this day it
is the kind of journalism that you want
to do as a journalist that everyone who
works in this business should want to
facilitate of course there's a reason it
took so long for the true story about
Weinstein to be told for the many
allegations of him to stay locked in a
vault and that's because time and again
the path of least resistance for those
of power was to not cross Weinstein or
his army of friends and lawyers same
goes for the many many many other
powerful predators that we've come to
know about the path of least resistance
is always there beckoning seductively
with an entirely plausible cover story
you've got bigger fish to fry this isn't
the hell to die on the story isn't ready
but of course it's the very ease of that
path that makes it the enemy the kind of
work that we as journalists are supposed
to do I think he's gonna be on tonight
but that's the honestly that's the kind
of thing that you know they'd show up at
the commissary the next day and the the
people who hand out you know the main
course are like sorry there's not enough
left for you I mean that it doesn't
that's a scary thing to do I think from
his perspective you know and he is you
know he's obviously his show is very
prominent in the a p.m. slot but he's
not you know it's not the it's not the
head honcho over there and for him to do
that I think takes a lot of guts and so
yeah there's there seems to me to be
some reckoning that needs to happen over
it NBC News well sandy luck threatened
by Russia
very possible raises some very
interesting questions well don't don't
don't mock the the paper thing a lot of
people do that I don't wanna really yeah
I think that Rachel Maddow is taking the
paper thing to love oh you're not even
doing you got it's the rustling it's the
this thing going on you gonna show that
it's uh you already have the look you
don't need to break my Jesus
