[Music]
now you don't well no wait a second
you're upset about the the circular fire
right the debate which you call a
circular firing squad where Democrats
are going to be going after Democrats
what it's Democrats once again never
missing an opportunity to miss an
opportunity what are we arguing about
why do we have to have these debates
exactly do you think there should then
no primary whatsoever I mean that would
be the logical extension there right no
I I think there should be primaries for
the same reason I wear clothes you know
it's good to hide things and not reveal
everything but this is an existential
threat Trump and Joe Biden Joe Biden is
the guy yes I know you're going to think
that go ahead did you see Joe Biden this
week I did in fact we have video of Joe
Biden talking about Donald Trump here is
let's play a little bit of that since
you brought it up here is is this an ad
that Joe Biden did its campaign video
where he's talking about a pledge that
he's gonna sign or that he actually
signs on camera so here it is here's
here is a Trump you know asking for
thirty thousand emails Russia if you're
listening I hope you're able to find the
thirty thousand emails that are missing
folks this is simple
American elections should be decided by
the American people not by Russia or any
other foreign power Donald Trump doesn't
think it matters if candidates for
presidency accept damaging information
out of their opponents from foreign
governments
I believe he's dead wrong you're
campaigning this time we're out of
foreigners if Russia if China if someone
else offers the information an opponent
should they accept it or should they
call the FBI I think you might want to
listen I don't there's nothing wrong
with listening I must be part of any
attempt to undermine our democracy or
public confidence in our institutions in
February we're going our close
Democratic allies in Europe I helped
develop the pledge that we encourage
candidates running for office and take
promising that would use no
disinformation in their campaigns or
tolerate outside interference I said
then that where I candidate for office I
would sign the pledge today I'm making
good on that promise
many and then he signs the pledge there
I also noticed that in the background he
had a bunch of books on the windowsill
one of them was was mr. Putin I see what
are the other books that he's got there
anyways you want me to respond for that
with I mean I'm afraid I'm gonna look
I'm afraid I'm gonna end up lording my
deep intellect over you guys but that's
why we'll have you here please okay do
lord that I am shocked that that ad is
still running because it is identical to
the Lyndon Johnson days yet that's he
had a poll in 64 against Goldwater that
is so daring for him to do something
like that
and that's a game-changer that and I
can't believe he had the courage to do
that that's the days he had from 64 and
they're gonna pull it because that's not
I mean he's he's playing rough with
drunk so you think that's a just a go
Adam like in and that the the signing of
that document on his page on on his desk
is the equivalent of dropping a nuclear
weapon
he took Trump out behind the gym and
punched him in the face that's what Joe
Biden did and he shouldn't do that
that's not who's Joe is but sometimes
you know Joe has to throw down and he
just did it you know what Joe said
middle class Joe but when he went in
middle class little class Joe yeah no
class Joe and he is middle class because
if he were part of the upper class he
could have afforded a better facelift
that he's a man of the people right
I recently demonetized for that joke
yeah that was very mean it is very odd
homonym of odd hominem homina homina
homina
what are you Ralph Kramden
that's the lovers of trams and reference
yeah no Joe Biden
you know what Joe Biden said this week
there's no other candidate who said
what's that
he called Trump a neck he called Trump
and Edison special threats
yes to our country he literally said
that he said he said Donald Trump is an
existential threat to America and you
know your guide Bernie or Elizabeth
Warren what did I talk about student
loan debt climate change health care but
Joe Biden he goes after the really big
existential threats it's true he's going
on what's burning what's Bernie's plan
what's Bernie's plan on existential
threats well I think his plan is
probably just to win the presidency
that's I think what everybody's plan is
Bernie's plan is to defeat and
existential threats by just winning the
presidency
well actually isn't that what Joe
Biden's plan is like that's that the
will are get rid of he said he said
Donald Trump is an existential threat
right now he's just a blip but if he
stays on for four more years he'll be an
existencial actually Bernie drew some
pretty powerful historical parallels in
his speech the other day and I think he
wants to not only get rid of the threat
of Trump but of the conditions that lead
to Trump and Trump like things David or
uh Feldman like what like what's more
important than an existential threat you
tell me
I see it's an existential threat level
Orange that's how bad it is right now
did you kill anyway did you did you work
on that system with Rob Reiner great man
great man Rob Reiner When Harry Met
Sally I I watched that movie and I go I
want to know who directed When Harry Met
Sally and whoever directed that movie
easily tell me who to vote for I thought
you were gonna say you watch that movie
and you wanted to know what she was
having Yeah right
Yeah right don't think I don't don't
think I don't get the anti-semitic
subject where meg Ryan takes an orgasm
at Katz's delicatessen and I'm supposed
to just I'm supposed to roll with that
right all right another one in other
words that if you're like if if someone
is having an experience with a Jew that
they could only have a fake orgasm I I
want to talk politics I don't want to
talk okay I understand
so David Joe Biden has named an
existential threat his solution is to
win the presidency and you are waiting
for any other candidate to talk about
what they perceive as existential
threats is that what you're saying no I
think it should in all honesty he it's
his turn to be President and I don't see
why we have to debate this but you know
we need to get rid of Trump that's all
and so you are you calling for basically
everyone else to drop out of the primary
is that what's going on I'd like people
to stay in but I think they should have
a debate but the debate should be how
great Joe Biden is that's what we should
be defending like what do we love most
about Joe David David
we are you at all concerned that the
same attitude you have now is
potentially basically the same attitude
that led us to picking Hillary Clinton
and that didn't work out so well
I love her because I support women I
love women and she was a female and it
was her turn she waited in line she took
the number at the bakery and waited
patiently at Katz's but where she took
the number Katz's now if yes what why
isn't it your turn
why isn't it a turn for a woman this
time because this is an existential
crisis and and it's not Elizabeth
Warren's turn or Kamala Harris's turn
their cory booker's turn am I allowed to
bring that up we'll bring up what cory
booker what exactly about cory booker
you know he's a man right so says you
like biden you don't you know and i
don't mean to be rude because i like
doing the show and i I think you guys
are cute and the naivete is kind of
delicious but you're childish and and
you're not pretty you're not Craig
Natick you're not adults you don't
recognize the slippery slopes and the
existential threats and you don't
understand the the sweeping arc of
history that if iDEN or when time
becomes president everything goes back
so it was and it's gonna be perfect yeah
I was gonna ask you but what what what
the way it was was that Mitch McConnell
was not even giving hearings for a
Supreme Court nominee you're talking
about Merrick garland yeah yeah no
that's because it's Trump but but Trump
was not president at the time
yeah but McConnell knew that Trump was
gonna be once you get where it's rough
McConnell is gonna be the centrist he's
dying to be it's so simple it's so
simple because Joe knows how to
negotiate with McConnell and you know
Joe
was better than Obama had Joe nominated
Merrick garland McConnell would have
approved and because Joe knows how to
negotiate that's fascinating is there
any other differences between Joe and
Barack that you could identify that
might have led McConnell to be more
receptive to Joe David well let's see
what are the differences between Joe and
Barack Obama that would appeal to a
senator from Kentucky Obama well they're
both they're both not Jewish and I don't
know what the difference is there was
something about Barack Obama that I
don't know what it was maybe all he was
from Illinois and a community organizer
that's right that you know McConnell
hates community organizers that's what
the civil war was about right Lincoln
was deploying and the only the
organizers to the south it's just the
giant it was a Union Army a union of
organizers exactly well Lincoln did come
from Illinois as well and that probably
stuck us to sticks in the craw of a lot
of people he founded Illinois but
Lincoln Illinois right hey but you got
it all David if if Donald Trump was able
to do it kind of he's you know he
obviously has no shame in a lie and that
he's gonna go back out on the trail and
have a lot of opportunity to talk about
how Joe Biden voted for all the trade
agreements that were so bad for the
industrial Midwest and it was a main
point person for credit card companies
in the Senate to hurt working people
that he even fought against Obama and
big parts of health care apparently that
Trump can turned right around and and
shamelessly lie an attack and maybe even
from like the fake left the way that the
Hillary does that worry you at all or is
that naive I'm talking about Joe Biden's
record what happened the last fire phone
firefighters support Joe Biden these
middle-classes Union I don't know what
you're talking about
you're just making up stuff now
I think the firefighters making for
Hillary and that didn't with all the
other major labor unions that didn't
save her from this from her own voting
rights oh you know like the firefighters
so you think Jon Stewart was
grandstanding in front of the House
Judiciary Committee this week that's
really nice of you
the first responders you hate the first
responders wife why do you hate first
responders well I would obviously you
should be demonetized for lying about my
view like that it's a slippery slope if
we let people lie like that
about other people's positions David
David your child your child and Sam's a
child they're all child children
children children you're all child
children let me ask you this but where
exactly are you monetized anyways I
speaking fees I have a deal with a gun
manufacturer I I branded the gun during
my show because I'm leading a movement
like we're like ladder with Crowder and
you know I'm for reasonable gun
ownership
who's monetizing you like I like like
you're worried about YouTube D
monetizing you you don't even have a
youtube show yeah but I I'm monetized I
gave Rubin throws me some coke money and
I care about this country and I want you
know I'm afraid of chaos that's what I'm
afraid of
and you don't care you don't have
children I do have worried about the few
yeah but I saw them not really and what
do you mean me not really what does that
mean not really
they're real children it's not the kind
of children that that that I would
approve of I'm not going to come on your
show and tell you that you're not
raising your children properly that's
something I would tell you in the
private conversation for five hours well
nevertheless they're still children
I mean if I'm not racial well that I'm
still there's still children you said
like you don't have children implying
that I don't care about the future but I
do have children yeah but you know you
yourself are a child so they're more
like peers well if I'm a child then
wouldn't I also care about the future I
I think you're naive I don't think
you've learned what real politique means
David all inspired by what's with it was
the name of that I forget the young
woman's name but she I mean she's she's
maybe not even a woman she like 14 years
old but she's been doing these
incredible earth you know these really
moving speeches on the climate crisis
and demanding that adults actually take
literally her future viability to live
seriously what do you know what do you
think of her David is she is she just a
child yes she plagiarized her entire
policy from Joe Biden she listed Joe
Biden's climate change policy
word-for-word Malala yousufzai I'm
guessing is not giving Joe Biden credit
either you know you guys you're
disrespectful to a great man Joe Biden
hey did you see in Flint Michigan you
want talk about bravery you want to talk
about great Democrats who are pragmatic
who know how to pronounce realpolitik
properly I'm like you guys because you
just have this narrow view of the world
did you see the Democratic Attorney
General in Michigan isn't prosecuting
the Flint lawmakers for putting lead in
the drinking water and poisoning an
entire generation of African American
was pretty much causing ethnic cleansing
in Flint Michigan did you see the
bravery of the State Attorney General
not to prosecute the people in Flint
poisoning the water how is that brave
it's increased that that's the
same thing you would ask of Pelosi and
Biden how were they brave you don't
understand the bravery it's the easy
path would have been to hold the Flint
officials accountable but the Democrats
it was a Profile in Courage not to
prosecute these Republicans because we
need all hands on deck all of us need to
be focused on defeating Trump at the
ballot box in 2020 and in the I have not
gotten and the idea is that if you if
you were to do that it would dilute the
product I see in other words if we had
democratic prosecutors focusing on the
water and Flint we're diluting the
effort to defeat Trump which is the only
thing that matters and once we get rid
of Trump the drinking water in Flint
will automatically become wet free
that's a fact
that's a fact well it's bad politics to
prosecute for the Democrats in Michigan
to prosecute the people who poisoned the
water in Flint that is childish it's the
it's the Obama torture principle you
know we got who when it comes to
poisoning families and entire city with
lead gotta turn outwards not you have to
not backwards right we got to turn the
page does it turn the page scenarios
where there you go well but David David
can I ask you and I and I know and I
don't mean to bring up some a lot of
shared heritage in this room but and and
certainly with you Feldman but there is
a quote that I hadn't heard years ago
from someone who was prosecuting Nazi
war crimes and I think in this case
collaboration of the vici government
officials in France and there was a Nazi
guard that they were think they were
bringing charges against in the 90s and
someone said something to the effect of
you know can't we just move on and the
prosecutor said you can't turn the page
until the page has been written
what do you think you try that closet
but you're talking about Klaus Barbie I
don't think it was Klaus Barbie Klaus
Barbie was in Latin America I think
Santa Claus Barbie in Latin America but
I think Klaus Barbie was the the French
collaborator right Sam Barbie uh he I
think he was the it wasn't a video the
doctor right I know that was Himmler I
thought no Himmler is no that was that
was that was Mengele
Mengele right exactly no Barbie I I
don't know if it was the French
prosecutor Barbie oh I have all the
trail he was a head of the SS and
Gestapo Barbie yeah
and he was right yes yes he was known as
the butcher of Lyon absolutely yes yes
and then he had boy the butcher of Lyon
I will tell you something you can get a
pork chop from that guy so lean I'm just
a and then he went into the ER then he
went into the Holocaust business and it
was all downhill but you should be we
should be demonetized for that joke it's
a slippery slope he then went you know
they went to Bolivia and worked were for
a cocaine government and Bolivia that
was backed by the CIA and had a
paramilitary that worked for drug
cartels are you oh he was actually
knighted to France in in 83 and then he
died in 91 of cancer so there you go
well the the page must be must be
written and read and then turn and then
turn must be cured like for example we
were talking about but sometimes you
know time to hide what and you don't
have time to turn to read it and so you
just turn it how you turn the page for
example I had a can joke like a Barbie
and Ken joke right that time has passed
I've turned the page and moved on and
I'm not going to do it a Barbie and Ken
joke because I've turned the page in
other words you that that page is gone
well well you know I'm gonna take night
tonight I criticize do you mind if I
because we've had fun right we've had a
spirit we've had a spirited debate
with very few may I say ad homina homina
attacks okay but I have a problem with
your business model well let's get to it
because my business model requires that
I let you go
shortly you ask your listeners for money
and you know I give to NPR and I'm gonna
ask you a question do you think I should
give to you or to NPR I think you should
give to us of course mm-hmm did you know
that Steve Inskeep from NPR only makes
half a million a year I was not aware of
what Steve Inskeep makes it at all he
says half a million dollars a year to do
that how does he live I mean so you're
mean while you're asking me to give
money to the majority report when poor
Steve Inskeep and Scott Simon are only
making half a million dollars a year you
know I gotta be honest with you we
played clips of Steve Inskeep right yeah
not that I'm not that is not impressive
but I gotta be honest with you I don't
listen to NPR so I really not a hundred
percent sure you know what these guys a
lot NPR did you listen to NPR you would
stop asking listeners to donate because
we need to support the truth tellers and
NPR they you know they are they are on
the front line they're on the Vanguard
they don't waste the listeners time
putting Glenn Greenwald on or Noam
Chomsky or Ben Burgess you know if we
lose NPR that's an existential threat
and and we would you say that evil WR is
the Joe Biden of media operations David
well said I wish i
if we lose NPR we will no longer hear
original voices like Sarah Vowell David
Brooks the New Yorkers David Remnick and
I I can't live in a world where I don't
spend my weekends listening to ten year
old archives of click and clack or
George Will did you know that they have
george whale on once a week waxing
poetic on baseball you never do that
no yes and who's gonna be rate me for
voting for Jill Stein in New York if not
NPR well exactly we might have to say I
that sounds like a job for me I have a
tote bag for that here's something
you'll never hear on the majority report
baseball is a metaphor for life that's
something you never hear on the majority
report is that bad Simon or no Jill
that's George will I read that book
that's George yeah yeah but you read the
book but you're too afraid to talk about
it on your show
it's like NPR I mean I forgot about it I
read it like 30 years ago it's an old
book now you rather waste your listeners
time prattling on about Lula and Lucy
Dan
unlike Ira Glass cuts through the noise
and tells us the truth about Brazil
thank you all the things they can all
things considered last week
Ira Glass on this American Life
introduced me to a barista
working in Astoria who brews a roast
made up of coffee beans from Brazil and
Sudan and and and and and and you know
Michael Brooks I know you're friendly
with Michael Brooks and Keith did Jordan
later you don't cover huh nothing go
ahead well you don't cover the world
talking about whatever he talks about
you cover the situation Brazil by
introducing us to the taste and sounds
of Brazil
because I'm white I'm white and I'm
college educated I'm college educated so
I already get it Michael Brooks I
already get it okay what do you get
David Feldman I I don't need to hear you
go on and on about lula and brazil
locking up oh it's narrow
we get it lula it's Trump I went to
college my clip look okay I don't mean
to keep carrying this over how many
times do I have to be told that bolas
narrow is being held in prison so you
get that balsa narrow is an iconic
left-wing political prisoner you
understand the point I don't need to
hear how Lula is locking up as political
enemies I need to hear Ira Glass telling
me how this barista unlocks the flavors
of a Brazilian coffee bean
thanks what that I think he only makes a
million a year David we will we're gonna
take this all under advisement I feel
like to a certain extent we've all
learned something today from you your
children your children your children
your you don't know how the world really
works you'll never ever ever be able to
pronounce realpolitik the way I can well
we're gonna take we're gonna clip you're
saying that and we're going to practice
I think that exam and I have a very good
sense of real politics I think you're an
existential threat well right about one
thing and that we are both cute and
delicious I don't know why you would say
that David it was it was nearly nearly
at several moments during this time
to have you on the program today david
feldman available at the david feldman
show thank you David
thank you it's been a slippery slope
right it certainly it certainly was
