[Music]
5:09
area code also called James - yeah yeah
yeah Reagan no Ronald Reagan how are you
good I wanted to get your thoughts on
the specific ways in which you think the
Democrats are gonna up the hearing
tomorrow
like how specifically how specifically
will it implode III think there is a
very good chance that the Democrats will
drop the ball on this I you know cuz all
they need to do is say can you read read
page two paragraph 3 of the report we've
we've handed you a copy of that could
you read it for us that would be what I
would do and then I would say I think I
would the way I would ask questions is I
would say I would specifically say if
Donald Trump wasn't president would you
have indicted him as as a you know for
perjury if Donald Trump if if collusion
if if there was a legal definition of
collusion that said if I know you want
me to do this thing and I do it and then
you go ahead and do something else
because I did that and then I do
something else that you want me to do
and I know you want me to do it and then
you do something because you know I want
you to do it is that it would that what
could you charge if that was the legal
definition of collusion would you charge
for that like those are the questions I
would ask and then I would just ask him
to read the report I don't know you know
we'll see hopefully they've prepared for
this because there's a lot of stakes on
it I think at least five members will
spend four and a half of their five
minutes telling him what a patriot he is
and then by the way clip this this guy
come true this is a prediction time so
yes yet and then another five or six
members will rehash the same question
needlessly for no reason and then also
call him a patriot and and then the
Republicans are going to talk about
emails and that then is just gonna sort
of like move into that the ether but I
wanted last questions I'll let you go I
want to see like I feel like the ball
has really been dropped on this whole
thing that the report is actually quite
important and there's a two-week window
where Barr was like this is nothing and
then everyone will just like okay yep
and I first of all I think people
deserve some criticism for that but
people who went on there sort of like
endzone dance tours but before we even
knew what the report said but I'm
wondering like are the Democrats capable
of Benghazi anything without Fox News
that it seems like Fox News is a
necessary element of that I'll take your
answer out here okay I think your your
guess about them praising Muller as
opposed to asking questions is probably
spot on and that's going to be effing
annoying if we have to watch three hours
of that tomorrow it's going to be super
annoying okay but that would involve
such a high level of competence because
the question at this point is not is
this a credible witness its what does
the witness have to say they're
Democrats I understand do I think it's
possible to do a Benghazi without a Fox
News I don't think you can do a Benghazi
but here's the thing you don't have to
do a Benghazi because there was nothing
to Benghazi
or to the extent there was it wasn't
even nearly nearly close to it I the
question is you know it's not even just
that you don't have to do a Benghazi
there's no way for the left do what the
right does there's no way for even the
center left to do what the center right
does its we're dealing with different
structures the only thing I can tell you
to give an analogy of this is that air
America was radio Rush Limbaugh's radio
we talk into the mic the same we may
even present narratives you know just
counter narratives and narratives in the
same way we may tell stories in the same
way the medium may be the same the the
actual content may be more or less the
same just sort of mirror images of
itself maybe one is more truthful than
the other whatever it doesn't doesn't
quite matter that there's differences in
terms of what's going to appeal to what
audience without a doubt but the
audience is different and so the
business became different so that when
we hired people who worked in right-wing
radio they couldn't monetize left-wing
radio because there was fundamentally a
different audience and so if the
question isn't can we do Benghazi it's
can the Democrats do a version of
Benghazi and or their version of
Benghazi and yes of course it's it's
capable they're capable of doing it
without Fox if they would maintain a
narrative if they had a plan because it
doesn't even appear to be a plan except
for to ignore this stuff I mean that's
the thing is that it's not a question of
ability there's no will here there is a
fear of being tagged I guess like the
Republicans for Benghazi because that
worked out so poorly for them except for
the part of where it probably
helped Donald Trump win the election up
for the part where we win
exactly honestly yeah the New York Times
editorial board was super disappointed
in us I think that that's another nobody
nobody punished the Republicans for
Benghazi 2016 ah I would wager there was
not a single human being of the what was
it a hundred million people or so that
voted in 2018 who voted who even
contemplated the word Benghazi when they
cast their vote I would wager not a
single human being did that yeah but I
mean it's such i'm sure it's it's not
quite as bad now but again going back to
reading about the 2000 election in
Florida and that nightmare which we're
still living out the fact that I'm one
hand you had Joe Lieberman obviously
playing to the right and undermining the
whole effort because of his own personal
ambitions but even gore and people
around him like the bush campaign is
literally sending paid operatives to
physically disrupt recounts and the gore
people yeah the Brooks Brothers right
and the gore people are is it daily
basis like black people get just some
franchise votes all the time so you
should just not try and win I mean
honestly
what's the logic behind that well a part
of it from what I've been reading is has
really to do with like let's see they
don't like us like the editorial pages
of the Washington Post the New York
Times saying that they're being uncivil
or disruptive yeah they're more
concerned with elite brand perception
than actually winning that battle yep
well I mean it's the iron law of
institutions right don't want to lose
your authority in institution even if it
comes at the cost of the power of that
institution
