[Music]
oh this is unbelievable
so Michael Cohen this poor guy and I
don't mean I have any sympathy for him I
would be if someone someone told me he's
going to go to jail actually the you
heard 33 years it's actually giving me
30 years I would be fine with that III
don't
I'm not when I say this poor guy I'm not
being sympathetic I'm like this guy
using so deluded that it is stunning
here is here is a Michael Cohen with
George Stephanopoulos sort of
characterizing why he cooperated when
did it change you know I can't give you
a specific time that it went from point
A to point B it was just a change I will
tell you I feel the change they're
talking about is like when did you just
go from the guy who would take a bullet
for Donald Trump to the guy who's
willing to provide evidence about what
he's done wrong now remember Michael
Cohen did not provide evidence about
what Michael Cohen did wrong beyond what
implicated Trump that's why the Southern
District of New York said he was not
cooperative with us he might have been
cooperative with Muller but he was not
cooperative with us I would submit that
that moment of that change was the
moment he realized he's not going to
give me a pardon he thinks he's
insulated from this and he doesn't think
I'm enough of a liability to pardon that
son of a he was like my dad
disingenuous base yeah you know my dad
anymore he it was just a change I will
tell you that the gentleman that is
sitting now in the Oval Office 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue is not the Donald
Trump that I remember from Trump Tower
Donald Trump Tower was a piece of
garbage a racist piece of garbage who
didn't pay people who worked for him
and that this guy will call up and
threaten reporters if they wrote about
him Oh God
is it very he's a very different
individual what's happened to him I
think the pressure of the job is much
more than what he thought it was going
to be it's not like the Trump
Organization where he would bark out
orders and people would blindly follow
what he wanted done good guy there's a
system here he doesn't understand the
system and it's sad because the country
has never been more divisive and one of
the hopes that I have out of the
punishment that I've received as well as
the cooperation that I have given I will
be remembered in history as helping to
bring this country back together who's
gonna tell him who's gonna tell them
I think Barry oh you remembered from
medallion scams right yeah who's gonna
tell them Michael I'm sorry it turns out
that the historians they don't even need
time to go by they don't even need
hindsight to tell you in fact we have a
panel of a hundred and fifty historians
who have we've gathered and for every
other question we presented to them they
said we need more time the only thing
they came back and when we asked is
might as Michael Cohen going to be
remembered as the guy who brought the
country together and the answer was
hysterical laughter and I mean that's
that that level of delusion is why I
feel sorry for the guy I feel bad for
him like somewhere around like month
three he's gonna be sitting in prison
going like nobody wants to write a book
about me it's like dim-witted Michael
Clinton
here is here he goes on the the level of
delusion here is pretty good pretty high
but you have to keep reminding without a
red American a blue America there's a
 United States of America you
gotta remember as you listen to this and
you're like wait how could this guy
actually think this you got to remember
he also said at one point that he was
willing to take a bullet for Donald
Trump so like yeah we go
president Trump is lashing out against
you in such a personal way daily almost
now calling you weak calling you a liar
is he afraid seems like it that's what
he does that's what he does
are you afraid of him it's never good to
be on the wrong side of the President of
the United States of America but somehow
or another this task has now fallen onto
my shoulders and as I also stated that I
will spend the rest of my life in order
to fix the mistake that I made how you
don't know I mean listen I'm gonna I'm
gonna give this guy a break
insofar as that maybe he's thinking I
got to do this for my kids I got to make
them think that dad is a hero because
it's important for my kids and I can
appreciate that like sometimes you'll
say to your kids like if they're young
like know there is an Easter Bunny or
there really is a tooth fairy or
something like that you don't want to be
the one to sort of like shatter but that
is I was in Bensonhurst doing a little
bit of a business project where we
smashed cars into each other for the
insurance of whatnot somehow through a
series of events by business ventures
this historic task of restoring the
promise that is America fun to
mentally fell on my shoulders by the way
my daughter's a piece ass too not just
the vodka
I don't need credit
it's totally unfair did you hear the
comedian who worked on The Apprentice
who said that yeah we talked about it
about 15 minutes very very where are we
talking about the adderall being the
issue yeah we've talked about what we've
talked about and the diet pills
specifically yeah that type of thing I I
really want whoever the Democratic
nominee is to say something along those
lines in a debate to trigger Trump
because I think like if you hinted at it
enough for him to know what you were
talking I don't know I don't think there
is any triggering Trump I mean I think
I'm kidding me you're the adderall
snorter why there's a drop you snort I
just I think if we know the way you're
that way you do this is just like you
say you know you've done nothing in
terms of the disaster that is opioids we
need to provide you know money for to
help people addicted to this we need to
have more stringent laws and even things
like adderall for instance like it's got
sick that's what I was thinking
something like that or if you want it to
be way more chintzy you go and I find it
stunning that you campaigned on
addressing this crisis and you did
nothing about it and especially given
your own personal background that you
would sell out this kids issue what
personal backer
I would just say like what about all the
people that are crushing up a Darrell
and snorting it mr. president what do
you have to say about those people you
go you go on a Kasich and except there's
a purpose to it but it just sounds like
a random like you know people are are
crushing adderall snorting it right now
realize people are snorting yeah
adderall off of executives or sorting it
off of executive desk because they can't
read and they're having it an anxiety
attack right now they don't know where
their daughter is they don't know where
their daughter is they're afraid of
getting a statutory rape charge it's
happening right now special crunchers on
their ass you trying to feed to up his
dose a little bit it's not working he's
gonna need a little bit more I have a
feeling in the
in weeks
