[Music]
aidan in Tallahassee what's on your mind
a couple quick things to mention we'll
try to be fast I did want to say that
thank you guys for everything you do
thank you Michael for being kind of an
inspiration for like trying to be
politically active so just thank you
guys for that other than that I just
want to mention that I'm an education
major at Florida State and I just on
Monday I got involved with my first kind
of political activism sort of thing the
teachers union here rallied on the steps
of the floored Capitol building to
promote for more school funding because
we are 45th out of 50 states per teacher
pay we just get railed for funding and
so it was just really great to actually
work with the teachers union as a
student myself getting involved in that
was such a great process I remember a
couple weeks ago somebody called in and
thanks Michael for mentioning that
getting politically involved makes you
feel better about the political process
and so that's what kind of inspired me
to do this and I can confirm so if
anybody else is listening and they're
thinking about it absolutely get out
there and do that and I did just want to
mention in that process I got such a
good sense of worker solidarity that I'd
never seen before so seeing like so many
vehicles that would be like stereotyped
as sort of like I guess Trump or cars or
something like big trucks with camo on
them or just local businesses honking
and showing support for us giving us
thumbs up and everything like that just
people from all different types of
backgrounds showing support for what we
were doing trying to raise the awareness
for more teacher funding more school
funding and then I also did just want to
bring attention to if anybody else is in
Florida to bring attention to House bill
2055 that's not funny 55 7055 my
apologies and it says that somewhere in
the in the text that if our unions don't
need 50% 50% dues dues-paying members
from the whole body of population that
could be a part of the unions and they
will be this
ended and so that's just a big issue
that I'm worried about being a future
teacher I don't want to have to not have
a union not have anybody fighting for
collective bargaining and everything
like that
what do you know what Union is are you
guys represented by is it the aft or the
NEA
I was the Leon County early on classroom
teachers associations over our County
okay and Florida is a is not a so-called
right-to-work state is that right I I
don't believe so we may if if we are it
would have been fairly recently I
believe but I don't I don't want to
speak on that not knowing fully all
right appreciate the call that's good to
hear keep it up keep up the good work
thanks man thank you
