Mitch McConnell is talking about
introducing the green New Deal
resolution that Alexandra Acacio Cortez
and Edie Marquis from Massachusetts in
the Senate have introduced or unveiled I
guess the idea is theoretically it's
going to embarrass Democratic senators
to vote for this or that the the
Republicans think they can go they can
use it as a some type of leverage in the
2020 elections I saw it was a Barrasso I
think from Wyoming on the the Senate
floor claiming that the bill will outlaw
livestock and I scream that Democrats
are trying to get rid of ice cream that
to me strikes me as a very big mistake
politically to try and get rid of ice
cream but I don't think that's what the
Green Deal is about and it's interesting
I think we have like five out of six now
declared Democratic presidential
candidates have have voiced their
support for the green new deal what's
your sense of of a the rollout of the
green new deal and then B let's talk a
little bit about the Democratic race
well I mean I think look the green new
deal I think it's a it's an excellent
you know it's excellent conceptually I
don't know about the actual you know
perspective legislation or or you know
the the paper that Alexandria Ocasio
cortes Ned Markey put out whether or not
that's you know that's the be-all and
end-all of the concept of the green new
deal I mean it's certainly a place to
start but the idea of that of course I
think is has got some real potency at
least it seems that way to me you know
what do I know but to me the idea that
that you can turn this into a major
project you know like I think a court
Acacio Court has said something like you
know it's like that we did the moonshot
we can do this and of course you know
this is a much more urgent and important
thing to do because you know the
the future of the planet actually
depends upon upon doing this sort of
thing in order to in order to fix it so
yeah you've got I don't think there's
anything wrong with starting that off
and and you know McConnell is going to
do his thing he did it with a
medicare-for-all vote too you know he
brings up these votes he thinks he's
going to embarrass the Democrats and you
know nobody cares it's a vote and you
know I guess they can say in some
campaign two years from now for Senate I
mean this is about Mitch in the Senate
it's really not about the presidential
race although some of the Senators who
are running will of course have to you
know walk the plank on it if if that's
how it ends up being but I you know I
think mitch is just looking for ways to
embarrass his Democratic senators for
2020 and we'll see how well that works
out there's like very I mean I try to
I'm trying to go through you know the
list of senators who are up for
reelection I'm trying to come up with
one who's gonna be concerned about that
you know like Joe Manchin you know but
he just got reelected I mean I can write
in in theory but it's in practice I
think I think this could be one of those
things that may you know people could be
looking back on three or four years down
the road and say Mitch McConnell may
know maybe a slightly a strategic
mistake here well and look at it the
green new do this is one of the things I
don't think people understand the
potency of this particular but this
particular concept there are two sides
to it one of course is the environmental
side decide that you know we're going to
combat global warming we're going to you
know do these big things in order to you
know reduce our carbon footprint blah
blah blah you know we're going to outlaw
ice cream or whatever the hell they
think but the other side of it is a
massive jobs program and that I think is
one of the ways that a lot of people who
might be in sort of you know dicey
political situations in states where
maybe environmentalism isn't it has a
bad reputation or they are have a bunch
of people who are leery about you know
the the environmentalism in general that
you know there's this other side to it
which i think is very you know kind of
exciting to people I mean one of the
things that Democrats you know have to
do I think is they have to put
themselves in this
of look you know we're about the future
and the future is here and we've got a
lot of things to do there's a lot of
stuff to do America is going to lead the
way we're going to be you know where the
where the people with the innovators the
exciting you know people who are going
to save the world in other words and I
know that sounds hyperbolic but you know
in a way that sort of always been where
the Democrats have been this kind of
we're going to lead the way to you know
into the future that's why they call
themselves progressives cuz they make
progress and you know the Republicans
are stuck with Donald Trump and his you
know nostalgic vision of the past is
this you know make America great again
when you know white people ran
everything and so that's the couple
that's where the contrast is and there
are a number of avenues to go about that
you know one of which is a new economy
one of which is the the you know the the
new environmentalism the commitment to
that one of which is providing health
care for everybody I mean these are
these are big new things with a sort of
youthful enthusiasm and energy behind it
and I think you know I I don't think the
Democrats have any choice but to run
that way and the the green New Deal is
one of these big concepts I think that's
kind of that's going to propel them and
you know okay let's find it out I mean
Mitch thinks he's got a you know he can
they can you know fear monger about
outlawing ice cream and you know we'll
see how well that goes over I'm not sure
the American people believe that stuff I
agree with you I mean it quite a good
act it could be that we see you know
Stacey Abrams taken on an incumbent
senator in Georgia saying how could you
not sign on to that how do you not see
the implications of a green you know a
green new deal and the need to deal with
climate change I think it it's one of
those things where I think like I say in
six seven years people could be looking
back and going Mitch McConnell made a
huge miscalculation there and it ended
up being leverage to be used against the
Republicans we should also note and the
ball hasn't been moved much further but
it does appear likely now that
Kaunas War Powers Resolution to end our
support for the Yemen war essentially
for the Saudis on the side of of one
part of the Yemen Civil War it's going
to have enough support both the House
and the Senate to pass so it's gonna be
interesting to see if Donald Trump tries
to veto this bill that's something that
we will have to wait and see as we look
forward in the Senate but I don't know
about you but my sense is we are
basically seeing the last of the
legislation although you know hope
springs eternal
I would imagine things are gonna start
getting a lot more heated as we have all
these Democratic candidates jump in and
Donald Trump continues to descend into
further madness as we saw from his his
campaign rally essentially in El Paso
Texas
but when we come back let's talk about
what else is dogging Donald Trump and
that is the Muller investigation and
more we also got a bunch of other news
we're gonna take a quick break
Heather if you'll join me in the third
hour I'm Sam cedar this is a ring of
fire radio
