lash majority alright let's play this
let's play this one clip and this is
Mike Pompeo he goes Tennessee now when
you're the Secretary of State you go
into Tennessee you're given an interview
for a local reporter you're just like oh
this is this is a this is a freebie this
is just me getting out there putting out
the president's pin presidents can be
you know president won't see it but
they'll be happy well you know my people
send it in to to the White House press
thing and just know that okay we're
talking to you know Tennessee's our
peeps and we're not getting get into
this impeachment stuff this is gonna be
easy for me to go out there and then
whoops
Pompeyo
meets up with what's the name of this
reporter do we know again Nancy
Ament I I feel like relative to what we
see with the national media I feel like
she deserves a peel it's her for this in
mid-february you were in Warsaw and so
was Rudy Giuliani during your time there
did you meet with Giuliani you know I
don't talk about who I meet with I went
to Warsaw for a particular purpose it
was an important mission we brought
together people all across the world to
take down the world's largest state
sponsor of terror the Islamic Republic
of Iran that's what I work done on that
mission so you're not going to say
whether you met with him so when I was
in Warsaw had a singular focus my focus
was singularly on the work that we have
done effective work to recover from what
the Obama administration has done which
was to underwrite the world's largest
state sponsor of terror we've stopped
that and we're making a real progress
it sounds like you're not gonna say when
I was in Warsaw we were working
diligently to accomplish the mission to
take down the terror regime that's
inside the Islamic Republic around
that's what I worked on it was the only
thing that I engaged in why I asked him
about text messages that showed
diplomats under his authority told the
Ukrainians that a good relationship with
President
Trump was only possible if they
investigated his political opponent and
were you aware that this was happening
you know again you've got your facts
wrong sounds like you're working at
least in part for the Democratic
National Committee another question I
asked the secretary about the
resignation yesterday of one of his
senior advisors Michael McKinley the
secretary said it was a personnel matter
and he wasn't going to discuss it Nancy
Haman's news four she annihilated oh my
god oh wow that was great you men all
he's got is Iran thirst yeah that's all
he's got nope
and I mean he looked like he was at that
first time he just looked at her he
looked like he had been just hit with a
two-by-four you're part of the
Democratic National Committee shut up
these people really are so disgusting
all right we're gonna take a yeah I mean
what what what's important about this
clip is that if you're a local reporter
in Tennessee you're thinking this is the
story now this is in Tennessee and
you're thinking this is the story
impeachment and I'm gonna do a deep dive
here that's this is the that's the glue
that they put the entire seven minutes
online but that clip was the one that
they ran on TV and when she's asking him
about stuff directly involving
impeachment with Giuliani and that
exchange between Sunland and Bill Taylor
uh that means this is getting this is
like seeping through in now don't get
too excited because of course most of
the places just have Fox News and what
is it the sinclair media but for her to
do this in tennessee i think suggests
that things are leaking on the good ship
trump and we're gonna talk to can i just
say i say really quick this is the type
of thing if it's easy you know if you
have a minute
- her a little email or a note because i
have no doubt that the people who do
take the you know Mike Pompeo is
nonsense about her seriously they are
sending the station messages and she
feedback from people who appreciate her
journalism and it was probably like a
pro Trump news director there too so I
would do that I'd send a nice thank you
for the interview notjust
thanks for the good work yep
