Brookes here joining us now is Ana
Kasparian she is the executive producer
and host for the Young Turks Network ana
thanks so much for being here thanks for
having me so Ana first I want to talk a
little bit about these midterm results
which actually look better and better by
the day for Democrats in terms of
Congress there's a lot of signals taking
place I mean there's definitely this
sort of certainly everybody focuses on
Alexandria Acacio Cortez but there's
also I would say Rashida to lib there's
several other people that are coming
into the House who are a lot of them are
women of color they're really strong
candidates there is actually a
contingent in the house to begin with
people who get less profile like say a
Jim McGovern or somebody like that who
are actually really quite progressive
and there's still you know obviously
Nancy Pelosi so I mean what basically do
you read this situation as positive
forward momentum or do you see it as
sort of like we're still kind of stuck
oh I definitely see this as positive
momentum and to be honest I was one of
the people in the press that
unfortunately on election night
minimized some of the progress that
we've made because the first result that
comes in is from Florida and to see
someone like DeSantis when you know I
mean of course there's this whole
recount effort going on so at least
election night it appeared that DeSantis
was definitely going to win and it was
depressing and so that kind of set the
tone for the rest of the night but as
things progressed and as you know more
ballots come in or the counts are more
accurate we realized that we've actually
made a tremendous amount of progress and
what I'm most excited about is what is
happening within the Democratic Party
and I don't think that that gets enough
positive attention I love the fact that
you mentioned some of the members of
Congress who were already progressive
Pramila
Primula jeyapaul is another
congresswoman out of Washington and
she's fantastic really pushing for
Medicare for
all and so I think that what we're
seeing right now will fortunately push
establishment Democrats to the left I
mean they have no choice because these
incoming Congress women some of whom you
mentioned are they're not even waiting I
mean we're in the lame-duck session at
this point and they are not waiting to
push for real change and you know that
was evident in a protest that just took
place in Nancy Pelosi's office that was
spearheaded by Alexandria cross near
Cortes and we're also seeing it in this
push for members of Congress to vote on
a medicare-for-all
bill next year early next year yeah I
think you're exactly right and I think
the other thing that's really different
now that people if they take a little
bit more of a historical view can be a
little bit more optimistic now with the
Democratic Party is that there was a
time when of course we know that a main
reason that whatever you want to call
them establishment corporate
conservative Democrats
there's ideological differences but
there's also just the reality that you
know a handful of corporate sector
interests fund campaigns and so there's
obviously you usually disproportion
influence for Wall Street Pharma arms
petrochemicals all of the usual suspects
not only here but even internationally
and there was this gap between the
constituencies that vote for Democrats
and who fund Democrats but what's
happened now is there's a lot more I
think of like a congealing
that there's gonna be people who run and
get elected and constituencies really
around a clear progressive agenda versus
just sort of like this major disconnect
and a kind of a lack of sort of cohesion
and leadership around an alternative to
that establishment if that makes sense
yeah it definitely makes sense and you
know for all the naysayers who argue
that the Democratic Party can't be
reformed and we need to abandon them I
mean that's a silly argument because
we've already seen this massive shift to
the left especially when it comes to the
issue of money in politics I mean now we
have a record number of members of
Congress who have pledged to avoid
taking any corporate PAC money
and you know there have been so many
successful campaigns at this point that
prove you don't need to take corporate
PAC money you don't need to rely on
corporate interests in order to fund
your campaign you know small dollar
donation help fund Bernie Sanders they
help fund Alexandria Cross CEO Cortes
and other progressive members of
Congress and I mean we certainly saw
that with federal Rourke no
unfortunately he didn't win but I think
what we saw with his funding proved that
again you don't need to rely on
corporate donors so an example of
something that I wish people would talk
more about especially in progressive
media is how this defense commission
came out with a report yesterday and it
got no attention so the hill published
it and it enraged me because basically
all these military guys got together and
they're making this argument that they
need more funding they need more
military funding because the u.s. is
deteriorated deteriorating in terms of
its military capabilities and Russia and
China pose a threat and we need to worry
about them and we would be able to fight
multiple wars simultaneously even though
we're currently fighting multiple wars
simultaneously so that comes out and
it's clear that they want more funding
but there's never any debate about that
there's never any debate among Democrats
or Republicans about whether or not we
have enough resources to provide
additional funding for defense but at
the same time you know when it comes to
Medicare for all just a mere proposal of
leads to these fiery debates with people
arguing that we don't have the resources
there's no way we can do it and it's
because the very people who actually
benefit from Medicare for all are these
you know small dollar donors and so
there are establishment politicians
period both Democrat and Republican who
still haven't realized that representing
the people at their best interests is
actually more beneficial because they
can run principled campaigns that
represent the best interests of the
people and they can still get the
funding they need to run their campaigns
but again like we have corporatist
Democrats right now who are fighting
Medicare for all tooth and nail
and they're just regurgitating the same
arguments that we're hearing from the
right and it's infuriating and those
same people will never debate whether or
not it makes sense to give more money to
the Pentagon I mean yeah and a great
example here there's just in New York
there's this trash deal that Andrew
Cuomo and Bill DeBlasio or giving Amazon
which will be really harmful to the city
I mean it's gonna be bad for Apple
housing it's gonna be bad for the
subways it's not going to net that many
jobs it's not going to net the kind of
jobs that you need frankly and you know
as a contrast Ron Kim who's an
assemblyman here is saying has a bill in
the in the legislature saying let's take
that billion dollars get it out of these
Excelsior tax giveaways and just get rid
of student debt loan student debt for
over a million New Yorkers and that
would definitely have a bigger both be
the right thing to do but also pay much
bigger economic dividend for like actual
people in terms of buying houses and
spending power so it's like it's never
the spending it's always the priorities
and one thing I will say on the negative
side that overlaps what you say why is
Nancy Police Pelosi talking about Pago
right like this is exactly the wrong and
destructive thing to be talking about
that incidentally nobody cares about
when you know Democrats have power and
it's time to actually deliver real
things for real people yeah yeah I mean
Nancy Pelosi really does need to step
down the Speaker of the House and it's I
mean that was already abundantly clear
but once Democrats took charge of the
House of Representatives
I mean her first statement was about
bipartisanship no no no we don't want
bipartisanship how can you argue that we
need to unite the country when
Republicans consistently and incessantly
punch you in the face when they have all
the power right it's frustrating and I
think what people want on the left is a
party that really fights for them we
want fighters and I'm not talking about
you know Trump like if the souls that
fight for no reason and have this
authoritarian streak we just want people
who actually represent our best
interests and do so in an unapologetic
way and that's what we're seeing with
some of these new Congress people
it's great I absolutely love it that's
that's honestly what I'm most excited
about yeah I'm with you I'm really
excited about that too I I agree with
you I think Nancy Pelosi should probably
go I don't exactly know who would
replace her I would like someone like
barbara Lee to replace her but I will
tell you who I mean she should go you
know who should definitely go and it's
amazing he's not getting the amount of
heat that she's getting is Chuck Schumer
now look he had a hard out Chuck Schumer
is the big you know it will get to this
Facebook thing in a second but I mean
first of all just tee off that dude is
such trash and I'm sure you might want
to add to that you want to add for that
so I mean think about how pathetic Chuck
Schumer was during the government
funding debate in which daca also was
you know an issue that Senators need to
make it he needed to make a decision on
and so at that point I mean it's amazing
because it was a rare moment where
Democrats had some leverage because they
could have easily prevented the
government funding bill right
unless Republicans signed on for
protections for daca recipients and of
course Chuck Schumer folded immediately
as soon as Mitch McConnell gave him the
promise of a standalone daca bill how
did that work out for him I mean how
pathetic is that I mean we're talking
about Mitch McConnell I mean he he is
boastful about how obstructionist he is
I mean look at what he did with Merrick
garland he was bragging about that why
the hell would you take his word on
anything and so Chuck Schumer uh you
know I don't even know if he really
believes Mitch McConnell but part of me
feels like maybe Chuck Schumer didn't
really care that much about providing
protections for daca recipients because
if I were in his position and I knew
that I had some leverage I would
certainly wield that power and he just
failed to do it and the fact that he was
so ready and willing to help Trump
confirm all these federal judges who
will have a negative impact on our lives
for decades to come she shows you what
kind of you know pathetic non leaders
really is yeah it's that amazing
combination of total morale mid just
sort of moral nothingness with out any
of the like effective strategic you know
capacity that you might expect from a
cynical politician that's what really
drives me nuts about this crop of like
you know center-right corporatist
Democratic leaders whether it's Chuck
Schumer or a Hillary Clinton is at least
like if you go back to politicians that
I loathe because of the incredible
damage that they've done in so many ways
but like you could make an argument that
people like Bill Clinton and Tony Blair
knew how to be savage in a certain way
and win now what they did with those
wins and who those wins came on the
backs of I agree like Kanye and even
whether they it worked out strategically
in the long term all of those are fair
criticisms but at the same time on just
some basic level they could walk around
and say we knew how to win a certain
type of campaign in a certain kind of
environment and people like Chuck
Schumer refusing having no moral
commitment to as an example daca
recipients it almost seemed to me and
like he just wanted that on the table to
potentially run on to rile up activists
versus actually save those people's
lives and statuses and then you combine
it with just like no tactical strategic
capacity like they don't know what fight
they're in yeah I mean it's incredible
and one other way you know one other
trick you can look at to show that Chuck
Schumer and you know Senate Democrats
had all the leverage in that case was
just a polling that indicated even a
slim majority of Republican voters
supported protections for these daca
recipients I mean they keep squandering
opportunities to be real leaders and
then they'll turn around and get
frustrated at people like us who have
these types of conversations or you know
incoming politicians who are much more
progressive who are fighters they'll
turn around and accuse those people of
either being sexist if they call out
Nancy Pelosi or of you know dividing the
party
and and you know leading to the victory
of people like Donald Trump but they
need to take responsibility for their
own actions and what I'm most concerned
about is that many of them including
people like Hillary Clinton still refuse
to take responsibility for their own
actions I mean when she went on that
speaking tour to promote her book it was
frustrating to see how she kept citing
sexism as the primary reason why she
lost now sexism I'm sure played a role
but it was one of many factors the
biggest factor was this feeling of
economic abandonment that Americans were
feeling especially people who had been
voting for Democrats and she won't take
responsibility for that I mean during
her one of her debates during the
primaries she talked about how you know
she went to Wall Street and they she
told them you better cut this out
I mean how pathetic was that statement
she said that during a debate I mean it
was so abundantly clear that she wasn't
going to fight for the best interests of
Democrats or Americans in general so I
think that people turned their backs on
the Democratic Party because of those
reasons and they haven't some of them
haven't learned a single thing from that
yeah and to be really clear I agree and
completely what you're saying and we
don't even need to get into this like
debate about Trump voters most Trump
voters are just Republicans but as an
example of my show the other day on on
TPMS I had on our thermal aikka jabal II
who just did this long piece for current
affairs with african-american voters in
Wisconsin who just didn't vote and it
was all overwhelmingly like I mean in
some cases you had labor organizers who
had migrated from Arkansas to Wisconsin
and they were like yeah I remember what
Bill Clinton did even as a governor and
was in Arkansas in terms of being anti
labor and not forward on civil rights
and then there was a lot of people just
sort of expressing you know general
discontent with the economic policies of
Democratic Party the fact that Hillary
Clinton campaign in Wisconsin and those
points are not score settling points and
they're not justification of Trump
points those are essential strategic and
moral points moving forward which this
great crop of people the Rashidah to
libs dogs under Acacio Cortez's the mark
coke cans the you know the Pramila and
the reason I should
just I'll cop to it I would cite her
more I just have trouble pronouncing her
name which is pathetic Jay Paul like
those people are they get it and you
know and and of course and then and it's
so funny because for the actual like
left politicians and for us this whole
distinction that supposedly exists in
this argument about whether you're there
for social democratic policies and
universal programs like Medicare for all
and whether you're really serious about
stopping ice and terrorism and having a
humane and for real immigration policy
and dealing with police violence and
structural racism there's no division
there it's actually always the same
people on the left and most aggressive
and most moral position across the board
yeah definitely definitely
and I think that there is you have
there's a fine line between you know
wanting to hold establishment Democrats
accountable and you know how do I say
this and you know just regurgitating
commentary that actually helps promote
crazy people like Trump right you know
and so I kind of struggle with that
because I do want to criticize my own
party I think that's the right thing to
do I think it's the honest and fair
thing to do but at the same time you
know you'll have to include the caveat
that if you know the primaries are over
and you're left with two options and
it's a corporatist Democrat and a Trump
supporting crazy person you've got to go
with the you know unfortunately the
corporatist Democrat and hold that
person speak to the fire push them to do
the moral thing and I think that we can
accomplish that I really do especially
considering some of these incoming
Congress members I agree with you
completely yeah I mean that's just
reality
