the Republicans have discovered that
Steve King is racist and this is sort of
fascinating when you see the
implications of the Democrats taking the
house Mitch McConnell has stated as of
yesterday there is no place in the
Republican Party Congress or the country
for an ideology of racial supremacy of
any kind representative King statements
are unwelcome and unworthy of his
elected position so as you know this is
a huge breaking news that
[Music]
Stephen King is now a racist apparently
this is huge breaking news
particularly since only three months ago
well here's a picture of who's it that's
not McConnell with Steve King that's
just you know when this guy tells you
that you've got a racist problem you
know you have a problem but let's look
in on Chuck Grassley who only three
months ago said Steve King was great
it's amazing the transformation that
Stephen King has had like what happened
in the past three months that made this
guy turn so so horrible I mean it's just
three months ago here was Chuck Grassley
basically having a stroke I mean
endorsing Steve King Iowa needs Steve
King in Congress
I also need Steve King in Congress pause
it for one second it actually sounds
really I I even I am like I know but but
let's let's but let's go back to the
beginning here and just like here's a
tip for all of you congressional
staffers who listened to the program
watch the show if you're going to
videotape your boss and put it on the
web there's you have two options one is
you either cut out the part where you go
three two one or you use your fingers so
that's why I like I mean if you were
counting down from let's say thirty six
this would be uncomfortable but you're
doing three two one Iowa needs Steve
King in Congress I also need Steve King
in Congress I feel like I do a good job
of representing Iowans and so often I
have found Steve King to be such an ally
an ally that I need in the other body
called the house representatives he's
worked with so many things that are
important to Iowa agriculture
issues the farm bill alternative energy
things that are very important to Iowa
like wind energy particularly oh and
ethanol and biodiesel as well without
his help in the house representatives
Iowa all right he goes on and on we
don't need to get as energy protecting
white babies what now they start they
the Kevin McCarthy are Stephen McCarthy
as we like to call him has said that
King will not be sitting on any will not
get any committee appointments the the
big deal for this is right there in
Grassley's comments because King will no
longer be on the Agriculture Committee
which means that he will no longer be
able to offer all sorts of Bennie's for
for Iowans and and and big AG there and
so this is going to he's gonna if he's
not reinstated and I don't think he will
be he will lose in a Republican primary
and he's already got I think a couple
weeks ago some some local Iowa
Republican announced he was gonna take
them on yeah and it was all like you
know this is tasteless but like it's a
distraction it's embarrassing and now
you got that you know now there's the
meat to fill it in right he'll be not
really must been really a big surprise
for all these Republicans to find out
that Steve King was such a jerk it's
shocking it's a shame they couldn't have
found that out before the election and
it could have worked with us to get him
out of office
yeah but you know it the information
comes fast I'm serving well like you
know make a nice living like a dressing
like European like fascist soccer clubs
enough like he's totally daily has
already started to build a set I think
right but the this here's the
interesting part
there's a lot of people were probably
wondering like why now
and it is because the Democrats have the
ability
to control the agenda in the house and
that makes Steve King more of a
liability than he was two months ago and
they had the ability to vote to censure
him which would have kept it in the news
and the Republicans thought okay this is
the definition of this guy taking one
for the team
and it also gives us an opportunity to
talk about Rasheeda Talib and the fact
that the Democrats won't censure her for
saying mofo but also she said that Arab
civilization can't be saved with gypsy
babies that's right and that because we
created algebra was I believe
the direct quote and just cuz she thinks
that the Arabs are particularly blessed
by Allah doesn't mean that she thinks
that Allah's other creations aren't
valid but just inferior right so I think
we need to be really fair here about
what she actually said I love help my
Rashida to lips also just Jimmy Dore
right exactly we created what the
hell's your braces it I mean it's
basically look they are in a the they
are on the back of their heels because
they're getting blamed for the shutdown
they did not want the twin sort of like
recommendations of being coddling to a
racist and also denying basic services
to Americans or other things he's
paddling right modeling to a racist and
coddling to a racist it takes two to
tango that's right
don't forget yeah we look we're all
implicated in this too because we all
heard what Stephen King said and if we
hadn't heard what he said then would he
have said it on the on hand Steve King
is saying absolutely racist things on
the other hand where a lot of Democrats
are hearing what he's saying so there's
a lot of both sides of this Katherine
you
