Johnny Ramone with Sam
Peeta the destiny of America is
safer in the hands of the people than in
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it's Thursday April 4th 2019 my
name is Michael Brooks on a Michael
Thursday and this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program
legendary journalist Mike Hanna former
scene in Jerusalem bureau chief al
Jazeera correspondent currently
independent presenter and journalist on
the Trump Saudi nuclear deal plus the
ongoing fallout of pulling out of the
Iran deal and Twitter diplomacy
affirming Israeli occupation of the
Golan Heights all of that with Mike Anna
on today's program turns out some
members of the Moller team think that
Bob bars for page summary is not doing
justice to the full range of the Moller
report Jared Kushner is identified as
the White House official whose security
clearance has been denied House
Democrats use an arcane 1920s law to
demand Trump's tax returns they finally
did it Mitch McConnell triggers the
nuclear option to speed through more of
trumps nominees credibly disturbing
horrifying report in Harper's that the
United States is tracking migrant
women's periods too
from getting abortions okay
I don't even Jesus Christ DOJ report
finds widespread rape murder and torture
in Alabama prisons Venezuelan Deputy
Minister says more Russian troops are
deploying to Venezuela and junior bolson
ro at a visit to a Holocaust Museum of
Benjamin Netanyahu affirms that the
Nazis were leftists in the ongoing
fascist alliance emanating from Brazil
to Israel a prominent indigenous rights
leader in Brazil has been murdered and
we are approaching the one-year
anniversary of the political
imprisonment of the man who would have
defeated balsan ro Lula da Silva all
that and much much more on today's
majority report we are here three-man
crew it's cool Jamie's lucky with the
Ford that she can she can surface around
I've seen her I've seen her set her
schedule and pick different days at
different times and you're like wow
Saturdays aboard the boat Thursdays it
for the boys that's what that's every
time as Jamie says can I come in on a
Thursday that's what Matt just puts this
up on screen and it's like go although I
I take my I don't I don't I don't have
as many four day weeks of some of you
but I like to take mine right in the
middle of the week break it up
oh yeah I would love I would love to to
uh have that one of those went you you
got it nice without Wednesday off
Brendan and I have to be here five days
at sea
Brendan works the most many of us
objectively
I actually we love working with of
working but I'm here five this team solo
hosting one day a week or main hosting
one day a week and then and then cedar
mister four-day workweek guy has to you
miss days Oh Thursday that's my mental
health day ridiculous alright oh wait
we're doing this instead okay so social
democracy and basic progressive politics
is making the right and the mouthpieces
of oligarchs in this country lose their
minds so much that one is tempted to
embrace full communism just to see what
the psychological fallout for these
people would be if we did that
this is Maria Bartiromo and Stuart
Varney you know having a hissy fit about
the idea essentially if we were to
create an image tax policies on
oligarchs who have money levels
first of all billionaires should not
exist billionaires are fundamentally
incompatible democracy full stop
including a market democracy by the way
but any democracy where you took
seriously the idea that a broad base of
people should be making decisions about
their lives
no one could be a billionaire period and
so we're not even talking about getting
rid of billionaires we're just talking
about higher tax rates on capital gains
essentially in the image that I always
think of I mean it literally is just
like mr. burns taking the lollipop out
of the Simpson baby's stroller right
like you're basically just saying
instead of giving people who already
have way too much both economically
politically and also obviously morally
and just freeing this this money up so
that people can like feed themselves and
have heating this is actually very basic
stuff listen to how Maria Bartiromo
and Stuart honey talk about this
Democrats are proposing another tax this
time on capital gains joining us now the
host of ironing company Stuart Varney to
weigh in good morning sir is there any
aspect of our financial lives that the
government doesn't want to have a piece
of answer no Ron Wyden Democrats
senator Oregon he proposes that a
capital gains tax be levied every year
and the tax rate be the same rate as
ordinary income so if I were to sell my
Microsoft and as I've accumulated my
Microsoft over the years this scheme I
would have had to pay a capital gains
tax every year even though I never
realized the gain by selling Microsoft I
would have to lock it how much money I'd
made at the end of the year and pay a
capital gains tax on that at the same
rate as my ordinary income I mean did a
Lord is there any aspect of our lives
that they don't want a big piece of the
answer is no they want it all that's
what they want we used to have a
differential rate between
wage between work and money they
proposed to make it all the same
yeah terrible well I saw their plans
before 2020 yeah unfortunately a lot of
people were like join like those plans
that's my problem here do I
yep this is wealth confiscation yes with
me it's wealth confiscation and it's
communist
yes least a socialist have more in 10
minutes still see you then Ronnie
company begins top of the hour 9 a
mission
yeah it's confiscation that's good we
support that but I will say we all
remember even those of us who didn't
study the Soviet Union that closely but
I think you know if he even just took a
few courses you were very aware of the
the Stalin's capital gains plan which
was not only central to the Soviet
project that actually set off his second
purge actually the Second Great Purge
was Stalin was very angry that members
of the Central Committee commentariat
were uh they wanted to keep it at a 70%
rate and he was pushing for a 90 percent
rate of course during the Cultural
Revolution we saw the highest capital
gains ever when Mao put it to 95 percent
it was significantly reversed obviously
under dung shopping I I'm not an expert
on capital gains taxes but the way he
says they're trying to make money and
Inc work tax at the same rate
like money should be taxed at a higher
rate right that is the were credible
line right you're like a right exactly
exactly I mean that but it is just in
Crimea it's not even necessarily
socialist I mean not to get too pedantic
here but this is just like super basic
progressive taxation and so like the
projection of radicalism is as always
just projection right I mean you know
but it's funny to watch them lose their
minds over it and let's give them a lot
more to lose their minds about by
electing Bernie Sanders president the
majority report is supported in part by
simple habit simple habit is a mobile
app that provides a massive and diverse
library
what was that this is just a twenty one
savage instrumental I mean on t MBS
where we don't do ads I would absolutely
read a guided meditation ad over twenty
one savage instrumental but I think on
mr I don't know you want to put some Cat
Stevens under it or something I think
the cover it police some Ravi Shankar
shouldn't do anything I think okay all
right let me reset this the majority
report is supported in part by simple
habit simple habit is a mobile app that
provides massive and diverse library of
five-minute guided meditations and the
majority report audience can try simple
habit totally free for an entire week
when you go to simple habit calm slash
majority there is a growing body of
evidence going I think back at least to
the 80s with Herbert Benson at Harvard
University who documented something
called the relaxation response down to
Richie Davidson at the University of
Wisconsin his research on MRIs and
meditation meditation has been reported
to increase relaxation decreased
depression it's good for sleep it also
might help you with pain management as
well there's a plethora of studies about
it simple habit has over two thousand
guided meditations specifically designed
for different parts of your day and just
about anything you might be dealing with
in life they have guided meditations for
mindfulness meditation for anxiety for
depression we're having trouble falling
asleep meditation for when you're
wanting to overcome procrastination or
when you're having something important
going on at work and meditations
designed for parents they have
meditations made specifically for when
you're waking up or on your lunch break
or when you've just gotten home from
work or when you're going to bed people
know that you know I I not daily but I
have a meditation practice I do and I
mean it's enormous ly helpful I mean I
don't want to sort of there isn't really
much else to say it absolutely helps you
manage particularly a very stressful and
open life a lot better and perceive
thing
better different people are trying to
accomplish different things in
meditation and with simple habit it's
able to cater just about anyone
regardless of their goals regardless of
what their goals are with meditation how
much past experience they have with
meditation so I as I said I've had
long-term experience of meditation but
I've been using the app to help fall
asleep it's incredibly helpful
I have trouble falling asleep and it's
excellent way to just slow down and help
make that happen
their variety of guided meditations on
simple habit and that's what sets its
apart simple habit just one the 2018
Google Play award for best well-being
app and it's available on iOS Android
and web browser and the majority report
audience can try for free by going for a
week can try it for free for a week by
going to simple habit calm / majority if
you're watching on YouTube we'll put a
link in the video description we're
gonna take a brief break and we're going
to be right back with Mike Hanna on the
majority report
[Music]
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Mike Hanna he's a contributing a
presenter and reporter for Al Jazeera
and is currently present at the United
Nations Mike thanks so much for being
with us I could be with you Michael I
there's a little bit of static you got
that okay uh Mike there's been a report
recently that you actually did you did a
package for for Al Jazeera last week
that will direct people to as well on
this congressional report on the Trump
administration's efforts to sell nuclear
technology to Saudi Arabia this hasn't
gotten much attention but it's something
that could have significant implications
for the political dynamics of the Middle
East and security there what is that
story what what how is this deal sort of
coming into place and what are the
player who are the players well there's
just been so much corruption within the
Trump administration that's something
like this is Sloane right under the
radar as you say and yet it is
exceedingly significant what is exactly
going on is that the Energy Department
has granted licenses and what is called
part eight one zero seven licenses to US
companies to provide nuclear technology
and information to Saudi Arabia now what
is weird about this assessment is not
the beginning of the process this
process began months indeed
years ago and has been part of an
ongoing lobbying process by people
allied with President Trump and his
administration who have launched a
campaign to lobby this administration as
to provide these licenses for businesses
now a couple of names involved with this
Michael Flynn you might remember his
former national security adviser
indicted by the special counsel Tom
barek very close friend of a Donald
Trump Oh
involved with his campaign now what lies
behind this all are a number of US
nuclear companies one of them is called
ip3 international who microfilm work for
as paid consultants and petty lobbyists
reservation to Saudi Arabia before he
became national security advisor while
he was national security advisor and
after he was fired as national security
advisor now that's not an end to it just
a few weeks ago President Trump at the
White House held a meeting with nuclear
technology companies US and among them
there we are we have got IP three
international so these seven licenses
that have been granted at this
particular place in what Congress
insists is an intention to circumvent
its Authority is just perhaps the
beginning of what is a massive deal
between certain US companies and Saudi
Arabia in terms of developing Saudi
nuclear technology against the clear and
expressed wishes of Congress and what
really and so okay so it's against the
expressed wishes of Congress do we have
a sense I guess first of all what about
the obligations under the
non-proliferation treaty and other
agreements on on controlling this
technology are implicated by the
steelmaking let's just take a look at it
from the Saudi side now Saudi Arabia
many years ago signed an sqp this is
small quantities protocol now that says
that basically the country does not have
significant amounts of nuclear material
now that was a long time ago that
particular protocol is being updated
Saudi Arabia has refused to sign the
update of that has refused to sign any
feel with the IAEA the International
Atomic Energy Agency for inspection of
its developing nuclear technology now
this is one of the points that members
of Congress have brought up is that
Saudi Arabia is not
being certified to be capable of dealing
with nuclear technology in terms of
international conventions and very
pointedly one of the representatives
said to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo
while questioning him in in a House
committee meeting if you cannot trust a
regime with a buzzsaw
then how can you trust this with nuclear
technology this in reference to the
murder of journalist DiMarco Shoji so
both Secretary of State might want a US
Secretary of Energy Rick Perry who's
actually signed off on these seven
agreements have refused to answer these
questions from Congress repeated
questions
the last coming just two days ago in a
bipartisan letter from the Senate
committee asking Kerry to explain
exactly what lay behind the decision to
grant these licenses and why was
Congress not consulted so why I mean is
the question there's obviously the Trump
administration endless allegations and
stories of corruption implicating a
whole bunch of people there's so there's
the self-interest of of companies here
in the United States there's the
strategy of Saudi Arabia and I guess
that's in some ways the most I mean it's
all very disturbing but is it is this a
we're planning for a post you know
fossil fuel world even in our own kind
of small way and we want to look towards
this technology or is it based on the
sort of much more agree so much more
aggressive moves in Saudi foreign policy
we've seen the past several years
particularly amplified by this very
aggressive leadership of Mohammed bin
Salman a deep paranoia about Iran you
know is this a desire for a weapon
Michael and Saudi Arabia is on the
record Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman
is on the record as saying last yeah a
bad shoot Iran advance its nuclear
capabilities and Saudi Arabia will of
nuclear power he has specifically said
that Saudi Arabia was nuclear ability
now we are talking two levels here one
is nuclear power for peaceful purposes
the other is advanced nuclear technology
for aggressive for weaponized and
nuclear program now what lies behind
this as well is getting back to the big
picture which was the third country in
there president Trump visited as
president it was Saudi Arabia which
country has president Trump continued to
defense even though his own intelligence
agencies say it was responsible for the
murder and dismemberment of a journalist
even though his intelligence agencies
say he's carrying out a vicious
unchecked war in Yemen even though
Congress says it was responsible for the
murder of salary journalists and from
massive abuse of human rights even
though Congress says it is responsible
for an outrageous cruel and vicious war
in Yemen yet President Trump chose them
as close allies President Trump
continues to protect them both from
Congress and from the reports of his own
intelligence agencies so that is simply
a question that I thought out why
secondly there is an issue here of my
release particular agreements agreed to
by the Secretary of Energy on the face
of it a simple way to circumvent
Congress now in terms of Congress's
control over us
nuclear relations with outside countries
there is a one-two-three agreement now
this is a protocol by which any business
stand on a nuclear basis by US companies
with foreign entities has to go through
Congress Congress will look at the
nature of the deal will see what
safeguards and falls into it and will
then issue a one two three agreement
which will allow you as companies and
the US government itself to exchange
nuclear information and nuclear
technology now that does require a clear
legislative procedure what has happened
now with these small term pompton
agreements is very clearly
a good to circumvent Congress Congress
is well aware of this it's an issue that
Congress is dealing with on a bipartisan
level this incredibly divided Congress
comes together on this particular issue
with relation to nuclear technology and
Saudi Arabia and of course that we just
seen on this very day a criticism of
Saudis ongoing war in Yemen and a
congressional demand passed by both
House and Senate as that the u.s.
withdraw its support for Saudi Arabia in
that operation which is all expect going
to lead to the second veto of President
trance administration he's going to be
through it and send it back to Congress
and just to spell that out the United
States along with the United Kingdom is
refueling saudi jets supporting
logistically and even in the vote in
congress on pulling the u.s. backing for
this war in yemen which maybe if you
want to you could get into a little bit
more detail into just in terms of just
how much of it frankly this is just a
horrific mass murder of Yemenis and
interference in internal politics
leading to to mass death and devastation
but that that in fact even a bill that
has actually potentially already been a
bit compromised potentially because of
something attached and there on
Intelligence Sharing which needs to be
sort of part of pulling out support as
well the Trump administration still
would even veto a slightly softened
version because they are so committed to
being aligned with Saudi Arabia across
the board whether it's the murder of
Jamal khashoggi mass murder and Yemen
and also just the sort of generally the
you know initial in the initially the
blockade of Qatar and they kind of
brought her profoundly reckless steps of
the current Saudi leadership yes I mean
it's very interesting in one level
Michael that I suppose some people can
it's the Department of Defense there has
been huge describes the repeal day in
relation to the u.s. support for Saudi
Arabia in that war in Yemen and very
quietly in fact the vlv instructors US
forces to stop airborne refueling of
Saudi fighter aircraft for example that
no longer happens the US remains in
there as what is described as a
consultative service Department of
Defense officials say that the reason
for the u.s. being there is to improve
Saudi Arabia's targeting to minimize
civilian loss in that ongoing action now
that's the official TLB position that's
there are many within the DoD as
certainly many in the field who are
exceedingly concerned about the level of
risk that the u.s. is putting on itself
supporting an operation that is claiming
so many civilian casualties over a long
period of time now that is something
that Congress has been looking at even
before the murder of Jamal khashoggi
there was great concern in Congress on
both sides of the aisle about the
ramifications of us support in a war
that is craving mass civilian casualties
there the murder of Jamal khashoggi
which concentrated even further the
minds of members of Congress and you had
even rebel supporters of President Trump
such as Senator Lindsey Graham coming
out in support of the stole coming out
in opposition to providing support for
Saudi Arabia and in Graham's case
insisting that the murder of kamale
shoji proved once and for all
that Saudi Arabia at every level not
just in terms of supporting this in the
war was not a footpath map for the u.s.
in any form so the level of anger in
Congress is intense the pushback from
the Trump administration is massive as I
said we are going to see in coming days
as another betos coming out of the Trump
administration another insistence that
the u.s. relationship with Saudi Arabia
is more important than acknowledging
civilian deaths in Yemen an
acknowledging murder of a journalist for
whom fingers have been pointed at the
highest levels in the Saudi government
including the crown prince himself so
the question being asked in Congress is
at what stage does the Trump
administration stop what would appear to
be absolute blind support for this
current Saudi regime and the other
question simply is why does the support
continue with this intensity then of
course this you know the the the
stunning juxtaposition of this with the
fact that the Trump administration
coming into office and pulling out of
the Iran deal the Iran deal which had
been steadily confirmed by all objective
international agencies even the United
States State Department there was the
side recertification which the Congress
passed but was not actually part of the
Iran deal but it required essentially
the administration in charge to continue
to sign off on it once every several
months well Rex Tillerson actually did
sign off on it in the beginning of the
Trump administration because there was
simply no evidence from any just any
legitimate body that Iran was in any way
deviating from the agreement they were
fulfilling it entirely now there's a
whole other set of disagreements and
problems with Iran including different
gioves strategy in Lebanon or Syria and
of course a you know absolutely
legitimate objections to very serious
abuses by the Iranian government of
their own people obviously you know from
an administration that supports Saudi
Arabia to the hilt that's you know
ludicrous on its face but nonetheless an
entirely valid point when aimed at the
Iranian leadership but how does this
juxtaposition of this incredibly
reckless move dangerous move to pull out
of the Iran deal
first of all with this sort of push
towards you know giving Saudi Arabia
this capacity and then secondly how the
rest of the world has been responding
because the you know the other the
Europeans certainly China Russia India
South Africa they've all been trying to
keep this deal in place which is another
sort of major fallout in the Middle East
from the Trump era policy yes well once
again to look at the broad picture of
this Iran as you said may be guilty of
certain violations but one thing that
you can be specific about that according
to the International Energy Agency
Atomic Energy Agency according to his
inspectors according to the European
Union according to most Western powers
Iran has stood by the terms of that
nuclear deal in terms of which had
opened up its nuclear activities to
international inspections in return for
a ending of sanctions against Iran
now that was basically brushed away by
President Trump by refusing to continue
to certify the agreement now you just
mentioned that Tillerson acknowledged
that they had been very that the heavy
verification as Iran has stuck to its
end of the deal
in fact so the president ran twice at
the beginning of the administration a
signed off on an ongoing six-month
extension of recognizing that deal it
was the first time that he was supposed
to sign their president Trump basically
threw the deal off the table in complete
contravention of international law on
which this view is based which
specifically have forbids any unilateral
pullout from the deal by any individual
party so that is an ongoing argument
that an ongoing discussion in the
absence of the United States the other
partners to that deal have continued to
explore ways in which the certain been
sanctions to allow Iran to benefit from
that deal which was the whole point in
the first place when President Obama was
one of the signatories to
Gill but the issue is as well is that
the whole relationship with Saudi Arabia
if couched in terms by the trunk
administration of opposition to Iran you
had Rex Tillerson
as he correctly say expressed his own
concerns about moving away from the
round deal about throwing in all support
for Saudi Arabia well he went he was
replaced with my compare very much empty
Iran very much a supporter of pushing
the mountains the called you have
knowledge national security advisor John
Bolton who has made a career out of
bashing Iran and out of finding ways in
which to undercut that particular
administration now all of this has come
together and in the end the Trump
administration is using Iran as the
bogeyman to justify its ongoing support
for Saudi Arabia in the implying that if
they did not support Saudi Arabia in
their opposition to Iran then Iran would
spread its influence within the Middle
East so all of these things come
together in terms of ongoing support for
Saudi Arabia but many observers believe
that behind that support lies not
necessary national principal or a newest
interest it may very well be just simple
naked greed in terms of turning profits
out of Saudi Arabia oil or turning
profits out of the sale of nuclear
technology by people who have close
connections to the Trump administration
including one let's point out is close
advisor and son-in-law
Jared Krishna who has been at the entire
Center without any effort whatsoever
apart from that given to him by his
father-in-law of ongoing relations with
Saudi Arabia and in directing US policy
in the whole Middle East region in the
last couple of minutes though I will
actually have to I'll start small and
then go larger because also this fits
into you know a
an alliance obviously with Israel now of
course the United States has always
throughout every administration you know
favored Israel that's an objective
comment but there's also been still at
least at the very least discourse and in
the second half of the second term of
the Obama administration a little bit of
actual expression of annoyance about the
fact that Israel continues to maintain
the occupation and that there isn't any
steps from Israeli leadership on the
so-called two-state solution now
obviously the Trump administration has
gone to a whole other degree and
basically formalized with Netanyahu an
extreme far-right axis between the
United States and Israel and also built
on a lot of shared commonalities of you
know anti Muslim extremism and
xenophobia and so on how does the
formalization over Twitter of the
occupation of the Golan Heights fit into
this and by the way could you also
explain what the Golan Heights are this
will go on Heights are part of land that
were conquered for occupied by Israel
during a war in Lebanese Israel
subsequently annexed that particular
strip of land something that is not
recognized in international law
international rule very clearly declares
that lands are taken by force cannot be
legally annexed by any nation that it is
that abrogation of any other nations
sovereignty now the US or the Trump
administration in terms of recognizing
Israel's illegal occupation of the Golan
Heights and recognizing acclaimed
annexation is completely reversing its
position for example on Crimea the
United States Trump appointed us UN
Ambassador as argues very strongly
within the United Nations that are
announces that Russia's occupation of
Crimea and subsequent annexation is
illegal in terms of international law
for in geography well-known in
principal and UN resolution that
territory taken by force cannot be
subject to annexation yet when it comes
to Israel and the Golan Heights we've
got a sudden reversal on that so there's
a complete inconsistency in fact
laughable inconsistency with that
particular opinion now the timing of
that particular move by the Trump
administration there is no real read for
the Trump administration to recognize
Israel claims to sovereignty can ago
that night everything was going along
fine as far as Israel was concerned as
far as the Lebanese were concerned even
perhaps quietly as far as the Syrians
requestor Israel was in control there
nobody but Israel acknowledged the
sovereignty over it but Trump by
actually recognizing that strange
sovereignty has now thrown an entire new
borns mix not what would be the reason
for that it would appear to be only one
reason and that is the boss the Benjamin
Netanyahu in the Israeli elections
taking place it's not it was a very
powerful bone to throw to Netanyahu is
having his own problems within the
Israel electorate concerning mass
corruption within his administration and
that of his family but by President
Trump offering this particular
recognition is a massive boost to
Benjamin Netanyahu in the Israeli
election just as the US recognition of
Jerusalem as Israel's capital was a
massive losses for Benjamin Netanyahu so
you have here a situation and just to
digress slightly I was present at the
iPad conference that is the Israeli
lobbying group within the United States
and such a number of people who were
deeply disturbed about what they saw as
unwarranted u.s. interference in the
Israeli election process seeing Donald
Trump's massive and very public support
for Benjamin Netanyahu as being
interference in Israel's internal
I've also heard at that particular
conference a number of speeches saying
that I pad that mattre blah Blee group
has always publicly at least prided
itself on its bipartisan nature it has
gone out of its way to support neither
Republican nor Democrat best to lobby
all equally many within I feel that
death is moving away with the Trump
administration that iPad through its
association with those who in his
lobbying and through precedent
transaction is being seen increasingly
as a part of that organization therefore
the benefit of Republican
administrations which long term would be
exceedingly detrimental to the interests
of effect within the United States so
the many wheels within wheels here and
once again the question is are why
that's unquestioning support of the
Trump administration for Israel as you
point out this isn't a US administration
that is not supportive Israel is not a
member of Congress that would
technically the Nancy air denounced that
particular support although there is a
shift in Congress with the shifting
demographics that are occurred after the
midterms whether our Christians knew
math among Democrats for example not
about support for Israel but about
unquestioning support for Israel that is
what is now being questioned more than
at any time in the past but throughout
this all the Trump administration
remains fixated on not only supporting
Israel but on doubling down on that
particular support so behind it as some
might argue lies Trump's grand Middle
East peace plan which to get back to
what you were talking about a few
minutes ago does involve Saudi Arabia as
a fulcrum that people like Jared Kushner
believe they can use deliver a Middle
East peace
basically by sidelining the Palestinians
and by getting countries like Saudi
Arabia to use their influence to bring
the risks of Arab world on board
with a deal that president Trump would
say would secure a Middle East peace
just on that particular object any view
that involves handing Jerusalem over to
Israel would produce massive revolutions
within the Arab world
whether or not the current Saudi regime
attend to the Bible on it or not as a
final question then what would it look
like if we were to say you know so right
so there's this way in which again
traditional US policy favors essentially
an access between Saudi Arabia and
Israel for a variety of reasons and
overlooks of course a variety of massive
human costs generated by both the
Israeli and Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabian
government's Trump has sort of put that
on steroids and totally you know
attempted to reverse the Obama
administration's very modest moves to
try to sort of cool down and sort of
slightly rebalance the Middle East and
then in fact actually pivot to Asia that
was the whole frame of it and now you
see inside the Democratic Party I think
it's both Democrat Democratic but I
think also you know as an example on the
on the progressive side someone like
Bernie Sanders even in 2016 you know I
think through a combination of his own
conviction he had actually spoken on
behalf of Palestinian rights going back
to the 80s but also just been sort of
the current political realities that if
you're the sort of emergent kind of left
and democratic circles is not going to
be comfortable with the type of abuses
that you see emanating out of Israel or
you know obviously Saudi Arabia that
there is a slightly ideological shift so
I guess you know and this is a very big
picture question but if a Democrat was
to retake the White House in 2020 and
perhaps you know a more imaginative or
progressive one what would a sort of
what would it actually look like in
terms of a of a shift in the beginning
of an administration you know and
obviously I'm asking you as someone who
knows this better than anybody else in
my astir or as well as anybody else the
very least in my estimation so not a you
know of course
just a you know on the first day you
know invite you know Norman Finkelstein
in for a teaching or something but you
know what would an actual shift look
like to really recalibrate this across
the board in under new leadership well
as would be virtually impossible to
recalibrated over any finite period of
time the amount of destruction that has
already been brought by the camp
administration it's uncomfortable and
it's not only for dinners in the u.s.
it's so one must remember that one not
be a really viable piece fans many
observers believe that was out there on
the table was some savvy fan from 2001
which is essentially a landfill piece
field which he then bush administration
rejected we previous Raley's rejected
but it's been lying around for a long
period of time every now and then
somebody hit stood up and dusted off and
presented as a viable option
now why I'm mentioning all of this is
that by their ongoing negotiations that
we know do not know anything about with
figures like Jared Kushner over present
ransom efforts it Israel both of whom
the photographer leadership recently
Somali Arabia felt seeds be going back
on the plan that it itself survives so
all those years ago
so the damage that has been done is not
only within the US and in terms of us
action of the Box the Middle East but
also in terms of how the action within
the belief the movement from the Saudis
man at the beginning of the century to
where savvy appears to be sitting now is
a massive turnaround that's a 100 degree
three auditing so to try and start this
all from scratch to try and recalibrate
as you put it involves not only a change
of leadership within the United States
but changes of leadership within quotas
party who are involved in that ongoing
struggle between Israelis and
Palestinians
so the recalibration is far more than a
domestic change within the United States
it is a regional and in fact global
greenbacks and reboots in terms of the
way this is being played for the last
few years of the Trump administration so
it's a massive task Michael and why I
say is not something that can be
achieved possibly much define I did it
well Mike Hannah if it is achieved
I definitely think your reporting and
analysis will help make that happen just
in terms of this sort of you know direct
and shrewd analysis of the issues Mike
Anna as always I appreciate your time
immensely and talk with you soon thank
you
many thanks Michael lovely to talk to
you as always take care and folks I do
recommend I mean you can watch Mike
Hanna's al Jazeera reports on YouTube
going back years now I think he left CNN
I think in 2007 but yes I mean if you
want to get up to speed on any of these
things even just in 2019 with what's
happening at the UN this Trump Saudi
deal the Golan Heights indispensable
well produced tight reporting there okay
we're gonna go to the fun half become a
member of the majority report today and
you can do it for less than a cup of
coffee a day 10 bucks a month for a five
day a week news analysis and comedy show
fun half is I think frankly it's been
pretty funny recently yeah it's been
okay oh you think we're falling off no
it has been very funny
I heard Brendan was doing some drops
yesterday president
Brendan has a sense of the drop game
Brendan definitely actually heard I
didn't watch the whole show yesterday
but I did tune in for a little bit and I
heard the that's a good point it
was there yeah that's kind of my medium
I feel like better than me on Mike is me
behind the board that's how I got
comfortable 2x
I would guess he'll get on mic right
that's how it but you started you know
you got to speak through other people
you got to speak through Glenn Beck
saying all of us feel like we're living
through a barn fire so I started to
understand Matt's psyche I was like
what's going on with Matt and then I
started to realize like oh that's quite
a lot of disturbing drops today all of
us feel like we're trapped in a barn
fire so that's how you do it of course
if you haven't yet hit subscribe on
YouTube spread the word
on Tuesdays Michael Brooks show Malaika
jabal II and I made fun of beta O'Rourke
explain why Hillary Clinton's
misconceptions about Wisconsin are
relevant for nolle winning 2020 but
rebuilding an actual multiracial labor
oriented building probably for the first
time a multiracial labor oriented left
in the United States
Kim Ives who is the English language
Leonard editor of Haiti liberté came on
to talk about well on going of course
u.s. interference in Haiti but also this
insane story of these mercenaries u.s.
mercenaries going to port-au-prince to
try to transfer a hundred million
dollars out of an escrow account into
the president of the Hades Direct
account I think it was how it went very
a sort of vise with substance style
story which is actually a lot that that
is very tanned yes
there's a lot of like vice with a little
bit more what vice with marks in it kind
of I'd be interested in a history of
mercenaries I think that that's an
illicit history that we will prepare for
patron because it's such a like we
should outlaw that and thinking
about like also incredible it is enough
yeah like the tiger Swan group that like
it used to be tiger Swan was that the
Dakota could access pipeline the dock
and Rotel it used to be like you could
basically try to FOIA the CIA for a lot
of this information but now it's
outsourced to like private companies
which makes it entire like well Marta
same market just Martha Times wrote an
incredible piece I forget the name of it
but mark Ames wrote this really good
piece about how
Seymour Hersh first major setback like
he actually he seymour hersh in the late
sixties and said he's exposed as the My
Lai massacre he's writing these reports
on all of these various CIA abuses and
interventions but he went after I
believe it was some type of private law
firm that sat at some you know some
incredibly shady nexus of private power
and intelligence services and they
basically they used the fact that they
were in the private sector to threatened
to believe the new times dry to the
point where the story became like a
nothing burger story because it was so
managed and now when you amplify that
times a gazillion and the privatized
world were in you know yeah there's no
doubt about that so that was what we
covered on Tuesday
this Sunday strategy for the left we're
talking about that for patrons but we
also covered the African National
Congress and a whole bunch of other
things where it's uh yeah if you haven't
checked it out you're really sleeping on
it something that I think at this point
we're very proud of patreon.com slash T
NBS hey trying to calm /tm yes also
Michael Brooks show on YouTube I just
want to say really quickly to I don't
always say this but scribe to the bomb
feed for woke bros with Waze and I it's
a really good show and if you're
interested in this world which I think
you should be the show we just did with
Trey from counted things on Nipsey
Hussle is actually really powerful and I
think super relevant because he was in
and of itself a very interesting and
important artist but there's also a lot
to understand about Los Angeles that you
should know and Trey helped lead us
through it it was an incredible
interview and I would go subscribe to
the bomb feed and listened to all woke
pros as well Matt literary hangover yeah
for patrons actually later this
afternoon I'm putting up the Oscar Wilde
episode the soul of man under socialism
was Oscar Wilde the sort of proto fully
automated luxury space communists why
you got the gate part definitely right
they one part down but it turns out he
was actually Pro like machinery will do
some
this drudgery stuff and we sort of go
into his inspirations there's the Arts
and Crafts movement have you heard of
that it's like this sort of like
communist the Victorians sort of like
William Morris made a process for making
wallpaper but he was also like sort of
early socialist anarchist like friends
with Kropotkin and that sort of stuff
and Wilde was sort of milling around all
these sorts of guys going to their
socialist lectures in the 1880s and
stuff like that so we get into while the
genuine sort of an arco socialist of
around the turn of the century
fascinating don't sleep on literary
hangover check out the anti Fattah of
course that's Jamie's show also there's
I don't know if we don't maybe not
linked to it but there's a hill of roses
or some there's some if you find it on
Twitter will probably retweet it but
there's a there's a March Madness
bracket going on so we might need some
of your support on that so check out our
respective Twitter feeds yeah vote EMBs
from your M arse fine vote insurgency
all right folks we will see you the fun
half
[Music]
you
[Music]
you
we're here welcome
one half folks calling into the system
now getting myself organized getting
organized let's start with a very fun
place to start making fun of dummy Dave
Rubin and uh this video is incredible
somebody tweeted it at me and they said
something the effect of check out Dave
Rubin doing an impression of you doing
an impression of Dave Rubin now as
always I got to get my Christine props
he's sort of a major innovator
he's like Prometheus of the day right he
got he nailed it he definitely took the
like essence Dave Rubin and and and and
got it across for us but so that's the
like you know my thing that I always go
there clearly I mean interested and
ideas and we yeah but yeah interesting
ideas so what happens in this this clip
is is actually genuinely mind-blowing
because apparently I guess it's like Tim
Poole must have been on Dave's show and
now like Dave is is is getting
interviewed by Tim yeah it's like Tim
was at the Dave Rubin estates I don't
know where ever he records it and an
estate they recorded a Dave Rubin a
Rubin riff night and and then just right
after Tim Poole God is like set up his
GoPros or something and Tim's like who
can I turn the tables on you yeah and
they recorded this and actually to be
fair to Tim Poole who I you know I said
wasted a class period at NYU when he
guest lecturer at class I I still resent
that he kind of grills well yeah this is
what's incredible this is the set okay
so in addition okay everybody knows but
will still find anyways you know of how
funny you know look of course Dave room
is a total idiot right obviously so
that's gonna be funny but this is also
like the second interaction
and this is based on the first
interaction where Joe Rogan who's like
friendly with Dave Rubin just humiliated
him in the infamous Building Code saga
which was immediately following the
infamous sending chickens through the
mail saga so right
the chickens chickens through the mail
saga so I don't even remember which came
first in that it's a male whole chicken
one chicken or that building because
this chicken or the lunchroom once Rogan
reminded him that the United States
Postal Service is the only way to send
chickens through the mail oh yeah but
what is building yeah I here looks like
something I make and the kind of suit of
ideas so I can quickly pay me to another
example that's kind of negus maybe not
also prove my point
so Tim pull here I gotta say yeah he's
being a little unexpectedly aggressive
like I'm Dave Rubin it's a key I just
gave you free platform and I don't ask
questions why you asked me that we were
homies that we
[Music]
well I always think it's like I see
these people that are hating me all the
time I'm like who what is wrong with you
that you're waking up and you're
thinking oh I gotta figure out what
Reuben tweeted today to go after him
it's like listen I'm doing my thing if
you don't like it I said this before but
don't watch it's okay Ron Rogen pause
one sir no but it's it's also okay to do
this like it's fun this is the
marketplace of ideas not your place of
ideas Dave Dave like you can go do your
thing and you can you know be a bagman
and idiot for the worst interests in the
world from corporations to oligarchy to
racism you can make funny it's not
personal we're just knives and ideas a
person just I mean I'm just really
interested in the ideas all right that's
a really disturbing us freeze-frame
there let's keep playing I always think
it's like I see these people that are
hating me all the time and I'm like
you're waking up and you're thinking oh
I gotta figure out what Ruben tweeted
today to go after if I'm doing my thing
if you don't like it I said this before
but don't watch it's okay you were on
Rogen
one serve three times so there was one
particular incident where Rogen was
asking you about why you believe in less
government control yeah people felt like
you didn't know what you're talking
about that you were advocating for a
position no so this was I think
specifically this is the last time I was
on Rogen and we were talking about
building codes I think was rights if ik
part of it yeah oh you've been I kept
yeah yeah and I said I we were talking
what was in the framework of talking
about limited government and I said at
the beginning of this this is not like
my particular point of interests like
building codes or even regulations
specifically like the nitty-gritty parts
of regulation that's I like talking
about ideas
that's what I like talking about so like
that it's some nitty gritty thing about
about Building Code regulation and I
said something like he could have
private regulation for some of this and
that you'd have an agreement between the
buyer of the house and the seller house
that maybe that's not exactly the role
for government but several times in that
okay so this guy is very stupid but I
love is I love the the steps there
because first it's like I would like
hazard a guess that unless there's like
a YouTube channel that's like dedicated
to you know this is how you build a
house there's probably none of us
there's
civically interested in like building
codes so he like here we went from like
really interesting building codes to
then like I'm not interested in
regulation as a category okay
like building codes a pretty specific
technical subset of regulation and the
thing is you kind of are interested in
regulation because you were saying on a
national platform that they were useless
and didn't serve any good and then you
got to the building code part where you
you're subset example let's just watch
this anyway
they do they would cut a lot more if
there weren't fix that's the way you get
them down to the US Postal Service I'm
gonna be yes I'm pretty sure though that
if the USPS stopped it didn't exist
anywhere you'd still get chickens
delivered and Amazon could probably do
it even more effectively that's my point
it's like ah saying these things have
Amazon uses the US Postal Service to
deliver their goods anyways go ahead
he's just just a little eliminated
tomorrow I'm not even wholly for them to
be eliminated but just generally what
problem would you everything you're
building here right now right do you
want the government to tell you how to
do all these things and all the
regulations that you gotta have your
electric thing this far from this and
like regulations like that for
construction are important though you do
have to make sure that people don't do
stupid
but generally the power lines near a
water line yeah there's a lot of but I
would put most of that on the builders
though they want to build things that
are good now I get hey that's not true
listen people know people are gonna
corners all the time but you have to
have regulations when it comes to
construction methods or people are gonna
get far they cut regulate they cut
corners when there are regulations
anyway they do they would cut a lot more
if there were not so you go to third
world countries and look at construction
methods they're dangerous
yeah that's why schools collapse on kids
in foreign countries sometimes like well
I'm not complete I'm not telling you
that I'm against all regulation period
that's weird but that's where I said
intellectually I like that argument
because you could make us I think you
can make a very sound argument that
competition would force people to do
better work hello
to be fair when I hear that I do think
to myself well I mean this just sounds
like a guy who's
or ideally that's a blue sky big-picture
thinking right there's there's two kinds
of thinkers there's the nitty-gritty
guys and there's the idea guys and Dave
is purely purely the latter oh yeah a
really exalted I think you can make a
pretty strong argument that what I'm
saying is actually not as dumb as it
sounded for the past government hey idea
what if this actually wasn't be making a
complete ass of myself in front of
millions of people there's one thing I
mean think of how much faster we could
build billions if we didn't care about
like you know putting water lines next
to outlets and like you know facets
underneath he has an auntie like like I
bet I have been thought about it but I
am sure that if I wanted to do that job
and like be like I've you know pure hack
like that like you could find like I
mean isn't it ridiculous that like you
know I don't know like you want to open
a pizza parlor and the bathroom needs
that you know well a simple one is you
know new construction shouldn't require
a certain amount of parking space
because that's basically a subsidy to
the automobile industry right or some or
some type of like exactly or some type
of yeah like you could you could fight
and then it's like he has an anti ear
cuz first he's like it's like little
lake post office you can get chickens
and then it's like okay well actually no
literally you did get your chickens from
the post office because that's the only
way they're sent by the way the classic
libertarian moved there would have been
like yeah and why I mean I wish I didn't
have the government forced me get my
chickens and you go down some dumb
rabbit hole like that but then he goes
to like buildings and it's like okay
that's an interesting one because just
even psych a lot like you're queuing
like ha buildings like unless I'm a
complete like demented dingbat that
calls into like radio shows to like
complain that like water is treated you
might intuitively kind of go to like no
that actually sounds like a place that I
kind of would like a little bit of
oversight on you're on the San Andreas
Fault record in your YouTube show right
yeah just and then and then it's like
and then doesn't he actually literally
himself go to like which was good like
doesn't he actually say that before
Rogan yeah he's like do you want your
electric thing there it's like yes all
of the wrong like he goes like the Oh
like and that's what leads broke Rogan
can do his whole I know do you dots are
actually pretty important bro
when you're getting when you're getting
turned back by Rogan and Tim pool like
that not known for their incredulity and
like you know Jeremy Paxman type
approach to guests you gotta you might
have to look inward yeah turn to turn
the ideas on oneself Dave all right
let's take let's take your calling from
a 509 area code who are you where you're
calling from Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan
oh the great Ronald Reagan thank you for
calling what's on your mind
um Dave Rubin reminds me of this guy
Ania you know in college who would have
these big ideas and they were ideas like
and he wasn't high but say they should
make a battery that's like really small
but also really powerful and also like
it it lasts a long time
exactly but yeah an idea people are
probably already working on battery do
this is really small but it's actually
powered big thing yeah um hey I wanted
to talk to you guys about bait oh okay
Beto's sucks yes well I I don't know
like do you remember how it was a big
deal that Hillary didn't have a good
reason for running right like what was
the reason oh well because it's her turn
or whatever and people thought that was
weird but it seems to me that beta has
the best reason for
running okay which is which is that well
that he was born to do it
never thought of it he was literally
born for it okay that is pretty solid
reason okay what if it's true though if
it's true chosen one how do you know
that because the chosen one like how
would we don't portly how do we know
yeah how do we know what will be this
well he did tell us Matt okay fair
enough
well so you remember when Moses rolled
up on Pharaoh and was like hey God said
you need to let us go and Pharaoh was
like I need to know who you're talking
about
right who is your God what are you
talking about right well what happened
to Tara and well so anyways I'm just
saying nobody else is even pretending
that God is on their side or that
they've been called or chosen and you
guys don't seem to be taking that very
seriously but didn't bado
but didn't Moses like speak with like a
speech impediment like didn't Moses have
like a lot more qualities that would
make him like an unexpected later death
turned into a snake like that was cool
yeah and then he kind of sends some
signals other than just like sort of
like skateboard edit in a skateboard out
of in and out and give like really
annoying like sort of greatest hit
speeches and jerk his body around while
he did it yeah that's true
I mean we gotta wait for like the
serpent staff bang they'd work you know
how I'm waiting in our beds take on
YouTube news podcast a set design I want
to see bait away on like that I want to
see bait away in on the majority report
Pakman set design controversy and I can
only predict it would be like there are
a lot of great shows on YouTube and
they're all great you have David Pakman
you have in Georgia but you also have
rational National TPMS these are these
are great The Young Turks these are
being in an unprecedented moment of
YouTube content proliferation
and some that is not as good but some of
it is great and I make a commitment that
I will know those shows names over the
years I would just say that if we had
sort of incontrovertible proof that beta
was the sort of son of God chosen one
for our moment and right God chose a
person like him for this I would
probably redouble my commitment to say I
don't want any part of this God is very
cliche pick a different god yes I mean
this got sucks yeah yeah that's right my
god you want to say about Pakman you
know I don't know I wasn't gonna bring
it up but yes Bert he video calling Mia
whoa
and raising questions about if I'm a
real lawyer did I pass the bar on the
first try and like did yeah I did okay
good job yeah course he did
I got a thank you and this is all a big
distraction of course you know these are
sort of like non sequiturs like I have
nothing to do with this it's not my
fault that he is in like blatant
violation of Sam's trademark he's a
victim of Sam's or you know Sam's
obviously getting stolen from in terms
of the set design but I think like it is
interesting because I feel like when you
asked Sam about the food bucket which by
the way has been discovered and we have
it and don't worry we've got this Sam
when you asked Sam about the other food
bucket I didn't Sam also start to ask
you about like your like grades in law
school or something or am i miss
remembering was that was that another
time there's something about these guys
though going on counter-attack about
your law school credentials when you're
out frankly not in me you know coastal
lead bubble actually helping people yeah
if that's I mean helping people by
policing property like I mean I don't
know I don't know what this new
[Laughter]
Civil War the other day I'm watching the
live show and I rolled into a pacman
clip just like YouTube's Internet brain
deciding that this was going to be the
next thing I wanted to watch and it was
very confusing and you know I don't know
anyway I have a good one
I don't Rob Reagan thank you talk to you
soon
see intellectual property is there to be
stolen folks word you're calling from a
Skype are you there yeah hey Michael hey
my name is Alfonso I'm going from I
can't understand you you Alfonzo from
where from Germany hey how you doing
what's on your minds environment I
wanted to talk about about about Latin
America I'm I'm originally well I'm not
going to tell you it yet
but I want to ask you a few questions uh
we can do 1 question 1
yeah yeah yeah but we got to be tight
here Brady what what's the question
abroad no bro if you if you would have
to say what what are the three biggest
crisis in Latin America right now mm-hmm
what are the three biggest crisis what's
the reversal of the pink tide government
and rise of right-wing governments
across the region the collapse of
commodities although I don't know if
that's as current right now but that's
definitely played a role reassertion of
more direct us interfere going back to
2000 I mean I human rights credit Oh in
Letson totally totally different what
does a totally different question human
rights crisis I mean
I don't I don't know enough I'd say that
specifically country by country well I I
wanted to talk to you or or ask you to
talk about Nicaragua
I'm originally from Nicaragua right I
mean I'm in Germany now but I'm but I'm
originally from Nicaragua okay we we I
listen to your show and - and of course
they didn't Michael Brooks show but I've
seen that you've covered 80 you've
covered Venezuela you've covered Brazil
of course right and but but since in
April of 2018 there has been a crisis in
Nicaragua where till now five hundred
people have died okay by the hands of
the government and by the hands of of
paramilitary forces against the
government it that yeah the the
rebellion against the government so I'm
saying I'm saying in other words both
sides of that equation have innocents
have have have killed innocent people is
that what you're saying you could say
that but it there is clearly a disparity
between the force of the government
which has paramilitary forces and oh so
you're saying illusory forces are for
the government as well okay okay
okay got it okay okay yeah yeah yeah you
don't have to believe me you can check
anything for national human rights well
it's not so it's not so it's definitely
not that I don't believe you it's that
here's here's the problem with covering
Nicaragua for me some of these like I
know as an example enough about Haiti or
Brazil as an examples to start if that
makes sense so I know enough for my own
reading of like okay this person is a
good resource this is a smart way to
cover it right which is my job online
everything right it's to synthesize
present information well give analysis
on things and then also bring on people
who are either really deeply immersed
like you know Mike Hanna right like I
have an understanding of how the Middle
East works I've spent time there and
then I bring and so I know how to frame
the conversation but then someone like
Mike Anna's like just unparallel and his
knowledge base and his experience not
only in the Middle East but actually
elsewhere right so I guess is a long way
of saying that I don't I do not have the
same Graham and I know a bit about the
80s I know about us interference there I
know the sort of narrative of the
Sandinistas as kind of being you know
sort of heroes but then Ortega having
very real problems and very real abuses
so I know that but I don't know enough
beyond that then the other part that's
difficult you know just to be blunt is
you know I'm calibrating these places so
in some ways like Brazil is really you
know it's easy like the Workers Party I
will defend all day
Lula as a political prisoner and the
u.s. is aligned with the right there so
that's a very straightforward story I
mean there's a lot of complexity to it
but it's very straightforward Venezuela
you know in a different time I would
actually be much more interested in
having really full critiques of what
happened and what went wrong you know
under Maduro and in the broader ball of
orion project but the first and foremost
thing right now is to just oppose US
intervention that is my primary
obligation being United States the
closest I could tell from Nicaragua is
that there is a smaller version of
something similar going on where the the
US does want to see a change there they
want to get rid of Ortega now I opposed
yeah that right I opposed that full stop
and I'm also aware of the very you know
I'm aware I'll just put it this way very
credible charges against Ortega so I
just need to study it no more and figure
out where to
like I know for Venezuela as an example
like I like Ava gallinger's perspective
I don't agree with her on everything but
I feel comfortable covering it as this
was actually a really noble and
important experiment and initiative it
has its own failings and its own
corruption and our primary sort of
opposition should be against a u.s. coup
that really reflects how I look at the
world I'm sure it'd actually be quite
similar probably in the choreography
frankly but I don't have the person to
guide here yet sorry I would have to
he's agreed okay you know in Venezuela
there are 80 million people Amnesty
International has put the death toll at
around 200 in Nicaragua there are five
million people and the death toll is
around 500 okay six hundred more than
800 public operations prisoners okay
more than more than modern 30,000 people
the Exile because of the crisis to Costa
Rica mostly but but almost thirty
thousand people and and and not not - no
- no - - to come could come here and and
talk and and not and not let you say
anything but but there is a real crisis
you know Nika always the second poorest
country in Latin America Nicaragua has
has been since since the 90s a a very
struggling country a country where where
where right-wing forces that have
concentrated their power and and Ortega
came to power in 2006 to be like a
counterpart of this right wing right
wing
m-model yeah but he went he went in and
he he made agreements with with the with
the with the private enterprise I know
I'm familiar with some sort of a
neoliberal a neoliberal with socialist
rhetoric and I think well it's my
perspective because you you of course
took up a lot about international and
crisis that Nicaragua should be for it
because I'm Nicaraguan and because I
know how many people have died and how
many prisoners and and how Ortega has
consolidated power violating the
Constitution and and I was I just came
here to propose to you to read about
Nicaragua you will find a lot of
information because there is a lot of
information in the internet because air
air every international organization has
been to Nicaragua the OAS what the
Nicaragua so I was very I'll just say
real quick number one yes I'll do that
100% second nothing is almost nothing
could change my perspective on us
interference there now that is totally
different from I don't know is there a
third force of of of people on the Left
who are in opposition that we could have
critical support for that are not a u.s.
proxy I would be very interested in that
and then the third thing I want to say
and I'm not using this to question you
know Ortega's record or anything like
that but I do think that organizations
like Amnesty International and
particularly Human Rights Watch have a
very questionable record right now in
Latin America they have not spoken out
on I mean Lula being the most prominent
example they do not have and this
actually goes back to the 70s and I only
Klein actually was written well on this
when Human Rights discourses got
separated from social and material
indicators and they speak out on things
of course that are completely
unacceptable wherever they take place
and I am not I
I loathe whitewashing of anywhere so as
an example you know I opposed
intervention in Syria I am a you know
critic obviously of CIA and Gulf actions
there but I also don't deny for a second
that Assad has committed obscene war
crimes and that you know as of the
Russians as have Iranians as have
basically every single force
there I would say arguably with the
exception of the Kurds though frankly
maybe even not them right let alone the
Turks okay and let alone the United
States so I am NOT interested in having
any type of you know we need to be clear
about these things but so I agree with
you and that being said there is a
reason though that these human rights
organizations do they tend to not have
and particularly in a place like Latin
America they can document abuses but
they're not contextual analysis they
don't have a critique of us power there
and they don't speak about anything else
other than okay so I have a slightly I
have a problem I have a fundament so I'm
not I'm not questioning your
presentation of Ortega at all but I have
a PI will not you know I'm uncritically
accept those you know their segments but
you can look at any hey I I mean any oh
I wonder what man I just I just wanted
to make that larger point but I will
100% look into it I appreciate the call
look at look at the painters that
article they wrote the intercept you
know from then we will the the the diary
I will of course I know the intercept
and I will definitely read their
coverage on Nicaragua and I will figure
out how to do some coverage of it thank
you
all right let's do a few Iams s s o
Terrafirma been watching for a couple
years
love you guys more to follow okay thank
you
anthony from baltimore dude i hope you
finished your book you get a chance to
tell sam harris to buy and read your
entire book so he can argue with the
full context and also call him a bad
faith actor well not only with sam
harris needs to read and by the way any
of his fans whoever tweeted me would
need to not only read my entire book
they need to watch every single youtube
clip i've ever done on every single
topic i should probably make sure to buy
the book in both text and audio is there
gonna be audio i don't know yet but if
you don't buy the book in every single
form and watch every single youtube
video you're fundamentally
misrepresenting me taking them out of
context I'm taking me out of Khan
in a morally egregious offensive manner
and I'll just say that upfront
parliamentary cricket enthusiast mr.
speaker Britain has a long history with
executions and with the chastising of
our former colonies we created many
innovative long drawn-out ways to put
people to death that we can propagate it
around the world that we will judge you
for as having okay um a bit too far for
the bit yeah I don't yes okay but I
Theresa May should resign there should
be elections okay let's touch on this
much more brexit news to follow both on
this show and on t MBS but um this is
important to say the least in the United
Kingdom I don't know if you're playing
you're not playing it hit right in the
United Kingdom there is a leader of the
parliamentary opposition his name is
Jeremy Corbyn if you've been reading the
British tabloids and listening to
hysterical people in the United States
he is some type of globe defining you
know monster now what he is actually
doing is saying that the United
Kingdom's crisis predates brexit it
certainly goes back to deregulate
deregulation and neoliberal ization and
making the UK a dangerous financial hub
and an oligarchy it certainly goes back
to New Labour and Tony Blair and Gordon
Brown's alliance with the financial
industry and other corporate interests
and selling out of unions and so on a
classic global Third Way story and that
under the Tory government's going back
to the coalition of Cameron in the Lib
Dems than Cameron's second solo Tory
government and now Theresa May the
ruthless sustained austerity campaign
against this country United Kingdom have
increased poverty there's a massive
amount of xenophobia and so on now he's
been trying to run a third way
essentially himself on brexit and I'm
not sure I agree with every single
movies May
but I do agree with the basic premise
that this government clearly is unable
to function and there need to be
elections and that is the bottom line
and when people go out and vote if they
are voting for labour they're voting for
solid moves towards restoring and
creating some sense of social democracy
in a country that has been absolutely
devastated by the right and by the
Tories now that's what's going on here
and also this is someone who has had
critiques of US Empire of UK foreign
policy he wants to know why they're
still forces in Afghanistan that is a
natural same-same question for anybody
he wants to you know stop the campaign
in Yemen as an example that we talked
about earlier now you may disagree with
this or that comment or inclination he
has that's fine but the notion that this
is anything other than frankly
democratic socialism at home and basic
herbivorous human rights orientation
abroad is ridiculous and it's also
really dangerous because it leads to
clips and actions like this we're gonna
play this now silently but this is video
footage I believe these are British
troops deployed in Afghanistan doing
target practice okay this looks normal
they're practicing firing so far so good
nothing particularly distinct about this
we're gonna ask yourself why we must
watch for safe with the Muslim control
but it's super safe with the muzzle
control mr. fair enough oh they're
shooting a poster of Jeremy Corbyn as
their practice that's what they're doing
now there was a report in the
independent that came out a couple days
ago of an unnamed general saying that
they would consider intervening on any
government that threatened their
national security there were reports in
the 70s that a coup was seriously
considered in a
leaving the beginning stages of planning
were acted upon by the UK military
against the Labour government in the 70s
so you know this is really serious and I
think one of the most extraordinary
things about the UK at least in terms of
presentation I mean some of it is as
simple as here's just a frontline
politician who wants to tax oligarchs
and that is a total brain melt down for
the entire you know essential order
that's run the world for the last couple
of decades okay so that's 99 percent of
it
then you know what frankly in a in a in
a sane discourse and we actually did an
illicit history on this 40m yes there's
nuances you can get to around the left
and anti-semitism in the UK and there's
clearly been times where I think
objectively Jeremy Corbyn has misstepped
now then that gets equated though with a
vicious campaign of which people like
Tony Blair and Gordon Brown are actively
a part of - as in here as in the United
States equate any in all criticism of
Israel with an act of anti-semitism and
in fact criminalize and try to silence
the speech of those who object to an
apartheid state in Israel so in a sane
world we could make Jeremy Corbyn a
better on this rhetoric and this
sensitivity as almost anybody could be
made to be better on everything but in
the world were in we have a campaign to
delegitimize a solid social democrat
with a plan to save the United Kingdom
from emergency that will benefit
everybody in the United Kingdom
other than the oligarchs and the answer
has been a sustained relentless
propaganda campaign from the
corporations from the tabloids from the
right-wing interests in his own party
from a former prime minister who's a war
criminal and a liar and now we see
intimations from the military that
there's literal coup and insurrection
talk and the only conversation in
response to Corbin is that somehow he
represents a crisis
the honey kingdom is in a crisis and
that crisis was created in preset by
Margaret Thatcher and Tony Blair and it
has been blown up by David Cameron and
as well as blown up and extended by
Theresa May but also frankly blown up in
her face because she's completely unable
to handle it waiting in the wings when
Theresa May leaves leadership of the
Tory party which she will sooner or
later
is Boris Johnson a xenophobic sort of
Donald Trump esque but smarter horrific
aristocratic trust-fund baby with
far-right populist tendencies but too
much Senate to so much cynicism to even
have that as a thoroughgoing conviction
who will come who who helped make brexit
happen to essentially help himself with
a couple of news cycles and you will see
as Tony Blair did the other day say that
Boris is a very compelling campaigner
and labor should dump a leader who has
overwhelmingly won the support of his
party again and again and again and
again and actually pulled off an
incredible campaign performance a couple
summers ago with the entirety of the UK
establishment smearing and lying and
attempting to destroy him while he
jaggedly came out and said things like
no we should we should protect the NHS
and we should actually move into new
incredibly innovative and amazing
proposals that he and John McDonald have
put forward on things like workers
ownership and democratizing the economy
so we need to get Corrigan elected Prime
Minister and then we need to be
incredibly watchful of just how far
these forces will go you know I mean
we'll get to Brazil and Lula in a couple
of minutes I mean the obvious example
there but I mean apparently in today's
world these echoes might ring out in
places that people like to talk about as
a sort of fully developed democracy well
I mean read about the Spanish Civil War
read about right
so actually let's let's get to this so
there's some controversy because Bernie
Sanders is doing a Fox News townhall so
I just wanted to say three things about
this and then we're actually gonna play
a clip from the last time he did a Fox
News townhall 2016 Fox News is a cancer
it's a essentially state propaganda it's
white nationalist it's a I'll say it
again it's a cancer on American society
I think that the Democratic Party was
absolutely right and not have a debate
under the auspices of Fox News because
the notion of having these people up on
stage as candidates getting far-right
talking points in questions as a frame
for the debate is ludicrous so let me
which Lee and I'm making zero moral
equivalency here obviously but here's
like the difference in my mind because I
think Bernie should absolutely do this
and I think it's insane to expect any
presidential candidate to not do a town
hall and I see you know some people who
were sort of moralizing and nitpicking
about this I have made some of their
very own sort of interesting choices
about you know who they put forward but
that being said I think that he's right
to do this and here's the difference
that I would say if the majority report
or the Young Turks or even Democracy Now
were to say we want to host the
Republican presidential debate that
would be awesome
and the Republicans you know what if
they said no I think we'll pass on that
or the libertarians I wouldn't hold that
against them that would seem like a
pretty sort of probably a wise move now
if one of these platforms said we're
gonna give you an hour to make your case
in a becerril environment but with an
audience of voters and we'll see in a
second how this ends up working and
could be enormous ly to Bernie Sanders
advantage
it would be insane of them not to say
yes so I think look the bottom line is
is that Bernie Sanders running for
president and this is an opportunity to
reach voters and even if it is 1% of
people watching that could get flipped
that's how votes work and I do not think
that his going on there and making the
case making the argument is the
legitimization of the white nationalism
platform and that by the way holds
across the board my beef is basically
almost never I you know never say never
but almost never the actuality of going
on a particular platform it's what you
do when you're on it that's my bottom
line so if somebody went on fox and said
hey you know i'm a democrat but we need
to you know we need to ice needs to
terrorize people of well of course it's
disqualifying if you go on fox and you
do this I think it's actually enormous
ly effective yeah I mean I agree with
you I'll just mention a Minority Report
Sam sacks the district Sentinel said I
don't think Bernie should go on Fox News
it's not that I'm concerned he'll add
legitimacy to the network it's that the
left should have principles when it
comes to engaging with racist fascist
organs and I think like that principle
is one worth noting even if Bert we are
gonna give Bernie a pass for breaking it
at this point absolutely that's fair I
happen to believe and I know not
everybody agrees with me I believe that
health care is a right of all people I
believe that there is something wrong
when we are spending we're excuse me
where did that right come from in your
mind being a human being
and what I believe Brett we may disagree
with me I believe cause that but I just
love cuz it's exactly right that is
where the right came from and Brett's
it's funny when a kind of meathead guy
does like that's a very superior like
clarinha to come from sort of like dumb
you know but the constitutional
fundamentalism yeah constitutional
fundamentalism or religious nonsense or
whatever and I just like the subtext and
I actually do think it's effective
debate tactic for people on the left is
like when you state something that
anybody with like a beating heart should
agree with you can always be like Brett
you all free to be an I love
that go ahead disagree I believe that if
she is poor and you are which she is
entitled to the same quality health care
that you have because she's a human
being
boom excellent another reminder of why
he's the candidate that's ridiculous I
mean imagine coming away from that being
like well they have more money on yeah
but they have more money so they have
more value I mean that is literally the
sociopathy of that position you know you
talk about you bi and things like that
about basically that give in to the idea
of how important money is in a society
but doing things like just everyone gets
the same health care no so that
basically sorry your money's no good
here
absolutely that's how you make money
less powerful in society like it needs
to not be a reserve to go to to like
basically to survive absolutely 100
percent um this was actually another
funny moment wait who is this in the
video this was another Fox News
disruption okay I thought that was eric
bolling first no I literally did okay so
what's his face jack Todd pirate hero
top hero is that his name is that as he
related to uh I don't believe so it's
just the small world of you know
bridge-and-tunnel people
work for Fox pyromaniac alright so he's
in a cafe in a Riverside Montana he's
out in the real America having been
there and he's he's basically you know
the point of these segments is really
clear you're supposed to go and find
some people that look like quote unquote
real Americans and from the bias of a
fox news audience and then they're
supposed to validate you know barbarism
but he ran into a little bit of a snag
this of construction both of these guys
work in construction he says immigrants
are vital to the construction business
they just have to come the right way why
do you say that that's right it's panic
immigrants in particular are very big
part of the labor force in general you
know nobody judges are discriminating
about where they're from or who they are
but it's predicated upon them becoming
legal citizens the right way then thank
you all right that's that's so far so
good
ish you got to make it a lot easier to
become citizens to the quote right way
right exactly
no I meant from a fox perspective so the
guy is you know no I mean I have all
sorts of problems with that statement
but I would imagine that the Fox viewer
might want a little bit more red meat
than an embracing of bad immigration
policies by reasserting that racism is
bad I mean after all this is a network
that has law remember I know talk right
yeah at some Rhino talk Tucker Carlson
and Laurie Ingram ain't saying that
but you know whatever fair enough what's
next
citizens the right way then thank you
Jack Jack is an info specialist and he
really wants Howard Schultz to talk
about climate change specifically the
green new deal which you support why do
you support it yeah it's really
important we keep below 2 degrees
Celsius of average warming otherwise the
consequence is going to be devastating
how do we pay for it yeah how do we pay
for World War two at the end of the day
when something is this important our
economy is going to suffer if we don't
pay for it okay but you do agree with
the sentiment that this is as big a deal
climate change that is as World War two
yeah I mean for a little over 400,000
Americans died in World War two and
climate change is killing a hundred
fifty thousand people per year at least
okay let's talk about the money because
that's a huge part of this how are we
going to pay for it yeah yeah
so during World War two for one thing
the government just pushed some of the
cash upfront and raised some tax
on some folks but at the end of the day
it's stimulated the economy so much that
everyone benefited okay so to review you
are in favor of raising taxes in order
to support the green new deal if that's
the optimal solution the economists sort
out I'll go with that
Jack thank you for your time and finally
mmt has gotten to uh that was good
energy
oh that's our riverside must be at
missouri oh my bad yeah i can say i know
every town in Montana I've never heard
of her Riverside hi dad
Riverside sir every town in Montana it's
like 12 Winnipeg Greg MRT MBS come town
in the rational National are facing off
in the latest round of that progressive
March media madness contest I voted for
the show that had the most Canadian
coverage when we win well and somehow
that wasn't a Canadian former political
candidate with national and his name so
you voted for mr over rational national
we definitely don't new do more Canadian
cover yeah I don't think that that's
true dude tough bracket but best in my
hometown yeah some candidate coverage
tough bracket but best of luck to mr and
TMDs the homes of progressive Canadian
content I actually it's funny for all I
poo poo it we do do some particularly on
oil stuff Canada content but and also on
Carribean debt stuff we Canada's role I
had an illicit history you know what
maybe he did vote 40 mb/s because for
all I joke that's actually lover Canada
a lot I can think of like well there was
that Canada nice thing that we did yeah
we months ago and then we did the was at
um Anisha John on the debt stuff yeah so
Manisha John on debt and particularly
Canadian business so wait a second we
actually wait thanks for the vote and
the elicit history of the maple leaf
yeah appreciate the vote thank you so
this is we were seated way
lower than we should have been seated T
mb/s I'm talking about actually frankly
majority report to I don't remember the
majority report scenes but there was a
massive amount of disrespect so the
first round this is design where the two
top to go forward last round we beat we
were in a draw with one
I guess they don't remember hardcore
history and come town we won on t MBS
took it all
we took it all but come town also come
down in advance so represent so why we
so break up the categories and then like
a second round match between em are like
don't you want to like save that truck
that's sort of drama to like later in
the tournament the committee really
 up this is just a really dumb
bracket what's the what are the other
brackets looking like or like what are
the other pools looking like they're
wide open there's nobody in this is the
pool they live yeah they just they just
did like let's just put the final four
in the second round
yeah just call it that done yeah I mean
cuz everyone else is a console because
everything else is just like totally
it's all fake news we all know that like
look basically mr chapo bodega boys and
then i would say that TM BS and maybe
calm town could take it all and then the
anti father could make a run so why like
and his literary hangover even in there
that they dis literary hangover a
literary hangover was not included i
think that this might be talk was though
they wait thick contest fake contest
folks it's a fake it's a fake podcast
tournament I'm sure he's not the worst
there but and that was the worse that I
recognize seems like a nice guy
fake okay so and these will be sort of
two different segments but I want to
talk a little bit about what's happening
in Brazil first I cannot find this story
about bolson ro and Netanyahu but I will
start with this story that is really
devastating before we get to Lula so
Jr bolson ro is in office now at this
point last week actively commemorating
the 1964 coup that deposed a democratic
government that brought a military
hunson power that murdered countless
indigenous people tortured and murdered
others and if you actually read there
was a really powerful piece I think was
actually in The Washington Post Apollo
Paulo Coelho quello he wrote he's the
famous Brazilian kind of spiritual
writer he wrote The Alchemist he was
tortured as a young man by the Brazilian
regime and if you read his essay on that
his editorial that's one of the most
sort of disturbing things you'll read
balsan ro who dedicated his vote for the
impeachment of the former President
Dilma Rousseff and that illegitimate
impeachment that judicial that
legislative coup which has set the
political stage along with the u.s.
support for the entire crisis that
Brazil is in he dedicated his vote for
that on behalf of the man in the
military who tortured Dilma Rousseff
Dilma Rousseff was a guerrilla fighter
fighting against Brazil's military
dictatorship so bolson arrow is in
charge and it's very important
particularly as this goes out because
it's been a disastrous first couple of
months he's extremely unpopular there's
huge pushback against the efforts to gut
the pension system and there's also just
the fact that this guy's an
international embarrassment
there's the stories about his families
you know certainly we don't know all of
it yet but they're definitely on some
level literally connected with the
cartel that assassinated the incredibly
important young leader Mariela Franco
and so and and and nobody likes just on
a PR level you know the fact that this
is a variant Lee anti LGBTQ government
the fact that this is a you know a
buffoonish government and it's
considered sort of uncouth to be overtly
pro coup and that's why
actually bolson arroz vice-president was
a foreign military guy and to the far
right has been triangulating against him
in some ways and sort of undermining
some of his public statements and it's
very important that as this spills out
that people remember that the Wall
Street Journal endorsed this candidate
that the Brazilian judiciary that has
acted in a totally politicized in
illegitimate fashion against president
Lula who would have almost certainly
beat balsan our own inverted this
catastrophe the oligarchs in Brazil the
the the interests of US and Canadian
corporations that have massive interests
and Brazilian oil timber and agriculture
they supported this happening and they
were gladly able to overlook the fascism
and the buffoonery because of the
opportunity for greater privatization
and capital accumulation and they might
pivot off of this as it becomes more of
an embarrassment if it keeps going down
this trajectory and I just want to say
there and there is a history of
assassinations of movement leaders in
Brazil right in the beginning of bolson
arroz time a couple liters of the
landless movement were machine-gun to
death and what just happened on
Wednesday was that a Brazilian
environmental leader a major leader of
the indigenous community Sonia guau guau
Jadhav Jarrah
and apologized as always for my
pronunciations and I'm quoting now from
tellus or an indigenous leader and vice
presidential candidate for the socialism
ok a Sonia Guadalajara who is an
indigenous leader and vice-presidential
candidate for socialism and Liebherr
leadership party confirmed Jorah dingos
death and jorik jørgen tengo Gaga geo
Hara was murdered in the state of Murano
in the Brazilian Amazon they suspect
that gheorghe go was killed and quoting
again from Seles or by illegal loggers
who operate in the territory of Gwadar
a-- and the people renowned for their
work as guardians of the amazon
and she and now I'm back to Sonia who
said the murder was part of a sequence
of deaths and murders in the quota in
the logging dispute according to data
from the National Institute for Space
Research INPE 70% of Murano State has
been deforested guardians of the Amazon
is a group of men of the Goya hora
people who decided the fight against
illegal loggers themselves in the face
of government inaction they patrol their
territory in search of outside threats
and when they find loggers or hunters
they destroy their equipment and detain
perpetrators and deliver them to the
police
later quote-unquote now from that tell
us or report now we know that bolson ro
has removed protections for both the
Amazon and indigenous people and the
entirety of the Amazon is on the
chopping block and of course it's an
environmental story because if you
actually radically DeForest the Amazon
that will affect global environmental
patterns but it is also something akin
to a genocide aleph eart of the
indigenous people there so it goes
without saying that of course the Trump
administration supports this and of
course Steve Bannon is connected with
these people and of course all of the
worst oil companies and every other type
of nefarious corporate interest from the
Western order supports and is connected
to these things but it's very important
to remember that the Brazilian judiciary
we'll get to in a second in prison Lula
which helps set which help finalize the
stage for this and it's very important
to remember that the New York Times and
The Guardian did credulous absurd
reporting on this it's very important to
remember that even some progressive
YouTube hosts thought that this lava
jato operation which was too politicized
a war against the left in Brazil was
somehow a great blow and anti corruption
and still have not apologized or made
amends or attempted to do any new work
on Brazil even though supposedly they're
so concerned about us interference and
the Obama administration and Clinton and
Kerry State Department's
actively supported the do J's
collaboration in these efforts so they
all share part of the blame for the
catastrophe of the ball Cynara regime
and this is another major piece of this
on April 7th
Lula de Silva was the former president
he governed Brazil from 2003 to 2010
will have completed his first year in
prison he was put in jail without any
material evidence by a independent and
prosecutor Sergio Moro who was
incidentally now the Justice Minister
for Jerry Belson ro Moro leaked phone
conversations and wiretaps illegally in
attempts to humiliate Lula and Dilma and
other Workers Party leaders and the
entirety of the conviction of Lula is
based off of testimony and there is zero
material evidence for what by the way is
also an exceedingly nothing crime even
if it were to have actually taken place
which is literally repairs on a
middle-class apartment by the beach
after Lula was president this is in a
country that has a massive that has
politicians literally in bed with mafia
cartels who are not in jail the former
president Michel temer was arrested for
four days on very serious and infinitely
more documented charges and was released
after four days in prison meanwhile Lula
has been held in solitary confinement
with no evidence and against all norms
and protocols of every type of legal
precedent let's play a clip this is
actually and this really is painful
because look Lula chose to not go into
exile and he chose to even hand himself
into prison even though this was
obviously a totally corrupt and
politicized process and this was the
final rally he gave before handing
himself in notice the fact that the
Social Democratic Union leader who
helped lead Brazil out of the military
dictatorship in the 80s and took 40
million people out of poverty when he
was president is the one who's actually
talking about preserving
institution here
you want a doctor here I'm going to
attend the mandate and so they won't say
that I'm a fugitive hiding myself that
I'm going to let them know I'm not
afraid I'm going to prove my innocence
there has been ample proof offered by
him as legal team but it will not make a
difference in the current rotted corrupt
leadership of Brazil and several unusual
and extrajudicial moves including by the
way a decision last spring that was
handed down by a lower court that should
have immediately released Lula in fact
there was a couple of hours where he
wasn't released Sergio Moro the same
prosecutor to put him in jail without
evidence who's now balsa na Rose Justice
Minister held him there actually just
illegally ordering a court order the
Brazilian military around this time also
sent out a threatening tweet about
releasing Lula I'm going to quote
briefly from Vijay Prashad who has a
really good piece out called you can't
have democracy when you put the truth in
prison which is on a year-long
anniversary of Lula being in prison
Brazil's former President Lula o'clock a
year in prison this week it's a
bittersweet anniversary not just for
Lula not just for Brazil but for the
idea of democracy
what did Lula do to deserve this time in
prison and indeed what is his successor
Dilma due to be impeached so
aggressively a few years ago I'm quoting
ahead a little bit Lula and Dilma
represent the side of history that says
that the powerful should not be allowed
to do whatever they want and when they
do and when they do what they want they
should not be allowed to get away with
it Lula and Dilma unlike the others
became heads of government speaking
about other political prisoners in other
parts of the world became heads of
governments and head and as heads of
government they pushed agendas that
rattled the old order but they didn't
break the bars all they did was drag
some of the sequestered wealth from
Brazil's wealthy and try to moderate a
society that has been deeply unequal for
500 years they tackled hunger and
corruption illiteracy and indignity the
problems in Brazil remain fierce and as
any reasonable person will attest Lula
and Dilma went after them with honesty
and reason the United Nations pointed
out pointed to Brazil as an example of
the country that was able to eradicate
hunger a visit to federal university set
up under Lula's government showed that
it was possible in terms of the
provision of higher education for
oppressed communities all of this was
out of the question
Oleg Archy wanted their country back the
viciousness was with which Dilma was
impeached in april 2016 is an indication
of the oligarchies disregard for
democratic norms and hunger to restore
power to themselves brazil's president
jerub-baal scenario trump at the tropics
was then a legislator he dedicated his
vote against Dilma it's a to the kernel
to man a brilliant au straw the man who
tortured Dilma in 1970 during the
military dictatorship just briefly more
lula was a force to be reckoned with
lula was arrested because it was clear
that he a force of nature was likely to
win the presidential elections of 2018
last week 464 brazilian lawyers all
highly respecting their professions
signed a statement asking for the
release of Lula Lula they said did not
receive the rules of due process his
defense team was not able to work
effectively and the facts of his
complicity were not proved beyond a
reasonable doubt
Lula the first president from a
working-class background they broke had
pushed an agenda on behalf of the poor
which quote may be one of the reasons
that explained his arrest
this also is a really good book from our
books
luiz inacio lula da silva the truth will
prepare prevail why I was condemned
which have loot interviews with Lula
right before he was taken to prison
outlined in the political situation and
an explanation of the corruption of the
Brazilian judiciary with regards to his
case and look you know there's that
Corbin story and I don't you know I
don't know
if you elect somebody like Bernie
Sanders as president I don't know
but put it this way it's not gonna end
with like the vicious stupidity of
someone like dana Milbank you know if
you come into power in a society that is
fundamentally set to favor a small part
of the population and you challenge that
even an incredibly moderated way and
even in Lula's case it was aided by a
commodities boom so people are actually
getting richer you are going to
profoundly offend that order uh and he's
a political prisoner because of that but
I think there's implications for the
rest of the world and certainly
something to watch with things like
capital flight Azzam low attempts to
chart a different but in some ways
analogous trajectory yeah none of these
fights are going to be one with the
placing of any single person in an
office never and particularly in
developing countries and places where US
has a dominant int you know influence
it's our responsibility to speak on that
you know there was the letter on this
that was released a couple weeks ago
signed by many members of Congress it
included the fact that lula was barred
but there needs to be a lot more on this
and including very specifically on lula
we need to be in a position where if a
democrat and obviously sanders would be
the most likely to do this but frankly
any democrat they need to be pushed on
this in the primary this has big
implications for foreign policy across
latin america and a u.s. role there and
we do not want a repetition of clinton
Obama policies in Latin America and
there needs to be extreme diplomatic
pressure put by the United States to
release Lula from prison period you're
calling from a six one seven area code
who are you where you're calling from no
worries
this is Ben from Chicago hey Ben what's
going on what's on your minds a big fan
of all the coverage of like entomology
and her piece Oh could you hit that
check it out yes yeah
Oh also side note can I just make a
request that uh anytime Sam as a hostile
interview plans you make sure that he
speaks to Judy gold immediately
beforehand okay let's try to do that
yeah I mean it helps for the quality so
I when I was listening to the interview
I was trying to you know I've been
trying to find ways to get more involved
myself and wondering what types of
organizations are involved in places
like Milwaukee that are working to kind
of reverse the trends or reverse the
results of 2016 in terms of turnout I
haven't been able to find much I was
able to find one organization called up
block black leaders organizing
communities that worked on they
canvassed extensively in 2018 in black
neighborhoods in Milwaukee and the you
know black turnout in Milwaukee did play
a big role in defeating Scott Walker so
I definitely encourage everyone to check
out organizations like that I was
wondering if you know or malaika's
mentioned any organizations like that in
you know milwaukee wayne county that are
that are organizing on a grassroots
level to mobilize people and increase
turnout for 2020 because i mean it's
just like democrats are not making this
the priority that it needs to be there's
a time to peace today about Wisconsin in
2020 and and how Democrats are focusing
on that and they did not mention black
voters it was all about you know the
Bourbon moderate and right yeah so I
just like to know we're here so I don't
know
I will ask Malaika and I do recommend
that everyone
go and check out the full interview with
her over the Michael Brooke show YouTube
channel I do think it is you know very
important for understanding 20/20 and
also what became before I mean I think
her broader point and again these things
are all simultaneously true people do
need to turn out and they do matter
right so I absolutely of course stand my
mind position of critically you know I
loathe Hillary Clinton and of course you
know she was president we would be in a
better position than with Donald Trump
just from a you know basic human being
human human level and I also don't buy
the notion because in fact conversely I
do accept what a deep structural crisis
we were in then in fact there still
would have been this radical energy
rising up as well so so that being said
you know I accept that and I don't
question the need to you know strategize
for turnout and so on on the other hand
I again what I was trying to point is
trying to make yesterday's like people
are not you know there's an
institutional memory in people's bodies
and lives no matter who they are you
know people remember particularly in a
place like Wisconsin that the Clintons
were horrible on everything that would
matter to a working-class person so so
but the bigger point no but I'm just
telling you what what malaika really
emphasizes I mean I don't want to turn
this into just an editorial for a
specific candidate but the bottom line
is is like you need to nominate somebody
who has a no-bullshit actual agenda for
this place because yeah things like
turnout operations and data models are
only ever supplemental and I think I
guess I guess I'm just asking because
because this message is not getting
across the Democratic leadership what
can be done at the grassroots level to
to mobilize well to me I would organize
for Bernie Sanders and then I would org
on an electoral level I'd organize for
Bernie Sanders but then on the other
hand
I think there's without a doubt there's
I'm I bet there are hundreds if not
thousands of people doing incredibly
important work in Milwaukee that I don't
like I have to fly there and ask them
that's you know so that's what we should
do right like what are the best well
yeah thanks for calming I would ask I
would ask your listeners I mean yes
anyone out there is aware of
organizations on the ground in Detroit
Philly Milwaukee please share that
information I mean I've been thinking of
things to do I I might you know go
door-to-door in Detroit and just just
registering people to vote and I know
the point of her piece is not so much
that like voter suppression is the key
issue it's more lack of concrete policy
proposals that would that that will help
people in these Rust Belt cities but I
just I'm just not seeing either the
prioritization among Democratic
leadership of this or much of a
grassroots effort and that I absolutely
I can find the grasp at its effort isn't
it it's gonna though I do think it's
gonna come from something bigger and
much more material than just something
like voter registration but please tweet
all the resources thank you so much
ma'am and I'll look into it more it's a
good question
disco Stu it's now obvious that the
barre mem row is deliberately misleading
attempt by the cover-up about the
findings the Russian investigation who
could have seen that coming look forward
to apology from those on the Left who
jumped all over and self righteously
finger wag well okay I think again we
don't know as in like we literally don't
know but yeah I mean I look at least I
don't even really think that's directed
to me but or it may be necessarily
anybody here I mean look obviously
people who have definitively said things
about Maura about the molar report are
setting themselves up to be embarrassed
just like other people who said
definitive things about it going the
other way set themselves up to be
embarrassed so I at least for me I think
the bigger critique of how this was used
in a way that distracted people from
politics and got them into a very
overworked up sort of fantasy life
in the broader Civic and media critique
to me the only way that wouldn't stand
would be in fact as if there was like
literal indictments if but if if Donald
Trump was frog-marched out of the White
House maybe that amount of attention
speculation would be justified now
conversely yeah definitely some people
have clearly set themselves out like I
don't even understand like how could
there not be massively embarrassing and
problematic in a massive criminal
probe about Donald Trump
totally clean right I mean that would be
sort of shockingly exonerated well we
also write and we also said from the
beginning this is something I know that
we have called well on this show going
back very early which is that even to
the extent that there is fishy stuff and
there is definitely fishy stuff this is
a criminal story not a Manchurian
Candidate story so but yeah and I
frankly look I think there's a big I
think I think somewhere in between
saying it's world war three possible
which I totally don't agree with and Sam
comparing it to the OJ trial which I
also totally don't agree with there is a
mess of middle ground and I'm I'm pretty
comfortable on on both shows at least
far as I'm concerned going back to not
covering it I feel so like the next
thing is gonna be the thing that we said
before we always said wait till the
report comes out so now I'll do my new
marker I will wait till the full report
is leaked and then I'll have another
opinion on it yeah it's weird that like
people keep coming at us
I feel so undefensible out any of our
output like I mean I just don't think we
yeah no I don't think we I mean I might
I might have made a few changes in the
margins and I've told Sam but literally
like in the market still a fraction of
the output that we've done with this
article that came out today on like
people on the Moller team being upset
that the you know their executive
summaries didn't come out and people
saying like well see people who are
saying that nothing happened something
definitely did happen you're kind of
doing the same thing they did when the
bar
okay so just wait please relax you could
you got so much time this is gonna play
out for so long you also have so many
small just travesties like seasons are
starting like just relax
relax there's a mill and also it's for
God's sake it's the Trump
administration are you kidding me like
what do you I just talked about them
selling new technology to Saudi Arabia
and that's and that's by the way that's
not like this person met with that
person and that that's their they did
that well in defense of that I mean it
is a lot easier to pin your you know
your feelings and energy towards this
one thing that feels more concrete like
to deal with something that is
completely out of your control like
selling nuclear technology through
private companies to the Saudis fist I
don't think him getting indicted about
you know being a secret Russian spies
and your control either alright what is
in your controls going out and getting
this to lose 20 20 I mean
and he needs to Chomsky vocal fry fry
forced to listen MSNBC this morning and
coverage of Bernie's complete
when when they do mention him it's like
yes I guess we should say this he's the
front-runner for now insinuating he
didn't help Hillary enough in 2016 will
they ever bend the knee uh I don't know
be interesting it's a very weird well
watching it there
I mean look there is a when you look at
the dana Milbank column and
unfortunately you know MSNBC like ain't
it
MSNBC we know like not progressive right
so I mean I have respect for Hayes I
know Sam does hits I don't even I don't
watch MSNBC
is really the bottom line you know I'm
obviously I have big problems with
Rachel Chris Matthews I mean come on
I mean he's hilarious but really and
then like lawrence O'Donnell I don't
even I don't even know like I don't even
know what Lawrence O'Donnell's current
shtick is right so and then there's a
bunch of you know I mean something like
Stephanie ruhle is just a pure Wall
Street person and oligarch defends
there's you know yeah I mean people like
John Brennan on for God's sake and then
there's Morning Joe I mean so the
network is a disaster
I mean it was just don't let it get to
you too much as my point you got to see
like that there is an alternative media
space that is you know really growing
well and shows that people are you know
engaging with the stuff on the merits of
it rather than just being fed whatever
MSNBC is giving them today they did I
saw on Twitter they did a super cut
cutting together
Bernie's taxable tax return avoidance
with Trump's and it's just like okay
they obviously have a hit out on this
guy so you got a right you got a well
yeah move on but definitely you know say
it like if one of your friends brings up
MSNBC yeah it's not illegitimate listen
you are wasting your time if you're
watching if you're getting your news
from television well that's the big
picture point and the small picture
point is this is not a credible source
of coverage on Bernie Sanders period
even down to like people who obviously
have very weird personal vendettas
against the guy and like you know I
think on this show like we're you know
obviously a lot more transparent and I
don't I actually don't think there's
anything on this show that is analogous
to those sort of just clearly bizarre
issues that people have with Bernie
Sanders and I'm not you know look
obviously I 100% support them I don't
buy you know I to me I'm sorry if you're
on the left it's just a clear choice but
like I don't you know yeah I I don't I
don't I don't understand I mean I think
I think that the closest like when you
read the damn and Milbank piece
it's an incredible fusion of of course
it's totally disingenuous and misleading
but it's also very revealing I mean this
is somebody he soft petals it but he
really is actually equated identifying
America's oligarchy by name and saying
we cannot live with that kind of
disparity and people are suffering and
dying
and we're gonna reclaim resources he's
literally putting that on the same graph
as the way Donald Trump talks about
immigration and not only is that just
you know utterly morally confused and
insane and sick
it shows how I mean there is a class of
people in the media who are Howard
Schultz level delusional and a lot of
them are on MSNBC so you know and then
others who aren't quite the same level
have whatever weird issues developed
from 2016 well I mean I'll just say name
two examples Malcolm Nance's lied on
this show so Malcolm Nance I mean
that's my editorial right and also I
mean I and I think that plus the joy
read thing about the hacked emails like
I think it tells you what you need to
know about that except that networks
what was funny is like we never said
anything about like I actually I even
said at the time like you know whatever
let joy be joy like I've been super easy
rightfully or wrongly on these things
but like it's also like let's be very
clear about exactly what kind of
organization we're talking about one
that almost cut bait on Sam that did cut
bait on Sam based off of a Michael
Tsarevich thing and the only reason they
restored him is purely because of public
pressure and just how objectively
humiliating it was so look I know no I
hope we're not like getting salmon like
you know this is not Sam's feelings on
MSNBC but this is my feelings yeah
that's feelings and Brennan's feelings
and it's bad watch YouTube it's bad
watching to read a book listen to a
podcast yeah read books folks yeah books
and I mean look the out there they're
covered I mean yeah I mean but but
honestly in some ways the hatred and the
vendetta against him is so weird and so
like over-the-top that like even if they
were itself negating to some extent
right cuz like again it's like very
easily go out and do your little like is
this really realistic and
grouchy and blah-blah-blah-blah-blah
but they come at him with so much
animosity that again I'm telling you
amongst a broad set of normal people and
it's bared by polls but also by talking
to a lot of people have totally
including people aren't sold on voting
for him they don't get it they're like
wait like you mean this nice old man who
wants everybody to get health care like
really the is wrong with you why do
you hate him so much and if if they had
the effect to make that impression
widely felt then Trump wouldn't be
president right now I mean that's the
other right
but yeah they're not look MSNBC in
general watch TV I mean don't watch TV
read books watch YouTube get into things
deeper and when it comes to Bernie
Sanders coverage this is not I mean this
is like reading a you know it's like
reading a Yankees fan page about the Red
Sox it's irrational it's hateful it's
not legitimate coverage but you're gonna
contribute to the ratio online if you
really feel I would do that that would
be a product rating that would be
productive thing it was very funny to
watch dana Milbank whining after he put
up this try ratio proves this point that
yeah I was like Trump you have to watch
a news show on TV watch Jesus and marrow
seriously Showtime baby you're calling
him a four seven eight area code who are
you where you calling from there's me
yep this is you oh wow great I finally
got there you guys uh my name is Barbara
and I'm calling from Macon Georgia
what's your name again Bourbon ve RBI in
it's a Native American name you're not
gonna hear a lot Marvin okay got it
no I just wanted to make sure you got it
okay bargain what's on your mind bourbon
like like a verb and then I ain't
bourbon like barb it's what you do
Marvin bourbon no he just you just okay
god yeah got it
thank you yeah what's on earth well I
guess you know I've kind of been a
thinking uh well you kind of put it out
there before you know a lot of people
just paint Bernie Sanders is just an old
white man right um which you know seems
pretty answered somatic when it you you
really paint it out for definitely that
was uh yeah
but um you know I think that we really
got to start calling some of these
things out whenever neoliberalism uses
this as a way to uh you know sort of
just I guess banner aoc who pretty much
matches him 99% on policies but at the
same time dismiss him completely I mean
it really does come from a from a
internal sense of anti-semitism carried
by the American public I think we've got
to call that out for what it is it's
sort of a show of the social standards
that we have with like systemic misogyny
or systemic racism I think that that's
true to some extent and I think it look
definitely I think any to anytime you
just say bernie is just an old white man
I think that is a form of some objective
anti-semitism on some level for sure but
the other two things that are going on
are one there is I mean one there's two
different things going on so one I think
for some people who you know who just
have a much more like they follow
politics the way they follow sports or
entertainment they just they just AOC
hasn't offended them yet
AOC is you know fits into their brand
image more than Bernie does so that
works and that's just a very kind of
surface level you know reading the other
thing though is that the other thing the
other day I mean real quick the other
side I encounter it a lot because I'm
one of the vice chairs of my local
Democratic Party I mean it really does
have a lot to do with her existence as a
minority um it fits into our identity
brand which I mean because he doesn't
fit into the identity brand really does
speak to an internal form of racism even
among the majority minority group of the
Democratic Party I mean yes at least my
local party here in Big Town I'm not
sure at all I think I'm not sure I
totally follow that but I think the
other part that's important is that the
people in the center understand that
there's a lot of momentum on the Left
where I was actually just talking about
this in the interview this morning and
they're very adapt at picking up
different discourses and you
using them for their own ends and I
think right now AOC is somebody who they
see opportunity to sort of enlist her in
their political project and Bernie has
never been that Bernie has gone from a
guy that you know people ridiculed and
rolled their like while all of these
other politicians were embracing
deregulating Wall Street and attacking
poor people and you know never mentioned
inequality he was talking about it and
they rolled their eyes at him and said
that Alan Greenspan was a genius right
so he went from there and then he went
to being a national leader and in each
version they either dismiss him or they
hate him and they resent him and I also
think part of it is because again like
even though obviously he's a smart guy
and I guess he did it he does actually
have a degree from a prestigious school
you know he didn't do all these other
things that you know these people are
trained to worship and obsess over like
you read any profile he liked Budig it's
like oh my god he would he was at
McKinsey and he speaks all these
languages and it's like cool great but
like so I mean honestly so what you know
I'm not I'm not saying that you know
intelligence and a bill I mean actually
in other ways AOC is a great
counterpoint to this right like these
classes sexist dismissals of her they go
she's abort and they're it's like
actually yeah she did bartend and you
know what
she's clearly way more forensic
intelligent and capable than most of the
lawyers and other people with all these
accreditation zhan that committee so who
 cares like what is the actual
plan what's your capacity to really
understand problems but people get lost
in these trinkets of of the meritocracy
and I actually think that's another sort
of problem that some of them have with
Bernie that he was basically like you
know he's bumming around Vermont being
an activist trying to figure things out
and then actually became a national
leader by just being a good politician
and having commitments I don't think
that that's appreciated but yeah I mean
well you know I think you you make a you
make a lot of good points as to you know
I mean because it's not always racism or
internalized anti-semitism for for
everybody I mean I didn't mean to you
know paint that but yeah I mean you make
a lot of good points and terms of that
um you know as because a OSI does have a
very prestigious record before being a
bartender - I mean core in terms of her
academic record record so I look at my
perspective my favourite polish paper
merit my favorite politician in the
world is obviously Lula right and he's a
political prisoner yeah I mean that guy
does he did not go to college I don't
even think he finished high school he
lost fingers as a as a metal worker I
have more admiration and respect for his
ethic strategic sense and capacity than
any other leader like you know who cares
you know who cares if a OC never yes
you're absolutely right they're negating
the fact that she went to PU and she's
got good grades and so on no doubt and
that should be pointed out - correct but
frankly I don't if a OC never went to
college
and Bart ended and then got elected to
Congress I would have actually probably
my own my biases I probably like her
even more like I don't care and
conversely they know Buddha gigs
credentials don't mean a damn thing to
me nothing yeah yep well uh thank you so
much for your time is I just like to
plug myself before I go if that's all
right yes I'm from you guys is kind of a
you know just to thank you for being not
not just a platform for the progressive
movement but what is the new I guess I'd
call them neo socialist movement in
America you know you know but you guys
have kind of inspired me to a run for
local office I'm going to run for mayor
on Friday my website will be fully up
it'll be Bourbon 2020 calm we're also
going to make a change here and thought
of what is a very blue blue dot inside
of the inside of the sea of red that it
has been Georgia so you know what we're
gonna try and put a real socialist
platform o4 in an area that it really
can make a difference you should get a
chef from Georgia on your campaign team
should he come he's not far away from me
make you campaign jingles yeah
where is he from I don't know I know
he's from I know he's from the central
Georgia area to support 7/8 area code
but that could be anywhere from Houston
County all the way up to like
Milledgeville I'm not I'm not gonna
Doc's I mean you know like a Twitter or
any type of social media presence that
people can follow you on I'm gonna be
honest I might be a lineal but uh you
know I actually had to ask someone who
does that more for to do that for me
I've never all right well cool back up
when everything is launched and people
can find it directly that way awesome
man good luck um that's awesome you're
calling from May 9 3 9 area code who are
you where you're calling from hi this is
Manny from Puerto Rico hey Manny how you
doing what's on your mind I'm going I'm
a friend on the show there's a start so
anyways I just I kind of had a question
but I wanted to like give a brief
description so that you can understand
why I'm coming from okay so in Puerto
Rico there's two main political parties
the PNP was just a right-wing majority
party they want stay safe stay put and
then the ppb with his left-wing majority
and they want to remain with the current
status status that we have which is its
internal ISM so in 2017 the PNP held an
election of where the Puerto Ricans want
to statehood or independence and claim
the current colonial status as a
territory status but that wasn't in the
elections and their favorite one but as
a protest most of their electorate which
was a PPD the other electorate they
didn't vote and therefore basically the
half of the population of the electorate
did not vote and that counted out the
referendum being not valid so I guess my
question is what can they do supporters
and independent supporters do too
including with him in fact for the
population in Puerto Rico
to remain with the corner static they
want to remain I don't understand so
what what is their explanation though
you're telling me the left-wing party in
Puerto Rico wants to remain in the
current situation it's different it's
not the same as Democrat and Republican
no I understand I get it I just want to
know what why don't they want a Senate
yeah why don't they want statehood or
independence why do they want the
current situation I know what I want I
get on this town what's the question why
does one party want to maintain the
status quo it's I mean it's very I would
say very superficial superficial reasons
like to kind of happen the best of both
worlds
kinda like remaining the remain an
independent country and participate in
the Olympics like very superficial I
swear they start the argument they wanna
participate in the Olympics and remain
with once a sense of unity and country
and pride and to also have a little bit
of the benefit that being part of the
state of the state's provide us so I
would say that those are the main
superficial reasons well I would say I
have no idea you know I'm learning a lot
more about Puerto Rico and I really
enjoyed spending time there I would say
in my instincts like how I view the
world is you know Puerto Rico's a colony
it should become independent and so on I
would say in terms of practical politics
right now I think it's it's the very
least should be the job of people who
are like running for president and
talking about being Democratic leaders
to a hundred percent support statehood
and full representation for Puerto Rico
and maybe maybe if you know because
again as you know it's obviously a
colonial it's a colonized relationship
maybe like if the politics here starts
to change it can open up new space in
Puerto Rican politics I mean I I know
from reading war against all Puerto
Ricans though that like there was very
serious independence movement in Puerto
Rico and they were mass murdered and
terrorized by US military right like in
people put resin so I mean I think like
I'm sure there's that memory um but many
I'll think more about it I appreciate
the call man thank you thank you yeah I
would my gut is and I've saw some
skepticism
that stat about how a lot of Puerto
Ricans don't necessarily want you know
citizenship but it I mean you want a
scent you want senators and the
congressmen you want I mean I think
maybe they're playing like off of that
line of like if you don't fully do it it
holds the possibility of independence
and I get that I oh look it's not our
position to tell Burt au Ricans how they
voted what they want but it is certainly
our position to demand that candidates a
hundred percent support well I would say
first and foremost a choice for what
Puerto Ricans want but then secondly you
know if as long as Puerto Ricans are in
the United States they get senators
congressional people and it's you know
they need to add a bare minimum be a
state and by the way that that logic
should apply obviously for DC but I
would assume well you know Guam and and
elsewhere situations I know less about
your calling from a 7:06 area code who
are you where he calling from I'm sorry
we need some relic sorry we told me that
again I missed the first part of it
Oh Patrick from Athens Georgia hey
Patrick what's going on what's on your
minds hey not much we've had where we're
in the midst of having a abortion bill
pass in Georgia a heartbeat six-week
basically like banning abortions after
six weeks and it's kind of created I
mean it's obviously going to be a
travesty and a huge issue in our state
but I don't really see us being able to
like combat it legislatively and I've
sort of wondered if there were
alternative pathways to challenging sort
of conservative Christianity in our
country through
maybe like organizing churches like
really really super liberal minded
churches and sort of like establishing
bodily autonomy through discussing
basically like yeah like kind of
creating a freedom like a religious
movement based on bodily autonomy and
challenging sort of the status quo in
her country in that regard and just kind
of curious if you've ever run across
movements like that or had any thoughts
on it I know that there have definitely
been nuns inside the Catholic Church you
I don't know if they've gone as far as
fully being pro-choice but they have
been vigorously critical of the
patriarchy around the Church's teachings
on those things and I think have even
advocated for providing like
contraceptive services and Catholic
hospitals I mean I don't know enough but
my instinct is totally with you I mean
this is one of the reasons that I'm not
you know well without relitigate annul
atheism thing I do think that there are
places the country where you have to do
very least contest religion and what it
means to be religious so I don't know
more than that but I like your instincts
and also it's obviously an incredibly
disturbing misogynistic bill and yeah I
don't know what you do to stop something
like that happening in Georgia right now
yeah I understand the sentiment of there
needs to be like some sort of bridge or
middle ground to move people from
far-right conservative Christian I don't
if he's saying little middle ground
though I think he's saying like a left
Christian perspective that's highly pass
all right I'm actually sort of
suggesting a more controversial right
yeah I mean I think on one level there
should be progressive Christians yes you
know I'm actually not a Christian I was
actually wondering if there is like even
a more potentially interesting option
and has organizing politically around
the idea of churches and religion in
terms of both labor and bodily autonomy
well I would say certainly in labor
certainly labor thanks for the call
certainly late I don't know looking at
some of the priests that worked
my high school on facebook the the
things it's gotten worse worse yeah like
it's how do you see it's gotten worse
just like reading like you and on
and moment free support footing yeah
Jesus
well that's part of face sopranos father
Phil gets into queueing on it's a gun
yeah calm it's this whole thing and what
he's doing is President Trump is
revealed you better watch out for your
husband guys they got the families of
all usually good car cars like father
Phil says that Donald Trump's exposing
all the crimes you're calling from a
nine to Oh area code with the final
caller today who are you where you
calling from mark from Milwaukee hey
Mark what's going on now I'm not telling
you fellas good good to be talking with
you man yeah right on so here we go
touch anybody's kind of want to talk
about it was fastened elections for a
minute I know there were some that's
rated about the turnout right internal
is actually like exceptionally high
right and even in our favor in terms of
that Madison had a mayoral election
right so I mean that ball are waiting
more people than court so what happened
to the suit I think I think you know I
was a little bit in terms of you know
well with a blame on herself we do have
some things going against that the fact
that like the only thing to say other
than you know Madison Milwaukee is like
Michigan but you know like we just we
don't turn it out and it's been spent
decades and decades of this going on and
so I you know the Republicans saw the
chessboard twenty years ago and they've
been playing it right and we've been
kind of sitting back and you know III
don't know I know what the answer but uh
I just wanted to call any time that I
bring up the fact that right control of
cargo here on this state is super
powerful a lot of the big reason why
Trump didn't win the Republican
nomination initially because consider
talk radio you know pushed Ted Cruz so
hard
so yeah I mean I I don't know exactly
what the answer is but there has to be
something going on you know between even
with you guys talking about MSNBC today
and everything like there the yeah they
just get it in a way of people going out
and though you know I'm like I know it's
a lot of folk I know that voted for
Green Party for the presidential
actually didn't show up for there so I
don't know I mean I think it's just you
know young folks like that you know
making sure that people who are talking
to a massive person they're always on
Facebook and making sure they pay
attention and local elections stop the
clicktivism thanks for the call man all
right we're gonna read a few AIIMS and
then we're gonna get out of here letter
carrier not only do do we deliver Amazon
package daily including Sunday we also
deliver last mileage package for UPS
FedEx parcels from Don's dad's favorite
carrier DHL Macs in Oakland Stewart vani
doing a good job labeling everything the
right doesn't like as communism I think
one of the greatest triumphs the right
has made in the last few decades is
convincing everyone the only important
factor in determining one's political
alignment is an attitude towards lazy
faire capitalism nothing else matters
if you're 100 percent for unregulated
capitalism you're on the right if you
are ninety nine percent or less of your
underwear get laid to capitalism your
communist this is how jr. bolson ro can
get in front of a crowd and say the
Nazis were leftist and have it resonate
the leftist need to push back against
the simplistic a historical view of
politics yes in deed
alright define I don't know does anybody
have any advice on how to get out of
jury duty yes say you work for the news
media and that you have a conflict of
interest right but every and you've done
a story on every case they try to put
you on there you go the final I am looks
day
[Applause]
Brookes brother member regulation leads
to innovation Dave you dum-dum to give
you an example I work in construction
there are plenty of specialized country
companies that have made billions and
employed hundreds of thousands of people
by creating pot products that specialize
in solving code issues I recently
visited an unionized factory that only
makes special hinge hinges for Windows
that need to comply with new codes well
yeah and that really emerged in eighties
all right we'll see you tomorrow Oh see
you tomorrow
thought I was gonna do an idea riff for
a while
but I know some
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
feeling better ya know
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice option
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
