[Music]
the NRA and build a safer future with
fewer guns igor Volsky
welcome to the program hey thanks for
having me
so I know I know we have just a limited
time with you Igor but give us a sense
of how realistic you know we have two
different issues obviously with the
shootings that took place over the
weekend one of them being the sort of
the the right-wing extremism that's
involved there let's put that aside for
the moment and because and talk about
the how we deal with this problem of
guns people are listening to the show
are well aware of it I think most people
know that two-thirds of gun deaths are
our suicides
we've we've talked on this program about
how the access the easy access to guns
makes those suicides you know has a
direct correlation to the success of
those suicides particularly by the
nature of how people commit suicide and
what happens in the failure rate for
other ways of doing it and the narrow
window of time where they're
contemplating doing it etc but we also
have these problem these mass shootings
which terrify the entire society what
what can we do what we beat what have we
been doing wrong well look I mean we
know exactly what to do to reduce gun
deaths the question is are we holding
our advocates that is and I'm
specifically talking about people in
power members of Congress members of the
Senate to doing everything in their
power that's possible I don't understand
why after the House passed universal
background checks in February 27 the
Senate Democrats did close to nothing in
fact I did a study of this only about 19
of them even tweeted that it happened
okay and now we're in a situation where
it's been about a hundred and fifty
seven hundred and fifty eight days since
the house took that action and you
haven't seen a single Democratic senator
filibuster over this issue place any
kind of hold on a nominee
or on a piece of legislation because of
this issue I mean my god why aren't they
back in DC right now showing the country
that they are ready to to take action
that would make it harder for people to
get guns I mean there's a pro forma
session tomorrow at nine o'clock in the
morning why are they're trying to use
that to spark the conversation we can
call on Mitch McConnell to do this that
and the other thing but Sam you know
that if the two of us and all of your
listeners set ourselves on fire in front
of Mitch McConnell's house he wouldn't
do anything because he's built an entire
career on carrying water from the NRA so
we have to do everything we can and
those senators have to use their
leverage as senators to push push push
for action what where is the what can
let's just assume for a moment I mean
they forced McConnell to bring some
legislation or bring that house
legislation to the floor at the very
least right this is the process in which
you gain support where you punish people
for not supporting certain legislation
and you make it clear that they don't
exist support it but what what are the
outer limits of what can be done
legislatively based upon the narrow
confines of the Supreme Court well my
argument is that given how the Supreme
Court has interpreted Heller or I'm
sorry how it interpret the 15 Amendment
in Heller where it's found for the very
first time that there's an individual
right to own a gun but even given that
reality we can actually get a whole lot
of things done so you know in my view we
need to crack down on the gun industry
banned military-style weapons but also
regulate the products they produce when
you'd licensing and registration and we
need to invest in urban and urban areas
and community-based programs to reduce
gun violence they're all of those things
them can be done under the confines and
under the framework set out in Heller
now if the justices moon
the interpretation and right new rights
into the Constitution into the second
amendment then I think we should have a
conversation is it time to to amend the
amendment is it time to rethink how how
we view it but right now under current
law everything we need to do to build a
future with fewer guns we can do and can
those be done on a state-by-state basis
and to what extent have we seen some
success there because it seems to me
like I think I was just looking at the
difference between Connecticut and maybe
it was Texas in terms of just suicides
it's been helpful oh absolutely and as
you know you know oftentimes you've seen
States try policies and then they've
been federalized so there's currently
nine states for instance that a firearm
licensing those states have found great
success if including Connecticut as you
point out in reducing gun deaths but you
really need a federal solution for this
because what ends up happening is guns
come in from states where they're easier
to get because they're coming in to the
states with greater regulation so you
need a federal for each wave that
federal floor to licensing registration
but you know but states who are doing
the emergency risk protection orders who
are doing universal background checks
for doing licensing
they should continue doing that that has
an impact but but to really get at this
problem we need to we need to really
raise the standard the federal standard
of commercial right I mean there's we
just saw that in California where the
guy bought the the weapon in Nevada I
think we saw that in Ohio where he
bought the map and I think by mail order
in Texas alright so we would just have a
couple minutes left here what can people
do out there if they want if they're
motivated by this would they go to your
website what would I mean what can
people do sure so two different things
that they want to get Senate Dems into
DC and actually do everything they can
right now go to emergency Senate session
dot-org to make your voice heard and the
other piece we don't really talk about
this is I think Walmart
it really has a role to play why are
they still selling guns why are they
still giving money to run away back
candidates why are they investing in gun
buyback from the communities that they
serve they should be doing all of this
and if they do Sam they'll have I think
a major in fact just given their size
and so for that I think folks should go
to Walmart must act dot-org
you know they've already moved in the
right direction over the last couple of
years now I think they need to go
further they have a role to play as we
wait for legislative change they have an
important role to play in helping go the
future with fewer guns are they the are
they the sing is the biggest retail
seller of guns in the country and that's
what's estimated yeah it's hard to tell
but but typically yeah typically because
of their large footprint they become the
biggest seller and so that is a at least
I mean there's more than likely that
that is the the first like sort of the
the the the lowest of the low hanging
fruit to the extent that there's any
fruit there that's low-hanging I would
imagine it would be make the people who
are profiting directly off this or I
guess maybe secondarily because their
retail ashamed and then so we have I'm
sorry
give us the websites one more time both
of them shirts for Walmart its Walmart
must act org and then for the Senate its
emergency Senate session got word all
right well we'll put both those at
majority dot F M Egor I know that you
were really pressed for time today I
appreciate your your taking the time
with us thanks for having me
[Music]
