[Music]
TP USA this is turning points USA this
is the organization that is headed by
charlie kirk that has had numerous
problems with racist chapters and hires
dave rubin to go around the country and
did give speeches and proclaim that the
real problem the left ur is racist are
the racist the the the racists of
racists the rate the the biased towards
racists on college campuses these are
guys they keep getting tons of cash
presumably to turn
I guess young people I don't know if
it's racist fascist generally yeah I
mean it's unclear what their agendas
it's also it also occurs to me that they
have a tough time making a solid
argument they put out a graphic which
I'm not sure exactly I guess the idea is
to support the Electoral College they
want to firm up support for the
electoral college yeah and on some level
I think oh they're not very bright but
on another level maybe they just know
they're people yeah the graphic states
the states in blue have a smaller
population than Los Angeles County now
not in total each state I think in and
of itself has a smaller population than
Los Angeles County and frankly it's the
vast majority of states in the country I
think the only ones that are not in blue
New York Pennsylvania Ohio it's at
Kentucky or Indiana I think Illinois
Illinois Texas in Florida Texas in
Florida and California and obviously
California because the Los Angeles
County and and it says the Electoral
College insures that they have the same
voice as the coastal elite
now significant number of those states
around the coast but I don't think
that's what those coasts but what it
does show is that we have a highly
undemocratic system in terms of electing
a president that the concept that we
have of one-person one-vote is not
actually the case in many of these
states particularly in Los Angeles
County your vote is simply a fraction of
one vote which is why you can have the
one person win three million more votes
than the other now we also see this in
gerrymandering too they should they
should they should do a little graphic
on Wisconsin 54% of the people voted for
Democrats Republicans won 65% of the
seats
that's just the reality but there it is
TP USA either not aware of how
anti-democratic their graphic is or
super proud of how anti-democratic the
country they like that they don't care
about democracy like the base for teepee
USA wants Trump to be a dictator like
they love it what he does dictator stuff
they're hostile of your hostile of
democracy it reminds me of this and I
think this was actually no this might
have been a joke the professor's don't
discriminate against conservatives and
whether conservatives get Oh lower get
lower grades
