[Music]
we have another we have another another
clip of Howard Schultz on there just
because it's so fun and it's so you know
the it really is revealing of of this of
this group of people right like and the
thing is is that he's gonna go in he
could spend hundreds of millions I guess
on his campaign it'll be interesting to
see if he does that but it also gives
you a sense of like how twisted you know
I just imagine if one of these guys
decided like I'm not gonna be President
I'm just gonna be in charge of education
and then all of a sudden you get Bill
Gates hmm right like that's you know
yeah okay so I think it's smarter but he
doesn't necessarily like well this is
every time you hear about a billionaire
pledging to give their fortune away to
philanthropy like they're talking about
policy they're they're talking they're
not it they're not giving it in cash to
the poor they're talking about
influencing policy every time yes and
and Bill Gates spent seven hundred and
fifty million dollars maybe more and
completely changed the trajectory of
where educational thought was going in
this country for uh you know at least
half a decade maybe love denim maybe
almost a decade and and at the end of
that commissioned a rand report and
basically said we were completely wrong
and what the teachers and and
professional educators have been saying
was right and nobody reported on it yeah
I don't think it made one national news
broadcast and it completely influenced
and still reverberates through our
educational systems or any TV programs
you'd like to demand apologies from for
there's a whole host why should you
listen to teachers when you could listen
to education experts what does the thing
they didn't listen to education experts
like they did not listen to educators
right they're people who had been
trained in teaching they listened to
system
analysis folks and they listen to quant
people and then they just basically
walked away and I I don't think the
message necessarily has been fully
absorbed like they were really wrong
like so wrong that they even when they
did their self analysis and so let's
listen to Schulz make more of his pitch
so it's March Madness everyone knows
Monday night is a big game okay so this
week Tom Izzo is from Michigan State so
when I went to school with he was being
interviewed and he was asked what kind
of kids do you recruit for Michigan
State and he said there's three kinds of
kids kids who like it kids who love it
and kids who live it I recruit kids who
live it ladies and gentlemen what we
need to do as Americans is we need to
start living living our values we need
to start recognizing that we are in this
together every problem that we have can
be solved if we come together as a
nation we are all Americans we're here
tonight Republicans Democrats
independents remember I said no hate
zone this can be together do you do you
agree with me can I just say like I have
no idea what he's talking about like
what is so cool hey but living it means
like I live and breathe basketball like
I play constantly like I I wake up in
the morning and it's not a question of
like should I go out and practice it's
like there's nothing I want to do other
than practice I don't understand what
that means in the context of us living
our values for no there's nothing I want
to do other than triangulate understand
what that means I just I wake up eager
to find the exact midpoint between two
competing ideologies I live and breathe
and well that's the thing is that you
know a fiscal responsibility and social
tolerance but
at one of his players in Yellin Adam and
the kid looks like he's completely dead
like he's like coach I didn't do it I
didn't do it he's like that's what
living it is yeah like he just said no
ideology in the other clip and he's that
that's what living it is right it's like
I'm going for this yeah like it doesn't
can we do this gives me an opportunity
to talk about the Schultz thing that
that I cannot believe no one has
actually done this reporting yet because
like it's already sort of known that
he's not truthful about his own
biography he went to Michigan State no
one knows why or how because he grew up
in New York City he and he was in as a
middle class public housing that was
like the nice public housing for middle
class white families CUNY and SUNY were
free at the time if you lived here no
one no one was going to a state school
in another state if they were like
qualified to get in maybe he was he
living and breathing it yeah I guess he
was living and breathing and he's living
and breathing but he is in the past he
has claimed to have gotten an athletic
scholarship and then he revealed if that
was not true that's so weird you know so
like why did he go to going to a public
like not he's not like you went to
Harvard he went to a public state school
in another state had to pay money for
when he could've just go into school for
free in New York that is really weird
it's really weird pissed off it's just
weird that there's no story it could
have been like I really really had a
crush yeah I got an athletic scholarship
and that turned out not to be true so
now there's just no story we need to
imagine a scenario or you don't tell me
and I go follow you to Michigan yeah
that is some real old economy Howard
 - can we appreciate that no help
you get to me how we make fun of Chuck
Schumer for having an imaginary family
that he runs his bad ideas by and then
they reconfirmed them for him I think
that like Howard Schultz has such an
incredible lack of moral imagination
that he doesn't even think he needs
imaginary people in his own head to talk
to right and maybe we need well I do a
solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
so clearly a bad clip Pilbara it's just
like why Steve Schmidt seems like
genuinely like whiny and aggrieved and
bill burr is just like tears I'm hearing
what I'm saying and if you can see my
bank still Burton must have talked to
his buddies and I wonder what those mean
I have a vague notion of what those
conversations were people do not like do
to be a multimillion take the money take
the money and you're not gonna be
hurting anybody he's not maybe maybe
it's like he's not going anywhere
or maybe I I mean I wonder why Schmitt
so bitching about it though well because
he is doing exactly what he criticized
his former friends supposedly you know
he like like literally they're clips of
him going like the I just found out the
whole conservative movement is a graph
and that it's like it's it's just a scam
and and then all of a sudden he's like
multi-million dollar contract I mean
listen I will cop to this there is a
number I'm not sure what it is of course
but you know if I had to take a leave of
absence I could set up like 500 dummy
patreon accounts just throw them in nice
3,000 patrons and I'll tell you how to
imagine a new pop well no I mean I mean
it's not inconceivable to me to imagine
like that there was there would be a
number where I'd be like listen I got to
take six to eight months off the show I
will explain in a year and a half as to
why I'm doing this and yeah that would
be great I mean with with Schmidt - it's
like if you're if you're like one of the
dozen genuine never Trump Republican
guys like your pay days are limited
right who's gonna hire you right no
one's gonna get a decent podcast
I mean it is interesting that like he
had an opportunity to live to his
principles and be totally comfortable
Yeah right just like you know like he
did have that opportunity now you don't
know there's literally like hey he's
bankrupt you know I mean you don't know
me as you know like um you know sick
family member has no health insurer mean
we you know what I don't need to make
sure that they stay without help
right you could have severe gambling
yeah don't say that he told that Brett
Kavanaugh my devoted money to McCain
McCain was famous actually for like just
just losing tons of money gambling
was that right yeah he was he would just
he would gamble for like an entire
weekend and just lose a fortune that's
cool you know well yes he's got married
in two years
