what I do want to talk about is more
about the the the political leadership
that we have on both sides of the divide
we have stories taking place in the
house in the Senate and we have stories
taking place in the White House in
regards to the various players who will
be determining the actual politics as we
move forward and all of those players it
seems to me were in a room together this
week and were in front of the press and
it was it was a bit of a spectacle it
was one of those moments where you sort
of all at once think like this is
ridiculous who cares about this and then
like oh my god our our politics that and
I think this is in general politics are
just not that different from like a
middle school or junior high school
fight that's taking place at recess and
and I'm talking about that moment where
the cameras were there and saw a Trump
and Pelosi and Schumer get into it I
mean let's let's start with air oh and I
should say and perhaps and you wrote
about this there was another guy there
he never comes up a conversation and
that seems to be a problem for the Trump
administration I'm talking about Mike
Pence yeah it was really something I
think I wrote about it for salon and my
you know my thought was that this is
like that they were teasing the new
season of the Trump show the Trump
reality show and these were this was
sort of the highlights that you see like
on the Real Housewives of the fights
that they get into every single season
and who's the villain who's a good guy
you know who's sort of sitting on the
sidelines and that's really how it felt
now you know that's not to say that it
isn't very very serious because of
course it is and it showed exactly what
the I think it gave to us a sense of
what the dynamics are going to be I mean
first of all you know Donald Trump
showed his ignorance more obviously in
that then then then
I mean not that he doesn't do it every
day on his Twitter feed or in his you
know press appearances but in this case
as he's sitting there he had actually
people instead of the usual sake of
Fanta Kragh publicans you know
applauding like a bunch of trained seals
for everything he says and laughing and
smiling and telling him how great he was
he had two people there who were
actually challenging him so you know the
fight was kind of face to face which
isn't something that we see normally it
so there's a sort of distance between it
and that was quite interesting and both
of the Democratic leaders you know took
a really you know pretty aggressive
stance against a couple of things that
are important and Pelosi in particular
took a stand against Trump's insistence
on facts that aren't trips that seemed
to be her main thrust which is we're not
going to be dealing with this fantasy
that you keep saying and of course Trump
went way out on a limb by saying that
they'd caught ten terrorists at the
border that the wall was partially built
I mean he was saying just insane thing
it was almost he was just saying things
that were jumping into his head at the
time like like medical issues and ten
terrorists which is not even the lies
that we heard from pence in the run-up
to the election nobody threw that number
out it was just a number he just you
just it was completely made-up it's true
and he you know he said these things
that just I mean they were just blatant
blatant lies and I think you're right I
certainly got the sense that he was just
coming up with this I mean normally you
can trace some of his lies to something
he heard on Fox News that morning or
some saying that's been floating around
in the right-wing you know echo chamber
I haven't heard this thing about the ten
terrorists before and I did the fact
that the wall he keeps insisting that
there is that the wall is actually being
built even Laura Ingraham on the show on
her show that night went I wish you'd
stop saying that the wall is being built
because there it's not true and I mean
that takes a lot for the you know his
his state TV to actually challenge him
on a matter of fact so I mean he was
really going strong in Pelosi I think
that was that was sort of
I don't know if they strategize this
ahead of time probably not but it's just
you have to be prepared and her point of
view was look we're not going to get
anywhere as long as you keep lying and
that's not going to work and we can't
operate off of your fantasy facts and
Schumer on the other hand decided to try
and go to him and he did and God Trump
he backed Trump into a corner in a sort
of a you know a few good men style you
know you can't handle the truth you know
did you I want to know did you order the
Code Red and Trump said yeah you know
you're you're damn right I did
essentially by saying yes I will own the
government shutdown I'm proud to shut
down the government over border security
and and the look on Schumer's face I
mean the smug sort of sense of
satisfaction at that I mean it's like
I'm going to Chuck kind of you know keep
it all inside doesn't look good but
nonetheless he did Trump is on record
now saying that and not that it will
matter to his people but it makes you
know and all the reporting was that
Republicans on the hill we're going out
geez you know you just made it that much
tougher for us to do what we have to do
here and that is they want everybody
wants to keep the government open before
Chris right I mean it Dave extended it
to the 21st so you know the idea that
they're going to shut down the
government just before Christmas and do
all of this they really don't want to
and Trump is out there making it more
difficult I don't know if that's in
reality if it's going to be that much
harder for them to you know they
basically have they will kick the can
down the road right I mean that's the
logical thing but of course if they kick
it down past January 3rd then you've got
a Democratic House and the right thing
changes so they have a strong you know
incentive to try to get to take care of
this before Nancy takes over the the
house representatives well I mean it's
it's it's fascinating what the dynamic
of the the upcoming change is is
creating that's one of them right that
the Democrats have a certain amount of
leverage
with with these budget talks because
they're taking over the house in January
the other dynamic is of course having to
do with with uh with snap in the farm
bill and the War Powers Act I want to
take a break or a comeback I want to
talk about that then I want to talk
about what's happening in terms of the
leadership fights in the house which
seem to be resolved in terms of Nancy
Pelosi I want to talk about the
committee chairmanships which are
resolved but maintain an ongoing
question about Chuck Schumer in my mind
and then I want to talk about what
you've been writing about in terms of
Mike Pence and what the White House is
saying about Mike Pence we got to take
quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
be right back
