calling from a six for six alright
excuse me you're calling six for six two
five seven thirty nine twenty but you're
calling from a seven one nine area code
who's this where are you calling from
family III guess it is yes it is you
okay I'm cold and I'm calling from Omaha
Nebraska
Colton from Omaha Nebraska well I am a a
moderate-sized fan of Omaha I've have
you actually been there I've been there
multiple times and a couple of Bronco
burgers and sure it's it's an awesome
burger town but anyway yeah I just
wanted to ask you I don't I don't
understand why you or TYT or any of you
guys and I'm a big fan of you guys I
don't understand why all you guys are
losing your crap over a OC I don't
understand what the big deal is I'm not
sure we know why my crop I'm not sure
you mean by losing my crap but you mean
are excited by yeah that's what I mean
okay I don't know why we like her yeah
why I don't know why what's not such a
big deep like I was he better not get
excited I mean I think it's I I like her
politics she is quite good it seems to
me in a way that I haven't necessarily
seen from from Beto Beto it got involved
in a New York race for instance all
right so a OSI goes around the country
has been very supportive of politicians
in in politicians who hold issues that I
think are very consistent with what we
have on this program
badow to the extent that I know that he
got involved in any race he got involved
in the Attorney General race in New York
and he supported a candidate who by all
accounts got into the race to basically
run interference upstate and prevent
Zephyr
Teachout from winning and I can tell you
the forces that were concerned about
Zephyr Teachout winning the forces that
were we're running to keep her from
winning are rather corrupt which not to
say that the the people running against
her
you know like Tish James was not running
because she wanted to keep Zephyr
Teachout from from winning
what's his phrase from upstate New York
his name escapes me who beto supported
was running to keep Zephyr Teachout out
the that is you know a very shorthand
way of explaining why I'm excited about
a OC versus better I'm not none excited
by Beto I think he's good I think I
think would be a mistake for him to try
and run for for president but but but
maybe I mean rhetorically I'm impressed
his record and in the house is not
stellar but it was okay but I think what
we need in the house in my estimation is
a stronger progressive caucus we have a
larger one
I don't Sam the thing is that she lies a
lot and I understand if you're excited
about her give me an example of a lot
more often an example of a lie okay so
she lied about military budget increases
on the daily show she also lied about
basic staff involving the US population
on the daily show we want research I
give me on budget this was a story there
was a story about the Pentagon budget
where they are now unable to even audit
the Pentagon budget to even audit it
they don't run have it listen not only
did they not audit the budget they don't
it is such a disaster the way that
they've been doing a record keeping and
impossible to imagine anything but on
purpose that they don't even have the
ability to begin an audit because the
mechanisms aren't in place right it's a
mess but it's not a 21
trillion-dollar meth like she tries to
make it down okay so she misspoke right
okay so this is the thing I get from
people was like okay he's just misspoke
and she doesn't really know what she's
talking about
okay then again I feel like I would be a
lot easier on her if you guys on the
left or this far to the left as you and
TYT are you guys can't be in her but you
don't even give her a bit of fair
criticism and say okay she missed speaks
a lot sometimes well no wait a second
wait a second what was the number that
she gave her the budget on the Pentagon
on The Daily Show uh she didn't do the
Pentagon budget on the daily show she
did on her Twitter but on her Twitter
she said 21 trillion dong no no that was
the audit story that was the audit story
what was it that she misspoke about or
lied about on the daily show on The
Daily Show okay so she said that the
military wanted a seven hundred billion
dollar increase to their budget which is
incorrect that their that's great it has
gone up that is their entire budget they
wanted a seventy billion dollar increase
no they didn't that's wrong that's
factually inaccurate how much was the
budget increase for the military this
year um I'm not sure exactly what I was
but I know that the entire budget was
700 I know that we just agreed on that
the entire budget is 700 billion dollars
what do you think the increase was this
year I know it wasn't a hundred percent
increase I didn't say it was a hundred
percent increase it was a seventy
billion dollar increase 700 billion over
the course of ten years listen so do you
know how you know you you you must be
familiar with how these budgets are
drawn up right so very often what you'll
end up hearing is for instance when
people say thirty two trillion dollar
increase that's how much it's gonna cost
for let's say single-payer right they're
talking over a ten-year horizon in this
instance they were talking about from
like I think twenty one to twenty two to
twenty twenty two to twenty thirty two
that's the way that people talk
in Washington you're correct
they did not want a 700 billion dollar
increase the excuse me the 2019 military
budget and I guess I was thinking of
2018 is an eighty two billion dollar
increase from from 2017 so yes she
misspoke she said 700 billion where she
should have said 70 billion maybe she
was talking about over the course of a
ten-year period which is very often the
way that budgets going but what so what
is the fund about this ouu so these two
i-i-i don't like how she misspeaks
all these times because I feel like
she's all these times all these times
how many times have you heard tell me
something how many times have you looked
at the tweets of a congressperson or
seen them on TV in the past five months
she's the much she's much more exposed
than even Peto on national and
international media and so your job
you're more conscious do you think she's
lying do you think you think they should
go on to the Daily Show and consciously
lie and inflate the military budget by
just coincidentally a factor of 10
well do you think that she would go on
to the daily show and just make a
complete idiot of herself by getting
populations that's wrong dude dude dude
if you do wait what's the population
stat now what listen we okay so she said
that 200 million people would be 40
percent of the population and that's
just wrong right that's 60 percent of
the population
mmm yeah I mean that's closer
but don't love it all but yeah what is
it the other thing it's Alton tell me
what it is
what is 200 billion what is 200 million
of the population
don't you million well let me do some
quick math well whoa whoa just tell me
tell me tell me
it is 61% Oh 61% all right man
what's the actually honestly just just
say that you have different politics
than her don't be so bizarre you came
with nothing yeah I'm sorry let me go
I'm sorry for lying to you when I said
it was 60% I clearly lied to you when we
all know after having done it on our
calculators it's 61% but now wait a
second now Colton I think you've lied to
me because what is the what is that what
it's 200 billion of what is 61% you
didn't put in 300 billion did you 325 do
you think that's the exact population
figure of the United States 325 billion
a million don't lie okay wait wait
Colton what is the exact no no no no
wait a second you don't come on my show
and start lying about the population 325
million when we all know it's 325
million six hundred thousand don't lie
to us on our show yeah what are you
doing man lyin Colton nine Pilton I wish
that bado was who do you think that
ultimately benefits in the end
like what Democratic Party at large
what's the agenda what's the agenda on
that of holding people do this no no no
what do you think what do you think her
gender was when she went on and told
this this lie about the the 40 percent
population behind that gulags well I
feel like she likes to paint a picture
that America is falling into complete
nothingness which I know a lot of people
may agree what does that mean nothing
buys what do you mean by nothingness I
mean that people's wages aren't even
stagnating they're going down people
have to hold multiple jobs to keep
unemployment low
which is another lie she told on well
excuse me way to sell wait a second wait
a second wait a second first of all in
real dollars people's wages are going
backwards okay that's that's a reality
yeah where can I look better on the
Google Google machine the Google
Michigan you could read my review of Tom
I'll get ahead overdue um read thomas
piketty's blog if you want like actual
economics on it read Paquette e that's
the defining work on not only wage
stagnation but global wealth inequality
over the last several decades and it is
the case that that the unemployment
numbers for people who are I should say
the employment numbers for people who
are underemployed is is significantly
higher than it has been in the past when
we've had such unemployment numbers do
you know I'm saying so underemployed
yeah now these employed meeting people
can't get enough hours yeah exactly
okay well the still not what she said
but I feel like what she says helps out
her narrative and America snoring this
if you guys you guys can defend your
politics without having to craft a lie
or a what is it do you like about bed
information what do you like about bad
house politics well I like about that oh
I I'm not so up on everything the thing
is that wouldn't you that I'm more
informed on a overseas politics because
she's in the news all the time but when
I look at that oh and when I get like
just a slight feeling about what that I
was about I feel like he's more about
being a rallying force for the entire
nation when you look at hold on Colten
wait a second so you don't know no I'm
not asking you to be an expert but you
just you Colin you say you got a problem
with with AOC and you like Beto what do
you like about battle I just he just
seems more like everybody that's what
you just said he just seems more like
everybody
but more like it's not more like
everybody he just seems like somebody
everybody can get behind right that's
what I want in a politician that's why I
hate Trump and I don't like a lot of
people who I see on the Democratic side
and when I look into the past
I want leaders like from the past like
we're able to rally the entire nation
like who and what I see Beto
we know like who what what leaders from
the past I just want to get to this cuz
I feel like this is a mystery this is a
little bit like a like a like a like
you're a little bit like an onion I want
to peel a couple layers here
what what what leaders in the past
Colton you you aren't gonna like it none
of you are gonna like not Reagan I know
Reagan it's I know yeah I won't
break I told you haha course you love no
I actually wouldn't it too cause if
you're lying about me you lied about
everything right about the Puerto Rican
chick and now you're lying about me okay
meadow wouldn't be a Republican either
okay even though he supports Tipu else
besides raising totally way about police
fine what about but he does look like
everybody else what about George who did
you more partial to uh George W Bush or
Al Gore or or John Kerry uh John Kerry
no I don't carry more than I like Al
Gore what about boom as those let's who
the choice was employer would have gone
over Bush back in the day um I like I
don't know how to feel about HW
especially in the wake of his death
Reagan is the best closest like personal
example you know when the Baines Johnson
was a Bolton let me ask how old you are
 a I mean I'm twenty okay Colton
all right
well listen all right all right so I
because you trauma
do you like Obama all right I like
there's there's some
I feel like there's good and bad a bit
more good let me tell you something bro
if you love bado and you don't love
Obama
you've got a really self-assess that's
all I'll say
I mean well they are tied up in this
eruption machine wait what
Obama has all this corporate tax money
and such and he's willing to sell us
down the line dude you got a rebate
those family are some of the biggest
landlords in the entire state of Texas
he was able to not get PAC money because
he has an unbelievably wealthy family
could draw from and you got it he was
surprised you should also look into
Ronald Reagan and who his benefactors
worth listen Colton I'm gonna cut you
some slack you're 20 years old you're on
a path buddy just you know be careful of
the turns that you're taking going
forward I think gun man said about but I
do shoot the car like everybody else was
very salient I appreciate a man thanks I
I mean I honestly if called me the new
racism is there any white if Colton if
Colton had said to me I'm 45
I would have had a bit of a problem with
cold Kody age 20 look I think it's uh
you got a uh Colton there's a gay Jew
named Dave Rubin now in my day we didn't
pretend to like homos we just denied
them AIDS treatment but he makes a lot
of sense when it comes to some of my
closest friends literally we're gay
Robert of course we were gonna just let
them all die anyways cuz that was the
way I was gonna get elected we gave Rock
Hudson the drugs on the download as the
criminal community says or broadly we
did nothing for them because well it's
just as did you explain it thanks
everyone the other Jew let's check back
in with Colton when he's trying to
survive on his own in the world assuming
he's
not yeah the problem with EEOC is that
unlike me she isn't incredibly precise
indeed I absolutely never misspoke about
government statistics or any other
empirical facts of governing never to
the extent that I was actually conscious
I was so precise I didn't even know
about massive global criminal
conspiracies that happened in my
administration
ask me again about the iran-contra
affair
I'll just nail a dazzle you Colten if
you're listening look up Ronald Reagan
literally did a press conference and you
correct me if I'm wrong where he said
something to the effect of like I don't
think we did it but all the facts appear
to state otherwise with regards to by
the way support hemp is a vegetable that
anyone big trees I think was he the one
who said that was that Bush now I'm
confused about the tree what it was one
of their it was one of their interior
secretary no that's great all right
let's take one more something about a
you see he doesn't look like everybody
