here is I guess he's rep William barber
critiquing Mitt Romney's op-ed wherein
Mitt Romney says that Donald Trump is
rude but I love his policies problem
with what Romney is saying is basically
saying I disagree with the moral way
Trump is saying things and if you look
at the Scriptures look at Jesus the
prophets they weren't creating criticize
people based on what they say it they
could hire them based on what they did
you know Jesus talked about the spirit
of laws Department preach good news to
the poor he said woe unto those
religious and political leaders who
leave undone the weightier matters of
the law which are justice and mercy and
faithfulness and love Isaiah said warn
to those who legislate evil and rob the
poor of their rights so romney and
essence is saying if he was just nicer
with his words I'm still in agreement
with this policies and that's dangerous
because there were nice slaveholders
with their word there were nice
segregationist there were nice people
that hear women back i'll during the
days that women didn't have the right to
vote there was dr. King got a nice
letter when he was in the Birmingham
jail people said you know if you would
just be nice and wait and but dr. King
said I'm not talking about that I'm
talking about policies and so it's
concerning Trump is engaged in mother
child killing policy immigration
policies Romney said isn't against that
he's engaged in mother child family
killing did healthcare denial that
policies and so you can be nice all you
want it we don't just need a kinder
gentler meanness we need the policies to
stop so one hand for you to say I
disagree with his word but on the other
hand I agree with this immoral wall and
immoral immigration policy it's anemic
its bored of any power and it actually
in some way
is more dangerous because I actually
would rather Trump be honest about where
he is on policy there for somebody to
smile and say it would be nice but still
agree with the negative policies all
right we got time for one more
