shut up Swede this is actually a Jimmy
really living though Kentucky Fried
comrade Sam did you see the suggestion
on Twitter that you should run in 2020
on a libertarian ticket so you can be on
the Liberty 2020 libertarian primary
debate stage wow that is galaxies brain
man that's the first time I've ever used
that phrase on ironically that's legit
galaxies brain that's a me I they
wouldn't be able to keep you out because
they're libertarians right well of
course they could like Sam next to like
some type of like convicted murderer or
something awfully great oh my god I
don't know if I can even like continue
on even reading Iams after this idea is
floating in my head you're just gonna
run and try to do the same thing that
Adam khopesh is trying to do in Reverse
Jesus that would be so awesome focus
this our last show I need to prepare for
my campaign to run for the 2020
libertarian nomination oh my god it's
such a great idea in so many different
ways like I can't even Wow all right let
me do a couple more IMS before I just
like literally a literally melt into a
puddle on my chair and then that sets me
up nicely for the 2022 campaign against
what if I what if I won the nomination
I'll be amazing I mean it's not like
it's like if Bill Walton you know how
bill will be exactly you just can't make
with the Democrat exactly I look that
was bi it was so many things happening
in 2016 and maybe it's just being from
Massachusetts I don't know like the
world but just that little side story
arc was another one that if Trump had
not become president would have just
been another like delicious like
as Johnson gets progressively more
freaked out
bill well is just like you know it
actually I'm gonna be uh oh my god just
that whole little side drama was
hilarious
oh my god what a great idea I can't get
over it
